-- 
Banca Ifis Expects 2011 Net Banking Income to Rise 15%, Chief Bossi Says

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-05-03T09:26:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/banca-ifis-expects-2011-net-banking-income-to-rise-15-chief-bossi-says.html
Banca Ifis SpA (IF) , an Italian financial
services company, expects net banking income to rise about 15
percent this year on higher credit demand and new business
lines.  “We are recording a strong recovery in our customers’
demand, while the pharmaceutical-factoring business introduced
last year is helping us to increase revenue,” Chief Executive
Officer Giovanni Bossi said in an interview. Banca Ifis’s 2011
net income will be close to the average estimate of 23 million
euros ($34 million) made by two analysts surveyed by Bloomberg,
Bossi said.  Banca Ifis, which is purchasing  Toscana Finanza SpA (TF) , is
focusing on organic growth and doesn’t plan more acquisitions.
The Venice-based company, which is controlled by Clara Agnelli’s
son Sebastian Furstenberg, said April 29 that first-quarter
profit rose 1.2 percent to 5.6 million euros. Clara Agnelli is a
sister of former Fiat Chairman Giovanni Agnelli.  “We will look at opportunities that can arise on the
market, but our priority is to grow organically,” Bossi said,
adding that he isn’t interested in buying minority stakes in
factoring companies such as Factorit.  Banca Ifis aims to add customers through commercial
agreements with banks and the opening of new offices. This year
it will add two branches to its network of 25 offices.  Banca Ifis’ funding may post “low double-digit growth in
the next nine months,” according to the CEO. The company raises
money to lend its customers through an online deposit account
called “Rendimax.”  The company doesn’t plan a capital increase in the next
three years given the current level of growth, solvency ratios
and payout policy, Bossi said. The lender’s core tier 1 ratio, a
key measure of financial health, was 11.2 percent at the end of
March, while the solvency ratio was 11 percent.  “We are working to optimize capital management,” Bossi
said. “This is the reason we are investing in industries that
absorb low capital such as the pharmaceutical business.”  Banca Ifis shares fell 1.4 percent to 5.18 euros at 11:17
a.m. in Milan, giving the bank a market value of 278.7 million
euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  