-- 
Rajaratnam, Barclays, JPMorgan, Citigroup in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-03T10:48:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/barclays-jpmorgan-citigroup-satyam-pwc-starr-in-court-news.html
Raj Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group LLC
co-founder, missed court after getting emergency surgery, and
the jury weighing insider-trading charges against him will take
today off for a juror’s medical procedure.  Rajaratnam’s surgery May 1 was to treat a bacterial
infection of his foot, defense lawyer John Dowd said in a
written statement distributed to reporters yesterday after his
client didn’t show up at Manhattan federal court.  “It is hoped that he will be recovered sufficiently to
return to the courthouse this week,” Dowd said in the
statement. He said Rajaratnam waived his right to be in court
during deliberations, which began April 25. “The court has
approved this absence,” Dowd said in the statement.  Rajaratnam, 53, was arrested in October 2009 in the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and traders about 15 stocks.  The jury finished its sixth day of deliberations yesterday
without reaching a verdict.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell and his clerk, Bill
Donald, said yesterday that there will be no deliberations today
due to a juror’s medical procedure.  “No juror should feel any time pressure whatsoever,” he
said in a letter to the panel. “The jury will have all the time
it needs to reach its verdict.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrials  Lehman Seeks $500 Million From Barclays in Bonus Dispute  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is claiming $500 million from
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  for allegedly failing to pay all of the bonuses the
U.K. bank agreed to when it bought the defunct investment firm’s
North American business.  Lehman wrote a letter to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck
saying an opinion he wrote in February showed that Barclays
‘‘breached its bonus payment obligations.’’ The letter was filed
in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan on April 29.  Barclays has said it paid the full $2 billion it promised,
including non-bonus compensation. Peck issued the February
opinion in a lawsuit that Lehman lost seeking $11 billion from
Barclays over the deal.  Peck’s ruling, which followed a trial with more than 30
days of testimony, exonerated Barclays from having contrived to
make a ‘‘windfall’’ on the purchase as Lehman alleged. The
ruling left the two sides still fighting over what is owed to
whom.  Separately, the trustee for Lehman’s brokerage is in a
dispute with Barclays over $3.5 billion in assets after Peck
failed to specify how much Barclays was entitled to when it
bought the North American business in September 2008.  Michael O’Looney, a spokesman for London-based Barclays,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  U.S. Joins Whistle-Blower Suit Against Education Management  The U.S.  Justice Department  joined an employee whistle-
blower suit against  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , intervening for
the first time in the student recruitment practices at for-
profit colleges.  The suit alleges that Pittsburgh-based Education
Management, 40 percent owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  funds,
illegally paid recruiters based on the number of students they
enrolled, the company said in a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing yesterday. The government, in most cases,
forbids such incentive compensation for colleges accepting
federal aid because of concern the practice will encourage
companies to enroll unqualified students.  The Justice Department action in federal court in
Pittsburgh follows scrutiny by Congress and the U.S. Education
Department of sales practices, student-loan defaults and job
placement claims at for-profit colleges, which can receive as
much as 90 percent of their revenue from federal financial aid.
Several states intend to join the Justice Department’s civil
action in federal court, Education Management said.  ‘‘The design of the compensation plan was based on advice
of counsel that the plan complied with” exceptions to federal
law banning incentive compensation,’’ the company said in its
filing. “The company intends to vigorously defend itself.”  The company, which enrolls more than 148,000 students,
operates the Art Institute chain, Argosy University, Brown
Mackie College and South University. Analysts project the
company will report revenue of $2.89 billion in the year ending
in June, according to the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News.  The case is U.S. v. Education Management, 07-cv-00461, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Thornburg Mortgage Seeks $2 Billion From JPMorgan, Citigroup  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and three other banks
helped to push Thornburg Mortgage Inc. into a “free-fall”
bankruptcy, the firm’s trustee claimed in a lawsuit seeking to
recover $2 billion.  After making “unjustified” margin calls, the banks
extracted more than $700 million of margin and interest payments
from Thornburg, then sold their collateral and left the company
to file for Chapter 11 protection during the credit crisis in
May 2009, trustee Joel Sher said in the April 30 filing in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Baltimore.  Sher, who is liquidating the firm, now called TMST Inc.,
accused the five banks of using “market disruption as a
justification to initiate a collusive scheme to take control of
the debtors and eventually drive them into bankruptcy.”  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Royal Bank of Scotland Plc and UBS
AG, or their affiliates, also are defendants in the lawsuit.
JPMorgan was named because it bought assets from Bear Stearns
Cos., a lender to Thornburg.  The trustee last year sued former Thornburg executives,
saying they conspired to start a new business using cash and
information taken from the company.  The bankruptcy case is Thornburg Mortgage Inc., 09-17787,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Maryland (Baltimore).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  TCF Bank Seeks Appellate Order to Block Debit Card Fee Cap  TCF National Bank has asked a U.S. appeals court for an
order that would block federal regulations capping the amount of
money the biggest U.S. banks can charge retailers for processing
debit-card transactions.  The bank, a  TCF Financial Corp. (TCB)  unit that sued Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, is challenging U.S. District
Judge Lawrence L. Piersol’s April 4 decision denying its request
to halt implementation of the rule.  The lender challenges legislation appended to last year’s
Dodd-Frank financial regulation overhaul bill. The provision,
sponsored by U.S. Senator Richard Durbin, an Illinois Democrat,
and known as the Durbin Amendment, bars banks with more than $10
billion in assets from collecting from retailers more money for
debit-card transactions than the actual cost of providing that
service.  “We are talking about the establishment of a confiscatory
rate regime fully 15 years after banks began their debit
businesses,” TCF’s attorneys argued in their brief filed
yesterday with the St. Louis-based U.S. Court of Appeals.  Matt Miller , a Justice Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  TCF has argued that the proposed fee cap, which isn’t yet
in force, is unconstitutional.  The lower case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke, 10-
cv-04149, U.S. District Court, District of  South Dakota  (Sioux
Falls). The appellate case is TCF National Bank v. Bernanke,
11-1805, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit (St.
Louis).  Massachusetts  Court Hears Pivotal Mortgage-Transfer Case  A Massachusetts man should be allowed to keep property he
bought from U.S. Bancorp even though the bank didn’t have the
right to foreclose on the previous owner, a lawyer argued before
the state’s highest court.  The Massachusetts  Supreme Judicial Court  heard oral
arguments yesterday in the appeal of a lower-court  decision  that
said the buyer of residential property in Haverhill,
Massachusetts, never owned it because U.S. Bancorp foreclosed
before it got the mortgage. If that decision is upheld it could
have wide implications in the foreclosure crisis in which banks
are accused of clouding home titles through sloppy transferring
of mortgages. The high court will rule at a later date.  The lower court’s “statement that my client received
nothing is what we disagree with,” Jeffrey Loeb, a lawyer for
so-called third-party buyer Francis J. Bevilacqua III told the
panel yesterday.  The state high court already ruled Jan. 7 in a different
case, U.S. Bank v. Ibanez, that banks can’t foreclose on a house
if they don’t own the mortgage. That case didn’t address the
status of those who buy property from someone after an invalid
foreclosure.  “If the decision is upheld, and generally applied, it
likely will have adverse implications for hundreds or even
thousands of Massachusetts property owners if they find
themselves in Bevilacqua’s shoes,” the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  wrote in a friend-of-the-court brief.  Claims of wrongdoing by banks and loan servicers triggered
a 50-state investigation last year into whether thousands of
U.S. foreclosures were properly documented during the housing
collapse.  Bevilacqua’s case could affect trusts that bundled
mortgages and sold securities to investors. Like the Ibanez
case, the court’s decision may resonate with other states as
they grapple with the rights of new homebuyers who may hesitate
to complete a purchase for fear of uncertain title. That may be
especially so in states such as Massachusetts that don’t require
court action to seize a house.  The case is Bevilacqua v. Rodriguez, 10880, Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts (Boston).  For more, click here.  Companies Get U.S. High Court Review on Consumer Lending Suits  The U.S.  Supreme Court  agreed to decide whether companies
that promise to fix bad credit records can force dissatisfied
customers to take complaints to arbitration, rather than court.  The justices yesterday said they will hear an appeal from
units of  CompuCredit Holdings Corp. (CCRT)  and  Synovus Financial Corp. (SNV) ,
which are fighting a suit over credit cards marketed as a means
of rebuilding poor credit. Three customers say the cards’ hefty
fees -- $257 in the first year alone -- were disclosed only in
the fine print of the promotional materials.  The decision to take up the case comes days after the court
ruled 5-4 that companies can require customers and employees to
press complaints in arbitration as individuals, rather than a
group.  The latest case turns on a 1996 law aimed at preventing so-
called credit repair companies from ripping off unwary
customers. The measure, known as the Credit Repair Organizations
Act, says consumers have the “right to sue” companies that
violate the law.  The question for the Supreme Court is whether that language
means consumers can go to court even if the application they
signed says they must arbitrate all disputes.  In letting the suit go forward, a San Francisco-based
federal appeals court said that “Congress meant what it said in
using the term ‘sue,’ and that it did not mean ‘arbitrate.’’  CompuCredit Corp., which marketed and serviced the cards,
and Synovus Bank, which issued them, point in their appeal to
the Federal Arbitration Act. The companies said that law creates
‘‘the strong presumption than an arbitration agreement is
enforceable.’’  The case, which the court will consider during its 2011-12
term, is CompuCredit v. Greenwood, 10-948, U.S. Supreme Court
( Washington ).  Actelion Drops on $547 Million Jury Award to Asahi Kasei  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  fell the most in 14 months in Zurich trading
after a U.S. jury decided the Swiss biotechnology company should
pay Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. as much as $547 million in a
dispute.  The Superior Court jury in San Mateo County,  California ,
will resume deliberations today regarding potential punitive
damages, Allschwil-based Actelion said in a statement. After
that, the drugmaker will decide on whether to appeal, according
to the statement.  The award may add to pressure on Actelion as shareholders
prepare to vote at the May 5 annual meeting on competing
proposals by the board and investor Elliott Advisors (UK) Ltd.
Elliott, the biggest shareholder with more than a 6 percent
stake, has proposed ousting board members after a series of
clinical trial setbacks. Elliott Advisors, which wants Actelion
to consider strategy options including a sale, said Actelion
should delay the investor meeting.  ‘‘While we find ourselves in a very strong position to see
real change at Actelion by the election of our proposed slate of
nominees,’’ Elliott Advisors said in a statement, ‘‘we believe
our effort to refresh the board would be further strengthened if
the AGM were adjourned until later in May or June.’’  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Satyam Investors’ U.S. Suit Settled by PwC for $25.5 Million  Investors in  Satyam Computer Services Ltd. (SCS)  settled a
lawsuit against  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  for $25.5 million
related to its audit of the Indian firm that included a $1
billion overstatement of assets.  Satyam, the software exporter embroiled in  India ’s biggest
corporate fraud probe, reached a $125 million settlement in
February in the class action in New York. Satyam agreed last
month to pay $10 million to settle a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit.  PricewaterhouseCoopers and four related entities audited or
played a role in the audits of Satyam’s financial statements,
according to the shareholders’ complaint. The settlement, which
requires a judge’s approval, was disclosed in filings April 29
in federal court in Manhattan.  ‘‘Plaintiffs and lead counsel believe that the proposed PwC
settlement represents an excellent result and is in the best
interests of the class,” lawyers for the investors wrote in
court papers.  In September, Satyam, based in Hyderabad, India, reported
its first annual earnings in two years. Former Chairman
 Ramalinga Raju  disclosed in January 2009 that he overstated
Satyam’s assets by $1 billion, triggering a stock plunge and
investor lawsuits in the U.S.  Tech Mahindra Ltd. (TECHM) , based in Pune,
India, acquired control of the software-services provider in May
2009. Satyam’s American depositary receipts traded on the New
York Stock Exchange.  The case is In re Satyam Computer Services Ltd. Securities
Litigation, 09-md-2027, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Court News  Secret Cash in Wisconsin Court Race Makes Judges ‘Spectators’  Before Justice David T. Prosser Jr. and challenger JoAnne
Kloppenburg faced off in the April 5 Wisconsin Supreme Court
election, unidentified contributors spent almost six times more
than the candidates on the race.  Five nonprofit groups with ties to business, labor, trial
lawyers and Tea Party organizations spent $4.4 million on behalf
of Prosser and Kloppenburg without disclosing the names of those
who funded them. The U.S. Supreme Court  sanctioned  the practice
in January 2010, and the effects can be seen in judicial races
in Wisconsin, Ohio,  Michigan  and other states.  The funding of state Supreme Court campaigns is becoming
more opaque as judges interpret a wide array of laws contested
in legislatures. Many governing bodies are freshly empowered:
The  Republican Party  took full  control  of 25 legislatures in the
last election, up from 14. The issues before the bench include
restrictions on personal-injury lawsuits, taxation, curbs on
abortion and challenges to environmental regulations.  “The candidates have become spectators in their own
elections,” said Mike McCabe, executive director of the
 Wisconsin Democracy Campaign , which tracks contributions.  “The trend has been toward more and more undisclosed
spending. It will reach a point where all the spending will come
from groups using anonymous sources,” McCabe said in a
telephone interview from Madison. “It’s been brought into sharp
focus in Wisconsin.”  Spending for state Supreme Court elections doubled in the
past decade to more than $200 million, according to the  Brennan
Center for Justice  at New York University, which advocates for
impartial courts.  For more, click here.  Litigation Departments  Winston & Strawn Ex-Partner Pleads Guilty in Starr Fraud  Winston & Strawn LLP ex-partner Jonathan Bristol pleaded
guilty to charges that he helped launder almost $19 million in
financial adviser  Kenneth I. Starr ’s investment fraud.  Bristol admitted yesterday to a charge of conspiracy to
launder money before U.S. District Judge Deborah A. Batts, U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan said in an e-mailed
statement.  Starr, the New York money manager whose clients included
actors Sylvester Stallone and Wesley Snipes, was sentenced to 7
1/2 years in prison March 2 after pleading guilty to defrauding
nine celebrities out of $33.3 million. Bristol admitted that he
allowed Starr to wire funds in and out of his escrow account,
knowing that the funds were proceeds of Starr’s fraud, Bharara
said in the statement.  Bristol “abused his position as a partner at a prominent
New York City law firm to break the law over and over again,”
Bharara said in the statement. “Bristol should have been a
gatekeeper; instead, he was an enabler to Kenneth Starr and his
multimillion-dollar fraud.”  Bristol faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison
and a fine of $250,000, and agreed to pay restitution of $18.9
million, according to the statement. His sentencing is scheduled
for Sept. 26.  Bristol was in a “very tough position,” his lawyer, Susan
Kellman, said in a phone interview. “He should’ve known
something was wrong, and by the time he did he was paralyzed by
the predicament he was in,” Kellman said.  The case is U.S. v. Bristol, 10-cr-1239, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  