-- 
Barcelona Reaches Champions League Soccer Final After Ousting Real Madrid

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-05-03T22:58:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/barcelona-reaches-champions-league-soccer-final-after-ousting-real-madrid.html
Barcelona  is back in soccer’s
Champions League final after ousting its biggest rival.  Barcelona tied Real  Madrid  1-1 at home last night after
winning the opening game of the semifinal 2-0. The 3-1 total
over the series sent Barcelona to the title game in  Europe ’s
elite club competition for the third time in six seasons.  Barcelona will play Manchester United or Schalke at Wembley
Stadium in London on May 28. The Spanish club won the Champions
League in 2006 and two years ago after first becoming European
champion at Wembley in 1992. United, which takes a 2-0 lead into
tonight’s game at Old Trafford, lost the 2009 final to Barcelona
and is trying to reach the title game for a third time in four
seasons.  “I’m not sure who we will face but I imagine it will be
 Manchester United ,” Barcelona coach Josep Guardiola told
reporters. “It’s a real feat getting to the final after such a
hard season, and on top of that to eliminate a great team like
Madrid.”  Pedro Rodriguez  scored for Barcelona on a rainy night at
the Nou Camp stadium and Marcelo had the goal for record nine-
time champion Real, which was playing without suspended
defenders Pepe and Sergio Ramos. Madrid manager  Jose Mourinho 
was also banned after being sent to the stands in the opener,
with assistant Aitor Karanka taking over.  “The team showed what it’s made of,” Karanka told
reporters. “Even in adverse conditions we showed our face.”  Casillas Excels  Barcelona was kept off the scoreboard by Real goalkeeper
Iker Casillas after dominating play in the first half.  Andres Iniesta shot wide in the seventh minute and Sergio
Busquets headed a corner kick straight to Casillas.  Lionel Messi 
then forced Casillas into a diving save and sent another shot
wide. Casillas also stopped shots from  David Villa  and Pedro.  Real’s Cristiano Ronaldo broke down the right flank in the
40th minute, only to have his cross for Angel Di Maria grabbed
by goalkeeper Victor Valdes. It was the best chance of the half
for Real, which had no attempts on goal.  Real’s Gonzalo Higuain put the ball in the net in the
opening minute of the second half, although the score was
disallowed because of Ronaldo’s foul on  Javier Mascherano  in the
build-up.  Goals  Barcelona took the lead when Iniesta split the defense with
a pass for Pedro, who took one touch into the area before firing
a shot into the corner. Real tied the game 10 minutes later as
Di Maria hit the post and centered the rebound for Marcelo to
score past Valdes.  “We’re left with the memory of the first leg at home,”
Casillas said on UEFA’s website. “Had we managed a 0-0 there it
would have been enough to get us through.”  In the final minute, Barcelona defender  Eric Abidal  made
his first appearance since undergoing surgery in March to remove
a tumor in his liver and was greeted by a huge ovation from the
crowd.  Four games in 18 days between the teams produced one win
apiece and two draws. It was the first time Real didn’t have a
player sent off in five meetings with Barcelona this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  