-- 
Bayer’s Dekkers Looks for Stars to Align on Merger of Equals

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-05-04T15:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bayer-ceo-says-he-s-open-to-health-unit-merger-of-equals-1-.html
Bayer AG (BAYN) , the German maker of aspirin,
is open to a “merger of equals” that would strengthen its
health-care unit without paying a premium for a large
acquisition, Chief Executive Officer Marijn Dekkers said.  Three or four companies may be considered Bayer’s equals in
a merger of drug units, Dekkers said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. He declined to elaborate.  Doubling the size of Bayer’s health unit, which had 16.9
billion euros ($25.1 billion) in sales last year, would create a
drugmaker on par with  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) ,  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and
 AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)  Bayer, based in Leverkusen,  Germany , is relying
on its two chemical units to drive growth this year, forecasting
that revenue gains at the drug division won’t match the market.
Being bigger isn’t essential, though it may be advantageous,
said Dekkers, who took over as CEO in October.  Bayer would consider such a merger “if the stars were to
be aligned,” Dekkers, 53, said during yesterday’s interview.
“I would be open to making the company stronger if the right
opportunity were to come.”  Drugmakers with about the same annual revenue as Bayer’s
health unit include Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and New
York-based  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  Thousand Oaks, California-
based  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the world’s biggest biotechnology company, had
sales of $15.1 billion last year.  Blood Thinner  Growth in the health-care unit may depend on broader
approval for blood thinner Xarelto, Dekkers said. Bayer is
waiting for approval of the medicine for irregular heartbeat
patients who face the risk of a stroke.  “Whether and to what extent potential ‘equals’ may be
interested in taking up this offer to talk probably depends on
the approvability of Xarelto,” Cornelia Thomas, a London-based
analyst for WestLB, wrote in a note to investors today,
referring to Bayer’s new blood thinner. “This would change
Bayer’s valuation significantly.”  Preliminary talks, at most, may be expected on a tie-up
before the regulatory decision in the second half, wrote Thomas.
She rates Bayer’s shares “neutral.” The company estimates
annual sales of the drug, which it markets with  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) , may peak at more than 2 billion euros.  Combining two equal assets or seeking smaller biotechnology
companies is more logical than large purchases at the premiums
paid in drug industry deals like  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s $68 billion
acquisition of Wyeth in 2009, Dekkers said.  Acquisition Multiples  Bayer fell 1.16 euros, or 2 percent, to 57.39 euros at 4:35
p.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has returned 29 percent in the past
year compared with 23 percent for Germany’s benchmark DAX Index.  Companies have paid a median 13.3 times earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization for pharmaceutical
acquisitions in the past five years, according to 151
transactions tracked by Bloomberg data. Pfizer’s purchase of
Wyeth was the largest industry deal during that time.  “We’re in a position where we don’t have to do anything,”
Dekkers said. “We have a relatively good pipeline compared with
the rest of the industry, and we don’t have blockbusters coming
off patent either.”  Bayer’s top-selling multiple sclerosis treatment betaseron
faces competition from a  Novartis AG (NOVN)  version of the same drug
called Extavia, and from the Swiss drugmaker’s new MS pill
Gilenya. Sales fell 5 percent in the first quarter. Meanwhile,
sales of Bayer’s birth-control pill Yaz dropped 18 percent after
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  introduced a generic copy.  148-Year History  Analysts have suggested the appointment of Dekkers, the
first outsider chosen to lead Bayer, might herald a breakup of
the 148-year-old company. Dekkers has rejected the idea
repeatedly.  Even as Bayer expects revenue from 2013 to be driven by
innovative new medicines such as Xarelto and the experimental
eye treatment VEGF-Trap Eye partnered with Regeneron
Pharmaceuticals Inc., Dekkers said the company is seeking to
boost sales of older medicines by selling them in emerging
markets such as  China .  Bayer aims to hire 2,000 salespeople in China this year, he
said.  Dekkers has said selling the MaterialScience plastics unit
to buy a drugs asset would be an “extreme option.” He repeated
that statement yesterday, adding that Bayer doesn’t have a
pharmaceutical acquisition opportunity in front of it at the
moment that would warrant such a sale.  In a merger of equals, Dekkers said, it wouldn’t be
necessary to sell a unit.  MaterialScience makes plastics and foams for the automotive
industry, while Bayer’s CropScience division makes pesticides
and seeds. The two chemical divisions contributed about half of
Bayer’s 35 billion euros in sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in  New York  at  nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  