-- 
Bin Laden Aides Said to Have Bought Orders of Pepsi, Coke

-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r
-- 
2011-05-04T07:52:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bin-laden-aides-bought-big-orders-of-pepsi-coke-grocer-says.html
The two polite Pakistanis who helped
Osama  bin Laden  hide in the shadow of their country’s army
bought bulk food orders, chose major brands and equally favored
Pepsi and Coke, neighbors and a local shopkeeper said.  The men called themselves Akbar and Rashid Khan and they
owned the fortified home where U.S. commandos killed bin Laden
in an early morning raid May 2. They did the daily shopping in
the Pashtu-language accents of Waziristan, a region on the
Afghan border, said grocer Anjum Qaisar, 27, who works 150
meters from the compound. Bin Laden’s men “never came by foot,
they always drove a  Pajero  or a little Suzuki van, and they
bought enough food for 10 people,” Qaisar said in an interview
yesterday.  “I was curious about why they bought so much food, but I
did not want to be rude by asking” such a personal question,
Qaisar said. The Khans told neighbors they had fled a violent
tribal feud in Waziristan to seek a calmer life in Abbottabad,
an army headquarters town 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the
capital, Islamabad.  A day after the gun battle that revealed bin Laden’s
presence, his former neighbors expressed astonishment that the
al-Qaeda leader had hidden among them, just a mile from the gate
of the  Pakistan Military Academy , the country’s equivalent of
 West Point  in the U.S. Eight days before U.S. helicopters
swooped in, Pakistan’s army chief General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani
visited the academy, telling its cadets the “Pakistan army is
fully aware of internal and external threats to the country,”
an  army statement  said last week.  Support Network  The U.S. will investigate whether bin Laden’s support
network included Pakistani officials, White House counter-
terrorism adviser John Brennan said yesterday on NBC’s Today
show. Abbottabad’s district government chief, Zahir ul-Islam,
said in an interview that local officials would not comment on
that issue or on the fate of several women and children from the
house that local residents said were taken to a hospital and
then detained by authorities.  In Bilal Town, a neighborhood of new, walled villas
interspersed with farm plots where bin Laden’s 1.5-acre compound
was the biggest, neighbors yesterday offered stories of the al-
Qaeda leader’s household.  “When we played cricket in the field near the house, if
the ball flew over their wall and we went to the gate to ask for
it, the guards would be angry,” said Tariq Khan, 14, a
schoolboy. “They would give us up to 100 rupees ($1.20) to buy
a new one,” rather than allow the ball to be retrieved, he said.
That’s a large sum as balls cost only 20 to 30 rupees, Khan said.  ‘Best Brands’  With Pakistani troops and police guarding the streets,
Qaisar was one of few merchants open for business yesterday.  Bin Laden’s protectors “always bought the best brands --
Nestle milk, the good-quality soaps and shampoos,” Qaisar said.
“They always paid cash, never asked for credit.” They
purchased meat from a butcher who was closed yesterday, he said.  Rashid and Akbar owned the compound, said Kamar Khan, the
police official who sealed the house yesterday. He would not say
whether the Khans’ bodies had been found inside after the U.S.
raid. The White House says U.S. troops killed two al-Qaeda
couriers, along with bin Laden and his son.  U.S. officials in  Washington  say a courier, known by the
pseudonym Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti, was the man the CIA tracked to
find bin Laden’s hideout, the  Associated Press  reported.  Tora Bora  Michael Scheuer, the CIA veteran who led the agency’s hunt
for bin Laden in the 1990s, said it would be a surprise to find
that the al-Qaeda leader, a Saudi, had relied on foreigners like
the Khans for his innermost security. “Historically, anyone
that close to him almost always was an Arab rather than a
Pakistani or an Afghan,” Scheuer said in a May 2 phone
interview from Washington.  Bin Laden escaped U.S. surveillance about 90 days after the
September 11 attacks in 2001, as troops closed in on him in the
Tora Bora mountains on Afghanistan’s border with  Pakistan . The
CIA found evidence of him last August in Abbottabad, a military
town in the Himalayan foothills that is favored by Pakistani
army retirees and named for its founder, a 19th-century British
major, James Abbott.  Soviet Occupation  The U.S. commando team collected an “impressive amount”
of materials from the compound, including computers and other
electronics, CIA Director Leon Panetta told Time magazine.  Neighbors in Bilal Town knew that Arabic-speaking women
“lived inside that house because our children heard them
through the gate one day and told us,” said Altaf Khan, 35,
whose house is on the same street.  Still, at least some of bin Laden’s guards were ethnic
Pashtuns, the group whom bin Laden befriended by joining their
war against Soviet occupation in  Afghanistan  in the 1980s, said
Amin Akbar, the nearest neighbor to the al-Qaeda house.  “They had very powerful security lights at night,” Akbar
said. “When I saw them on one day last month, I knocked on the
gate to tell them so they could turn them off, because our
electricity is so expensive.”  A Pakistani opened the door “and became very angry with
me,” he said. “He asked me ‘Who told you to come here?’”  Umar Nassir, a teenage student, said neighbors are
concerned that bin Laden’s refuge in Abbottabad may bring more
trouble. “The schools in the city have been closed for three
days,” he said. “We worry that al-Qaeda will come back to
attack in our town and take revenge for Osama’s death.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anwar Shakir in Abbottabad, Pakistan at 
 ashakir1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  