-- 
Bin Laden Death Adds to Bulls’ Clout After Weathering Europe, Japan Crises

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-03T20:22:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bin-laden-death-adds-to-bulls-clout-after-europe-japan-crises.html
Investors who bought stocks as
Europe’s credit crisis spread, Japan battled a nuclear emergency
and the  U.S. budget deficit  swelled to a record are unlikely to
view the death of  Osama bin Laden  as anything but bullish.  His killing in  Pakistan  may lure more individuals to stocks
in coming months, said Thomas J. Lee, chief U.S. equity
strategist for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in New York. While the
attack may create a martyr for terrorists, it will spur traders
to sell commodities and buy shares, said  Jim O’Neill , chairman
of Goldman Sachs Asset Management in  London . The dollar’s
retreat won’t be curbed, said Kathleen Brooks, research director
at Gain Capital Group LLC.  Bin Laden’s death marked the end of a 10-year manhunt
encompassing two global bear markets in stocks that began with
the destruction of the World Trade Center in New York on Sept.
11, 2001. While some strategists attributed only symbolic
importance to the operation and U.S. equities fell yesterday,
Lee said investors will reap benefits as confidence in the U.S.
and President  Barack Obama  increases.  Yesterday’s market reaction was “basically noise,” Lee
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with Betty Liu. “It’s positive because people have been
avoiding stocks because they think they’ve been risky, and part
of it is global security. This is going to basically really
boost inflows into stocks.”  Shares Decline  U.S. stocks retreated yesterday, pulling the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index down 0.2 percent to 1,361.22 after it reached
the highest level since June 2008. Yields on 10-year notes fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.28 percent at
5:11 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices, after rising as much as three basis points.  The dollar touched the weakest level in 16 months versus
the euro, while oil for June delivery fell 41 cents to settle at
$113.52 a barrel in New York.  The benchmark gauge for American equities has rallied 8.3
percent from this year’s low on March 16 as Japan avoided a
nuclear meltdown following its biggest earthquake on record. The
MSCI All-Country World Index of emerging and developed market
stocks has rebounded 10 percent since March even as Obama sought
$4 trillion in deficit cuts within 12 years and Greek and Irish
bond yields increased amid concern over Europe’s debt crisis.  The S&P 500 slipped 0.3 percent to 1,356.62 as of 4 p.m. in
New York today.  Money Flows  Investors added $598.6 billion to mutual funds that
purchase debt in the two years ended March 31, compared with
$30.6 billion for equities, according to Washington-based
Investment Company Institute data. The S&P 500 has gained 110
percent including dividends in the past 26 months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “It is a positive symbolic gesture for U.S. leadership,
and Barack Obama in particular,” said O’Neill, of  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  “Of course, beyond this immediate reaction, markets
need to be careful as bin Laden has possibly not been the single
biggest security threat directly for many years, and those who
will regard him as a martyr won’t give up as a result of his
killing.”  Investors are enjoying the biggest  bull market  in 54 years
after 76 percent of S&P 500 companies beat first-quarter
earnings projections as the economic recovery continued. Gross
domestic product expanded 1.8 percent in the first quarter. It
will rise 3.2 percent this quarter, and accelerate through the
end of the year, according to the median of economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Longest Streak  The  S&P 500  has risen eight straight months when dividends
are included, matching its longest streak since 1995, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Gains have come as Obama’s Democrats
in Congress struggle to find common ground with opposition
Republicans on how to reduce the fiscal deficit.  U.S. government
debt  has more than doubled to a record since the 2001 attacks to
$14.3 trillion, partly due to spending on military actions in
Afghanistan and  Iraq .  The rally has driven the VIX, the benchmark index for U.S.
stock options that measures the cost of using them as insurance
against declines, to three-year lows. The  Chicago  Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index, as the index is known, fell to 14.62
on April 28, the lowest close since June 2007 and a drop of 50
percent since this year’s peak of 29.40 after  Japan ’s
earthquake. It rose 8.4 percent to 15.99 yesterday, below its
20.36 average during its two-decade history.  VIX at 40  “Had this happened in 2009 when the VIX was at 40, we
might have seen the market rally 5 percent and the VIX be down 5
points,” said Jeremy Wien, head of VIX options trading at Peak6
Capital Management LLC in Chicago. “You can’t have that here
because of where we are. The VIX is already at a level that’s so
low compared to recent years that it would be hard for it to
come in too much more.”  Bin Laden’s killing put American and allied officials on
guard against possible reprisals as they vowed to maintain the
fight against terrorism. CIA Director Leon Panetta said
yesterday in a message to agency employees that bin Laden’s
death “struck a heavy blow” against al-Qaeda, even as he
warned that terrorists “almost certainly will attempt to
avenge” the killing.  Eliminating the terror group’s leader doesn’t affect the
rate of expansion in the economy or company profits and won’t
make  North America  or  Europe  any safer, said billionaire
investor  Kenneth Fisher , who oversees $45 billion at Woodside,
California-based Fisher Investments Inc.  Nothing Solved  “I’d be quite surprised if this has a big impact,” Fisher
said. “Al-Qaeda will still be there and we’re not becoming any
more beloved by the people who hate us, so this isn’t going to
solve anything. It doesn’t change earnings, it doesn’t change
the economy, and it doesn’t make us free from terrorism
concerns.”  Optimism spurred by the killing is unlikely to help the
dollar rally, according to Brooks, of Gain Capital in London.
Any appreciation is an opportunity for investors to increase
bets the currency will decline because the U.S. Federal Reserve
is unlikely to raise its target interest rate on overnight loans
between banks anytime soon, she said.  “The Fed still dominates financial matters and right now
they are on hold, which is proving to be a heady mix for risk,
while also weighing on the dollar,” Brooks said.  Bin Laden’s death means financial assets will be more tied
to economic data, according to  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive
officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto, which manages
about C$1 billion ($1.05 billion). Reports this week may show
factory orders rose in March, the rate of expansion in U.S.
service industries increased, and nonfarm payrolls gained for a
seventh month, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Killing bin Laden “does show America can reach out and get
these people,” Caldwell said. “It’s not going to change the
nature of the conflict. It’s a positive, it’s a bump, but I
think markets are taking cues more from the economic things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  