-- 
SEALs who Killed Bin Laden Remain Secret Heroes in Hometown

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-05-03T17:52:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bin-laden-killers-remain-secret-heroes-in-virginia-hometown-of-navy-seals.html
As jets screamed over  Naval Air
Station Oceana  behind his used-car lot in  Virginia Beach ,
Richard DeBerry Jr. said he knows a member of Navy SEAL Team
Six, the elite, secretive unit that killed  Osama bin Laden .  That friendship still won’t get him any details of the
nighttime raid on the Pakistan compound of the terrorist who
eluded capture for a decade.  “We’re not even going to try to pick his brain about it --
he’s not going to say a thing,” DeBerry, 33, said in an office
lined with baseball caps from Navy servicemen who bought cars.
“You get drunk with them and they won’t tell you a thing about
what happened on their missions. They don’t even tell their
wives.”  The SEAL team emerged as local heroes, if discreet ones, in
Tidewater  Virginia , where a complex of military bases sprawls
from the shipyards in Norfolk to the Dam Neck compound where
part of the unit is based.  The SEALs trace their roots to World War II, when they
surveyed beaches and cleared obstacles for Allied amphibious
landings. Today, SEALs -- the name stands for Sea, Air and Land
-- perform commando assaults, unconventional warfare,
reconnaissance and intelligence-gathering.  Professionalism in Uniform  Such special operations forces have played a key role since
the beginning of the conflict against al-Qaeda in  Afghanistan  in
2001, when they worked with the Northern Alliance against the
Taliban.  “You’ve got a process of evolution since  Vietnam  that has
not only created a more professional military but a far more
professional group of intelligence operatives and special
forces,” said  Anthony Cordesman , a national-security analyst
with the  Center for Strategic and International Studies  in
Washington.  The SEAL strike team flew May 1 in helicopters to bin
Laden’s Abbottabad compound under the cover of darkness, and
during a 40-minute raid worked its way through the structure,
confronting and killing him on a top floor, according to White
House counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan  and other
administration, defense and intelligence officials. President
 Barack Obama  and national security officials listened to an
audio feed and heard the code words that let them know bin Laden
was dead.  SEALs and Delta  In Virginia Beach, the base of bin Laden’s killers in a
heavily guarded compound isn’t marked by name. Its Army
counterpart is Delta Force, headquartered at Fort Bragg,  North
Carolina . The teams are part of the Joint Special Operations
Command, which also oversees the Army’s 160th Special Operations
Aviation Regiment with helicopters to get the commandos to work
and the 75th Ranger Regiment with infantry shock troops to back
up the commandos with more firepower.  Around Virginia Beach, a city of about 433,000 dominated by
strip malls and suburban sprawl around the military bases, there
were no signs of public tribute to the SEALs who killed
America’s most-wanted man.  Service members were loath to discuss it. One told a
reporter that the mention of a bar as a gathering spot for SEALs
might get it blacklisted by the military, lest it tip off
enemies wishing to retaliate.  Around the town dominated by military, their families, and
businesses that cater to them, residents said in interviews that
their joy at the death of bin Laden was tinged with anxiety as
troops are still waging two wars launched in the wake of the
attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.  Joy and Melancholy  Standing on the lawn outside her mobile home, Marilyn
Hargiss, 60, recounted her mixed emotions at the news of the
terrorist’s death. She said her son-in-law is overseas with the
Navy, which has kept him from his three daughters and year-and-
a-half-old son for more than three months.  “I’m proud of our military,” she said. “They wouldn’t
let up and they kept looking until they found him.”  Diamond Desmond, 33, served eight years in the Navy --
“the best of the armed services in my opinion” -- leaving in
2007 after eight years. She said that while serving on a carrier
she helped ferry troops to  Iraq  and saw the devastation
firsthand during 18 months when she was posted to the Navy’s
 medical center  in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Desmond, while working at a lingerie store near the Oceana
base, said another terrorist would likely take bin Laden’s
place, and that his death provides slim solace to those who lost
loved ones in war.  Continuing Fire  “I’m excited that they caught him,” she said. “There’s
still going to be a long list. It’s going to be never-ending.
Someone’s going to step up.”  DeBerry, the car dealer, said he has more than half a dozen
relatives and friends in uniform.  “It’s an uncomfortable feeling,” he said. “What’s going
to happen next?”  “We don’t feel this is the end,” he said. “Not at all,
the fire’s just getting started now.”  Hargiss said her pleasure at bin Laden’s demise was
tempered by the continuing struggle.  “Once the dust settles and we get past all the
celebrating, they’ll start wondering, what now? What’s next?”
she said. “I’d like to bring those kids home.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  