-- 
Bin Laden Death Gives U.S. Escape From Trap: Gilles Dorronsoro

-- B y   G i l l e s   D o r r o n s o r o
-- 
2011-05-03T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bin-laden-death-points-to-way-out-of-trap-commentary-by-gilles-dorronsoro.html
Almost 10 years ago, when 3,000 people
were killed on Sept. 11,  Osama bin Laden  set a snare for the
U.S. His death on Sunday may not resolve all of the security
challenges for the U.S., but it does offer a way out of the trap
that is  Afghanistan .  Any euphoria should be tempered by understanding that the
impact on global terror will be limited and the U.S. is still
under threat from transnational jihadist groups.  Here are four early lessons that must be taken into
account:  -- Al-Qaeda hasn’t been significantly weakened.  Bin Laden wasn’t playing an active leadership role in the
day-to-day operations of al-Qaeda and the group will probably
transition smoothly and avoid any internal political struggles
with  Ayman al-Zawahiri  as the obvious choice to assume command.  It is also important to remember that al-Qaeda is a
decentralized outfit and there are new opportunities emerging in
 Yemen ,  Iraq  and other countries to recruit fresh militants.
Sure, al-Qaeda is under constant pressure and the threat is low,
but there are many other important players to keep in mind. The
Pakistani group  Lashkar-e-Taiba , for instance, is more powerful
than ever and also has a global agenda.  The impact might only be psychological, but there is no way
to know if bin Laden’s demise will translate into more or less
anti-American feelings in the Muslim world. Even with the Arab
Spring, a change in the paradigm of Muslim public opinion in the
Middle East and around the world seems unlikely for now.  -- Bin Laden’s death is of little importance to the war in
Afghanistan.  Al-Qaeda has never been a major military force, especially
compared with a local insurgency that has been able to mobilize
tens of thousands of fighters. And contrary to what was expected
in  Washington , the surge of U.S. troops didn’t produce solid
results. The Taliban is stronger than last year and more
aggressive in pushing its advantage.  The number of attacks is historically high and the pressure
is growing on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization coalition.
Without conducting any major new offensive, the coalition is
dealing with the same level of casualties this year as it was
last year. With a diminishing presence in Afghanistan, the U.S.
and its allies won’t be able to contain the insurgency or plan a
transfer to the Afghan security forces.  Even more important, the transition process, which in
principle should see the Afghan national army in charge of
security by 2014, is unrealistic. Afghan units have low morale,
aren’t autonomous and need air support and technology to cope
with improvised explosive devices. The regime of  Hamid Karzai  is
more  corrupt  and unpopular than ever and U.S. leverage on him is
nil when it comes to governance.  The jihadist movements are back, especially in Nuristan and
Kunar provinces, where the control of the coalition is nominal.
Counterterrorism efforts alone are insufficient to deter these
groups from using the Afghan border as a sanctuary.  -- Pakistan won’t make major changes, though Washington
enjoys greater sway.  The real surprise in bin Laden’s death was the location --a
two-hour drive from Islamabad, the capital, in Abbottabad, a
military city. It’s unlikely that al-Qaeda, given the fact that
it has repeatedly targeted the Pakistani military, was protected
by Pakistani generals. But questions should be asked about
lower-level complicity in  Pakistan ’s spy service, Inter-Services
Intelligence, or ISI.  The successful operation on bin Laden’s mansion does give
President Barack Obama greater leverage to push Pakistan to take
action on militant groups inside its borders. But the support
given by Pakistan to the Afghan Taliban isn’t going to stop. Nor
does bin Laden’s death alter plans by the Pakistani generals who
envision a strategy of pushing out the U.S. -- while keeping
India off-balance -- and turning Afghanistan into Pakistan’s own
backyard.  -- Obama has a chance to push for negotiations with the
Taliban.  While bin Laden’s death doesn’t win the U.S. a military
advantage on the ground in Afghanistan, it makes a negotiated
settlement easier. Obama -- at least for a short time -- will be
free of Republican criticism on issues of national security and
able to take more risks on the diplomatic front without
accusations of being weak.  Since the current strategy isn’t working and the public
support for the war is vanishing, Obama now has an opportunity
to put more emphasis on negotiations with the Taliban’s
leadership. The elimination of  bin Laden  as a symbolic figure
will facilitate the negotiations on both sides, since he has
been criticized by nationalist Taliban leaders in the past as a
danger for the survival of their movement.  Nothing guarantees that negotiations will work because this
will depend largely on the attitude of the Pakistani military,
which enjoys control over the Taliban’s leadership. But the
alternative is a strategic dead end and it will become obvious
next year that the coalition finds it can’t withdraw without a
rapid disintegration of the Karzai regime and a military victory
for the Taliban.  Bin Laden’s death gives the U.S. the unique opportunity to
get out of the Afghan trap. Let’s hope the Obama administration
doesn’t miss the chance.  (Gilles Dorronsoro, author of “Revolution Unending:
Afghanistan, 1979 to the Present,” is a visiting scholar at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Gilles Dorronsoro at  gilles.dorronsoro@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  