-- 
Bloomberg Television Launches “Bloomberg Game Changers” In Asia

-- B y  
-- 
2011-05-03T16:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bloomberg-television-launches-bloomberg-game-changers-in-asia.html
                                
Weekly Documentary Series, Sponsored by BNP Paribas, Airs
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 6:00pm  Hong Kong  Time  Series Profiles Today’s Most Influential Leaders in Business,
Technology and Culture  Hong Kong -- Bloomberg Television, the global 24-hour business
and financial news network, today announced that “Bloomberg Game
Changers” will join the network’s programming line-up in the
Asia-Pacific region, with episodes airing Tuesdays and Thursday
at 6:00pm HKT and Saturdays and Sundays at 11am and 9:30pm HKT.  Sponsored by BNP Paribas, “Bloomberg Game Changers” is an
original new documentary series that offers a revealing look at
today’s most influential global leaders in technology, finance,
politics and culture.  From  Mark Zuckerberg  to Sir  Richard
Branson  to  Steve Jobs  to  Larry Ellison , the series profiles
fascinating and compelling personalities through rare videos,
photographs and interviews with friends, colleagues and industry
experts.  “We’re excited to partner with BNP Paribas to bring this series
to Bloomberg Television across Asia-Pacific,” said Mark Froude,
Head of Ad Sales for Asia-Pacific, Bloomberg Television.  “The
individuals covered in ‘Bloomberg Game Changers’ have earned
worldwide interest due to their work and success.”  “Bloomberg Game Changers’ captures some of the best Bloomberg
Television has to offer by providing an entertaining and
informative look at some of today’s most fascinating people,”
said Parry Ravindranathan, Business Head for Bloomberg
Television in  Asia .  “By talking directly to the colleagues who
work with them, invest in their companies, analyze their
products and even compete with them for business, Bloomberg TV
gives another perspective on their rise to the top.”  The premiere episode of “Bloomberg Game Changers” in Asia-
Pacific will profile  Henry Kravis , billionaire co-founder of
private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.  Other
“Bloomberg Game Changers” will examine Google co-founders Sergey
Brin and  Larry Page ; Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg;
Biz Stone and Jack Dorsey, co-founders of Twitter; Larry
Ellison, co-founder and chief executive officer of Oracle
Corporation; top Silicon Valley venture capitalist Marc
Andreessen and Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour, among others.  For more information about “Bloomberg Game Changers,” and to
view online episodes of the series, visit
 http://www.bloomberg.com/tv/shows/game-changers/ .  To find Bloomberg Television in your area, visit
 http://bloomberg.viewerlink.tv/ .  About Bloomberg  Bloomberg, the global business and financial information and
news leader, gives influential decision makers a critical edge
by connecting them to a dynamic network of information, people
and ideas. The company’s strength--delivering data, news and
analytics through innovative technology, quickly and accurately-
-is at the core of the Bloomberg Professional service, which
provides real time financial information to more than 300,000
subscribers globally. Bloomberg’s enterprise solutions build on
the company’s core strength, leveraging technology to allow
customers to access, integrate, distribute and manage data and
information across organizations more efficiently and
effectively. Through Bloomberg Law, Bloomberg Government and
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the company provides data, news
and analytics to decision makers in industries beyond finance.
And Bloomberg News, delivered through the Bloomberg Professional
service, television, radio, mobile, the Internet and two
magazines, Bloomberg Businessweek and Bloomberg Markets, covers
the world with more than 2,300 news and multimedia professionals
at 146 bureaus in 72 countries.  Headquartered in  New York ,
Bloomberg employs more than 13,000 people in 185 locations
around the world.  Contact for Bloomberg:  Jocelyn Austin, +1 212-617-3578,  jbaustin@bloomberg.net 
