-- 
BMW Leads Mercedes in U.S. Luxury Auto Sales By 29 as of April

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-05-03T21:20:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bmw-leads-mercedes-in-u-s-luxury-auto-sales-by-29-as-of-april.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s namesake
brand outsold  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz in April to be the
month’s top-selling luxury brand in the U.S. and to take the
lead for the year by just 29 vehicles.  BMW’s U.S. deliveries, boosted by sales of the new 5-Series
sedan and X-3 sport-utility vehicle, rose 8.9 percent to 18,801
compared to the same month last year, the Munich-based automaker
said today in a statement. Deliveries for the first four months
of the year rose to 71,417 vehicles, to lead Mercedes’ 71,388
sales and the 64,932 deliveries by  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus .  “It’s going to be more or less the same for the rest of
the year, a horse race,” said  Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst
with TrueCar.com, a website that tracks auto sales trends.
“It’s going to be a photo finish.”  Lexus, based in Toyota City, Japan, has been the top-
selling luxury auto brand in the U.S. on an annual basis for the
past 11 years. Its lead over BMW narrowed to 9,216 last year,
less than half the 19,473 gap in 2009. Mercedes finished in
third place last year.  Mark Templin , head of U.S. Lexus sales, last month said the
brand doesn’t expect to retain its volume lead in the U.S. this
year because of supply disruptions following the March 11
earthquake. All but one Lexus model is made only in  Japan .  U.S. sales of BMW’s 5 Series rose 77 percent last month and
the X3 more than tripled its deliveries, the company said.  April Sales  U.S. dealers sold 18,042 Mercedes-Benz cars and SUVs last
month, 2.3 percent more than a year earlier, Stuttgart, Germany-
based Daimler said in a statement.  The results exclude Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars
and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  Lexus sales last month slipped 4.3 percent to 17,576, the
company said in a statement.  While Lexus has stumbled, German luxury makers also are
benefiting from improved credit markets that make it less
expensive to offer low lease payments, Toprak said in a
telephone interview.  Ernst Lieb, head of Mercedes’s U.S. unit, said the race to
be the year’s top-selling luxury carmaker in the U.S. isn’t his
sole mission.  “My instructions are to find a balance between market
share and profitability,” Lieb said in an interview last month
at the New York auto show.  BMW’s Aim  BMW’s goal is to be the No. 1 German brand, said  Jim O’Donnell , head of the company’s U.S. sales operations. “We’ve
got more new product coming,” he said at the New York show. “I
think we will outsell them this year.”  O’Donnell and Mercedes’ Lieb have said they may not benefit
from production disruptions in Japan following the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  “We can’t produce any more” than we are making already,
O’Donnell said.  His comments echoed those Lieb made in an interview last
month when he said that Mercedes production plans are set in
advance and there’s limited ability to take advantage of any
Lexus shortages in the short-term.  “There’s probably some way for them to increase production
and you’ll see them, perhaps, ever so quietly,” Toprak said.
“And you’re going to also see domestics trying to get into the
race as well,” he said.  Supply ‘Hiccup’  The luxury market may experience a “hiccup” in the second
quarter because of production disruptions following the Japanese
earthquake, O’Donnell said.  “All that will lead to is a stronger third and fourth
quarter,” he said. “Assuming that the Japanese get whatever
difficulty they have sorted out.”  General Motors Co. (GM) , poised to regain global sales
leadership from Toyota this year, has boosted some production
and hopes to sell more CTS and SRX models, Kurt McNeil,
Cadillac’s vice president of sales, said in a telephone
interview today.  “There’s not unlimited upside but there’s certainly some
opportunity,” he said of the earthquake disruption.  The automaker, based in  Detroit , is scheduled to report
first-quarter earnings May 5.  Sales for GM’s Cadillac luxury division rose 16 percent to
13,127 last month, as CTS sales rose 29 percent aided by the new
coupe version.  Nissan Motor Co.’s Infiniti sold 6,761 vehicles, a 6.2
percent decline from a year earlier, the company said in a
statement.  Honda Motor Co., based in  Tokyo , said in a statement that
sales for its Acura brand rose 8.3 percent to 11,604 last month.  Lincoln, Europeans  U.S. deliveries of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand rose 7.5
percent to 10,018 vehicles, the brand’s best April on record,
the company said in an e-mail.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sold 7,236 Lincoln luxury vehicles in April,
43 fewer than a year earlier, according to a statement from the
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker.  Land Rover deliveries rose 8.4 percent to 2,982, while
Jaguar sales gained 39 percent to 1,249, Mumbai-based  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  said in an e-mailed statement.  Industrywide U.S. auto sales may have exceeded a 13 million
vehicle seasonally adjusted annual pace for the third straight
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  