-- 
Boeing Auditors Not Protected by Sarbanes-Oxley, Court Says

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-05-03T22:57:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/boeing-auditors-fired-for-media-disclosures-barred-from-retaliation-suit.html
Two former  Boeing Co. (BA)  auditors who
were fired after disclosing their concerns about company
practices to a newspaper reporter aren’t protected from
retaliation by the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act , an appeals court ruled.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in  San
Francisco  today upheld the dismissal of a lawsuit by Matthew
Neumann and Nicholas Tides. The men sued Boeing, the world’s
largest aerospace company, claiming their firings violated
Sarbanes-Oxley, a 2002 law intended to protect investors from
fraudulent accounting practices.  Unlike the federal Whistleblower Protection Act, Sarbanes-
Oxley only protects employees when they disclose information
about alleged securities violations to supervisors, federal
regulatory investigators or Congress, the court said. Boeing had
the right to terminate the auditors for violating company policy
barring disclosure of information to the media, the judges said.  “The court’s ruling upholds the actions we took to
enforce our policies around protecting information,” John Dern,
a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing, said in an e-mail. “There
are processes in place for employees to report their concerns,
and the court ruling reinforced that those should be followed.”  The court didn’t consider arguments that Boeing used the
media disclosure as a pretext for firing the auditors, said John
Tollefsen, an attorney for Neumann and Tides. Tollefsen said in
a phone interview today that he will advise his clients to seek
rehearing by a larger panel of judges.  “Going to the media is a way of communicating a message
and using it to tell Congress what’s going on,” he
said.“Nothing in the statute says it has to be confidential.”  ‘Several Deficiencies’  Neumann and Tides, who started working at Boeing’s
information-technology audit group in 2007, complained to
management about “several deficiencies” in company auditing
practices that they viewed as potential violations of Sarbanes-
Oxley, according to the ruling. Among them were the use of
outside accounting contractors in the internal auditing of
information-technology controls, and an audit-record system that
they believed permitted unauthorized users to alter ratings
given to Boeing’s internal controls.  Neumann and Tides spoke to a newspaper reporter about some
of their concerns and forwarded Boeing e-mails and internal
documents to her. The Seattle Post-Intelligencer published an
article in July 2007 saying Boeing failed in its audits to prove
that computer systems were adequately protected against fraud
and had a record of poor internal audit results.  The auditors were fired after an internal investigation and
sued Boeing in 2008, the appeals court said.  The case is Tides v. Boeing, 10-35238,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco federal court at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  