-- 
Bolivia Plans Gas Concessions for First Time Since Seizures

-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   S a r a   S h a h r i a r i
-- 
2011-05-03T18:58:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bolivia-planning-gas-concessions-for-first-time-since-seizures.html
Bolivia  plans to award oil and
natural-gas exploration contracts this year in a bid to lure
back foreign investments five years after President  Evo Morales 
seized fields and refineries, the state oil company said.  Bolivia aims to grant the concessions for the first time
since the seizure, with state-owned Yacimientos Petroliferos
Fiscales Bolivianos, known as YPFB, as the majority partner,
Chief Executive Officer Carlos Villegas said in a May 1
interview in  La Paz .  Foreign oil producers are resuming spending in Bolivia
after an expanded supply contract with Argentina boosted
investor confidence, Villegas said.  Total SA (FP) ,  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,  BG
Group Plc (BG/)  and  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  plan to invest $3 billion
in gas plants and drill 10 wells by 2014, while OAO Gazprom,
Korea National Oil Corp. and YPF SA are seeking to explore in
northern and eastern Bolivia, he said.  “The signing of our gas supply contract with  Argentina  in
2009 was the key to easing investor fears,” Villegas said.
“All the companies here are investing without exception, which
is sending the world an important signal.”  Oil and natural-gas output fell in the Andean nation after
Morales raised taxes and rewrote contracts in 2006 to increase
state control over Bolivia’s natural resources. Private
investment in the industry plunged 69 percent to $271 million in
2009, the latest data available, from $865 million a decade
earlier, according to YPFB.  ‘Delicate moment’  Investors mulling further investments will likely need
guarantees that Morales won’t change contract terms again amid
pressure from unions, said Eurasia Group analyst Erasto Almeida.
Morales agreed to raise workers’ salaries by 11 percent last
month after labor unions staged two weeks of protests.  “Companies are going to be very cautious as this is a
delicate moment,” Almeida said today in a telephone interview
from  New York . “There has been tension between companies and
the government for a long time.”  Bolivia is seeking to boost gas output by 40 percent to 66
million cubic meters a day by 2014 to meet its supply contracts
with Brazil and Argentina, said Villegas, a former energy
minister. Bolivia currently exports 30 million cubic meters of
gas a day to Brazil and 7.7 million cubic meters to Argentina,
according to the state oil company.  Gas Contract  Bolivia agreed to almost quadruple gas supply to Argentina
to 27.7 million cubic meters per day by 2026. Argentina is
building a $100 million, 50-kilometer (80-mile) pipeline linking
the two nations.  Repsol plans to start production at its $1.4 billion
Margarita project next year, spokesman Kristian Rix said in an
e-mail. Total has yet to confirm the size of reserves at its
Aquio property, Total spokeswoman Phenelope Semavoine said in an
April 27 telephone interview. Petrobras officials were unable to
comment.  YPFB plans to more than double investment to $1.8 billion
this year to boost natural-gas output, Villegas said. The
company plans to finish construction of two liquefied petroleum
gas plants by December 2013 and start work this year on a $1.5
billion petrochemical plant to produce polyethylene, he said.  YPFB will finance its plastics plant and a urea and ammonia
project with Treasury funds and $1 billion in central bank
reserves, Villegas said. The plants will seek to supply plastics
to Asian markets and fertilizers to  Brazil , he said.  “We’re holding talks with several companies to study the
possibility of a joint venture for petrochemicals,” Villegas
said. “There are markets both bordering Bolivia and overseas.”  Total fell 0.7 percent to 42.76 euros in Paris today, while
Repsol dropped 1.9 percent to 23.925 euros in Madrid trading. BG
slid 1.9 percent to 1,504 pence in London and Petrobras fell 0.9
percent to 25.50 reais in  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporters on this story:  Alex Emery  in La Paz at
   aemery1@bloomberg.net ; Sara Shahriari in La
Paz at   sshahriari@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Dale Crofts at
   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  