-- 
BP Unit to Pay $25 Million to Settle Spill Claims From Alaska Pipelines

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-05-03T21:04:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bp-unit-to-pay-25-million-to-settle-u-s-environmental-case.html
A  BP Plc (BP/)  unit agreed to pay $25
million to settle a U.S. lawsuit stemming from two oil spills in
 Alaska  and other alleged environmental violations.  BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., in a filing today in federal
court in Anchorage, Alaska, agreed to pay the civil penalty and
make $60 million of improvements to its pipelines. London-based
BP didn’t admit any liability, according to the proposed
agreement. The public will have 30 days to comment on the
settlement, which must be approved by a judge.  “Companies like BP Alaska must understand that they can no
longer afford to ignore, neglect or postpone the proper
monitoring and maintenance of their pipelines,” Assistant
Attorney General Ignacia S. Moreno, who oversees the Justice
Department’s Environment and Natural Resources Division, said in
an e-mailed statement. “This agreement will help prevent future
environmental disasters and protect the fragile ecosystem of
Alaska’s North Slope.”  The U.S. sued the BP unit in 2009 for violations of the
 Clean Air Act , the  Clean Water Act  and federal pipeline safety
laws. The violations arose from the spill of about 5,000 barrels
of crude oil in Alaska in March 2006, a second, smaller spill in
the state later that year, and improper removal of asbestos
materials from its pipelines. The Justice Department said the
penalty is the largest “per-barrel penalty” for an oil spill.  ‘Cut Corners’  “BP admits it cut corners and failed to do what was
required to adequately maintain its pipelines,” Karen Loeffler,
the U.S. attorney for Alaska, said on a conference call with
reporters.  The settlement requires BP to develop a program to inspect
and maintain its 1,600 miles of pipeline on the North Slope in
Alaska. The program will cost about $60 million over three
years, the  Justice Department  said. BP has already spent about
$200 million replacing the lines that leaked.  In 2007, BP Exploration (Alaska) was ordered to pay a $20
million criminal penalty after pleading guilty to one
misdemeanor violation of the Clean Water Act for the 2006 spill.
The company was also sentenced to three years probation, the
Justice Department said.  A BP spokesman,  Steve Rinehart , said in an e-mail that
“the terms of the agreement are fair.”  BP still faces litigation and investigations from the
Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico last April.  The rig exploded while drilling a BP well off the Louisiana
coast, killing 11 workers. The subsea gusher spewed more than
4.1 million barrels of crude into the  Gulf of Mexico .  Much of the Gulf’s fisheries were closed, wildlife was
injured or killed, and hundreds of miles of shoreline were
fouled by the drifting oil.  The case is U.S. v. BP Exploration (Alaska) Inc., 09-cv-
00064, U.S. District Court, District of Alaska (Anchorage).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 