-- 
Branson Jettisons ‘Playful’ Virgin Blue Name to Win Qantas Business Flyers

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-05-04T08:12:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/branson-may-jettison-playful-virgin-blue-name-on-qantas-premium-contest.html
Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA) , the
Australian carrier backed by  Richard Branson , unveiled a new
name, livery and cabins as it challenges  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s
90 percent share of the nation’s business-travel market.  The carrier will fly as Virgin Australia on domestic routes
from today and roll out the brand on international services by
the end of the year, it said in a statement. The Brisbane-based
company is also replacing its old red livery with a largely
white one and introducing a new logo.  The name change highlights how Chief Executive Officer John Borghetti has shifted the carrier from its traditional budget
market to instead challenge his former employer Qantas for more
lucrative business flyers. Virgin  Australia  will offer onboard
leather seats, a revamped inflight menu, new lounges and an
overhauled frequent flyer program to win corporate travelers.  “John still has more work to do, but they are getting
closer to being able to break that grip,” said  Peter Harbison ,
managing director at Sydney-based industry consultant Centre for
Asia Pacific Aviation. “The next step will be in trying to win
some of the big contracts that have helped Qantas keep a
stranglehold on the market.”  Overseas Expansion  The new name may also help Borghetti win customers from
overseas, Harbison said. Virgin Australia is working on growing
its international network through tie-ups with  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL) , Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways and Air New Zealand.  Virgin Australia has abandoned much of the low-cost model
used when Virgin Blue began flying in 2000 because of rising
domestic competition for budget travelers. The growth of
Qantas’s Jetstar unit and Singapore Airlines Ltd.-backed  Tiger
Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)  helped push discounted domestic economy
ticket prices to a record low in January, according to
Department of Infrastructure  data .  That competition, along with natural disasters and rising
fuel prices, caused Virgin Blue to forecast a loss of as much as
A$80 million ($86 million) for the year ending June 30, its
second unprofitable year in three.  The airline closed unchanged at 28.5 Australian cents in
Sydney trading. It’s dropped 46 percent in the past year, more
than double the rate of decline for Sydney-based Qantas. Branson
owns 26 percent of the carrier, while Air New Zealand Ltd. holds
15 percent.  Singapore Air Deal  The carrier will fly as Virgin Australia both domestically
and internationally after reaching an agreement with  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , which owns 49 percent of Virgin Atlantic, Branson
said in an interview. The airline had previously only been able
to fly domestically as Virgin Blue, while using the Pacific Blue
brand for New Zealand services and V Australia for long-haul
flights to  North America .  “Both sides felt it made sense and I don’t think it was
that difficult for John and Singapore Airlines to reach
agreement,” Branson said. “There is a royalty arrangement
which they will benefit from so they get something out of it,”
he said, declining to elaborate.  Polynesian Blue, a single jet venture with the government
of Samoa, won’t change its name at this stage, he said.  Branson also said that discussions about the future of
Virgin Atlantic were still ongoing, declining to comment further.
The billionaire has previously said that Virgin Atlantic has
received offers as it seeks a partner to help compete with
British Airways.  Qantas Revamp  Qantas last year began a revamp of its business-class
services, including lounges, cabins and food to help fend off
competition. It’s also adding Airbus SAS A380 planes and
boosting an alliance with  American Airlines  to help win
international flyers.  The ‘Virgin Blue’ name was chosen after a radio competition,
with the winner getting two return trips each year for life.
With its planes painted red the Blue was a reference to an
Australian tradition of calling redheads “Bluey.”  “The only reason they would want to move away from the
playful, joyful image of Virgin Blue is if the business market
doesn’t like it,” said Stephen Holden, associate professor of
marketing at Bond University in Queensland.  Other suggestions in the competition held in 2000 included
Rooted Airlines and Virgin Down Under, according to a  press
release . The carrier began flying the same year with a fleet of
two planes and A$10 million of  seed capital .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  