-- 
Brazil to Raise Rates as Long as Needed to Meet CPI Target, Tombini Says

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-05-03T23:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/brazil-to-raise-rates-as-long-as-needed-to-meet-cpi-target-tombini-says.html
Brazilian central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said policy makers will raise  interest rates 
for as long as is needed to bring inflation back to the 4.5
percent target next year.  “It’s not a 100-meter sprint, it’s a long process,”
Tombini said in an interview with Globo News TV station.
“Obviously, the monetary policy instrument that will get
inflation back to its 4.5 percent target in 2012 is the
conventional instrument that is being used, and will continue to
be used for as long as necessary.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher borrowing costs, measures to curb credit growth
and spending cuts to bring the fastest inflation in 29 months
back to policy makers’ target in 2012. Tombini said interest
rates remain the favored tool for fighting inflation. The
central bank had not changed this strategy when it introduced
curbs on  consumer credit , Tombini said.  Consumer prices likely exceeded the 6.5 percent upper limit
of the target range in April, according to a Bloomberg survey.  The central bank said it will raise interest rates at a
slower pace for a longer period than initially planned as the
country’s inflation outlook worsens, according to the minutes of
its April 19-20 meeting.  The central bank board, led by Tombini, raised the
benchmark Selic rate by 25 basis points, to 12 percent, on April
20 after 50 basis-point increases at each of their two previous
meetings this year.  Traders are wagering that the central bank will raise
borrowing costs by 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to
12.25 percent on June 8, interest-rate futures contracts show.  The central bank targets inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or
minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Jameson at 
 rjameson@bloomberg.net  