-- 
Brazil’s Bovespa Falls to Three-Month Low on Inflation Concern

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-05-03T20:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/brazil-s-bovespa-index-futures-drop-on-tightening-concern-oil-s-decline.html
Brazilian stocks fell to a three-month
low on concern the government may adopt further measures to stem
inflation after a report showed industrial production rose more
than forecast.  Banks including  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin America’s
biggest bank by market value, tumbled on speculation the
measures may curb credit growth.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,
 Brazil ’s state-controlled oil company, followed crude lower.  The Bovespa stock index declined 1.8 percent to 64,318.18
at the close of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time,
the lowest since Feb. 9. Fifty-seven stocks fell on the gauge,
while 11 rose. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.5863 per
 U.S. dollar .  “Investors are not sure if measures taken so far by the
central bank will be enough to control inflation,” said Rodrigo Mello, who helps manage 250 million reais ($157 million) as
partner at Oren Investimentos in  Rio de Janeiro .  MSCI Inc.’s gauge of Brazil’s financial stocks fell 4
percent to the lowest since June. The gauge declined the most
among 10 industry groups on concern policy makers may adopt
measures such as higher reserve and capital requirements for
financial institutions, which could curb credit growth and
reduce banks’ profits.  Brazil’s government is using “all necessary weapons” to
keep inflation in check, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
lawmakers in Brasilia today.  Industrial Output  Industrial output expanded 0.5 percent in March from
February, the national statistics agency said today in Rio de
Janeiro. That compares with the median estimate of 0.2 percent
among 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Latin America’s biggest economy is slowing at an uncertain
pace after expanding 7.5 percent in 2010, the fastest in two
decades, the central bank said in the minutes to its April 19-20
policy meeting. With factories close to full capacity, and
unemployment near a record low, inflation in April likely
exceeded the 6.5 percent upper limit of the bank’s target range,
a Bloomberg survey of 27 economists shows.  Itau declined 3.4 percent to 35.30 reais.  Latin America ’s
biggest bank by market value expects default rates to increase
“slightly” over the next few quarters, possibly reaching 4.5
percent of its loan portfolio from 4.2 percent currently,
Rogerio Calderon, the bank’s credit controller, told journalists
on a conference call today.  Itau also said in a filing first-quarter profit rose 15
percent to 3.64 billion reais. Analysts had estimated profit of
3.58 billion, according to the average of eight estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  Petrobras Falls  Oil fell to a two-week low as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index dropped for a second day and on projections that a
government report will show U.S. crude inventories climbed. U.S.
oil supplies rose to a six-month high last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department report
tomorrow.  Petrobras fell 1.1 percent to 25.45 reais. Chief Executive
Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli said it’s still “too early” to
raise domestic gasoline prices even as the company faces having
to import the fuel and resell it below cost to meet demand.  “We don’t pass through to the Brazilian market short-term
variations of the international price of oil,” Gabrielli said
in an interview. “Our policy is a long-term policy, and it’s
too early to decide what to do.”  Planemaker  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  blunted the Bovespa index’s drop
surging the most in almost four months as first-quarter profit
rose almost fourfold. Shares jumped 6.4 percent to 13.24 reais.  ‘Neutral’ Rating  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) , Brazil’s second-
biggest steelmaker, dropped 3.5 percent to 15.03 reais.
Usiminas, as the company is known, was cut to “neutral” from
“buy” at Banco BTG Pactual SA, which cited higher costs and a
“tougher scenario” to implement price increases and boost
volumes, according to a note to clients.  The Bovespa slumped 7.2 percent this year after declines in
 oil companies , homebuilders and banks outweighed a rally in
telecom shares. The index trades at 10.6 times analysts’
earnings estimates, according to weekly data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 13.6 for the Shanghai
Composite Index, 7.3 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 15.2 for  India ’s
Sensex.  Investors pulled 3.69 billion reais from Latin America’s
biggest equity market this year through April 28, data from the
 Sao Paulo  exchange show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  