-- 
Bulls’ Derrick Rose Becomes Youngest Most Valuable Player in NBA History

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-05-03T21:44:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/bulls-derrick-rose-becomes-youngest-most-valuable-player-in-nba-history.html
Derrick Rose  was chosen as the
youngest Most Valuable Player in National Basketball Association
history after leading the  Chicago Bulls  to the best record in
the regular season while averaging 25 points per game.  Rose, at 22 years, 7 months, is five months younger than
Hall of Famer Wes Unseld was when he won the honor in 1969 with
the Baltimore Bullets.  Rose is the first Bulls player to win the award since
 Michael Jordan  won for the fifth time in 1997-98.  “I want to thank my teammates and the coaching staff,” a
tearful Rose said at a televised news conference. “You all push
me every single day making sure that I play hard and play with
passion.”  He saved his last thank you for his mother, Brenda, “the
reason why I play the way that I play.”  LeBron James  won the MVP award the past two seasons,
playing with the  Cleveland Cavaliers  before signing with the
 Miami Heat . James was third in the voting this year, behind Rose
and Dwight Howard of the Orlando Magic.  Rose received 1,182 points and 113 first-place votes from
the panel of sports writers and broadcasters combined with fan
balloting, according to an NBA statement.  Howard had three first-place votes and 643 points. James
had four first-place votes and 522 points, with  Kobe Bryant  of
the Los Angeles Lakers getting the remaining first-place ballot
and 428 points.  Kevin Durant  of the Oklahoma City Thunder was
fifth with 190 points.  Playoff Games  Rose scored 24 points last night and left the court limping
after hurting his left ankle on the closing play as the Bulls
began their second-round playoff series against the Atlanta
Hawks with a 103-95 home defeat. The Hawks, who ended a 15-game
winless run in the second round of the playoffs, return to the
United Center in  Chicago  tomorrow for Game 2 in the best-of-
seven series.  Rose’s award comes two days after Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau
was selected Coach of the Year after guiding Chicago to a 62-20
record and the No. 1 seed in the Eastern Conference.  Thibodeau, 53, became the seventh first-year coach to win
the Red Auerbach Trophy and the fourth Bulls coach to claim the
award. The most recent previous winner was Phil Jackson in 1996,
when the Bulls won the NBA Finals for the fourth time in six
years. The other Chicago winners were Johnny Kerr in 1967 and
Dick Motta four years later.  Rose, the No. 1 pick in the 2008 draft and the NBA Rookie
of the Year in 2008-09, is the first player since Dave Cowens in
1973 to become MVP after receiving no votes the previous year,
the  Chicago Tribune  said.  He’s also the seventh MVP to average at least 25 points,
7.5 assists and four rebounds in a season, after Oscar Robertson,
Jerry West, Larry Bird, Jordan, Dwyane Wade and James. Rose
averaged 7.7 assists and 4.1 rebounds per game this season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 