-- 
Cameron Says Pakistan Faces ‘Searching Questions’ Over Bin Laden

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-05-03T15:47:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/cameron-says-pakistan-faces-searching-questions-over-bin-laden.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the
U.K. would be asking “searching questions” of  Pakistan  about
how much it knew of the network supporting Osama  bin Laden .  “The fact that bin Laden was living in a large house in a
populated area suggests that he must have had a support network
in Pakistan,” Cameron told Parliament in  London  today. “We
don’t currently know the extent of that network, so it is right
that we ask searching questions about it. And we will.”  The U.S. decision to carry out the raid that killed the al-
Qaeda leader without informing Pakistan highlights concerns over
the decades-old links between the Pakistani military and Islamic
militants. Bin laden was tracked down to a compound near the
Pakistan Military Academy in Abbottabad, a city located 50
kilometers (30 miles) north of the capital, Islamabad.  Cameron sparked a diplomatic storm when he said during a
visit to  India  in July 2010 that Pakistan, a key ally in the
fight against Taliban and al-Qaeda militants based along its
frontier with  Afghanistan , should not be allowed to “look both
ways” on terrorism or “promote the export of terror whether to
India, whether to Afghanistan or to anywhere else in the
world.”  The dispute raised concerns that Pakistan might curtail
intelligence sharing and Cameron called for a “fresh start” in
relations between the two countries when he visited Islamabad
last month.  “It is in Britain’s national interest to recognize that we
share the same struggle against terrorism,” Cameron said today.
“That’s why we will continue to work with our Pakistani
counterparts on intelligence gathering, tracing plots and taking
action to stop them.”  The premier spoke to Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari
and Prime Minister  Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  yesterday, he said.  Cameron commended the U.S. for its achievement in killing
bin Laden.  “It is a strike at the heart of international terrorism,
and a great achievement for America and for all who have joined
in the long struggle to defeat al-Qaeda,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net  or
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 