-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls With Inventories Expected to Gain

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-05-03T17:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/canadian-natural-gas-falls-with-inventories-expected-to-gain.html
Canadian natural gas fell as analysts
estimated that U.S. inventories increased last week and
forecasters predicted milder weather.  Gas dropped for the first time in five days as U.S.
stockpiles were expected to grow by 67 billion cubic feet, the
most since October, based on five estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The price increased for four days as more generators
turned to natural gas to replace U.S. nuclear production, which
has been near 12-year lows.  “The market is confused as to where it wants to go,”
 Martin King , senior commodities analyst with FirstEnergy Capital
Corp., said in a telephone interview from Calgary. “You’ve got
a lot of power generation demand from the nuclear outages and
coal-plant maintenance and there’s still fairly comfortable
amounts of gas in storage.”  Alberta natural gas for June delivery fell 3.5 cents, or
0.9 percent, to C$3.86 per gigajoule ($3.86 per million British
thermal units) as of 12:20 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX, 
a Canadian Internet market. The June contract price was C$3.5375
on April 27. Gas on the exchange goes to users in  Canada  and the
U.S. and is priced on TransCanada’s Alberta system.  Thirty of America’s 104 nuclear reactors are offline,
including the three at the Browns Ferry plant in  Alabama  that
were removed from service after tornadoes destroyed regional
transmission lines last week.  U.S. Inventories  The U.S. Energy Department reported April 28 that
stockpiles of natural gas rose 31 billion cubic feet the week
before to 1.685 trillion, below the increase of 38 billion that
was the median of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Gas for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell 0.4 cent at 12:10 p.m. to $4.689 per million Btu.  Volume on  TransCanada Corp.’s  Alberta system, which
collects the output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.1
billion cubic feet as of 11 a.m. in New York, about 191 million
below target. Volume on the system, or linepack, fell 44 million
cubic feet in the past four hours.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.55 billion cubic feet
at Empress,  Alberta , where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.85 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.43 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.47 billion cubic feet today, 51 percent of
its capacity of 2.9 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 