-- 
Canadians Use ‘Unnecessary’ Election To Hand Liberals Their Worst Result

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-03T06:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/canadians-use-unnecessary-election-to-hand-liberals-their-worst-result.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper
campaigned for the majority government he won yesterday saying
the opposition was foisting an “unnecessary” election on the
public. Voters responded by sending the Liberals and  Bloc
Quebecois  to their worst-ever results and vaulting the  New
Democratic Party  to their best.  Michael Ignatieff  of the Liberals said he was willing to
stay on as leader as he lost his own seat and saw his party  drop 
to 35 seats from 77.  Gilles Duceppe  of the Bloc Quebecois also
lost his own seat according to  preliminary results  and said he
would quit as leader. The party, which seeks to separate the
French-speaking province from Canada, was reduced to four seats
from 49 in the last election.  “As always, the voters had the last word; they expressed a
profound desire for change,” said Duceppe, 63, referring to the
rise of the NDP.  The biggest winner besides Harper, who won his first
majority government, was  Jack Layton  of the NDP, who won a
record 102 of the 308 seats in the House of Commons.  “It’s a major change,” said Kathy Brock, a political
scientist at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario. “It makes
you wonder if we are moving more towards a two-party system with
more polarization,” because “with a split like this, the left-
center is always going to be out of office.”  Ignatieff may face a test of the Liberal’s willingness to
keep him as leader at a biennial  convention  scheduled for June.
“I am willing to serve to help us do that work of renewal,
reform and growth,” Ignatieff, 63, said last night.  Lowest Ever  The 19 percent of the vote and 34 seats won by the Liberals
were their lowest total since  Canada  was founded in 1867.  Layton’s support jumped in the French-speaking province of
 Quebec , then much of the rest of the rest of Canada, after
national televised leaders’ debates. Layton damaged Ignatieff by
saying he had one of worst attendance records for parliamentary
votes, appealed to young voters by making a reference to
Twitter, and curbed the lure of the Bloc Quebecois by saying he
would expand a French-language workplace law.  Most of the NDP gains in this election came in  Quebec ,
where their seat tally rose to 58 from the one  Thomas Mulcair 
took in 2008. The Bloc struggled to show that it remained the
best defender of Quebec’s interests after years of sending
members to Ottawa.  Stepped Up Attacks  Other leaders stepped up their attacks on the NDP as their
support rose to eclipse the Liberals and rivaled that of the
Conservatives. The NDP argued during the campaign that the other
parties ignored basic voter concerns such as the cost of home
heating and help for the unemployed.  “We are going to oppose the government with vigor if it’s
on the wrong path and we will support it when it helps Canada to
make progress,” Layton, 60, said in Toronto last night. “We’re
going focus on economic growth and fiscal responsibility, we are
going to focus on lifting Canadians out of poverty, we are going
to focus on tackling the crisis of  climate change .”  Elizabeth May, leader of Canada’s  Green Party , was another
surprise, becoming the party’s first elected Member of
Parliament. She was elected in the district of Saanich-Gulf
Islands in British Columbia, defeating the Conservative
incumbent Gary Lunn who had represented the area since 1997.  Harper campaigned against all opposition parties by saying
the choice was between a Conservative majority and an opposition
coalition. He also said that the economic recovery would be
damaged by their plans to reverse corporate tax cuts that
underpin  job creation , attacks Harper toned down in his victory
speech.  “We are and we must be the government of all Canadians
including those who didn’t vote for us,” Harper, 52, said at a
speech given after 1 a.m. this morning in Calgary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 