-- 
CBS Doubles Dividend as Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-03T23:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/cbs-doubles-dividend-as-first-quarter-profit-tops-analysts-estimates.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
U.S. television network, doubled its dividend after reporting
first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  The quarterly payout will rise to 10 cents from 5 cents,
New York-based CBS said in a statement today. Net income of $202
million, or 29 cents a share, beat the 19-cent average of
analysts’ estimates after gains in broadcasting, pay TV and
outdoor advertising.  A new deal to broadcast the NCAA college basketball
tournament helped the CBS broadcast network generate higher
revenue and profit than expected, said  David Joyce , an analyst
with Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York . Profit in the
entertainment, cable and broadcast units all beat his estimates.  “The big swing factor was the NCAA tournament deal with
Turner,” Joyce said in an interview. “Nobody knew the exact
structure of that deal and it was the biggest factor in their
beat.”  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , rose 3.6
percent to $26.15 in extended trading. Before the results, the
shares fell 41 cents to $25.24 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. They have gained 32 percent this year.  The first-quarter profit compared with a loss of $26.2
million, or 4 cents a share, a year ago, CBS said. Sales fell to
$3.51 billion, beating the $3.45 billion average of 18 analysts’
estimates.  Netflix Latin America  Ahead of the announcement, Bloomberg estimated CBS would
raise its dividend to 8 cents. CBS said it spent $250 million
to buy back stock in the quarter and had $972 million in cash as
of March 31.  CBS is “in serious talks” with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  to expand
online streaming of the broadcaster’s television shows into
Canada and Latin America, Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves 
said during the conference call.  “Hawaii Five-O” generates more than $5 million an episode
from international broadcast-rights deals and an agreement with
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TNT for reruns, Moonves said. The series
joins “CSI” and “NCIS” as “billion-dollar franchises” that
air on the television network, he said.  The network still doesn’t know if “Two and a Half Men,”
TV’s most-watched comedy, will return in September after CBS and
the show’s producer, Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. Television,
fired actor Charlie Sheen for comments attacking show creator
Chuck Lorre.  Warner Bros. is still exploring how to bring back “Two and
a Half Men,” Moonves said.  Moonves also said CBS is open to talking with  JCDecaux SA (DEC) ,
the French billboard company that has expressed interest in
CBS’s outdoor-advertising business, most recently in March. CBS
isn’t actively seeking a buyer for its billboard operation, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  