-- 
Cerberus Capital, Chatham Win Innkeepers Hotels Auction for $1.13 Billion

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-03T23:21:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/cerberus-chatham-lodging-said-to-win-auction-for-65-innkeepers-hotels.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP and
 Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  won a bankruptcy auction for 64 hotels
owned by Innkeepers USA Trust with a bid of about $1.13 billion.  A joint venture between Cerberus and Chatham won the
bidding for the properties after a  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
affiliate and Five Mile Capital Partners agreed to lead off the
auction with a $970.7 million offer. The purchase price includes
assumed debt.  “We are excited to acquire these premium-branded select-
service hotels early in the recovery of the lodging industry,”
Jeffrey Fisher, Chatham’s chief executive officer, said today in
a statement. “With a new  capital structure  in place, a
committed partner in Cerberus and strong franchisor affiliation,
our joint venture is well positioned to create value for our
shareholders and Cerberus.”  Chatham also won the bidding for five additional properties
with a bid of more than $190 million, said a person with
knowledge of the auction.  Brian Lennon of the law firm of  Kirkland & Ellis , which
represents Innkeepers, didn’t return a phone call seeking
comment.  The parent of Innkeepers, owner of hotels in 20 states,
including Residence Inns by Marriott and Hampton Inns, is
managed by an affiliate of Apollo Global Management LLC, Leon Black’s private-equity firm.  Cerberus, based in  New York , said it has about $23 billion
under management. Chatham, a Palm Beach, Florida-based real
estate investment trust, owns 13 hotels with about 1,650 rooms
in nine states.  ‘Great News’  “Our ability to work with Innkeepers founder and former CEO
Jeff Fisher, now CEO at Chatham, is great news for the company
and for its employees,” Tim Price, managing director at
Cerberus, said in a statement. “No one knows Innkeepers better
than Jeff, and we are excited about the company’s future
prospects with a new capital structure in place.”  Barclays Capital , a unit of London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC) , was
Chatham’s financial adviser on the bid. The purchase still needs
approval from a bankruptcy judge.  Apollo Investment Corp. paid $1.5 billion for Innkeepers in
2007 as travel rose, getting 74 hotels. Three years later,
Innkeepers said it missed some monthly interest payments as it
tried to hold onto money.  Innkeepers was led from its start in 1994 until the sale to
Apollo by Fisher. Investors made 316 percent on their money in
those years, before real estate prices tumbled. Chatham Lodging
sold $150 million in shares to the public in 2010.  Lehman Ali helped Apollo finance the buyout of Palm Beach,
Florida-based Innkeepers with a $1.2 billion loan.  The case is In re  Innkeepers USA Trust , 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 