-- 
Ceridian, Lookout Services Settle With U.S. Regulator Over 2009 Data Theft

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-05-03T20:55:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ceridian-lookout-services-settle-with-u-s-regulator-over-2009-data-theft.html
Ceridian Corp. and Lookout Services
Inc. settled federal claims that they failed to properly secure
the data of 65,000 employees stolen from their  computer networks 
in 2009.  The Federal Trade Commission filed administrative
complaints against the companies for misrepresenting the
adequacy of their security precautions and failing to meet
industry standards, leading to the theft of Social Security
numbers, addresses and banking information.  The companies will submit to regular audits of their
network security for 20 years, according to their agreements
with the FTC. Ceridian, based in  Minneapolis , handles payroll
for small-business customers. Bellaire, Texas-based Lookout
helps employers comply with immigration laws.  The companies’ flawed network security “put the personal
information of thousands of consumers at risk,” the FTC said in
a statement.  U.S. regulators are pushing to ensure that companies do
more to secure sensitive data they hold on behalf of customers
amid several high-profile failures. Early last month, millions
of customer e-mail addresses were stolen from the computers of
Alliance Data System Corp.’s Epsilon Data Management LLC, a
Dallas-based provider of marketing services.  Two weeks later, Sony Corp. reported that a cyber intruder
stole personal information belonging to 77 million customers of
its PlayStation Network.  “If you’re a consumer, the real issue now is how do you
trust the digital world,” said Eddie Schwartz, the chief
security officer of Reston, Virginia-based Netwitness Corp., an
online-security firm. “Organizations that are responsible for
holding customer data have got to rebuild this trust in a world
where they are trailing the bad guys significantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  