-- 
CEZ Nuclear Project in Slovakia Faces Delay, Regulator Says

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-05-03T14:55:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/cez-nuclear-project-in-slovakia-faces-delay-regulator-says.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) ’s plan to build a nuclear unit
in Slovakia in a joint venture with the state will probably be
delayed by at least five years as more time is needed to
complete studies for the project, the regulator said.  The Slovak government in 2008 picked the  Czech Republic ’s
largest energy company as a partner to build a nuclear unit in
Jaslovske Bohunice, western Slovakia. The venture will miss its
original deadline to complete a feasibility study of the project
in mid-2011, said Marta Ziakova, the head of Slovakia’s Office
for Nuclear Supervision.  The feasibility study “will be delayed by at least one
year, while between two and three years are needed for
environmental-impact assessment,” she told journalists today in
Jaslovske Bohunice. “If the project will be carried out, we
don’t think it will be operational before 2025.”  Construction, which was originally set to be completed by
2020, may cost between 4 billion euros ($5.9 billion) and 6
billion euros, the  Economy Ministry  has said. CEZ has a 49
percent share in a joint venture with state-owned JAVYS holding
the rest.  The eastern European country’s government supports
construction of new nuclear plants as part of a plan to make
Slovakia self-sufficient in power supplies. The new unit will be
built at the site of an existing nuclear plant, where Slovenske
Elektrarne AS, which is controlled by Italy’s Enel SpA, already
operates two reactors.  CEZ spokeswoman Eva Novakova said the company “doesn’t
want to speculate” about the timing of the project. CEZ will
take as much time as needed to prepare the feasibility study,
she said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava News at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  