-- 
Charter Sells $1.5 Billion of 10-Year Bonds to Extend Maturities

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-05-03T22:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/charter-plans-1-billion-10-year-bond-sale-to-extend-maturities.html
Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the cable
television operator that emerged from bankruptcy in 2009, sold
$1.5 billion of 10-year notes to extend debt maturities after
increasing the offering by $500 million.  Proceeds will repay a  term loan  and revolving  credit line ,
Charter said today in a statement. The debt yields 6.5 percent,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction, who
declined to be identified citing lack of authorization to speak
publicly.  Charter, controlled by Apollo Global Management LLC,
Oaktree Capital Management LP and other private-equity firms,
sold $1.4 billion of bonds in January that were also slated for
paying back bank debt. Last year the St. Louis-based company
extended $6 billion of debt and repaid $1.2 billion of
borrowings, Chief Executive Officer Michael Lovett said in
December. Since 2009, the company has reduced its outstanding
debt due in 2014 to 42 percent from 87 percent, he said.  “We will continue to be opportunistic in extending and
balancing our maturity profile,” he said.  Charter has $12.6 billion of long-term borrowings,
including at least $4.7 billion of credit facilities, according
to its quarterly earnings report today.  The company swung to a $110 million first-quarter loss from
a profit of $24 million in the year-earlier period, after taking
a $67 million charge to retire debt, according to a statement
today. Last year’s first-quarter earnings were also boosted by a
nonrecurring tax benefit, the company said.  Sale Underwriters  UBS AG, Bank of America Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Credit
Suisse Group AG and Deutsche Bank AG managed the new bond sale,
said the person familiar with the transaction.  The notes will be non-callable for four years, according to
the person. The offering was initially planned for $1 billion,
according to the statement.  Charter also recently hired Citigroup and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  to sell its southern California cable systems, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The auction for the assets, which could fetch as much as $2
billion, is in the very early days, said one person, who asked
not to be identified because details of the sale aren’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  