-- 
Chile’s La Polar Bets on Colombia Growth in Retail Expansion

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T19:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/chile-s-la-polar-bets-on-colombia-growth-in-retail-expansion-1-.html
Empresas La Polar SA (LAPOLAR) , Chile’s fourth-
largest department-store operator, is focusing planned
expansions on  Colombia  to tap the country’s consumer spending
growth prospects.  La Polar plans to spend about $250 million from 2012 to
2015 to open 10 stores in Colombia and eight in Chile, Chairman
Pablo Alcalde said today at a conference in Santiago. That’s in
addition to the three stores it will open this year in Colombia
and three in Chile.  “We are 100 percent committed to Colombia,” Alcalde said.
“The Colombia operation could eventually become bigger than La
Polar’s Chile operation.”  La Polar operates one store in Colombia and 43 in Chile,
according to a presentation Alcalde made to investors.
Colombia’s economy may expand as much as 5.5 percent this year
as strong expansion in credit and consumer confidence create
“perfect” conditions for growth, central bank President Jose
Dario Uribe said last month.  La Polar’s first-quarter profit rose to 6.21 billion pesos
($13.5 million) from 3.92 billion pesos a year earlier, it
reported April 29. Net income fell 38 percent in 2010 from a
year earlier on higher loan provisions as non-performing
consumer loans rose.  “Loan provisions will steadily decrease in the future,”
Alcalde told reporters after the conference.  La Polar shares rose 0.8 percent to 2,634.9 pesos in
Santiago trading today, reducing a year-to-date decline to 23
percent.  Alcalde quashed market speculation of an impending takeover
of the company. “The company’s board hasn’t received any
offers,” he said.  SACI Falabella, Cencosud SA and Ripley Corp SA are  Chile ’s
three largest department-store operators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  