-- 
China Internet Stocks Tumble Before Renren’s U.S. Share Sale

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-05-03T22:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/china-internet-stocks-tumble-ahead-of-renren-s-share-sale-1-.html
Chinese Internet companies fell in
U.S. trading before an initial share sale by Renren Inc. on
speculation the new listing in  China ’s biggest social-networking
website may offer more opportunities for growth.  Sina Corp., owner of the Twitter-like Weibo service in
China, sank 9.5 percent, the most since February 2009, to
$122.22 at the close of trading at 4 p.m. in  New York . Baidu
Inc., which owns the country’s most popular online search
engine, slid 5.2 percent.  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  and  NetEase.com (NTES)  Inc.
also tumbled the most in at least 17 months.  Renren, which leads Chinese social-networking websites by
page views, is seeking a valuation more than double that of
Facebook Inc. in an initial public offering today to raise as
much as $743.4 million. At least three Chinese Internet
companies announced IPO plans last month.  “You want to be in the best one of these companies with
the best prospect and the best opportunity,” said Timothy Cunningham, a manager at  Santa Fe , New Mexico-based Thornburg
Investment Management, which oversees about $78 billion. “If a
new and better one comes, you definitely think about shifting
the money in the new one.”  Renren and at least 17 other companies worldwide are
attempting to raise at least $2.5 billion in IPOs this week,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Beijing-based Renren is
offering 53.1 million American depositary receipts for $12 to
$14 each, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. NetQin Mobile Inc., a Chinese mobile-phone
software provider, will offer 7.14 million ADRs this week at
$9.50 to $11.50 a share, the company said April 26.  Chinese Valuations  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , the Beijing-based online-video site, trades
at more than 100 times 2010 sales following its December IPO.
Qihoo 360 Technology Co., the provider of computer anti-virus
products and Web browsers, has almost doubled in value to 56
times last year’s sales since its March 29 IPO, when it raised
$175.6 million.  Baidu’s decline trimmed its gain this year to 45 percent
this year, having reached a record $152.37 last week. Sina’s
shares surged 78 percent this year and hit a record $142.83 on
April 20. Sohu, which owns China’s fourth-most visited website,
also rose to a record last week and has gained 49 percent this
year.  Some Chinese Internet stocks may have “high valuation
risks,” Kai-Fu Lee, a former Google Inc. executive whose
Beijing-based venture fund invests in startups, said in an April
15 interview on Bloomberg Television.  Site Users  Renren, whose name means “everyone” in Chinese, had 117
million users as of March 31, less than a quarter of the more
than 500 million users Facebook has globally. The company
boosted the maximum sought in its IPO by 27 percent on April 29.  Compared with their U.S. peers, Chinese Internet companies
are early in their growth stage, Cunningham said.  “The number of  Internet users  as a percentage of total
population is still relatively small, the amount spent per
capita still pretty small, all these different ways that you can
see huge growth for a long period of time,” he said. “That’s
what investors want, sort of open-ended growth story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  