-- 
China April Home Prices Rise as Premier Wen Is ’Determined’ to Cool Them

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-03T08:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/china-april-home-prices-rise-as-premier-wen-is-determined-to-cool-them.html
China’s  home prices  rose for the
eighth consecutive month in April, Soufun Holdings Ltd. said
today, defying government steps to cool prices.  The latest gain underscores the challenge facing Premier
 Wen Jiabao , who said May 1 that the nation is “determined” to
bring down housing prices in some cities to a “reasonable”
level. Home prices rose 0.4 percent in April from March and
climbed in 77 of 100 cities tracked by the nation’s biggest
real-estate website owner.  Wen said the government is committed to bringing down some
cities’ property prices during a visit to a construction site in
Beijing, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The
comments may help correct a misconception in the stock market
that the government only wanted to curb increases, according to
Credit Suisse Group AG.  “We still expect more tightening measures,” Credit Suisse
analysts led by Jinsong Du wrote in an e-mailed note today,
noting that Wen’s comment was the first time he has committed to
lowering some prices. “We continue to prefer taking profits on
 China  property sector, especially after the 25% sector rally in
the past one and a half months.”  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index closed 0.3 percent up, extending this year’s
gain to 8.7 percent, after falling as much as 1.2 percent. China
Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest developer by market value, rose
0.2 percent to 8.50 yuan in Shenzhen.  “Reasonable Level’  “We are determined to bring down the high-flying housing
prices in some cities and make sure that the prices of housing
can return to a reasonable level,” Xinhua cited Wen as saying.
“Our determination is unswerving that special care is given to
needy and low-income families and to make sure they can afford
housing.”  Average home values climbed to 8,773 yuan ($1,349.70) a
square meter (10.76 square feet) in April, according to Soufun,
which started tracking monthly prices in July last year. Home
sales fell an average 25 percent last month. Prices increased
0.6 percent in March from February.  The gain in April was the slowest in eight months after the
government raised the minimum down payment for second-home
purchases this year and levied taxes on residences in  Shanghai 
and Chongqing. Beijing and Guangzhou imposed restrictions on
housing purchases in February, while the central bank raised
 interest rates  twice this year.  ‘Unlikely to Fall’  “The government’s policy is working, but home prices
nationwide are unlikely to fall this year,” Larry Hu, director
of Knight Frank LLP’s residential department in Shanghai, said
before today’s release. “‘There is a bubble in China’s real
estate market, because many people can’t afford homes here.”  About 40 cities said in March they will cap new home prices
below annual economic and disposable per-capita income growth or
keep them steady following the central government’s measures to
rein in housing values.  Wen’s visit to an affordable housing construction site
during the Labor Day holiday coincided with President Hu Jintao’s comments during a trip to Tianjin between April 29 and
May 1, when he urged the development of public rental housing
for low-income people. Local governments should continue to
increase  capital investment  and prioritize the allocation of
land for these projects, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing Hu.  Affordable Housing  China’s massive construction of low-income homes can boost
supplies and stabilize expectations in the housing market like a
“sedative,” Vice Premier Li Keqiang said, according to a
summary of a speech posted last month on the website of Qiushi,
the official Communist Party magazine.  The government has prepared further tightening measures for
the nation’s property market to prevent an “unreasonable
rebound” in housing prices during the May 1 Labor Day holiday,
the China Business Journal reported in its May 2 edition,
without saying where it got the information. The measures
include increasing the minimum down payments on second-home
mortgages in selected regions.  China is studying ways to control developers’ profits to
keep home prices at a reasonable level, the China News Service
reported April 27, citing the National Development and Reform
Commission. The northern region of Ningxia will cap the profit
margin for residential homes at under 12 percent, and limit the
selling price of properties it deems excessive, according to a
statement on its website April 29.  Downturn Scenario  A “more plausible” scenario is for China’s property
prices to fall with a simultaneous drop in sales volumes, which
then start to rise again to approach or even exceed pre-downturn
levels within 12 months to 24 months as demand returns on low
real interest rates and household leverage, Fitch Ratings
analysts Ying Wang and Kalai Pillay said in a report dated May 2.  Then, “large, geographically diversified, mid-end and mid-
to-high-end-focused developers such as  Evergrande Real Estate
Group Ltd. (3333)  may take the opportunity to acquire good quality land
banks and/or projects at a low cost from weaker competitors in
distress,” the analysts wrote.  Home prices in Shanghai rose 0.32 percent last month from
March and jumped 2.03 percent from a year earlier, while home
prices in Beijing dropped 0.14 percent on month and climbed 4.41
percent on year, Soufun said.  --Zhang Dingmin, Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc,
Malcolm
Scott  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 Dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  