-- 
China’s Central Bank Signals Tightening May Continue Even as Growth Cools

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-03T12:53:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/china-s-central-bank-signals-tightening-may-continue-even-as-growth-cools.html
China ’s central bank said controlling
inflation is its top priority, even after a manufacturing survey
indicated that growth may slow in the second-biggest economy.  “Stabilizing prices and managing inflation expectations
are critical,” the People’s Bank of China said in a first-
quarter monetary policy report published on its website today.
Bank reserve requirements have no “absolute ceiling,” the
report said, restating an April 16 comment from Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan .  Premier Wen Jiabao’s government aims to cool the fastest
inflation since 2008 and rein in property prices without
undermining the economy’s expansion. A manufacturing index slid
in April from March, indicating that growth may slow after the
central bank raised  interest rates  and  reserve requirements  and
allowed the yuan to appreciate at a faster pace.  China’s economic growth and employment are at
“reasonable” levels, the central bank said in today’s  report .
It added that it will increase exchange-rate flexibility,
control liquidity in the financial system, and use interest
rates to manage inflation expectations.  ‘Increasing Pressure’  “Given the loose monetary policies of major economies and
gradual recovery of the global economy, commodity prices keep
climbing and global inflation expectations are rising
significantly,” the People’s Bank of China said. “China is
seeing increasing pressure from imported inflation.”  Zhang Liqun , a senior researcher at the State Council’s
Development Research Center, said May 1 that the manufacturing
data showed an increased likelihood that growth will slow.
China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.7 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier and the  World Bank  last week
forecast a full-year expansion of 9.3 percent.  The yuan has strengthened above 6.5 per dollar for the
first time since 1993, reserve requirements for the biggest
banks stand at a record 20.5 percent, and the one-year lending
rate is 6.31 percent.  Inflation was an annual 5.4 percent in March, exceeding the
government’s full-year target of 4 percent for a third month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  