-- 
Christie Says New Jersey Won’t Repay U.S. $271 Million in Tunnel Funds

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/christie-says-new-jersey-won-t-repay-u-s-271-million-in-tunnel-funds.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he won’t return $271 million in federal funds for a
canceled commuter-rail tunnel to  New York , a decision that may
cost the state $52,000 a week in interest.  The Federal Transit Administration began adding the fee to
the bill April 29, after Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
rejected a state appeal to keep the money, according to a person
familiar with the details who wasn’t authorized to speak on the
record. At the 1 percent  government rate  on overdue debt, the
cost could add up to $2.71 million a year.  “That is not money that should be paid back to the federal
government,” Christie, 48, a Republican, told reporters in
Trenton yesterday. “This is about whether that money will stay
in New Jersey and be used for road projects in this state, or
the federal government so it can go to another state.”  LaHood’s decision marks the second time since March that
Christie’s administration has been warned the state may face
unanticipated costs. Advocates for inner-city schools have
petitioned the state’s highest court to order Christie to
restore $1.6 billion cut from education budgets.  Michael Drewniak , Christie’s spokesman, declined to comment
when asked what the state’s next step may be.  LaHood rejected Christie’s assertion that New Jersey was
justified in canceling the project because of the risk of cost
overruns. The money went to  New Jersey Transit  for planning,
design and construction, according to LaHood.  The federal government can withhold future funds intended
for the state to recoup the $271 million, LaHood said April 29.  ‘Broke the Terms’  “The taxpayers, acting through FTA, committed more than a
billion to NJT in exchange for which NJT was committed to build
a defined transit improvement for the benefit of the American
people,” LaHood said in a letter to U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat. “New Jersey broke the terms
of the contract.”  New Jersey has accumulated $803,000 in legal fees from the
Washington firm of Patton Boggs LLP in the fight over the tunnel
money, said Paul Wyckoff, a spokesman for New Jersey Transit.  Moody’s Investors Service on April 27 downgraded by one
step its rating on New Jersey’s general-obligation debt to Aa3,
fourth-highest, amid concerns that fixed costs may rise to as
much as 30 percent of the state budget and crowd out other
expenses. Only California and  Illinois  have lower ratings.  Lautenberg and U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey
Democrat, said Christie’s decision to hire the law firm to
challenge the decision was “unfortunate.”  ‘All-or-Nothing’  “The state’s outside lawyers pursued an all-or-nothing
approach, which brings substantial risk to New Jersey’s
taxpayers,” the two said April 29 in a joint statement. “Given
the high stakes involved in this matter, we hope the state’s
approach is ultimately successful.”  The Transportation Department declined to comment,  Olivia
Alair , a spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mail.  In February,  Amtrak  proposed to replace the project killed
by Christie with a similar initiative to build two rail tunnels
under the  Hudson River  between New Jersey and New York. At the
time, the governor said New Jersey might contribute money to the
$13.5 billion effort if the federal government and the state of
New York shared the expense.  “The players at DOT are going to say, ‘We can’t do this if
you don’t pay up,’” said Mortimer Downey, deputy secretary of
transportation under President  Bill Clinton  and now a senior
adviser to Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc., a New York-based design,
engineering and construction-management firm.  “I think the DOT at this point may be hard pressed to say
that such a deal could happen without paying up the $271”
million, Downey said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  