-- 
Chrysler Gets Lower Credit Ratings Than Bigger U.S. Rivals

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-05-03T14:04:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/chrysler-gets-lower-credit-ratings-than-bigger-u-s-rivals-1-.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
operated by  Fiat SpA (F) , received credit ratings from  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service that were lower than its
larger U.S. competitors because of a weaker vehicle lineup.  S&P rated  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler B+, the
fourth level below investment grade, with a stable outlook.
Moody’s rated it B2, the fifth step into junk grade, with a
positive outlook.  Moody’s said Chrysler’s North American lineup last year was
“weak,” and S&P said the automaker had a high dependence on
light trucks, which may lose sales as gas prices rise.  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  are rated one level higher by
S&P and three steps higher by Moody’s.  “The key challenge facing Chrysler is a North American
product portfolio that was highly uncompetitive through 2010,
and was incapable of sustaining a viable operating or financial
position,” J.  Bruce Clark , a senior vice president at New York-
based Moody’s, said in a statement.  Chrysler’s alliance with Fiat will help the automaker meet
its most “pressing challenges” and is part of the reason for the
positive outlook on the rating, Moody’s said.  While there is “substantial” risk in the execution of
Chrysler’s expansion under Fiat, the operational benefits of the
partnership may be significant over time, S&P said.  Fiat’s Involvement  “Without Fiat’s involvement, we would likely consider the
business risk profile vulnerable and the corporate credit rating
would likely be lower,” Robert Schulz, a New York-based analyst
for S&P, said in a statement.  The ratings are Chrysler’s first since emerging from
 bankruptcy protection  in 2009 and come a day comes after the
automaker reported its first net income since the
reorganization. Chrysler said its profit during the first three
months of the year rose to $116 million from a $197 million net
loss during the first quarter of last year.  The automaker plans to issue new debt this quarter to pay
back U.S. and Canadian government loans as part of a plan that
will allow Fiat to increase its ownership stake to 46 percent
from 30 percent.  Chrysler plans to obtain senior secured credit facilities
including an expected $3.5 billion six-year term loan and a $1.5
billion five-year revolving credit facility as well as an
expected $2.5 billion in new secured debt securities with eight-
and 10-year maturities.  “Chrysler Group as a standalone company is again on the
radar screen of the financial community after 13 years of
absence,”  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
Chrysler and Fiat, said today in a statement.  Fiat, based in Turin,  Italy , aims to increase its stake to
51 percent by the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  