-- 
McIlroy Returns to U.S. Golf in Charlotte After Final-Day Masters Collapse

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-05-03T17:20:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/mcilroy-returns-to-u-s-golf-in-charlotte-after-final-day-masters-collapse.html
Rory McIlroy has had almost a month to
think about how he blew a lead on the final day at the Masters
Tournament. He concluded that it was experience -- he didn’t
have enough to win.  “I don’t think I was ready,” McIlroy said during a press
conference today at the  Wells Fargo Championship  in  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina . “That was the most important thing. I displayed
a few weaknesses in my game that I need to work on.”  McIlroy, who will turn 22 tomorrow, held a four-shot lead
heading into the final round of golf’s first major tournament of
the year. His chance to win his first major ended when he shot
8-over-par 80, including a triple-bogey on the 10th hole, at
Augusta National Golf Club and finished 15th.  While he said it took him a couple days to get over the
disappointment, McIlroy, No. 6 in the Official World Golf
Ranking, has tried to keep the performance in perspective.  “It’s only golf at the end of the day,” he said. “No one
died. What can you do? There are three more majors this year and
hopefully dozens more that I’ll play in my career.”  McIlroy earned praise from his peers and golf followers for
the way he handled himself after his final round. While sharing
a chartered flight to  Malaysia  with Masters winner Charl Schwartzel, McIlroy posted a  picture  on his Twitter  page  of the
two of them smiling.  “What else was I going to do?” he said. “I can’t come
off and sulk and say, oh, ‘This is the worst day of my life,’
because a bad day on the golf course is better than a good day
in the office.”  Back in U.S.  McIlroy, from Northern Ireland, will make his return to the
U.S. PGA Tour this week at the Quail Hollow Club, where he
posted a course-record 10-under 62 in the final round of the
Wells Fargo event a year ago to become the youngest  PGA Tour 
winner since  Tiger Woods  in 1996.  “That was the best performance of my career so far,” said
McIlroy, who has been playing primarily on the European Tour
this year.  He enters the Wells Fargo event following a third-place
finish at the Malaysian Open, a week after his Masters collapse
on April 10.  Because McIlroy gave up his full-time membership on the
U.S. Tour this year, he had to be granted a sponsor’s exemption
by tournament officials to enter this week’s event.  The tournament, which begins in two days and concludes May
8, will also feature  Germany ’s  Martin Kaymer , golf’s No. 2-
ranked player; No. 4-ranked  Phil Mickelson ; and No. 10-ranked
 Bubba Watson , who won last week’s PGA Tour event in  New Orleans .  Woods, who won the tournament in 2007, withdrew from the
field last week due to a sprained left knee. Woods has dropped
to No. 7 in the  Official World Golf Ranking  and hasn’t won a
tournament in 19 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  