-- 
Talisman Energy, Yamana Gold: Canadian Equity Preview

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-04T13:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/cml-healthcare-kinross-yamana-gold-canadian-equity-preview.html
(Corrects currency in Talisman item.)  Shares of the following companies may
have unusual moves in Canadian trading.  CML HealthCare Inc. (CLC CN): The owner of medical-imaging
centers and laboratories said its chief executive officer, Paul
J. Bristow, and chief operating officer, Kent Nicholson, have
left the company.  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  : The country’s third-biggest gold
producer said it earned 16 cents a share in the first quarter,
surpassing the average of 16 analyst estimates by 19 percent,
excluding certain items.  MacDonald, Dettwiler & Associates Ltd. (MDA CN): The
aerospace and defense contractor reported first-quarter profit
of 69 Canadian cents a share, beating the average of seven
analyst estimates by 23 percent, excluding certain items.  Mullen Group Ltd. (MTL)  : The oilfield-services and
trucking company said it has agreed to buy Drumheller, Alberta-
based trucking company Hi-Way 9 Express Ltd. and associated
companies. Mullen Group forecast the purchase will add about
C$50 million ($52 million) to its revenue.  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  : The oil and gas producer
with operations in  North America , the  North Sea  and  Indonesia 
reported first-quarter profit of 15 cents a share, excluding
certain items, missing the average of 12 analyst estimates by 50
percent.  Torstar Corp. (TS/B)  (TS/B CN): The owner of the Toronto Star
raised its quarterly dividend 35 percent to 12.5 Canadian cents
a share, as of the dividend payable June 30.  Yamana Gold Inc. (YRI)  :  Canada ’s fourth-largest gold
producer said it earned 21 cents a share in the first quarter,
missing the average of 14 analyst forecasts by 5.4 percent,
excluding certain items.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 