-- 
Cocoa Poised to Tumble as Maersk Cargo Signals Price Peak: Freight Markets

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-05-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/cocoa-poised-to-tumble-as-maersk-cargo-signals-price-peak-freight-markets.html
The departure of a ship laden with
about 8,000 metric tons of cocoa from the  Ivory Coast  port of
Abidjan two weeks ago may mean the end of a rally that drove
prices to the highest in three decades.  The Maersk Norfolk, owned by A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the
world’s biggest container line, arrived in the Belgian port of
Antwerp two days ago, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The cargo was one of the first to leave Ivory Coast, which
accounts for 34 percent of global output, since an export ban
ended in mid-April. Cocoa traded in  New York  may drop 18 percent
to $2,710 a ton by the end of the year, according to the median
in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts, brokers and traders.  The disruption to Ivorian shipments, caused by the civil
war that erupted after presidential elections in November,
compounded shortages that meant prices rose in four of the last
five years. Exports are resuming as farmers reap the mid-crop,
the smaller of two annual harvests that began last month, and
will boost supply to  Barry Callebaut AG (BARN) , which sells chocolate
to Nestle SA,  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and Hershey Co.  “This first shipment demonstrated that the conditions to
load vessels are adequate and may signal that the situation will
normalize from now on,” said Javier Almela, chief purchasing
officer at Natra SA in  Spain , which buys almost 40,000 tons of
cocoa a year for processing into chocolate used by foodmakers.
“Political issues are giving way to fundamental factors, which
reflect the current harvest’s balance.”  Food Prices  Cocoa rallied as much as 34 percent this year on the ICE
Futures U.S. exchange in New York, touching $3,775 on March 4,
the highest since 1979. Beans for July delivery closed at $3,291
on May 2, still 65 percent above the 10-year average. That’s
adding pressure to consumers already contending with food prices
the  United Nations  says rose to a record in February.  While the western port of San Pedro had yet to resume
loading cocoa by last week, beans are moving from Abidjan, the
commercial capital. There were seven container vessels at the
port as of May 3, according to ship-tracking data from AISLive
compiled by Bloomberg.  An index reflecting charges for six types of container
carriers rose 86 percent in the past year as world trade
rebounded, according to the Hamburg Shipbrokers’ Association.
That compares with a 61 percent slump in rates for shipping dry
bulk commodities such as  iron ore  and coal and a 55 percent
plunge in the benchmark cost of hauling oil on supertankers,
according to data from the  Baltic Exchange . The London-based
bourse publishes daily rates for more than 50 maritime routes.  Banking Services  Shipments from Ivory Coast, where agriculture  accounts  for
68 percent of jobs, may also accelerate as banking services
resume. Citigroup Inc. and  Societe Generale  reopened branches in
the country last week, increasing access to the financing needed
to fund trade.  “The banking sector needs to be up on its feet for the
cocoa market to function,” said Keith Flury, an analyst at
Rabobank in London. “This will help middle-men buy beans and
facilitate the movement of product from farms to the ports.”  Cocoa from the mid-crop, which usually ends in September,
is piling up at farms because no one has access to the cash
needed to buy it, said Alfred Kouassi, a cocoa trader in the
central town of Daloa. In the east, beans are being smuggled
into neighboring  Ghana , according to Bile Bile, the head of a
union of farmers’ cooperatives in the town of Abengourou.  ‘Back to Normal’  Ivory Coast is “getting progressively back to normal,”
CMA CGM SA, the world’s third-largest container shipping line,
said in an e-mail on April 26. The Marseille, France-based
company had a ship call at Abidjan on April 21.  Cocoa is normally shipped in 20-foot-long steel boxes to
preserve the beans. About 600,000 twenty-foot equivalent boxes
were shipped from Abidjan in 2009 out of a global trade of more
than 450 million boxes covering everything from televisions to
fruit, according to Syed Hashim Abbas, an analyst at Clarkson
Research Services Ltd. in  London . There will be a minimal effect
on box rates from the resumption of cocoa shipments, he said.  For Ivory Coast, the impact will be more profound. Farmers
will harvest almost 1.33 million tons of cocoa this year, valued
at $3.9 billion based on last year’s average price, the London-
based International Cocoa Organization estimates. Gross domestic
product in the nation, where 42 percent of people live below the
poverty line, was $22.4 billion in 2010, according to estimates
in the CIA World Factbook.  Ivorian Ports  The resumption of exports will also mean prices once more
reflecting the outlook for supply and demand. Global production
will rise 10 percent to 3.89 million tons this year, compared
with a 2.9 percent gain in consumption to 3.73 million tons,  ABN
Amro  Bank NV and VM Group estimate. That will mean the market
moving to a 156,000-ton surplus from a deficit of 107,000 tons a
year earlier, the two companies forecast April 27.  More than 500,000 tons of cocoa is available in Ivory Coast
and it may take three months to clear the backlog, ABN Amro and
VM Group estimated last month. Beans can be stored for as long
as 10 years with the right ventilation and if they are pest-
free, according to Rik Balcaen, a director at Belgian chocolate
manufacturer Belcolade.  Beans piled up as  Alassane Ouattara , the internationally
recognized winner of the elections in November, ordered an
export ban to cut off funds to the incumbent  Laurent Gbagbo , who
was finally arrested April 11. The European Union also froze the
assets of the ports of Abidjan and  San Pedro . The number of
beans registered for export slumped 99 percent in two weeks,
port data show.  That spurred  Barry Callebaut , based in Zurich, to source
more cocoa from other producers, the company said last month.
The company employs 7,500 people across 26 countries, making
chocolate based on more than 1,700 recipes.  Trade Suspension  The more than four-month stand-off between the rivals for
the presidency may have longer-term implications for production.
A lack of cash meant farmers couldn’t buy fertilizers and
fighting drove some of them away from their farms.  The suspension of trade also meant that as international
prices surged, domestic ones plunged. Buyers are offering about
$790 a ton, said Koffi Kanga, the head of a farmers’ cooperative
in the southwestern town of Gabiadji, which produces about 700
tons a year. Lower returns will discourage farmers from
replacing ageing trees or buying more fertilizers, curbing
yields and tightening supply.  “The 2010-11 surplus may be short lived,” said  Kona Haque , an analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in London, who is
forecasting a third-quarter average of $3,150. “There will be a
small deficit next season and this will be reflected in prices
in the third and fourth quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 