-- 
U.S. Role in Pakistan and Afghanistan Is Coming Under Fire in Congress

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-05-04T10:28:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/congress-questions-u-s-role-future-in-pakistan-afghanistan.html
Lawmakers from both parties questioned
the need to sacrifice American lives and provide U.S. aid for
 Afghanistan  and Pakistan following the death of Osama  bin Laden .  As President  Barack Obama  prepares to unveil by July his
plan for drawing down forces in Afghanistan, Republicans
challenged the need to continue the mission at all, while
Democrats sought a clearer sense of the administration’s goals.  “With al-Qaeda largely displaced from the country, but
franchised in other locations, Afghanistan does not carry a
strategic value that justifies 100,000 American troops and a
$100 billion per year cost, especially given current fiscal
restraints,” said Indiana Senator  Richard Lugar , the senior
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.  In the House, California Representative Jackie Speier, the
leading Democrat on the Homeland Security  Subcommittee on
Counterterrorism and Intelligence , described doubts about
 Pakistan  as “the elephant in the room.” The Republican
chairman of that panel, Pennsylvania Representative Patrick Meehan, expressed frustration with Pakistan’s unknown role,
given bin Laden’s presence just outside Islamabad. Was Pakistan
driven by “divided loyalty, complicity, incompetence?” Meehan
wondered out loud.  Was Pakistan Complicit?  Those questions were among many raised in Congress as the
world absorbed the news of bin Laden’s death at the hands of U.S.
special operations forces. The event has created what Senator
 John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who is chairman of the
 Senate Foreign Relations Committee , called “a seminal moment”
for U.S. foreign policy and security interests.  Pakistan intends to address any allegations or shortfalls
on its part, said  Husain Haqqani , the country’s ambassador to
Washington. The most common questions that have been raised are
whether Pakistan was complicit in protecting bin Laden, was
over-confident in its own abilities, or overlooked evidence of
his presence, he said.  “We totally reject the notion of complicity,” Haqqani
said in an interview yesterday. “As far as over-confidence or
lack of competence, these are matters for us to examine
ourselves.”  Pakistani Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said the fact
that bin Laden had been living close to a military academy in
the city of Abbottabad “was an intelligence failure, but not
just on Pakistan’s part.” Gilani, who spoke to reporters today
in Paris, said it was time to “move on” from the death of the
al-Qaeda leader.  Taliban Role  Kerry said lawmakers and officials “have to ask at every
turn if our strategy in Afghanistan is sustainable.” The U.S.
has to discuss “with our partners about how this war ends, what
an acceptable end-state looks like, and what steps we need to
take to get there.” A key question, Kerry said, is to what
degree the Taliban should be part of that end-state.  The U.S. will spend $120 billion in Afghanistan this fiscal
year, Kerry said. Along with Lugar, Kerry helped to write
legislation, signed by Obama in October 2009, that directs $1.5
billion in non-military aid annually to Pakistan. In fiscal year
2010, total U.S. aid and military reimbursements to Pakistan
amounted to $4.3 billion, according to the  Congressional
Research Service , the nonpartisan research group that serves
lawmakers.  The administration continues to defend that investment and
its close cooperation with Pakistan, even as officials say the
presence of the world’s most wanted man in a military hub just
35 miles from the capital, Islamabad, raises serious questions.  Support System  Continued cooperation with Pakistan is “in Pakistan’s
long-term interest and our long term security interests,” Mark Toner, a spokesman for the State Department, said yesterday.
“This has paid dividends and continues to pay dividends.”  White House counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan  said U.S.
officials are looking at what kind of support system bin Laden
had at his Abbottabad compound.  Marc Grossman, the State Department’s Special
Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, met yesterday with
Pakistan’s foreign secretary, Salman Bashir. After the visit,
which had been scheduled before the commando raid, Grossman
described bin Laden’s killing as a “shared achievement” and
stressed that “one thing that is so clear” is that Afghanistan,
Pakistan and the U.S. share a commitment to fighting extremism.  Across  Capitol Hill , lawmakers expressed their doubts about
the value of that cooperation, particularly with Pakistan.  ‘Down to Trust’  “It really comes down to trust,”  California ’s Speier said
at a hearing that examined the threat Pakistan poses to the U.S.
She estimated that in the last decade, the U.S. has funneled
close to $20 billion to Pakistan “and we had to go in ourselves
to take out bin Laden.”  Pakistan’s intelligence services, suspected by many in the
U.S. of harboring or protecting militants who cross the border
to attack U.S. forces in Afghanistan, are “rogue, at the very
least,” she said.  Seth Jones , a senior political scientist in the Arlington,
Virginia, office of the  RAND Corporation , a global research and
policy organization, told Speier and other lawmakers that the
U.S.-Pakistan relationship will never build trust until both
sides admit to mistakes.  “Pakistan has to admit, at least privately, that it has
supported some militant groups,” said Jones, who has spent time
in Pakistan and Afghanistan.  Democrat  Dianne Feinstein  of California, chairwoman of the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, said that if the U.S.
finds out Pakistan had knowledge of bin Laden’s hideout and was
doing “nothing about it,” it would have to re-examine its
options.  ‘Greater Risk’  Kerry defended aid to Pakistan, which has nuclear weapons,
comparing the relationship to “trying to make lemonade out of
lemons.”  “We just got  Osama bin Laden . One of the reasons we got
him is because we had intelligence people there and able to do
their work,” he told reporters. “If we lose that, we put
America at greater risk.”  The alternative could be “a radical Islamic government
having possession of nuclear weapons and running Pakistan,”
said Kerry.  Senator Lindsey Graham , a South Carolina Republican on the
Armed Services Committee, summed up the U.S. dilemma with
Pakistan. “You can’t trust ‘em and you can’t abandon ‘em,” he
told reporters. “That’s just where we’re at.”  “It is not in our national security interests to let this
one event destroy what is a difficult partnership, but a
partnership nonetheless,” Graham said. Pakistan is a state
“hanging by a thread,” he added, “and I don’t want to cut the
last thread.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  