-- 
Crude Oil Falls as S&P 500 Index Declines, U.S. Supplies Probably Climbed

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-05-03T20:44:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/crude-oil-falls-as-s-p-500-index-declines-u-s-supplies-probably-climbed.html
Oil fell to a two-week low as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped and on projections that a
government report will show U.S. crude inventories climbed.  Crude slipped 2.2 percent as the  S&P 500  declined for a
second day. U.S. oil supplies rose to a six-month high last
week, according to a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Futures touched a 2 1/2-year high
yesterday as investors assessed the impact of the May 1 killing
of Osama bin Laden.  “Oil is down in large part because the S&P is lower,”
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
New York. “There’s a strong correlation between oil and the
S&P. We’re also anticipating that tomorrow’s report will show
another build in crude-oil stocks.”  Crude oil for June delivery fell $2.47 to $111.05 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest settlement since
April 19. Futures are up 29 percent from a year ago.  Prices declined from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles increased 3.2 million barrels to 364.2 million, the
highest level since Oct. 29. June oil fell $2.60, or 2.3
percent, to $110.92 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:31 p.m.  The contract surged to $114.83 a barrel yesterday, the
highest intraday price since September 2008, before ending the
session down 0.4 percent at $113.52.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.3 percent to 1,356.62, and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  was little changed at 12,807.51.  Tomorrow’s report may show crude stockpiles climbed 2
million barrels from 363.1 million last week, according to the
median estimate from 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Supplies surged 6.16 million barrels in the week ended April 22,
the most since July.  Texas Power Failure  Power outages last week disrupted production at Texas City,
Texas, plants owned by BP Plc,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and  Marathon
Oil Corp. (MRO)  which together account for almost 5 percent of U.S.
refining capacity. Valero’s Corpus Christi East refinery in
Corpus Christi, Texas, had a separate power failure at the end
of the week that curtailed operations.  “Traders may be pricing in another big crude build as a
result of all of the refineries that were offline last week,”
said  Rick Mueller , a principal with ESAI Energy, LLC in
Wakefield, Massachusetts.  Bin Laden encouraged attacks on oil facilities as a way to
damage the U.S. and European economies. Crude infrastructure in
 Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s largest reserves, was
targeted by al-Qaeda from 2002 as it sought to bring down the
ruling al-Saud family. Saudi Arabian forces foiled the biggest
attempted attack in 2006 on the Abqaiq oil-processing center,
which handles two-thirds of the kingdom’s supply.  Bin Laden  Impact  “There’s been a lot of speculation about what the death of
Osama bin Laden will mean for the oil market,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy-advisory
company in New Canaan, Connecticut. “Right now it’s not clear
that there will be any.”  Brent crude for June settlement declined $2.67, or 2.1
percent, to end the session at $122.45 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures  Europe  Exchange.  Oil has advanced 22 percent this year in New York as unrest
in the Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia
and Egypt and spread to Libya, Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman,
Syria and Yemen. Oil in  New York  has increased for eight months,
the longest rising streak on record.  Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan promised a plan
to end the conflict in Libya, after leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
attended a funeral service for his son, who was killed on April
30 during the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s intensifying
air campaign.  NATO Conditions  NATO, which is enforcing a United Nations-mandated no-fly
zone, has rejected a cease-fire offer from Qaddafi, saying his
forces must stop attacks on civilians before it considers any
truce. Much of the fighting in Libya is now centered on the
rebel-held western port city of Misrata, where opposition forces
last week pushed Qaddafi’s troops out of the city center.  Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s largest oil exporter,
plans to ship a fourth cargo of a new blend of light crude oil
to the Mediterranean region for possible sale to Europe,
according to a person with knowledge of the program.  Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi announced on March 8 that
Aramco had developed two light, low-sulfur blends with
specifications closer to the crude normally supplied by Libya, a
fellow member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Libyan exports have dwindled because of the conflict
in the North African country.  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility for at-the-money options expiring in
June in New York, a measure of expected price swings in futures
and a gauge of options prices, was 28.1 percent yesterday, up
from 26.2 percent April 29.  “We saw a lot of volatility after the announcement of bin
Laden’s death,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 470,630
contracts as of 3:09 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 499,312
contracts yesterday, 31 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest climbed to a record 1.63 million
contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  