-- 
Delphi Automotive Profit Rises 35% as Car Production Recovers

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-05-03T16:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/delphi-automotive-profit-rises-35-as-car-production-recovers.html
Delphi Automotive LLP, the former
 General Motors Co. (GM)  unit that exited an almost four-year
bankruptcy in 2009, said first-quarter earnings jumped 35
percent as North American vehicle production recovers.  Net income rose to $291 million in the three months ended
March 31, from $215 million a year earlier, Troy, Michigan-based
Delphi said today in a statement. Revenue at the closely held
company climbed 17 percent to $4 billion.  Once the largest U.S. auto-parts maker, Delphi is owned by
former lenders including Elliott Management Corp. and Silver
Point Capital LP. Delphi agreed in March to buy back an equity
stake from GM for $3.8 billion and shares from the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp. for $594 million to simplify its  capital
structure , clearing the way for a potential initial public
offering of stock, David Whiston, an equity analyst with
Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  “We’re on the upside of the recovery now and that
recovery, volume-wise, has a long way to go,” Whiston said.
“If you’re an investor, a time like now is exactly when you
would to take Delphi public.”  Vehicle production in  North America  increased 16 percent in
the quarter to 3.42 million units, according to Ward’s
AutoInfoBank. Delphi, which makes parts including fuel-injection
systems, said 20 percent of its sales in the quarter were to GM.
Such sales accounted for 54 percent of Delphi’s $28.6 billion
revenue in 2004.  Delphi’s bankruptcy restructuring resulted in four classes
of shares. Elliott and  Silver Point  bought most of the original
company and maintain a controlling interest.  The PBGC is a federal corporation created by Congress in
1974 to protect pension programs of bankrupt companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 