-- 
Director Quits After Folk Museum Misses $3.7 Million Payment

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-05-03T19:01:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/director-quits-after-folk-art-museum-misses-3-7-million-in-debt-payments.html
The executive director of the  American
Folk Art Museum , which is in default on interest payments due
for $31.9 million of bonds, is leaving the museum in July.  Maria Ann Conelli  said  today on the museum’s website that
after six years at the museum, she’s returning to academia. She
didn’t return a call or e-mail for comment. Susan Flamm, a
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The museum, a few feet west of the  Museum of Modern Art  on
 Manhattan ’s W. 53rd Street, missed $3.7 million in payments to a
debt service fund connected to bonds issued to construct a new
building, it said in a January filing. It didn’t expect to make
payments into the fund “for the foreseeable future,” the
museum said.  Exhibitions of paintings, drawings and quilts -- many of
them acclaimed -- failed to attract attendance and revenue
projected a decade ago when the bonds were issued. The museum
has been searching for a patron to rescue it, possibly in
exchange for prominently displaying his or her name.  “There are many development opportunities at the museum,”
Conelli said in an e-mail to Bloomberg in February. “Our
education floor and programs can be named for $2 million and the
building can be named for $25 million.”  Before joining the museum, Conelli was dean of the  School
of Graduate Studies at the Fashion Institute of Technology .
Before that, she was at what’s now called  Parsons The New School
for Design .  Conelli said on the museum’s website that she’s leaving
the museum “in the good hands” of the deputy director, Linda
Dunne, and the board. Dunne, reached by phone, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 