-- 
Discount on UN Carbon Offsets May Widen After EU Compliance Deadline

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-03T09:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/discount-on-un-carbon-offsets-may-widen-after-eu-compliance-deadline.html
The discount on United Nations
emissions offsets may widen this week after the April 30
deadline for complying with European Union carbon limits,
according to analysts including IDEAcarbon.  Factories and power stations in the EU carbon program, the
world’s biggest greenhouse gas market, can use cheaper UN
credits for EU compliance to cut costs.  The spread between the 2011 UN credit and EU allowance,
traded as a separate contract on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London , widened 33 percent in May 2010 following last year’s
compliance deadline. Demand for UN Certified Emission Reduction
credits will slacken off after traders bought them earlier this
year for use in the EU, said Clemens Tummeltshammer, an analyst
for Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London.  EU carbon permits for December rose 2.6 percent in the past
week and were at 17.33 euros ($25.59) a metric ton today, while
UN credits advanced 2.2 percent to 13.34 euros. The allowances
and credits rose along with German power prices.  The discount of UN credits compared with EU allowances for
December may widen and approach its record 4.25 euros a metric
ton this week, up from 4.08 euros a ton yesterday on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London, according to analysts
including Alessandro Vitelli, director of strategy in London at
IDEAcarbon. Yesterday’s close was the widest since April 4.  Compliance Data  Factories and power stations in the EU carbon market handed
in a record 137 million metric tons of CERs for the 2010 year,
according to  data published yesterday  by the European
Commission, the Brussels-based regulator. That’s at the high end
of analysts’ estimates, which ranged from 80 million to 140
million tons, according to New Energy Finance. Emitters must
match their verified CO2 output with allowances and credits by
April 30 the following year.  “The bulk of the CER supply wasn’t committed last year,
but will be over the next two years,” Vitelli said in an
interview. Supply of new CERs may jump to a record 232 million
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent this year, 76 percent
more than last year’s 132 million, he forecast.  The spread will probably average 8 euros a ton in 2012,
driven partly by a proposed ban on some offsets starting in May
2013 and rising EU-allowance prices, said  Trevor Sikorski , an
analyst in London for  Barclays Capital .  Credits from projects that cut hydrofluorocarbon-23,  a
greenhouse gas that can trap 11,700 times more heat per molecule
than carbon dioxide, will be banned in the EU system under a
proposal to curb “exorbitant” returns. The UN has approved
projects tied to 3.5 billion euros ($5.2 billion) of credits
since 2005, about half the total in the UN emissions market.  Doubling Money?  Traders can potentially double their money by buying the
spread contract today for 4 euros a ton and selling next year
for 8 euros, Sikorski said April 28 by phone. That’s likely a
higher return than simply buying and holding carbon allowances
for the same period, which may require a higher amount of
capital, he said. “You can finance the purchase of the EU
allowances with the sale of the CERs.”  The record number of UN offset credits were used in the EU
program because of the “attractive price spread” between the
two systems, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The increase was also due to a “greater degree of
sophistication” of emitters and “heightened sensitivity” to
future restrictions of some credits from 2013,  Mark Lewis  and
Isabelle Curien, Paris-based analysts at the bank, said in an e-
mailed note dated yesterday.  EU Auctions  Proposed EU auctions of carbon permits may curb the
seasonality of price movements in the emissions markets, Orbeo
said last week.  “We expect the seasonal element of carbon prices to reduce
as utilities are hedging more regularly along the year,” said
 Emmanuel Fages  and Carine Hemery, Paris-based analysts for
Orbeo, the carbon venture of Rhodia SA and Societe Generale SA.  An oversupply of permits and the recession have already
muted the rise in carbon prices stemming from utility hedging of
forward-power sales, the analysts said. Carbon prices have risen
more than 9 percent in the second quarter in four of the past
five years. Futures for December this year, the benchmark,
jumped 17 percent for the second quarter in 2010 and 9.9 percent
in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  