-- 
Disney Unit Sues Dish Network for Giving Away Copyrighted Starz Movies

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-03T20:13:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/disney-sues-dish-network-for-copyright-violations-related-to-starz-movies.html
A  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  unit sued  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH) , the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider,
for copyright violations in connection with the distribution of
movies on the Starz service.  Dish was accused of giving subscribers  free access  to the
Starz premium television service, including copyrighted movies
that were provided by Disney on the condition that Starz operate
as a premium channel such as HBO, Cinemax and Showtime, the suit
says. Starz, a unit of John Malone’s Liberty Media Corp., wasn’t
named in the suit filed yesterday in federal court in New York.  “Dish’s unlawful distribution, transmission, copying and
public display and/or performance of the Starz programming,
including Disney Enterprises’ copyrighted movies, has already
resulted in the repeated and continuing infringement of
plaintiffs’ copyright rights,” the suit says.  Dish, which agreed along with  EchoStar Corp. (SATS)  yesterday to
pay  TiVo Inc. (TIVO)  $500 million to settle patent litigation, said in
a statement that it pays “hundreds of millions of dollars” for
the right to distribute Starz content to its customers,
including the rights to several Disney movies.  “ Dish Network  does not have visibility to the contract
between Starz and Disney, but we will vigorously defend our
rights against any attempt to drag customers into the middle of
their dispute,” Englewood, Colorado-based Dish Network said in
an e-mailed statement.  Starz also filed a lawsuit today against Dish Network in
Colorado District Court in Douglas County, accusing it of
violating an agreement between the two companies that allows
Dish to offer Starz television channels to subscribers,
according to a copy of the complaint provided by Starz.
Eric Becker, a spokesman for Starz, declined additional comment.  The case is Disney Enterprises Inc. vs. Dish Network LLC,
11-cv-2973, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 