-- 
Medical Groups Tracking Hip, Knee Implants Following J&J Recall

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-03T16:55:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/doctors-tracking-u-s-hip-knee-implants-aim-to-avoid-another-j-j-recall.html
Databases created by two doctors’
groups are now tracking the success rates of artificial hips and
knees in the U.S. following a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  unit’s decision
last year to recall a hip implant used on 93,000 patients.  The two registries -- one organized by the orthopedic
industry and the other funded by the federal government -- will
replicate and improve on national databases in  Australia ,  Sweden 
and elsewhere, according to doctors leading the efforts.  DePuy Orthopaedics, a unit of  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based J&J, issued a voluntary global  recall  of its ASR device in
August after learning of heightened failure rates from data
collected by the U.K.’s national joint registry. The company
faces more than 1,000 lawsuits in state and federal courts by
patients who had the hip implants.  “We’ve been doing a huge experiment and no one’s been
keeping track of the data,” said William Maloney, vice chairman
of the American Joint Replacement Registry and professor of
orthopedic surgery at Stanford University School of Medicine.  The AJRR, which is funded by orthopedists, prosthetic
manufacturers, insurance companies and hospitals, began
collecting data from 16 hospitals in December as part of a pilot
program, said its chairman, David Lewallen, a professor of
orthopedic surgery at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,  Minnesota .
The group plans to roll out the data collection system
nationwide later this year.  The goal is to track the more than 700,000 total hip and
knee replacement surgeries that take place in the U.S. each year
and, over time, record which implants failed prematurely,
requiring revision surgery to fix the original operation,
Lewallen said.  ‘Survivorship Curves’  “What we envision happening is an inch-deep, mile-wide
effort across the country, where we try to get basic information
and plot survivorship curves for implants, so we know when they
go in and when they come out,” Lewallen said.  He said that monitoring successes and failures ultimately
will save money for insurers.  “The most expensive hip is the one that has to be
revised,” he said.  Lewallen said the  American Joint Replacement Registry  has
so far secured $1.7 million in funding -- including $665,781
from the  American Academy  of Orthopaedic Surgeons and $783,800
from AdvaMed, the trade association that represents medical
product manufacturers.  The leading hip makers behind J&J are Warsaw, Indiana-based
 Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and Kalamazoo, Michigan-based Stryker
Corp., according to a BMO Capital Markets report in February
that said the worldwide hip replacement market would grow 3.2
percent this year from $5.28 billion in 2010. U.S. hip and knee
implants account for more than half of all joint replacement
procedures globally, Aarti Shetty, an analyst with  Frost &
Sullivan , said in an e-mail.  DePuy Supporting AJRR  Lorie Gawreluk, a spokeswoman for DePuy, said the company
is supporting AJRR with technical expertise and funding through
AdvaMed “to further monitor the safety and performance of these
implants for the benefit of all orthopaedic patients.”  “We are pleased that the American Joint Replacement
Registry has progressed to a pilot phase,” she said in an e-
mail.  DePuy announced the ASR recall on Aug. 26 after 93,000 of
the devices had been had been implanted in patients worldwide,
including 37,000 in the U.S. The company cited unpublished 2010
data from the U.K. showing that within five years, 13 percent of
its ASR XL Acetabular hips failed and needed to be replaced.  DePuy, which also makes spinal-care devices and generated
$5.59 billion in revenue last year, said it withdrew the hips
for safety reasons, while denying in court papers that the
devices are defective.  Testing, Treatment  J&J had committed $280 million to the recalls as of March
31, and has pledged to “address reasonable and customary costs
associated with testing and treatment,” including new hips for
patients who need them. Based on the latest estimates of failure
rates, the total tab could reach billions of dollars, said
 Michael Kelly , a San Francisco lawyer whose firm has filed more
than 70 cases on behalf of patients with the DePuy hips.  A second registry, funded with a $12 million grant from the
Agency for Health Care Research and Quality, a division of the
U.S. Department of Health Care and Human Services, is being run
by the  University of Massachusetts Medical School , according to
the registry website.  UMass Registry  The UMass registry will track the experiences of more than
30,000 patients who undergo hip or knee implants each year, said
Patricia Franklin, professor of orthopedics at the university
and the principal investigator behind the study. Details about
the individual patient’s experience could shed light on why some
implants succeed and others fail, she said.  “Our research strategy is to complement the national
registries,” Franklin said. “Was the metal implant
successfully implanted? If so, when was it removed? While that’s
important, we believe we should collect that, plus patient
assessment. Did the patient have an unusual amount of pain? You
wouldn’t know that from the revision rate.”  Brian Devine, a lawyer for plaintiffs suing DePuy over hip
replacements, said he has concerns about the American Joint
Replacement Registry’s reliance on funding from prosthetic
manufacturers, the companies whose products are being monitored.  ‘Absolute Independence’  “It’s concerning that industry is financing it,” Devine
said. “We think there should be absolute independence.”  “We’ll always have naysayers,” Lewallen said when asked
about the decision to include two device manufacturers on his
registry’s 13-member board. “But we have the best chance of
providing the best information and ability to change behavior if
we have them at the table.”  AJRR board member Cheryl Blanchard, the chief scientific
officer at Zimmer Holdings, said that registries in other
countries, including the U.K., include manufacturers.  “It’s really not significantly different from registries
that exist outside the U.S.,” she said. “We’re not trying to
reinvent the wheel here.”  Blanchard and Lewallen said that in nations with single-
payer health systems, it’s easier for government overseers to
start joint registries by fiat. In the U.S., with its patchwork
of public and private payers, it’s more complicated, and the
involvement of every participant in the process, including
manufacturers, is necessary, they said.  “Most of the money for this comes from industry,” said
AJRR board member Bob Durgin, head of quality, regulatory and
clinical affairs at Biomet Inc., an orthopedics supplier based
in Warsaw,  Indiana . He said AJRR aims to limit industry
contributions to 50 percent of the registry’s annual budget.
“People can view that support negatively, but I think it’s
important in helping to maintain credibility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  