-- 
Dubai Road-Toll Fund-Raising Plan Said to Get $1 Billion Bids, Tops Target

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-03T12:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/dubai-road-toll-fund-raising-plan-said-to-get-1-billion-bids-tops-target.html
Dubai received at least $1 billion in
bids for a program to raise financing backed by future road-toll
receipts, more than the government’s target, said two bankers
familiar with the plan.  There was strong interest from international banks,
financial institutions and pension funds for the $800 million
securitization program, one of the bankers said. The six-year
financing may be priced at 3.5 percentage points over the London
interbank offered rate, both bankers said. They declined to be
identified because the transaction hasn’t been completed yet.  Dubai, the Persian Gulf business hub battling a debt
crisis, said April 7 it hired  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Dubai Islamic Bank
PJSC (DIB) ,  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  and  Commercial Bank of Dubai PSC (CBD)  to
raise the financing to help fund transport projects. The banks
have put up the money for the dual-currency transaction and are
offering portions of the securities to other investors. The
offer includes both conventional and Islamic portions.  Securitization is a process of issuing new securities
backed by loans, mortgages, credit card debt or other assets
like future income streams from a road-toll system.  Dubai, the second-biggest of the seven sheikhdoms that make
up the  United Arab Emirates , had to seek help from neighboring
Abu Dhabi after the global credit crisis pushed property prices
down by more than half from their peak in 2008, and frozen
credit markets forced some state-owned companies to delay loan
payments. State-owned Dubai World signed a final agreement with
its creditors in March to restructure about $25 billion of debt.  Dubai’s government last sold bonds in September, when it
raised $1.25 billion in a two-part bond sale in its first
sovereign debt issue since the Dubai World credit crisis roiled
global markets in 2009. Its five-year, $500 million note was
priced to yield 6.7 percent, while the $750 million 10-year bond
was priced to yield 7.75 percent. The bonds generated more than
370 orders valued at about $5 billion, it said then.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  