-- 
Dubai Shares Swing Between Gains and Losses; Emaar Advances

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-05-03T09:45:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/dubai-shares-swing-between-gains-and-losses-emaar-advances.html
Dubai shares swung between gains and
losses as emerging-market stocks dropped after the  Reserve Bank 
of  India  raised rates more than forecast.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) ,
the builder of the world’s tallest tower, rose and  Dubai
Investments PJSC (DIC)  fell.  Emaar advanced for the first time in almost two weeks,
while Dubai Investments PJSC, which owns stakes in more than 40
companies, declined for a fourth day. The benchmark  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  increased 0.2 percent to 1,630.23 at 1:26 p.m. in the
emirate. The measure, which has surged 20 percent since a low in
March, swung between gains and losses seven times. The  Bloomberg
GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of stocks in the region fell 0.3 percent.  “The market has rallied strongly since the end of February
so right now we are seeing consolidation to maintain these
levels,” said Marwan Shurrab, assistant  fund manager  and chief
trader at Dubai-based Gulfmena Alternative Investments. “The
market is waiting for a catalyst to see further upside.”  The index climbed from its low for the year on March 3,
driven in part by optimism that the U.A.E. will secure an
upgrade to emerging markets status at index provider  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) 
The country’s stock exchanges said last week they will give
brokerages and custodians one more month to switch to the so-
called delivery-versus-payment system, one of MSCI Inc.’s
criteria for an upgrade to emerging markets.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 1.1 percent, its
biggest loss in two weeks, after the Reserve Bank of India
increased rates by 50 basis points and companies from Hon Hai
Precision Industry Co. to China Airlines Ltd. reported earnings
that missed estimates.  Emaar climbed 0.6 percent to 3.26 dirhams, heading for its
first gain since April 21. DIC fell 1.4 percent to 84.2 fils.  Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  and Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul
All Share Index declined 0.2 percent. The Kuwait’s SE Price
Index retreated 0.4 percent, Oman’s benchmark measure lost 0.3
percent, while gauges in Bahrain and Qatar were little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  