-- 
DuPont Says Higher Danisco Offer Gets More Investor Support

-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 
2011-05-03T20:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/dupont-says-higher-danisco-offer-gets-more-investor-support-2-.html
DuPont Co. said increasing its
takeover bid for food-ingredients maker Danisco A/S by 5.3
percent to 33.4 billion kroner ($6.64 billion) has won the
support of additional Danish institutional investors.  As many as 10 institutional investors, some of whom haven’t
made public statements, have told DuPont they will accept the
April 29 offer of 700 kroner a share, which is up from a Jan. 9
bid of 665 kroner, DuPont Chief Financial Officer Nicholas Fanandakis said today in a telephone interview. He declined to
say how many shares the investors control.  “Since we have revised the offer, you have had all the
Danish institutional investors come forward in support of the
new offer and express their commitment to tender,” Fanandakis
said. “It seems to have had a dramatic impact on the tone and
the receptivity to the offer.”  DuPont, which is based in Wilmington,  Delaware , and is
third-biggest U.S. chemical maker, wants to buy Copenhagen-based
Danisco to gain production of food additives and enzymes used in
biofuels. After 48 percent of Danisco shares were tendered into
the original offer, DuPont on April 29 raised the bid and
lowered the minimum number of shares it’s seeking to 80 percent
from 90 percent previously. Danish regulations prohibit further
changes, Fanandakis said.  “If it does not close, then we would look to end the
tender offer and execute on the growth strategy that we have,”
Fanandakis said.  Different Scenarios  If the deal closes with less than 90 percent of shares,
DuPont would have to keep Danisco as a separate entity,
including maintaining its stock listing, Fanandakis said. DuPont
would buy shares in the open market and approach individual
investors, he said. DuPont couldn’t force holdouts to sell at
the tender price in a so-called squeeze out until it held 90
percent of shares, he said.  Royal DSM NV said yesterday it sold its 4.95 percent stake
in Danisco A/S to DuPont. Pension fund ATP, which has a 5.1
percent stake, endorsed the higher bid when it was announced.
Danske Capital, Nordea Investment Management, Nykredit Asset
Management and SEB Asset Management are among other funds
supporting the revised bid, Michael Hanretta, a DuPont
spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  No ‘Material Impact’  Elliott Associates LP, a New York-based hedge fund that has
a 5.05 percent stake in Danisco, had said the original offer was
too low. It hasn’t commented on the revised bid, which expires
May 13. Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for Elliott, declined to
comment today when reached by telephone.  While closing the transaction with less than 90 percent
would have tax and regulatory implications, such an outcome
wouldn’t significantly hurt the company’s cost-savings and
growth targets for the deal, Fanandakis said.  “It won’t really have any material impact at all on the
financials,” Fanandakis said.  DuPont said Jan. 10 it planned to use $3 billion of cash on
the acquisition and will finance the rest with debt. The company
said it will assume net debt of about $500 million. The
transaction will add to earnings starting next year, DuPont has
said.  Danisco rose 1 krone to 697.5 kroner today in Copenhagen.
DuPont fell 72 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $55.47 at 4 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  DuPont plans to expand beyond stalwarts such as Kevlar
bullet-resistant fabric and titanium-dioxide pigment used in
paint. Danisco is the world’s largest food-ingredients maker,
producing sweeteners and cultures used in ice cream and cheese,
and it is second behind  Denmark ’s Novozymes A/S in industrial
enzymes. Danisco and DuPont already share a venture that makes
ethanol from corn cobs and switchgrass.  The deal would be DuPont’s largest takeover since the 1999
acquisition of genetically modified seed-maker Pioneer Hi-Bred
International Inc. for $7.7 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in New York at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 