-- 
Earliest Club-Soccer Rules May Raise $2 Million at Auction, Sotheby’s Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-03T13:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/earliest-club-soccer-rules-may-raise-2-million-at-auction-sotheby-s-says.html
The earliest set of club-soccer rules
is being sold as part of a lot that may generate as much as 1.2
million pounds ($2 million) for the sport’s oldest team,
according to auctioneers.  Sheffield FC, a northern  England  team established in 1857,
is selling the 1859 pamphlet entitled “Rules, Regulations, &
Laws of the Sheffield Foot-Ball Club” at auction house
Sotheby’s in  London  on July 14.  The amateur side, which plays seven divisions below
England’s Premier League, has been recognized by world governing
body  FIFA  as the oldest club. Its rules were formulated at a
meeting at a local hotel.  “The collection tells a fascinating story about a game
played by hundreds of millions of people, watched by billions
and an integral part of our culture,” Gabriel Heaton, a senior
manuscript specialist at Sotheby’s in London, said in an
interview.  The code built on earlier rules for soccer-type games
written at  Cambridge University  and some U.K. schools. Sotheby’s
estimates the lot will raise between 800,000 pounds and 1.2
million pounds, although Heaton said it’s not easy to predict.
The items include an 1858 handwritten draft, the only known
surviving printed copy of the regulations of the game and match
reports.  At another auction, at Sotheby’s in  New York  last year, the
original rules of basketball sold for $4.4 million, which
Sotheby’s said is a record for an item of sports memorabilia.
The rules drawn up by Canada’s James Naismith in 1891 were
bought by David and Suzanne Booth, two Kansas-based fans.  No Pushing  The Sheffield rules describe a game played with the feet,
and refer to current elements of the game such as free kicks,
throw-ins, goalkicks and the crossbar. They also list
restrictions on handling the ball and “hacking or tripping”
opponents.  The sport played today in many ways resembles its earlier
form, though Sheffield rules that allow “pushing with the
hands” are among those that have changed over the years.  Sheffield FC, which runs 27 teams, plans to use money to
improve its facilities and secure its future. Its top squad
plays in the Northern Premier League Division 1 South.  Meanwhile, the city’s main professional teams are on a
downswing, Sheffield United having just dropped to the third
tier of the English game where it will join Sheffield Wednesday.  The Sotheby’s sale comes amid heated debate about whether
to introduce video technology and other artificial aides to help
referees adjudicate decisions.  Video Technology?  FIFA agreed to look at the issue again when England’s  Frank
Lampard  had a goal disallowed against  Germany  in last year’s
 World Cup . The same player was incorrectly awarded a goal in
Chelsea’s 2-1 win over Tottenham last weekend when TV replays
showed the ball hadn’t completely crossed the line.  “Our rules are about the true value of the game, how it
changed from a mob sport to an organized game,” Sheffield FC
Chairman Richard Tims said in an interview. “We introduced the
first fixed crossbar, so I suppose we started the debate about
whether the ball went in or not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  