-- 
Technip May Spend $1.5 Billion Cash Pile on Dividend, Brazil

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-03T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/technip-may-spend-1-5-billion-cash-pile-on-dividend-brazil.html
Technip SA (TEC) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
oilfield-services provider, may spend “hard-earned” cash on
raising dividends and investment in  Brazil , and will consider
acquisitions, the company’s chief financial officer said.  “The amount of cash that we can truly call our own has
grown” to about 1 billion euros ($1.5 billion), Julian Waldron
said in an interview in Paris last week. “We’ve worked very
hard to get the company’s balance sheet to where it is today.”  Technip, which makes equipment for oil and gas exploration
and builds liquefied natural gas installations, is seeking to
broaden the range of its services to producers including  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Total SA (FP)  and  Saudi Aramco .
Increasing investment and shareholder payouts are higher
priorities than carrying out any large-scale acquisition,
Waldron said.  “If there are opportunities we don’t rule them out,” the
CFO said. “If one comes up at least we know we have the balance
sheet. I think we would have shareholders’ support to do
something.”  Technip built up its cash reserves after working through a
series of orders that soured when  oil prices  jumped, pushing up
labor and construction costs and leading to 2008 provisions on
Qatar and Asia-Pacific contracts. Chief Executive Officer
Thierry Pilenko has since pledged to shield the company from
exposure to the building industry.  Share Performance  Investors rewarded Technip’s improved prospects, pushing
the share price up 7.2 percent this year. The company joined the
benchmark CAC 40 index in 2009 and was the best performer that
year when the stock price more than doubled. It raised the
dividend for 2010 by 10 cents to 1.45 euros a share.  Technip, whose competitors include Saipem SpA and General
Electric Co.’s Wellstream Holdings, bought offshore wind energy
cable installer Subocean Group earlier this year and two
Brazilian-flagged pipelay vessels last year. These “small”
purchases successfully tested Technip’s ability to react “very
fast” with cash offers for assets, said Waldron, who was educated
at Cambridge in Britain and came to Technip from Thomson SA, the
French electronics company now called Technicolor.  Last month, the company reported an 8.8 percent increase in
first-quarter profit. The market for flexible pipelines made by
Technip for offshore oil exploration and production is growing
at a pace that is “probably beyond our expectations,” Pilenko
said on a conference call with analysts at the time. “Very
large” contracts for the equipment may be awarded in Brazil.  Brazilian Prospects  Technip will raise investment in the next few years in
Brazil, where planned expansion of energy output from offshore
discoveries offers the most growth “visibility” compared with
other regions like the  Gulf of Mexico , Ghana,  India  and the
Arctic, Waldron said.  In Brazil, the French company is expanding a manufacturing
plant for flexible pipes, betting that last year’s order from
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  to supply a pilot system for the deep
offshore Tupi field will grow.  “Under a really aggressive case, the potential is for
twice worldwide installed capacity just for Brazil alone,”
Waldron said of the technology. “Under a more reasonable case
you are still at a multiple of what is available in Brazil
today, substantially above anything that could be produced out
of today’s world capacity.”  The oil services company also plans to bid for a contract
for two 550-ton flexible pipelay vessels for Brazilian offshore
fields and is expanding installations at Angra Porto.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tara Patel at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  