-- 
EDF, Total Push Ahead With $2.2 Billion LNG Terminal at Dunkirk

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-05-03T13:28:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/edf-total-push-ahead-with-2-2-billion-lng-terminal-at-dunkirk.html
Electricite de  France  SA,  Europe ’s
biggest power generator, confirmed today a delayed plan with
 Total SA (FP)  to develop a terminal to import liquefied natural gas
at the port of Dunkirk.  The 1.5 billion-euro ($2.2 billion) LNG terminal will have
a total re-gasification capacity of 13 billion cubic meters a
year, boosting France’s ability to import natural gas by a
fifth, according to a statement from the Paris-based utility.
The terminal could start operations by the end of 2015.  “The new terminal will give EDF a balanced and diverse
portfolio of sources for the supply of natural gas,” EDF said.  Total, which came under fire from unions and the government
last year for shutting its refinery at Dunkirk, will have a 10
percent stake in the project, Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said today during a visit to a nuclear reactor.  EDF and Total last year jointly announced the project,
which the nuclear utility said has been under study since 2006.
The two French energy companies said at the time a final
 investment decision  would come by the middle of 2010 and
development completed in 2014. EDF attributed the delay to a
search for additional partners for the project.  The latest plan was announced by French President  Nicolas
Sarkozy  during a visit to EDF’s nearby Gravelines nuclear plant.
“I want that LNG terminal,” he said during the visit.  Partners  “EDF will be in partnership with several European gas
companies in this project,” the utility said today in the
statement. “These will now be invited to confirm their
participation.”  As many as 1,850 people will help build the LNG terminal,
creating around 250 direct and indirect jobs. The utility has
said the terminal will use power from nearby Gravelines for re-
gasification.  GDF Suez SA, the former French gas monopoly, operates
France’s three existing LNG terminals at Fos-Tonkin, Montoir-de-
Bretagne and Fos-Cavaou, in which Total has a 28 percent stake.
These have a total regasification capacity of about 25 billion
cubic meters annually.  EDF and GDF Suez are competing on the French market for so-
called duel energy customers who want to buy power and natural
gas from the same supplier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  