-- 
Leeds United Says Chairman Ken Bates Is Soccer Team’s New Owner

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-03T18:25:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/leeds-united-says-chairman-ken-bates-is-soccer-team-s-new-owner.html
Leeds United said club chairman Ken Bates bought the three-time English soccer champion for an
undisclosed amount.  Leeds’s ownership has been under the spotlight for several
years as the club declined to say who actually was in charge.
Last month the Football Association, responsible for soccer in
the U.K., told a committee of lawmakers investigating the
governance of the sport that it didn’t know the team’s ultimate
owner.  “The change in ownership structure makes Ken Bates the
controlling shareholder of Leeds United and delivers the
transparency sought,” according to a  statement  on the club’s
website, which didn’t say when Bates bought the team.  Bates, the former owner of Premier League champion Chelsea,
is based in  Monaco . He bought Leeds’s Caribbean-based parent
company FSF Ltd., which was owned by trustees whose identities
have not been revealed. He controls the club, which plays in the
second-tier Championship, through a new holding company Outro
Ltd., Leeds said.  Leeds dropped as low as the third level of English soccer
in 2007, six years after reaching the semifinals of  Europe ’s
Champions League. In doing so, the team ran up more than 100
million pounds ($165 million) of debt in recruiting players,
which led to a financial crisis. It then sought creditor
protection, which resulted in a 15-point penalty when it played
in the third
division in 2008.  Leeds has stabilized under manager Simon Grayson and has a
slim chance of reaching the playoffs for the Premier League with
one game to go this season. The Premier League requires full
disclosure of anyone who owns more than 10 percent of one of its
teams.  “The scaremongering arising out of the football governance
enquiry has not been helpful and, whilst the board were always
confident that there were no issues, recognize the concern the
unknown outcome of any Premier League questions, may have on our
members,” the club’s statement said.  Bates was chairman of Chelsea for 22 years. He sold the
west London team to Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich in 2003.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  