-- 
Legg Mason Declines Most in 10 Months on Bond Unit Expense

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-05-03T20:25:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/legg-mason-falls-most-in-10-months-as-fetting-forecasts-higher-expenses.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  fell the most in 10
months in New York trading after Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting  said costs tied to its Western Asset Management bond
unit will rise by $74 million this fiscal year.  Legg Mason declined 5.3 percent, the most since June 29,
after Fetting told analysts on a conference call that Western
Asset will keep a larger share of revenue to compensate
managers. The unit previously paid a portion of quarterly
revenues to its Baltimore-based parent company to cover costs
from a bailout of money funds during the financial crisis.  “There is a step up in compensation expense that was
unexpected, and the stock is weak on that,”  Michael Kim , an
analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York, said in
a telephone interview.  Fetting is trying to reverse 14 straight quarters of
withdrawals, which started as investment returns trailed rivals
in 2007 and intensified because of losses stemming from the
financial crisis. Money funds managed by Western Asset held as
much as $10 billion in structured investment vehicles at the
onset of the credit crisis, contributing to five straight
quarters of losses.  In an interview today, Fetting said withdrawals are
reversing, influencing the firm’s decision to reduce the
reimbursements from Western Asset over the next year.  “The flows are an improving story,” Fetting said. “The
decision is about how we can support Western and complete the
turnaround.”  Profit Rises  Investors pulled $8.7 billion from Legg Mason’s stock, bond
and money funds, the lowest amount since the third quarter of
2009. Western Asset had $6.7 billion in net redemptions, the
stock funds lost $1.3 billion, and money funds saw $700 million
in withdrawals in the three months ended March 31. Investors
pulled $16.7 billion from Legg Mason in the prior quarter.  “Fund outflows continue to decelerate and the earnings
power is accelerating,” Daniel Fannon, a San Francisco-based
analyst at Jefferies & Co., wrote in a note to clients today.  Net income increased to $69 million, or 45 cents a share,
in the three months ended March 31, from $63.6 million, or 39
cents a share, a year earlier, the Baltimore-based firm said
today in a statement. Earnings matched the average estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Legg Mason said savings from job cuts announced last year
should help bring earnings in line with analysts’ estimates of
between 55 cents and 65 cents a share by the fiscal fourth
quarter, which ends March 31, 2012.  Job Cuts  Last year, Legg Mason cut jobs, moved some technology
functions to investment units and started to buy back shares as
the firm returned to profitability. Legg Mason’s results for the
quarter include a $15.7 million cost, or 7 cents a share,
related to cutting jobs. The cuts moves will translate into
annual savings of $130 million to $150 million by the end of
this fiscal year, Fetting said.  Legg Mason declined $1.97 to $35.15 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  The firm, which increased its dividend to 8 cents per share
from 6 cents, intends to accelerate share buybacks to $400
million this year, Fetting said on the conference call.  Legg Mason’s board includes activist investor Nelson Peltz,
who is the company’s largest shareholder, and Scott Nuttall from
New York-based private-equity firm KKR & Co.  Assets under management dropped 1 percent from a year
earlier to $678 billion as of March 31, the firm said earlier
this month.  Bill Miller   Legg Mason’s bond funds, run by Western Asset in  Pasadena ,
 California , accounted for about 53 percent of money under
management as of March 31, unchanged from a year ago, according
to the company. The portion in equity funds rose to 28 percent
from 25 percent, while the share in money funds dropped to 19
percent from 21 percent.  Bill Miller’s $4 billion  Legg Mason Capital Management
Value Trust (LMVTX) , best known for outperforming the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index for a record 15 consecutive years through 2005,
returned 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2011, compared
with a 5.4 percent return for the index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  