-- 
Legg Mason Profit Increases 8.5% as Assets Climb With Stock-Market Rally

-- B y   S r e e   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-05-03T11:58:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/legg-mason-profit-rises-8-5-as-assets-rise-with-market-rally.html
Legg Mason Inc. (LM) , the  money manager 
that owns the Western Asset Management bond firm and  Bill
Miller ’s stock funds, said fiscal fourth-quarter profit rose 8.5
percent as the stock market rally lifted higher-fee assets.  Net income increased to $69 million, or 45 cents a share in
the three months ended March 31, from $63.6 million, or 39 cents
a share, a year earlier, the Baltimore-based firm said today in
a statement. Earnings matched the average estimate of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Fetting  is trying to reverse
14 straight quarters of withdrawals, which started as investment
returns lagged in 2007 and intensified because of losses
stemming from the financial crisis. Investors pulled $8.7
billion from Legg Mason’s stock, bond and money funds, the
lowest amount since the third quarter of 2009. Legg Mason’s
stock funds, which get higher fees, have increased assets by 9.1
percent in the past year to about $190 billion.  “The asset mix has been improving at Legg Mason and there
has been some stabilization of outflows,” Macrae Sykes, an
analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye,  New York , said in an
interview before the results were announced.  Investors removed $6.7 billion from Legg Mason’s Western
Asset Management bond unit, $1.3 billion from stock funds and
$700 million from money funds during the three months ended
March 31. Investors pulled $16.7 billion from Legg Mason in the
prior quarter.  Permal Group  Legg Mason is also benefiting from its Permal Group Ltd.
business, which invests in  hedge funds , Sykes said. The New York
City Police Pension Fund hired Permal in March to manage a
hedge-fund portfolio after the London-based unit posted returns
of 8.4 percent in 2010.  Fetting rid Legg Mason’s money-market funds of bad debt at
the height of the financial crisis, which prompted losses for
five straight quarters in 2008 and 2009. Last year, he cut jobs,
moved some technology functions to investment units and started
to buy back shares as the firm returned to profitability.  Legg Mason’s results for the quarter include a $15.7
million cost, or 7 cents a share, related to cutting jobs.  Legg Mason’s board includes activist investor Nelson Peltz,
who is the company’s largest shareholder, and Scott Nuttall from
New York-based private-equity firm KKR & Co.  Assets under management dropped 1 percent from a year
earlier to $678 billion as of March 31, the firm said earlier
this month.  Equity Assets Rise  Legg Mason’s bond funds, run by its Western Asset
Management unit in  Pasadena ,  California , accounted for about 53
percent of money under management as of March 31, unchanged from
a year ago, according to the company. The portion in equity
funds rose to 28 percent from 25 percent, while the share in
money funds dropped to 19 percent from 21 percent.  Bill Miller’s $4 billion  Legg Mason Capital Management
Value Trust (LMVTX) , best known for outperforming the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index for a record 15 consecutive years through 2005,
returned 3.4 percent in the first three months of 2011, compared
with a 5.4 percent return for the index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Legg Mason reported results before the start of regular
U.S. trading. The stock rose 2.3 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with the 1.3 percent gain for S&P’s index of
asset managers and custodial banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  