-- 
Telenet Profit Drops as Sales Growth Slows on Fibernet Promotion

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-03T15:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/telenet-profit-drops-as-sales-growth-slows-on-fibernet-promotion.html
Telenet Group Holding NV (TNET) , the Belgian
cable operator controlled by  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , said profit
fell as debt-servicing costs increased and sales missed
analysts’ estimates because of promotions on installations.  First-quarter profit before changes in the value of
interest-rate derivatives and the cost of an early debt
repayment declined to 11.1 million euros ($16.5 million) from
45.3 million euros a year earlier, the Mechelen, Belgium-based
company said today in a statement. Sales increased 4.6 percent
to 331.6 million euros, missing the 337.2 million-euro average
of five estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Telenet lowered its forecast for revenue growth this year
by half a percentage point to 5.5 percent because of an
accounting change for premium telephone services that cuts sales
by 2 million euros on a quarterly basis. Chief Executive Officer
Duco Sickinghe called the revenue shortfall versus estimates
“temporary” because of promotions on Fibernet broadband
installation and activation fees, even as subscriber growth
slowed in all of Telenet’s residential business lines and
handset sales declined.  “The Belgian market may be slowing down somewhat,” Chief
Financial Officer Renaat Berckmoes told reporters in Mechelen.
“Disposable income is shrinking because of rising energy prices
and we’ve witnessed the effect on our sales.”  First-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, or Ebitda, advanced 6.8 percent to 174.2
million euros, in line with analysts’ estimates, as lower
network operating costs and a 15 percent drop in sales and
marketing expenses offset a 12 percent increase in payrolls and
slowing revenue growth.  Accounting Change  Telenet said the accounting change for some phone services
has no impact on Ebitda, prompting the cable operator to say
that 2011 Ebitda as a proportion of revenue will be higher than
last year. That compares with a Feb. 24 forecast for a stable
Ebitda margin. Telenet maintained its guidance that  capital
spending  will amount to about 21 percent of revenue this year.  The cable operator generated 86.5 million euros of cash not
required for reinvestment in the first quarter, a 38 percent
increase from the three-month period a year earlier. The
increase is partly due to Telenet replacing loans with bonds,
which pay a semi-annual coupon in May and November rather than
quarterly interest based on the three-month euro interbank
offered rate.  “We are slightly ahead in terms of our forecast for free
 cash flow , but to a lesser extent than it may appear from
looking at the first-quarter figure,” Berckmoes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Mechelen, Belgium via 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  