-- 
Emerson Falls as Slipping Demand in China Curbs Earnings

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-05-03T20:26:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/emerson-falls-most-since-august-as-profit-trails-estimates.html
Emerson Electric Co. (EMR)  fell the most in
two years after slipping demand for telecommunication equipment
in China pulled profit lower than analysts’ estimates.  Emerson dropped $3.92, or 6.4 percent, to $56.89 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the largest
decline since February 2009.  Second-quarter profit of 73 cents a share trailed the 74-
cent average estimate from analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
 network power division’s  profit margin narrowed to 9.3 percent
from 11.7 percent a year earlier as the Chinese
telecommunications market slowed, the St. Louis-based company
said. The unit is a rival of  France ’s  Schneider Electric SA. (SU)   “Network power remains a source of concern longer term,
especially versus strong results out of competitor Schneider,”
Stephen Tusa, a New York-based analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said today in a note. “Questions around this business are
likely not going away with this result.”  The network power division was also hurt by costs tied to
the acquisition of Chloride Group Plc and pricing, Emerson said.
 China ’s telecommunications market has become “very
challenging,” with slower growth than in 2009 and 2010 combined
with inflation, Emerson said.  ‘Aim Our Guns’  “Local competitors got extremely aggressive and caused
some significant price erosion,” Chief Executive Officer David Farr said on a conference call. “We did lose some business
because we did walk away from it. From my perspective where we
are right now, we’re tuning where we want to aim our guns.”  Second-quarter net income climbed to $556 million from $405
million, or 53 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales climbed 18
percent to $5.85 billion.  A tornado in late April destroyed an Emerson plant in
Rainsville,  Alabama , Farr said on the call. Two other plants in
the state were left without full electrical power, Emerson said.  The destroyed plant, part of the company’s Industrial
Automation division, had 67 employees, said Mark Polzin, a
company spokesman. The other affected sites were a climate
technologies factory in Hartselle and a network-power plant in
Huntsville, which employ a combined 700 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  