-- 
Ethiopian Government Says Heineken Will Acquire Two State-Owned Breweries

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T12:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ethiopian-government-says-heineken-will-acquire-two-state-owned-breweries.html
Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-largest
brewer, will buy two Ethiopian state-owned beer makers for 2.7
billion birr ($160 million), the Horn of Africa country’s
privatization agency said.  Heineken, based in Amsterdam, will purchase Bedele Brewery
SC for 1.4 billion birr and Harar Brewery SC for 1.3 billion
birr, Wondafrash Assefa, spokesman for the Private and Public
Enterprises Supervising Agency, said in a phone interview today
from Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital.  “Heineken indicated in their bid document they will expand
Harar and bring in new products,” he said.  Heineken can’t comment because it hasn’t received written
confirmation from the agency that its bids were accepted, John-
Paul Schuirink, a company spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  Beer consumption in  Ethiopia , Africa’s second-most populous
nation, is expected to grow by about 15 percent every year for
the next five years,  Access Capital , an Addis Ababa-based
research group, said in a report last year. BGI Ethiopia, the
country’s biggest brewer by sales, accounted for about half of
the 300 million liters (79 million gallons) of beer sold in the
12 months to July 7, 2009.  Heineken bid more for Bedele than SouthWest Development Plc
of Ethiopia; Carlsberg A/S, the Copenhagen-based beer maker; and
BGI Ethiopia, a unit of French brewer and vintner Groupe Castel,
Wondafrash said on March 29. There were no other offers for
Harar, he said.  Profitability  The breweries were sold even after Bedele earned a profit
of about 100 million birr last year and Harar posted net income
of more than 50 million birr, according to Wondafrash.  “It’s not about the profitability,” he said. “It’s that the
government should not run these factories because the private
sector can run them more efficiently.”  Ethiopia is selling state-owned companies to private
investors as it seeks to diversify its economy. The Horn of
 Africa  nation, the continent’s biggest coffee producer, relies
on agriculture to generate 43 percent of its economic output,
according to the  CIA World Factbook .  The government plans to sell 50 companies by mid-2015,
including agricultural, food and printing businesses, according
to Wondafrash.  Communist Nationalization  Most of Ethiopia’s private businesses were nationalized in
the 1980s under the former Communist Derg regime. That
government was toppled by the current ruling  Ethiopian People’s
Revolutionary Democratic Front , a party with Marxist roots that
has shifted toward a market-based economy since it came to power
in 1991. The EPRDF government has sold 214 public enterprises
since 1995 for 3.14 billion birr, according to the agency’s
website.  “The process has been gradually developing,” Wondafrash
said. “We started with small enterprises, now we are
transferring big ones.”  The board is assessing five bids for another state-owned
beer maker, Meta Brewery, Wondafrash said, without providing
further details.  Bedele, situated in western Ethiopia, has the capacity to
produce 300,000 330-milliliter (0.7-pint) bottles of beer per
day, according to the agency’s  website.  Harar Brewery, which is
in the east of the country, can produce 200,000 hectoliters
(5.28 million gallons) of the beverage annually, it said.  -Editors: Paul Richardson, Alastair Reed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 