-- 
Metro First-Quarter Loss Narrows as Closures Reduce Costs

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-05-03T07:50:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/metro-ag-first-quarter-loss-narrows-on-cost-cutting-program.html
Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer,
posted a smaller first-quarter loss than analysts estimated
after closing and selling some domestic stores.  The net loss narrowed to 3 million euros ($4.4 million), or
1 cent a share, from 16 million euros, or 5 cents, a year
earlier, the Dusseldorf, Germany-based company said today in a
statement. That beat the 12.9 million-euro average estimate of
seven analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Sales for the three months
ended March 31 were unchanged at 15.5 billion euros.  Metro aims to increase annual profit by 1.5 billion euros
over the four years to 2012 through a cost-cutting plan known as
Shape. Since the first quarter of 2010, the retailer has closed
or sold 26 unprofitable domestic Real supermarkets, Kaufhof
department stores and Cash & Carry wholesale outlets and
disposed of its Moroccan wholesale unit. Related expenses were 3
million euros compared with 19 million euros a year earlier.  “Metro is benefiting from the increasingly positive impact
of its Shape program,” Christoph Schlienkamp, an analyst at
Bankhaus Lampe in Dusseldorf, said by phone before the figures
were released. Schlienkamp has a “hold” rating on the stock.  Metro fell 1.14 euros, or 2.3 percent, to 48.30 euros at
9:23 a.m. in  Frankfurt  trading. The shares have dropped 10
percent this year, compared with an 8.5 percent increase for
Germany’s benchmark  DAX index. (DAX)   “There is a lack of positive surprises in today’s news,”
said Peter Steiner, an analyst at BHF Bank in Frankfurt, adding
that southern and eastern Europe remains “difficult” for
Metro. He has an “overweight” rating on the stock.  German Retail  Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes may increase 10
percent in 2011, Metro said, repeating an earlier forecast.
Underlying sales should rise by more than 4 percent, compared
with a medium-term forecast for growth of more than 6 percent.  Metro has said this year’s growth forecast is contingent on
a continued global economic recovery, emphasizing risks from the
European debt crisis, unrest in northern  Africa  and the Middle
East and effects of the Japanese earthquake.  Metro gets almost 40 percent of revenue from  Germany , where
retail sales will be little changed in 2011 after adjusting for
inflation, according to the country’s HDE retailer association.  First-quarter Ebit at Cash & Carry, Metro’s largest unit,
rose 78 percent to 27 million euros. Earnings fell 16 percent to
65 million euros at the Media Markt/Saturn electronics division.  Easter Shopping  Losses narrowed at the supermarket unit, while widening at
Kaufhof, which was Metro’s most profitable unit last year. Metro
has been searching for a buyer for Kaufhof since 2008.  Sales in the quarter were affected by a later Easter
holiday, which pushed some purchases back. Consumers last year
bought seasonal items in Metro’s biggest markets in late March.
The retailer gets about 96 percent of sales in predominantly
Christian countries of western and eastern  Europe . Four-month
sales rose 1 percent, Metro said, citing preliminary figures.  “Because of the late Easter shopping season, Metro’s
statements regarding the first four months of the year have more
significance than the quarterly figures, as they are more
comparable,” Bankhaus Lampe’s Schlienkamp said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 