-- 
EU Errs by Ruling Out Pre-2013 Restructuring, Ex-IMF Aide Says

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-05-03T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/eu-errs-by-ruling-out-pre-2013-restructuring-ex-imf-aide-says.html
European governments are making a
mistake by ruling out debt restructurings for countries such as
Greece before 2013 and should consider “pre-emptive” bond
exchanges, a former top  International Monetary Fund  official
said.  Lessons from emerging-market restructurings offer a
“market-based way out,” Alessandro Leipold, a former acting
director of the IMF’s European department, wrote in a policy
brief released today by the  Lisbon Council  in Brussels.  “Do it early, do it pre-emptively, if possible on a
voluntary basis,” Leipold said in a telephone interview. “The
risks of postponing are greater.”  European Central Bank officials are the chief opponents of
extending Greece’s debt-repayment timelines or cutting the value
of its bonds, fearing that this would convulse financial
markets.  Leipold, a 26-year IMF official, said that while it will
take more in-depth analysis to reveal the true state of Greece’s
finances, “the writing is on the wall for them.”  European governments have ruled out any “private sector
involvement” in cutting  Greece ’s debt burden until the middle
of 2013, when a permanent crisis-management fund is due to be
set up.  That timetable “is a political and procedural artifact,
divorced from economics and heedless of market developments,”
Leipold wrote in the policy brief. “The sooner the artificial
2013 deadline is abandoned, the better.”  Ukraine, Pakistan and Uruguay exchanged existing bonds for
new ones with different terms “in a pre-emptive manner, before
an actual default,” providing a roadmap for how Greece could
escape a debt trap, Leipold said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  