-- 
EU Spot Carbon Rises After BlueNext Tightens Rules; Futures Fall

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-03T15:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/eu-spot-carbon-rises-after-bluenext-tightens-rules-futures-fall.html
European Union carbon allowances for
prompt delivery rose 2.8 percent on the first day of a “safe
harbor” initiative on the BlueNext SA exchange that verifies
the history of allowances.  Spot permits jumped 46 cents to 16.91 euros ($25.08) a
metric ton on BlueNext in Paris as of 4:59 p.m. local time. At
the same time on the ICE Futures  Europe  in  London , the December
contract declined 1.3 percent to 17.20 euros. BlueNext volumes
were at 170,000 tons, compared with a 20-day moving average of
255,000 tons. Today’s price of 17.02 euros a ton on BlueNext is
the highest since November 2008.  “So far, the direction is good,” Chief Executive Officer
Francois-Xavier Saint-Macary said today by phone. Traders have
been approaching the exchange to have their allowances verified,
which will allow them to be traded, Saint-Macary said. He
declined to say how many permits had been through that process.  The exchange now traces an allowance’s transactions back to
the government that originally sold or gave them away before
allowing them into its market.  BlueNext said  on April 13 that
only units whose chain of title can be traced to their source
will be allowed to trade, creating a barrier to fraud.  In January, the European Union halted the registries that
allow spot trade after more than 50 million euros of permits
were reported stolen.  The EU will take testimony this week on a regulatory
“gap” exposed when criminals stole the permits and forced the
closure of spot trading for 15 days.  Brussels Meeting  The European Commission, overseer of the world’s largest
emissions-trading system, is due to  meet  tomorrow in Brussels
with emitters, traders, researchers and climate groups to
discuss protection for contracts for immediate delivery.  Spot volume, historically accounting for 15 percent of the
EU carbon market, has yet to bounce back from the past year’s
thefts by online hackers and before that, value-added  tax fraud .  The commission, which plans to present its oversight
proposal later this year, will weigh the need for new rules
designed specifically for the carbon market against applying
existing regulations now used for futures contracts and other
financial instruments.  The International Emissions Trading Association and
 Germany ’s two biggest utilities say reclassifying spot carbon
permits isn’t the answer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  