-- 
EU to Focus on Regulatory ‘Gap’ to Curb Fraud in Spot Market for Emissions

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-05-03T10:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/eu-to-focus-on-regulatory-gap-to-curb-fraud-in-spot-market-for-emissions.html
The European Union will take testimony
this week on a regulatory “gap” exposed earlier this year,
when criminals stole carbon permits and forced the closure of
spot trading for 15 days.  The European Commission, overseer of the world’s largest
emissions-trading system, is due to  meet  tomorrow in Brussels
with emitters, traders, researchers and climate groups to
discuss protection for contracts for immediate delivery. Spot
volume, historically accounting for 15 percent of the EU carbon
market, has yet to bounce back from this year’s thefts by online
hackers and value-added  tax fraud  in 2010.  The commission, which plans to present its oversight
proposal later this year, will weigh the need for new rules
designed specifically for the carbon market against applying
existing regulations now used for futures contracts and other
financial instruments. The International Emissions Trading
Association, a trade group, and  Germany ’s two biggest utilities
say reclassifying spot carbon permits isn’t the answer.  “The extension of financial rules to the carbon market,
taken alone, would not have prevented criminal attacks on the EU
emissions system,” said Simone Ruiz, an IETA executive in
Brussels. “A more appropriate option is to enhance oversight of
spot emissions trading through a specific carbon-market or
energy-markets regime.”  CO2 futures are already subject to the EU’s Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive, known as Mifid, and the Market
Abuse Directive, or MAD. Contracts for prompt delivery typically
aren’t seen as financial instruments and aren’t bound by the
same laws.  Investor Protection  “Mifid is mainly targeting investor protection and
systemic risks, which are not the main concern in the carbon
market, and provisions in MAD around  insider trading  and market
manipulation are not adjusted to the carbon market,” Ruiz said.  The commission is examining various regulatory options,
Yvon Slingenberg, head of the commission’s emissions unit, said
in March. While not all Mifid requirements would “make sense”
for spot carbon trading, regulator would save time if they don’t
create new rules, she said.  European spot carbon trading ground to a halt earlier this
year after computer hackers in January stole more than 2 million
permits valued at around 34 million euros ($50 million) at
today’s prices. The attacks followed 2010’s “carousel fraud,”
involving value-added tax collection, and theft of internet
passwords, known as “phishing.”  “The major part of the carbon market is subject to
appropriate oversight,” Isaac Valero-Ladron, climate spokesman
for the commission, said in an e-mail. “A gap exists in the
regulation and supervision of the  spot market . We are now
studying the introduction of new measures which would deal with
the risks of market misconduct or abuse. These measures will
enhance the carbon market’s integrity and transparency.”  Not Appropriate  German utilities  RWE AG (RWE)  and  E.ON AG (EOAN)  oppose classifying EU
carbon permits as financial instruments, according to written
testimony submitted in February.  “Reclassifying EU allowances as financial instruments is
not an appropriate solution to solve the many challenges the
emissions market faces at the moment,” RWE testified.  “Emissions, as other energy products and commodities, are
not investment products since they are not sold to the general
public,” E.ON said in its written testimony.  Monthly volume for BlueNext SA, the biggest exchange for
spot permits, shrank to 5.3 million tons in April, compared with
the average 22.4 million per month in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  