-- 
Europe Producer-Price Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerates on Jump in Energy

-- B y   J o n e s   H a y d e n
-- 
2011-05-03T09:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/europe-producer-price-inflation-accelerates-to-6-7-on-higher-energy-costs.html
European producer-price inflation
unexpectedly accelerated to the fastest in 2 1/2 years in March,
adding to concerns that surging energy costs will feed through
to consumers and prompt the  European Central Bank  to raise
interest rates further.  Factory-gate prices  in the euro region jumped 6.7 percent
from a year earlier, the fastest since September 2008, after a
6.6 percent gain in February, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had projected a
March increase of 6.6 percent, according to the median of 13
estimates in a Bloomberg news survey. In the month, prices
advanced 0.7 percent.  European companies are trying to pass on higher input
costs, including a 31 percent oil-price jump in the past year,
just as the economic recovery appears to be faltering. That has
helped push consumer-price inflation above the ECB’s 2 percent
limit. The central bank last month raised  interest rates  for the
first time in almost three years.  “Pipeline inflation pressures in the  euro zone  remain
intense,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam. “The risk of high consumer-price inflation
spilling over into wages will keep the ECB in a tightening state
of mind.”  10-Year Bonds  German 10-year bonds fell after the producer-price data.
The 10-year yield rose three basis points to 3.28 percent as of
10:04 a.m. in  London . The euro was lower against the dollar,
trading at $1.4804, down 0.2 percent.  Consumer-price inflation accelerated to the fastest in more
than two years in April and confidence in the economic outlook
weakened as higher energy prices threatened to undermine growth.
Euro-area expansion will slow to 1.6 percent this year from 1.8
percent in 2010, the European Commission forecast last month.  “We have risks of second-round effects here and there,” ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said in a newspaper interview last
week, referring to an increase in consumer prices prompting
bigger wage increases that feed through to faster inflation.  MAN SE,  Europe ’s third-largest truckmaker, is monitoring
the risk of accelerating inflation in Europe, as well as in
China and  Brazil , with price increases “something to watch” in
all its markets, Chief Financial Officer Frank Lutz said today
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua .  Benchmark Rate  ECB policy makers, who increased the benchmark rate by a
quarter point to 1.25 percent last month, next convene on May 5
in Helsinki. Some economists expect them to signal that another
move will come as soon as June.  Energy prices at the producer level jumped 13 percent in
March from a year earlier and the cost of intermediate goods
rose 7.9 percent, the statistics office said in today’s report.  The Frankfurt-based central bank forecasts euro-region
inflation will average about 2.3 percent this year and 1.7
percent in 2012. Economists predict two more quarter-point
increases in the ECB’s benchmark rate to 1.75 percent this year,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  