-- 
Europe Wheat at Risk After ‘Incredibly’ Dry April, Martell Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-03T14:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/europe-wheat-at-risk-after-incredibly-dry-april-martell-says.html
European wheat and rapeseed crops are
“in jeopardy” after an “incredibly dry” April, agricultural
weather forecaster Martell Crop Projections said.  “Rain is needed immediately to avoid serious losses,”
Gail Martell, the head of the Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin-based
 forecaster , said in an e-mailed report yesterday. “Wheat and
rapeseed in  France ,  Germany  and the U.K. are ready to
deteriorate rapidly, without rain.”  Wheat and rapeseed are at an “important tipping point”
because stored soil moisture from the winter has been used up,
Martell said. The meteorologist said 65 percent of European
wheat and 75 percent to 80 percent of rapeseed are in jeopardy.  Wheat is the European Union’s second-largest agricultural
export after wine, with an average value of 3.45 billion euros
($5.1 billion) a year from 2008 to 2010, according to the EU.
The 27-nation bloc is a net importer of oilseeds.  “Stress is already manifesting in wheat and rapeseed, made
worse by unusual April heat,” Martell said. “The forecast is
dry across northern  Europe .”  Crop development in northern Europe is three to four weeks
ahead of normal growth, Martell said. Conditions from February
to April have been “much drier” than in 2010, when the region
had an “average” wheat harvest, the meteorologist said.  In France, dry conditions and above-average temperatures in
April are likely to result in an “early harvest” in June,
Martell said. Germany received “useful rainfall” in late April
that “stemmed the tide of deterioration,” while April drought
in the U.K. was “intense with virtually no rain,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 