-- 
U.S. SEC, Justice Department Probe Goldman Findings After Senate Referral

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y ,   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/levin-report-accusing-goldman-of-deception-referred-to-u-s-justice-sec.html
U.S. senators formally referred to the
Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission an
investigative report that found  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  misled
clients about mortgage-linked securities.  Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , the Democratic chairman of
the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,  Tom Coburn  of
 Oklahoma , the senior Republican, signed a letter asking the
agencies to examine the panel’s report, Levin said in an
interview yesterday. The results of the investigation, made
public by the committee April 13, lay much of the blame for the
credit crisis on Wall Street banks that earned billions by
enticing clients to buy the risky bond deals.  “If something comes up that needs to be reviewed by some
agency, it gets referred,” said Levin. “That’s the way we do
it.”  The scrutiny is a setback for Goldman Sachs, which hired
lawyers, lobbyists and public relations specialists to monitor
the two-year Senate probe and tamp down any controversy that
arose from the subcommittee’s conclusions.  John Hart, Coburn’s spokesman, did not respond to a request
for comment. SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment.  Levin said in the interview that the referral sends the
entire report, rather than specific facts, to the agencies.
The Senate inquiry also examined the role of credit-rating firms
in the meltdown, lax oversight by regulators and the decline in
lending standards at banks including Washington Mutual Inc. that
fueled the mortgage bubble.  Top of List  A formal referral from the Senate is “much more than a
symbolic gesture” because it would prompt an agency to put the
matter “at the top of its list,” said Robert Hillman, a
professor at the  University of California , Davis, School of Law.  For Goldman Sachs, “the question is how much pain they’re
going to have to endure with the public spotlight for these
revelations, and that depends in part how long the government’s
willing to drag this out,” said  James Cox , a securities law
professor at Duke University School of Law.  Still, Cox said he is “very skeptical” that the
examinations by the agencies will ultimately lead to new claims
against Goldman Sachs, which last year paid $550 million to
settle SEC claims related to its marketing of the complex
securities known as collateralized debt obligations.  Attorney General  Eric Holder , testifying before the House
Judiciary Committee yesterday, confirmed that his department is
scrutinizing the report. Two people briefed on the matter
confirmed that the SEC enforcement division is also studying it.  Holder Comments  Holder, in his comments, didn’t offer any specifics though
he did single out the New York-based bank in his remarks.  “The department is looking right now at the report
prepared by Senator Levin’s subcommittee that deals with Goldman
Sachs,” Holder said.  When the report was released, Levin said he wanted the
 Justice Department  and the SEC to examine whether Goldman Sachs
violated the law by misleading clients who bought CDOs without
knowing the firm would benefit if they fell in value.  Levin also said at the time that federal prosecutors should
review whether to bring perjury charges against Goldman Sachs
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and other
current and former employees who testified to Congress last
year. Levin said they denied under oath that Goldman Sachs took
a financial position against the mortgage market solely for its
own profit, statements the senator said were untrue.  ‘Truthful and Accurate’  When the report was released, Goldman Sachs said it never
misled anyone about its activities. “The testimony we gave was
truthful and accurate and this is confirmed by the
subcommittee’s own report,” Goldman Sachs spokesman Lucas van Praag said.  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
make any additional comment yesterday. The company’s shares
advanced 57 cents to $151.87 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  While the panel levied its harshest criticism at Goldman
Sachs, it also accused Deutsche Bank AG of selling
collateralized debt obligations backed by risky loans that the
bank’s own traders believed were likely to lose value.  Deutsche Bank spokeswoman Michele Allison said at the time:
“As the PSI report correctly states, there were divergent views
within the bank about the U.S. housing market. Moreover, the
bank’s views were fully communicated to the market through
research reports, industry events, trading desk commentary and
press coverage. Despite the bearish views held by some, Deutsche
Bank was long the housing market and endured significant
losses.”  Separate Lawsuit  Separately yesterday, the Justice Department sued Deutsche
Bank and one of its mortgage units for more than $1 billion for
allegedly lying to qualify thousands of risky mortgages for
insurance by the  Federal Housing Administration . The bank said
the claims were “unreasonable and unfair.”  Goldman Sachs’s settlement with the SEC last year resolved
claims that it failed to disclose that hedge fund Paulson & Co
was betting against, and influenced the selection of, CDOs the
company was packaging and selling.  The Senate report reveals details of four Goldman Sachs
CDOs. One was named Abacus, the CDO at the center of the SEC
civil claim that led to the bank’s settlement last year. Others
were Timberwolf, Anderson and Hudson.  E-mails and Documents  According to the people briefed on the SEC’s review of the
Senate report, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
matter isn’t public, investigators at the agency will scrutinize
interviews, e-mails and other confidential documents that
surfaced in the inquiry. While much of that evidence was seen by
the SEC before its 2010 settlement, some is new, the people
said.  Hillman, the law professor, said that given Goldman Sachs’s
earlier settlement, the SEC or Justice Department would likely
have a high bar for bringing a case against the bank.  In resolving that case, Goldman Sachs admitted no
wrongdoing and said in a regulatory filing it “understands that
the SEC staff also has completed a review of a number of other
Goldman mortgage-related CDO transactions and does not
anticipate recommending any claims against Goldman or any of its
employees.”  The SEC’s enforcement division is “certainly free to
revisit that, but the odds are that it won’t unless something
very new comes out in the way of facts,” said Hillman. “The
SEC has probably taken its major step with Goldman already.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Justin Blum  in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  