-- 
Levkovich Says Stocks May Drop 7% in July on U.S. Debt Concern

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-05-03T15:54:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/levkovich-says-stocks-may-drop-7-in-july-on-u-s-debt-concern.html
The debate over U.S. borrowing limits
may drive equity markets down as much as 7 percent in July,
according to Tobias Levkovich of Citigroup Inc.  The U.S. government is approaching the $14.29 trillion
limit that it’s allowed to borrow. A growing number of
Republican lawmakers such as Senators  Pat Toomey  and  Jim DeMint 
and Representative Joe Walsh are rejecting warnings that failing
to raise the debt limit would trigger a financial catastrophe.  “I’m concerned that the debt-ceiling debate can get
somewhat rancorous and nasty as the Republicans really want to
push for something important in terms of spending cuts,”
Levkovich, the chief U.S. equity strategist at the New York-
based firm, said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan. “Markets could get very
unsettled already in July.”  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said yesterday that
the U.S. will have three weeks more than previously expected
before it could default, giving the White House and Congress
more time for a deal to raise the debt ceiling.  Geithner had said the government will reach its legal
borrowing limit May 16, and that it could put off a default
until July 8 by borrowing funds. In a letter to congressional
leaders yesterday, he said the U.S. can borrow until Aug. 2
because of “stronger-than-expected tax receipts” and by taking
“extraordinary measures” such as suspending the sale of bonds
to finance state and local infrastructure projects.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  