-- 
Ex-Algebris’s Bianchini Starts Advisory Firm Helping Hedge Funds in Asia

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-05-03T01:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ex-algebris-s-bianchini-starts-singapore-firm-helping-hedge-funds-in-asia.html
Maria Gabriela Bianchini, the former
chief operating officer of Algebris Investments LLP, is setting
up a consulting firm to help fund managers expand in  Asia  and
cope with increased regulatory oversight worldwide.  Singapore-based  Optionality Consulting  will offer services
to global hedge funds that are setting up in the region,
Bianchini said in an interview. It will also help Asia-based
managers to become “viable candidates” for capital that’s
flowing back into the industry and advise them on regulatory
compliance, she said. Her firm also will offer other services
that would be typically performed by a chief operating officer,
she said.  “The hurdle for compliance and regulatory oversight is
only going to get higher in the future; investors are setting
high benchmarks too,” said Matt Pecot, the head of Asia-Pacific
prime services at Credit Suisse Group AG in  Hong Kong . “There’s
absolutely a strong need for this in Asia-Pacific.”  Most hedge fund investors expect regulation of the industry
to be the biggest challenge facing managers this year, according
to a Deutsche Bank AG annual investor survey. Risk management
remains among the top three factors when assessing a hedge fund
manager, according to the survey by  Germany ’s biggest bank.  “Managers always need to have performance, but now they
also need to have systems, risk management and process,” said
Bianchini, who was a New York-based lawyer at Schulte, Roth and
Zabel LLP, where she helped implement the firm’s U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission registration program for hedge funds in
2005.  Regulatory Oversight  In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act subjects financial
companies including  hedge funds  to increased federal oversight
following the 2008 credit crisis. Under the European Union’s
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, any fund manager
who has clients in the EU will have to obtain a “passport” to
operate across the 27-nation bloc from 2015. Managers will have
to comply with transparency rules.  Institutional investors, including pension funds and
insurance companies, have dominated flows and the “quality of
capital” in the hedge-fund industry since the end of the 2008
global financial crisis, according to Deutsche Bank.  “Going forward, the relevant regulatory jurisdiction is
not going to be the jurisdiction where the manager sits, but
where the investors sit,” said Bianchini, who started her legal
career at the SEC in 1998.  Bianchini moved to  Singapore  last year to help Algebris, a
London-based global financial hedge fund, open its office in the
city-state. She left the hedge fund in April.  “One of the hot buttons for global regulators now is
corporate governance as it applies to hedge funds, not just
publicly listed companies,” Bianchini said. “The concepts are
difficult to understand -- the regulators are not always very
clear about exactly what they want -- and even harder to
implement without sound guidance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  