-- 
Former Harvard Professor Ignatieff Quits Canada Politics as Liberals Lose

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-03T15:25:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ex-harvard-professor-ignatieff-quitting-canadian-politics-after-drubbing.html
Canadian  Liberal Party  leader  Michael Ignatieff  said he will resign after the party suffered its
worst-ever election defeat, including the loss of his own
constituency, to Stephen Harper’s Conservatives in yesterday’s
election.  Liberal lawmakers will meet in Ottawa next week to choose
an interim leader for when Parliament re-opens and may decide on
a permanent replacement in the next few months, said Ignatieff,
a former professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  “I will not be remaining as leader of this party and I
will work out with the party officials the best timing for a
departure so that we can arrange a succession,” Ignatieff, 63,
told reporters in Toronto today.  The Liberals were reduced to 34 seats in the 308-seat House
of Commons, down from the 77 they won in the last election in
2008, according to preliminary  Elections Canada  figures. The
Conservatives won their first majority government with Harper as
leader by winning 167 seats, while the  New Democrats , led by
 Jack Layton , surged past the Liberals to become the largest
opposition party, with a record 102 seats.  Ignatieff, was attacked in Conservative pre-election
television commercials for “Just Visiting” Canada and saying
he would return to Harvard if he didn’t become prime minister.  ‘Unscrupulous’ Attacks  “Of course they engaged in an absolutely unscrupulous
campaign of personal attacks,” Ignatieff said. “The only
things Canadians like less than a loser is a sore loser and I go
out of politics with my head held high.”  “What I would like to do is go back and teach young
Canadians,” he said. “If there are some offers that come
forward I will accept them gratefully.”  The  Liberal Party , which governed  Canada  for 64 of the past
100 years, needs to rebuild its support and its ability to wage
an election campaign, Ignatieff said. There is a good
opportunity for that over the next four years as voters will see
a Conservative government and NDP opposition, he said.  “I’m proud of the ways our party unlocked the desire for
change in Canada,” he said. “The chief beneficiary of that was
another party and I think that pushed up the Conservative vote
as a reaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 