-- 
Fed’s Hoenig Sees Need to ‘Calm’ U.S. Inflation Concerns

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T16:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/fed-s-hoenig-sees-need-to-calm-americans-inflation-concerns.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Kansas City
President Thomas Hoenig said the central bank should begin
withdrawing its monetary stimulus as part of efforts to quell
concerns about inflation in the U.S.  “I can’t go anywhere in my district and have people not
ask me about inflation” in items including gasoline, groceries
and paper products, Hoenig said to reporters today in
Washington. The Fed needs to “calm inflationary fears” by
raising interest rates, and “if we don’t do that, then I think
they will build over time,” he said.  Last week’s increased inflation projections by central bank
officials “trouble” Hoenig, and higher prices may only be
“transitory if monetary policy adjusts” through a tightening,
he said. Hoenig, who opposed all eight Fed monetary-decisions in
2010, favoring tighter credit, reiterated his call to start
raising the benchmark interest rate to 1 percent and then
further as the economy recovers.  At the same time, there is a “pretty high” likelihood
that the economy will keep expanding after growth in the first
quarter was weaker than anticipated, Hoenig said.  The Fed has a “very accommodative” monetary policy now
and must be “mindful” of the dollar’s status as the main world
reserve currency, said Hoenig, 64, who retires Oct. 1 after two
decades as chief of the regional bank. He doesn’t have a vote
this year on decisions by the policy-setting  Federal Open Market
Committee .  ‘Moderate Pace’  The FOMC said April 27 after a two-day meeting that the
economy is recovering at a “moderate pace” and a pickup in
inflation is likely to be temporary. Fed officials agreed to
finish $600 billion of bond purchases on schedule in June.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking on April 27 at his
first-ever regular press conference, signaled that the central
bank will maintain its record monetary stimulus after June and
indicated that the need to contain inflation means further
easing is unlikely.  Hoenig spoke with reporters after giving a speech at the
Independent Community Bankers of America’s Washington Policy
summit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  