-- 
FedEx to Pay U.S. $8 Million Over Delayed Deliveries It Blamed on Security

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-03T22:34:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/fedex-to-pay-u-s-8-million-over-delayed-deliveries-it-blamed-on-security.html
FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s
biggest cargo airline, will pay $8 million to settle allegations
the company improperly blamed delayed delivery of packages sent
by the federal government on post-9/11 security measures.  The  Justice Department  said today that FedEx agreed to
resolve a whistleblower lawsuit filed in federal court in
 Washington  that accused the company of violating its money-back
guarantee for packages it fails to deliver on time.  “Companies that commit to provide services to the  United
States  are expected to meet their commitment and not ‘game the
system’ to take advantage of their government customers for the
benefit of their own bottom line,” U.S. Attorney Ron Machen in
Washington said in an e-mailed statement.  The lawsuit, which couldn’t be verified on the court’s
docket, involves “security exception codes” that exempted
packages from the money-back guarantee because of increased
security measures faced by couriers at federal buildings in the
wake of the 2001 terrorist attacks.  The FedEx employee who filed the False Claims Act lawsuit
in 2006 alleges the practice continued after “long after
security measures at government buildings subsided or became a
routine part of making deliveries,” according to a copy of the
settlement agreement provided by the U.S.  FedEx denies the allegations and admits no liability,
according to the settlement.  ‘Protracted Legal Battle’  “We determined it was in the best interest of employees,
customers and shareowners to avoid a costly, protracted legal
battle with the government,” said  Maury Lane , a spokesman for
 Memphis , Tennessee-based FedEx.  “FedEx has worked hard to strike a balance between the
customer’s need for prompt deliveries and the government’s need
for the highest security, which is why the government didn’t
identify one shipment where a security delay code had been
applied and where there wasn’t a security delay.”  As a result of this settlement, the whistleblower, Mary
Garofolo, will receive $1.44 million as her share of the
government’s recovery, according to the settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 