-- 
Filthy Exhibit Reveals Hidden Perils of Hygiene: Martin Gayford

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-05-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/filthy-london-exhibition-reveals-hidden-perils-of-hygiene-martin-gayford.html
Dirt, the anthropologist Mary Douglas
wrote, is simply “matter out of place.”  That’s a wide definition which would apply, for example, to
virtually everything currently located on my desk. Yet its very
messiness and slipperiness as a concept make it a fertile
subject for an exhibition: “Dirt: The Filthy Reality of
Everyday Life” at the  Wellcome Collection  in London.  Dirt, of course, can be fertile, as is stressed by the old
northern British dictum, “where there’s muck there’s brass,”
or, for those readers who don’t speak Yorkshire, dirt and money
go together. Recently, P.J. O’Rourke made a similar point: The
modern city is the mess people make when they get rich.  As it turns out, London is partly made of the stuff. In the
early-19th-century large mounds, “dust heaps,” rose above the
urban landscape (they loom in a sinister fashion over Dickens’s
novel, “Our Mutual Friend”). There’s a view of one on show, a
small white mountain rising above the houses of King’s Cross.
This detritus was mixed with mud, ash and other refuse and
turned into bricks -- or, as we say these days, recycled.  The exhibition, however, begins with an opposite cliche:
Cleanliness is next to godliness. That, it seems, was decidedly
the view of the 17th-century Dutch, who may well have been
modern  Europe ’s first hygiene obsessives. As is stressed in the
paintings of Pieter de Hooch (1629-1684), they were big on
sweeping, polishing and scrubbing. De Hooch’s contemporaries
gave a high moral value to being spick and span.  Risky Washing  Previously, the medieval and renaissance periods had been,
one guesses, pretty filthy, a state of affairs encouraged by the
widespread belief that washing was hazardous (Michelangelo’s
father, in a letter of earnest advice to the young artist,
recommended him to do so as little as possible). Granted, we are
told these days that exposure to a bit of dirt is healthy,
building up the immune system and preventing allergies. Still,
too much of it can be very bad for you indeed.  Appropriately, since his countrymen were so preoccupied
with eradicating dirt, it was a Dutchman, Antonie van
Leeuwenhoek (1632-1723) who first discovered that the stuff was
full of living micro-organisms or “animalculae” as he called
them. A replica of one of Van Leeuwenhoek’s microscopes,
amazingly small itself, is on display.  By the early Victorian era,  London  -- a heavily polluted
city of more than a million inhabitants -- was an extremely
dirty place. The Thames, into which the sewers flowed, and the
drinking water were both chock full of those little creatures.  Polluted Idea  There was a series of cholera epidemics, caused by the
bacterium Vibrio cholerae, until a new network of sewers was
built by the engineer Joseph Bazalgette (1819-91). His Crossness
Pumping Station at Bexley is a shrine to public health, and a
better monument to what the Victorians believed in --
cleanliness, godliness, progress -- than most of their churches.  The  Deutsches Hygiene-Museum  in Dresden -- a huge, gleaming
white institution devoted to science and health -- had similar
origins in the belief, you might say, that cleanliness is next
to modernism. That idea became polluted by an evil doctrine: the
Nazi creed of “racial hygiene.”  It’s a concept that hasn’t gone away: Compare the term
“ethnic cleansing,” used to describe what happened in former
 Yugoslavia  in the 1990s. Dirt is a rich subject, as this
intriguing exhibition demonstrates. It’s also a metaphor that
can get dangerously out of hand.  “Dirt: The Filthy Reality of Everyday Life” is at the
 Wellcome Collection  in London through Aug. 31. Information:
 http://www.wellcomecollection.org .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/# !/martingayford.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 