-- 
Finland Moves Closer to Backing Portugal Bailout as True Finns Sidelined

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-05-04T08:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/finland-closer-to-backing-portugal-aid-as-true-finns-sidelined.html
Finland  moved closer to supporting a
bailout for Portugal as the parliament’s biggest party decided
to keep negotiations on  Europe ’s crisis-handling tools separate
from coalition talks with the euro-skeptic True Finns.  The parliament’s grand committee, which comprises party
representatives, will decide what Finland’s stance on bailouts
should be before a meeting of European Finance Ministers on May
16, two days before official coalition talks start, said Finance
Minister Jyrki Katainen, who is leading government negotiations
after his National Coalition Party won the most votes in the
country’s April 17 election.  “It would be detrimental for Finland to block a bailout,”
Katainen told reporters yesterday. “I’m going to defuse this
impasse through talks with the parliamentary groups.”  The True Finns, which became Finland’s third-largest party
last month, can join a pro-bailout government with a “clear
conscience” provided a decision on Portugal is taken before a
coalition is formed, party leader Timo Soini said on May 2. The
 Social Democrats , Finland’s second-biggest party since the
election, signaled this week it may back a bailout while the
opposition Green League reiterated its support for Europe’s
rescue measures.  A `Workaround'  “This is a workaround,” said Tuomo Martikainen, professor
emeritus in political science at the University of Helsinki, by
phone yesterday. “It allows the parties to save face. Without
this measure, a government can’t be formed and the parliament
would be in paralysis.”  The spread between Portuguese two-year notes and German
bunds of the same maturity narrowed 28 basis points on the news
yesterday to 994, the biggest decline since April 6, when the
country said it will seek a bailout. The 10-year spread narrowed
eight basis points to 630.  Portugal  reached an agreement on a 78 billion-euro ($116
billion) bailout, Prime Minister Jose Socrates said in Lisbon
yesterday. The three-year plan will give the country more time
to reduce its  budget deficit  after it last month became the
third euro member to seek a financial rescue.  Portuguese two-year spreads narrowed 65 basis points today
to 929. Socrates didn’t provide details on the interest rate
that Portugal will pay for its rescue plan.  Finnish Stance  “If Finland has a stance on” the Portuguese bailout “by
May 16, it’s clear we don’t have to negotiate this in government
talks,” Katainen said. “Then the laws will be processed in the
parliament at a later date.”  Finns are split in their view on bailouts, according to a
TNS Gallup Oy survey published yesterday by  Helsingin Sanomat .
Thirty-eight percent back financial aid, 36 percent are opposed
and a quarter undecided. The poll had a margin of error of about
3 percentage points.  Katainen said he still expects any government formed after
May 18 to be a “responsible” coalition. Parties have until May
9 to respond to his questions on policy, he said. Government
talks were originally scheduled to start on May 9.  Support for the True Finns rose by almost 15 percentage
points to 19 percent in last month’s election, after Soini
promised to prevent taxpayer funds contributing to more
bailouts. Katainen’s pro-Europe National Coalition won 20.4
percent and the Social Democrats had 19.1 percent support.  Support Likely  “Although the euro-skeptic True Finns received a huge
increase in votes at the April 17 election, there is a large
pro-euro majority in parliament, so that support of the euro-
area rescue measure by Finland is likely,”  Juergen Michels ,
chief euro-area economist at Citigroup in  London , said in a
note.  The Social Democrats, which voted against backing bailouts
for Greece and Ireland, said May 2 Finland’s next government
needs to be “active” in helping stabilize Europe’s economy and
preventing future crises.  “If the True Finns are not in a position to block
Portugal, then that is obviously going to be positive,” Michala Marcussen, global head of economics in London at  Societe
Generale , said by phone yesterday. “The market sees the Finnish
issue as being a delaying factor, but not a factor that would
potentially put a complete stop to the bailout for Portugal. I
think you would have seen a very different market reaction
then.”  Constructive Policy  European leaders still need to agree the details of how to
bring the region’s 440 billion-euro rescue facility to its full
capacity.  “We trust that Finland can and will be part of a decision
on the program of economic adjustment for Portugal,” European
Commission spokeswoman Amelia Torres told reporters in Brussels
yesterday. “We trust Finland will continue pursuing effective
and constructive European policy.”  Katainen’s announcement yesterday leaves open the question
of whether Finland will ratify the permanent bailout mechanism
that Europe’s leaders had hoped to pass in June. Katainen
declined to comment on whether he may end up in a government
that could block the European Stability Mechanism.  Voters in the euro area’s six AAA rated members are showing
signs of dissatisfaction over funding bailouts for Europe’s most
indebted countries. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democrats were punished in regional elections as Europe’s
biggest economy bears the brunt of funding rescue measures.
 France ’s anti-euro National Front leader Marine Le Pen may win
more votes than President  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the first round of
next year’s election, some polls show.  “There’s a concern that what’s happened in Finland is not
just a Finnish issue but a broader-based issue in Europe of
discontent with the financial assistance programs,” Marcusson
said. “The risk is then that it will be harder to reach a
permanent facility and leave Europe muddling along with a messy
patchwork of solutions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  