-- 
Former U.S. Congressman Castle of Delaware Joins DLA Piper Firm

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T15:07:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/former-u-s-congressman-castle-of-delaware-joins-dla-piper-firm.html
Michael Castle, a former U.S.
congressman from  Delaware  who lost a Senate primary to Tea Party
advocate Christine O’Donnell, joined law firm DLA Piper LLP’s
government affairs practice as a partner.  Castle, a former deputy attorney general and two-term
governor, will split his time between the firm’s offices in
Washington, New York and Wilmington, Delaware, DLA Piper said
today in a statement.  “Mike Castle is highly respected not just on  Capitol Hill 
but all over the country and the world,” former Michigan
Governor James Blanchard, co-chairman of DLA Piper’s Government
Affairs Group, said in the statement. “Mike understands inside
and out the issues that matter to business and will be a great
and immediate asset to our clients.”  A nine-term congressman, Castle served on the House
Financial Services committee, chairing the subcommittee on
Domestic and Monetary Policy. He also sat on the Capital Markets
and Financial Institutions subcommittee where he helped examine
the effect of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  and legislation affecting
the hedge fund industry, according to the statement.  Castle, who first won his House seat in 1992, backed the
2008 federal bailout for  Wall Street , supported legislation that
extended hate-crime protections to gays and was one of only
eight House Republicans who in 2009 voted for the Democrats’
cap-and-trade plan designed to curb greenhouse-gas emissions.  Castle said he was attracted to DLA Piper’s international
reach and its new presence in Delaware. Last month, the firm
opened an office in Delaware with a group of 10 lawyers.  “I am excited to be back in the practice of law with such
a talented global team,” Castle said in the statement.  Castle, who was favored by Republican Party leaders to win
the Senate seat once held by Vice President  Joe Biden , lost the
primary with 47 percent to O’Donnell’s 53 percent. O’Donnell
lost the general election to Democrat  Chris Coons .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  