-- 
Frank Bill Would Exclude Regional Fed Presidents From Interest-Rate Votes

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-05-03T14:52:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/frank-bill-would-exclude-regional-fed-presidents-from-interest-rate-votes.html
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , the
senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, is
pushing to remove the power regional Federal Reserve Bank
presidents have to weigh in on interest-rate decisions.  Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, introduced legislation
today that would cut the five rotating regional representatives
from the 12-member  Federal Open Market Committee . Eliminating
the 12 regional presidents, who are selected by board members of
their banks and approved by the Fed’s governors, will make
interest-rate votes more democratic, Frank said in a statement.  “Under current law, more than one-third of the votes cast
are made by regional Federal Reserve representatives -- people
who are neither appointed by the President nor subject to Senate
confirmation,” Frank said in the statement. “These men and
women are chosen by a self-perpetuating group of private
citizens who disproportionally represent the private financial
services industry.”  Frank, the former chairman of the Financial Services panel,
will need Republican support to move his  bill  through the House,
which is controlled by Republicans. The measure wouldn’t affect
the seven presidentially appointed Fed governors.  The proposal has already run into opposition from one
regional Fed president and others may follow if the threat to
their voting rights gains traction on  Capitol Hill .  Thomas Hoenig , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
 Kansas City , told reporters today in Washington that changing
the makeup of the FOMC would be a “tragic mistake.”  One of the strengths of the U.S. is the “grass-roots
inputs that come from these regional banks,” Hoenig said after
a speech at an  Independent Community Bankers of America 
conference. At the FOMC, “the vote is extremely important in
terms of people willing to listen, having an important say in
things that reflect these views across the country,” he said.  “We should not give that up,” said Hoenig, who used his
vote at all eight FOMC meetings in 2010 to dissent from the
majority’s decision and favor tighter credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  