-- 
France Telecom Reviews European Assets as Growth Slows

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-03T07:30:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/france-telecom-first-quarter-profit-declines-on-consumer-tax-egypt-unrest.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  may sell some of its
smaller European operations as growth slows on the continent,
its chief financial officer said today.  France’s biggest phone company is reviewing its European
portfolio, Gervais Pellissier said on a conference call with
reporters. Aside from France, Poland and  Spain , “all the other
countries are involved in this review,” which will examine
opportunities for consolidation as well as possible sales of
operations, he said.  Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard is weighing the
future of businesses in countries including Austria, Belgium,
and Romania as growth in Africa and the Middle East roars ahead.
The Paris-based company said today that sales in its smaller
European markets rose 1.2 percent in the first quarter, compared
with a 5.8 percent rise in  Africa  and the Middle East excluding
Egypt.  “It’s getting more important to go to emerging countries
to find growth triggers,” Jan Goehmann, an analyst at
Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale in Hannover, said in a
telephone interview.  First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation, and amortization slipped 1.3 percent to 3.73
billion euros ($5.5 billion), hurt by a consumer tax that took
effect this year and unrest in Egypt, France Telecom said.
Analysts had predicted Ebitda of 3.72 billion euros, according
to the average of eight estimates compiled by Bloomberg, while
revenue rose in line with estimates to 11.2 billion euros.  Share Climb  France Telecom climbed 2 cents, or 0.1 percent, to 15.88
euros at 9:04 a.m. in Paris.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  slipped 0.1 percent in Frankfurt and Milan,
respectively. Both companies are scheduled to report earnings
this week.  In March, France Telecom paid $245 million for a stake in
Iraq’s Korek Telecom, adding to Middle Eastern operations in
neighboring Jordan as well as Egypt and Bahrain.  The company last month announced the creation of a joint
venture with Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom devoted to more
efficient purchasing of equipment, part of a broad collaboration
between the two companies begun this year.  The rising pace of technological change in the mobile
industry is pushing mobile operators to collaborate. Richard has
built closer links between  Europe ’s five largest mobile
operators, a group that includes  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , and Telecom Italia, in addition to Deutsche Telekom and
France Telecom.  The CEOs of the five companies, four of which are former
national phone monopolies, met last year in Paris to discuss
subjects including work on mobile operating systems and handling
surging quantities of data traffic on wireless networks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  