-- 
FTC’s Leibowitz Says Rising Generic Drug Deals Hurt Consumers

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ftc-s-leibowitz-denounces-patent-dispute-accords-that-delay-generic-drugs.html
The U.S.  Federal Trade Commission  said
drug-company deals that delayed the introduction of cheaper
generic medicines rose 63 percent last year as the agency
presses Congress and the courts to limit the settlements.  The number of deals increased to 31 from 19 in 2009, the
FTC said. The agency said there were no such settlements in
2004. The cases involved 22 products and $9.3 billion in sales.  The deals “are outrageous, and they harm consumers,” FTC
Chairman Jon Leibowitz said yesterday in an interview at the
Bloomberg News office in  New York . “Either the courts or
Congress needs to stop them.”  He added, “It’s only getting worse.”  Lobbyists for the drugmakers defended the settlements as a
way to cut legal costs and avoid long-running court battles. The
drug industry so far has fended off the FTC’s attempts to
restrict the deals through the courts and legislation.  “Without settlements, these generics may not be available
to patients for years,” said Diana Bieri, executive vice
president and general counsel of the  Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America , a Washington-based trade group.  Prices of generic drugs are generally 20 percent to
30 percent below those of brand-name drugs and in some cases as
much as 90 percent cheaper, the FTC said in a statement.  The agency has contended in court that the deals are
anticompetitive and violate antitrust law. The FTC also has
supported legislation in Congress that would prohibit
settlements that increase the cost of  prescription drugs .  Leibowitz said the settlements add $3.5 billion to drug
costs for consumers annually.  Economist’s Argument  That figure is disputed by Jonathan Orszag, senior managing
director at the economic consulting firm  Compass Lexecon LLC  in
Washington, and Robert Willig, a Princeton University economics
professor.  In some cases, a settlement may avoid years of patent
litigation and bring a generic drug to the market sooner that it
would otherwise arrive, they said in a 2009 paper. The writers
said Leibowitz’s estimate that such deals cost consumers
$3.5 billion a year is too high.  The settlements don’t prevent competition beyond a patent’s
life, said David Belian, a spokesman for the  Generic
Pharmaceutical Association , a Washington-based trade group.  “The FTC is continuing to perpetuate the myth that pro-
competitive, pro-consumer patent settlements are harmful to
consumers,” Belian said in an e-mailed statement.  Pay for Delay  The settlements are known as reverse-payment or pay-for-
delay deals because the brand-name company compensates the
generic-drug maker with cash or marketing or sales deals in
return for dropping challenges to patents.  In the next three years, $20 billion in brand-name drugs
will lose their patents, said  David Balto , a Washington-based
attorney who has represented consumer groups on the issue.  “The FTC’s efforts here can make a real contribution to
helping to control escalating drug prices,” he said in an
e-mailed statement.  The court challenges haven’t always been successful. In
September, a federal appeals court refused to reconsider whether
a  Bayer AG (BAYN)  settlement of a challenge to its patent on the
anthrax treatment  Cipro  was appropriate.  In February 2010, a federal judge dismissed a case in which
the FTC sued  Solvay SA (SOLB)  along with generic-drug makers Par
Pharmaceutical Cos. and Watson Pharmaceuticals involving the
drug  AndroGel , which helps boost men’s testosterone levels.  The federal appeals court for Florida, Georgia and  Alabama 
will hear arguments in the case on May 13.  Bayer, Cephalon  Antitrust regulators on both sides of the Atlantic are
focusing on how settlements between companies that make branded
medicines and generics might harm consumers. Bayer was among
drugmakers told by European Union officials in January to submit
details of patent-settlement deals that may delay the
introduction of generics.  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  and  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  face
an EU investigation of a deal that delayed generic versions of
Cephalon’s biggest product,  Provigil , a treatment for excessive
sleepiness.  Cephalon, based in Frazer,  Pennsylvania , last year lost an
attempt to dismiss U.S. antitrust suits, including one by the
U.S. Federal Trade Commission, over patent-infringement
settlements it reached regarding generic versions of Provigil.  It also lost a U.K. bid in November that aimed to block
Mylan Inc. and  Orchid Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (OCP)  from
selling generic versions of the drug in Britain before a patent
trial.  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  in 2006 tried to protect its heart
pill Plavix, the company’s best-seller, from generic competition
in a transaction that resulted in the firing of former Chief
Executive Officer Peter R. Dolan. Dolan made a deal to delay
sales of cheaper Plavix copies by Apotex Inc., violating terms
of a deferred-prosecution agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  