-- 
Gates, Ford, Kellogg Families Target Food to Ease Unrest

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-05-03T16:55:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/gates-joins-ford-kellogg-to-transform-food-policy-after-unrest.html
Foundations supported by  Bill Gates 
and the Ford, Kellogg and Walton families are combining to
relieve stresses on the  food supply  that are pushing prices
higher and adding to unrest around the globe.  Their initiative, called AGree, announced today in
Washington, will fund agricultural research and analysis that
will consider the needs of rural economies and the environment
as well as energy and health issues as the world population
surges by 38 percent over the next four decades, the foundations
said today in a statement.  “Food policy is too important just to be left to people in
the  food industry ,” said former U.S. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, one of the long-term  initiative ’s leader. “For too
long, food and farm policy have been related to a narrow range
of interests.”  Costlier food has contributed to riots across northern
 Africa  and the Middle East that toppled leaders in Egypt and
 Tunisia . Higher prices also helped drive 44 million people into
poverty in the past year and another 10 million may join them
should a United Nations food index rise another 10 percent, the
 World Bank  said April 16.  Rising Food Prices  In the U.S., food prices may increase by as much as 4
percent this year, the most since 2008, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . Panera Bread Co., a St. Louis-based
restaurant chain, and General Mills Inc., the maker of Wheaties,
plan to raise prices after wheat traded in  Chicago  soared 57
percent in the past year.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  Chief Financial
Officer Peter Bensen said last month that the company will
probably raise prices to help counter the surge in ingredient
costs.  The foundations’ initiative is also meant to foster
dialogue between large, industrial growers of staple foods such
as corn and soybeans and organic farmers concerned about the
environment, said Gary Hirshberg, the chief executive officer of
Stonyfield Farm Inc., a Londonderry, New Hampshire-based unit of
Danone SA of Paris.  ‘Agnostic’ Research  By supporting agricultural research that’s “agnostic,”
the initiative hopes to guide U.S. policy makers as they
formulate decisions that will affect production practices
domestically and overseas, said Hirshberg, a co-chairman of
AGree.  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , based in Northfield,  Illinois , increased
U.S. prices on Maxwell House and Yuban ground coffees by about
22 percent in March. Orrville, Ohio-based J.M. Smucker Co.,
maker of Folgers coffee, raised prices by 10 percent in
February.  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and other meat processors have faced
higher feed costs as corn and soybean prices advanced to their
highest levels since 2008. Corn and soybean meal represent 42
percent of Tyson’s cost of raising chicken, which made up 34
percent of its sales in 2010, according to the company.  The UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization’s index of 55
food commodities dropped 3 percent in March, although the FAO
predicted prices would rebound to new records. Prices have
rallied since late March when the USDA said domestic corn
stockpiles at the start of the month fell to their lowest since
2007 and soybean inventories shrank to the smallest since 2003.  World grain production in 2010-2011 is forecast to drop 1.1
percent to 2.24 billion metric tons, the UN agency said last
month. Cereal usage is estimated at 2.28 billion tons, exceeding
production. The UN raised its projection for ending stockpiles
by 1.7 million tons to 479 million tons.  The William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation and the
McKnight Foundation also are backing the initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 