-- 
GE Awards Deal to Blur as Clients Skirt Madison Avenue

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-05-05T08:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ge-to-award-ad-contract-to-blur-as-clients-skirt-madison-avenue.html
(Corrects to remove reference to list of most disruptive
companies in story published May 4.)  When  Gala Coral Group  needed help
developing a presence on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube, the
European gambling company bypassed the ad giants of Madison
Avenue and  London  to a website where agencies bid for work.  “I’ve always felt there must be a better way to invest
money instead of going through the agencies,”  Chris Edgington ,
Gala Coral’s marketing chief, said in an interview. “Whether
you’re on London’s Charlotte Street or Madison Avenue in  New
York , you see very expensive agencies with expensive overheads
and receptions that you know you are paying for.”  Blur Group ’s Creative Services Exchange hosts 10,000 small
and medium-sized ad and marketing agencies from mostly the U.K.
and U.S. The company said today  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s
healthcare unit commissioned a video campaign for one of its
product lines. Other brands that have submitted briefs include
television news channel  CNN , luxury department-store chain
Harvey Nichols Group Ltd. and fashion company  Polo Ralph Lauren
Corp. (RL) , it said. Blur Group says it is adding two brands a day.  The exchange may eventually threaten an industry dominated
by agencies such as Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and  Saatchi &
Saatchi  and known for swanky offices and lavish parties.  Cost-Cutting  Edgington, a former brand manager at  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , estimates the company has spent about 750,000
pounds ($1.24 million) on Blur Group’s platform and saved some
20 percent to 25 percent compared with traditional ad costs.  Following several years of recession, advertisers are
increasingly seeking to curb costs and boost transparency. Some
of the world’s biggest marketers, including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) 
and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , started a practice in recent years where ad
agencies are paid based on the results of their work, instead of
just billable hours.  “We are flattening out the creative services marketing
space and giving it a much more rapid response and making it
more cost effective,”  Philip Letts , who founded the exchange,
said in a phone interview.  The “oligopoly” of the biggest ad agencies probably
control as much as 50 percent of the industry, he said. “We
thought to provide a platform where small and medium-sized
agencies could come together and get lots of the benefits of big
agencies.”  ‘Watching Us’  Letts said he’s spent the past four years convincing
agencies with five people to 500 people to join the platform. To
date, the largest brief the exchange has received was valued at
$130,000. No briefs under $1,000 are accepted, he said, adding
that Blur Group takes a 20 percent commission off every
transaction.  Of the big agencies, Letts said that “we know they are
watching us and we know their innovation leaders are really
interested in what we are doing.”  Martin Sorrell , the chief executive officer of  WPP Plc (WPP) , the
world’s largest ad company that owns agencies including Young &
Rubicam and  Grey Group , said he has seen such competition
before.  “There’s new crowd-sourcing happening all over the
place,” Sorrell said by phone on April 28. “I think there’s
disruption in the industry all the time.”  A spokeswoman for  The American Association of Advertising
Agencies , the U.S. industry’s national trade group, said she was
not aware of Blur Group and declined to comment on the exchange.  ‘Things are Changing’  Philip Morley , who has worked for Ogilvy and  DDB Worldwide
Communications Group Inc. , works as a solo consultant on Blur
Group’s exchange and has so far created a slogan for Wow Toys in
London and helped develop a website for Mullis Partners
investment bank in Bangkok.  “As an independent it was hard for me to compete because
they’d never heard of me,” Morley said. “Agencies are pretty
slow to change in general, but things are changing.”  The industry is changing mainly as consumers move online
and the Internet makes business more cost-effective through web
technologies, meaning a new entrant can come in and find
success, Letts said.  “We want to disrupt the Madison Avenue model,” he said.
“A platform like this has been a long time coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  