-- 
Geithner Says World Would Gain From Stronger China Currency

-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-03T22:16:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/geithner-says-world-would-gain-from-stronger-china-currency-1-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said it would help global economies if China allows its
“substantially undervalued” currency to strengthen.  “It would be better for the world, more fair to us, and we
think in China’s interests, to let the exchange rate appreciate
more rapidly,” Geithner said at an event held by the U.S.-China
Business Council in Washington today.  China’s yuan retreated from a 17-year high today after
manufacturing growth eased last month. The currency touched
6.4892 versus the dollar on April 29, the strongest level since
the country unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993.  China’s currency remains “substantially undervalued,”
Geithner said in the prepared version of his remarks released by
the Treasury Department. “ China  needs to let the exchange rate
adjust at a faster pace to correct that undervaluation.”  The yuan has gained more than 5 percent against the dollar
since June and at an annual rate of about 10 percent if China’s
inflation is taken into account.  A faster strengthening of the yuan would help lower
inflation in China, Geithner said. “It will reduce pressure on
emerging economies that have open capital markets and allow
their exchange rates to adjust. And a stronger Chinese exchange
rate will raise the incomes and spending of Chinese households,
and it will encourage Chinese firms to produce for the domestic
market,” he said.  Chinese Inflation  Inflation in China was an annual 5.4 percent in March,
exceeding the government’s full-year target of 4 percent for a
third month.  The Treasury said last month it would delay its twice-
yearly report on foreign-exchange markets until after U.S.-China
talks May 9-10 in  Washington . The meetings will include
Geithner, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , Chinese Vice
Premier Wang Qishan and State Councilor Dai Bingguo.  In February, the Treasury declined to brand China a
currency manipulator while saying China had made
“insufficient” progress on allowing the yuan to rise. The
Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers say China’s currency
policy gives the nation’s exporters an unfair competitive
advantage.  “China’s challenges are formidable,” Geithner said during
the business council event. “China is still at the very early
stage of moving from a state-dominated economy to the more
flexible market economy that’s going to be essential for them to
grow in the future.”  ‘Most Important’  The U.S. and China will have “the most important economic
relationship in the world, and we’re trying to take a long-term
perspective,” Geithner said. “We’re trying to build a
foundation, something that’s going to work for both of us and
for the world economy over the next decade, the next 25 years.”  China’s central bank said today controlling inflation is
its top priority, even after a manufacturing survey indicated
that growth may slow in the second-biggest economy.  “Stabilizing prices and managing inflation expectations
are critical,” the People’s Bank of China said in a first-
quarter monetary policy report published on its website. Bank
reserve requirements have no “absolute ceiling,” the report
said, restating an April 16 comment from Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  