-- 
Geithner Extends Debt-Ceiling Deadline to Aug. 2 With Extraordinary Steps

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/geithner-extends-debt-ceiling-deadline-by-three-weeks-to-august.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said the U.S. will have three weeks more than previously seen
before hitting its borrowing limit, giving the White House and
Congress more time for a deal to raise the debt ceiling.  The U.S. can borrow until Aug. 2 after reaching the $14.29
trillion limit because of “stronger-than-expected tax receipts”
and by taking “extraordinary measures” such as suspending the
sale of bonds to finance state and local infrastructure projects,
Geithner said in a letter to congressional leaders yesterday. He
previously said the deadline would be July 8. Without such
measures, the legal limit will be reached May 16, he said.  The  Treasury Department  will take steps starting this week
to provide additional borrowing room, Geithner said in the
letter to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
and House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican. The May 16
date for when the U.S. reaches the limit unless Congress acts is
unchanged from an estimate Geithner made last month.  The Obama administration and congressional Republicans are
debating how and whether to raise the debt limit. Republicans
say they won’t act unless President  Barack Obama  offers more
spending cuts. Geithner and administration officials have warned
that global investors will lose confidence in the U.S., hurting
the economic recovery, if Congress waits too long to act.  Lawmakers “don’t get serious about raising the debt limit
until right before Treasury hits the wall,” said  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Perhaps the extra few weeks will be helpful,
though I suspect that, as usual, negotiators will simply dither
until we get close to the drop-dead date, whatever that turns
out to be.”  Borrowing Room  Obama has offered the outlines of a plan to reduce the debt
by $4 trillion over 12 years through a combination of spending
cuts and tax increases. House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican, has proposed cutting spending by
$6 trillion over a decade in part by privatizing Medicare and
capping Medicaid spending.  “Protecting America’s creditworthiness and our economic
leadership position in the world is a duty to our country that
is shared by policy makers in both parties, in the legislative
branch as well as the executive branch,” Geithner said. “Any
attempt by either party to use the full faith and credit of the
 United States  as a bargaining chip to advance partisan policy
agendas would be irresponsible.”  Issuance to States  Geithner said the Treasury on May 6 will stop issuing State
and Local Government Series securities, known as SLGS. The bonds
“fund a variety of expenditures, including infrastructure
improvements across the country,” he said.  The securities are
issued to states and municipalities “to help them conform to
tax rules that restrict the investment of proceeds from the
issuance of tax-exempt bonds,” he wrote.  If Congress doesn’t raise the limit by May 16, the Treasury
will declare a “debt-issuance suspension period” under the
statute governing the Civil Service Retirement and Disability
Fund, Geithner said. That will allow the U.S. “to redeem
existing Treasury securities held by that fund as investments.”  Decisions made under Obama account for about $1.7 trillion
in new debt, according to a  Washington  Post analysis of
Congressional Budget Office data over the past decade. Policies
enacted while  George W. Bush  was president from 2001 to 2009
account for more than $7 trillion, the newspaper reported.  ‘Next Steps’  Geithner’s letter shows that “the mechanics are now in
motion” for the government to take the “next steps” if the
debt limit isn’t raised, said  Drew Matus , a senior economist at
UBS Securities LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  Though the extended August deadline “in theory gives
Congress additional time to complete work on increasing the debt
limit, I caution strongly against delaying action,” Geithner
said in the letter. “The economy is still in the early stages
of recovery, and financial markets here and around the world are
watching the United States closely.”  Matthew Zames, chairman of a Treasury advisory panel and a
managing director at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said last week that
failure to raise the limit could be “catastrophic.”  “Any delay in making an interest or principal payment by
Treasury even for a very short period of time would put the U.S.
Treasury and overall financial markets in uncharted territory,
and could trigger another catastrophic financial crisis,” Zames,
chairman of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, wrote in
a letter to Geithner.  Borrowing Estimates  The Treasury also lowered its estimate yesterday for
 government borrowing  from April through June because of higher
revenue and reduced spending.  Borrowing will total a net $142 billion in the current
quarter, $156 billion less than estimated three months ago, the
department said in a statement. The Treasury also projected
borrowing of $405 billion in the three months to Sept. 30. In
the quarter that ended March 31, the Treasury borrowed $265
billion, compared with a previous estimate of $237 billion.  The Treasury’s quarterly debt sales announcement is
scheduled for May 4.  The Treasury said its forecasts assume a cash balance of
$95 billion for June 30 and $115 billion for the end of
September.  For all the debate about the deficit in Washington, bond
market yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government
was running a  budget surplus  a decade ago, even though Treasury
Department data show that the amount of marketable debt
outstanding has risen to $9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in
mid-2007.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note was 3.28 percent
yesterday, below the average of about 7 percent since 1980,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The  U.S. economy  slowed more than forecast in the first
quarter as  government spending  declined by the most since 1983
and household purchases cooled. Gross domestic product rose at a
1.8 percent annual rate from January through March after a 3.1
percent pace in the final three months of 2010, the Commerce
Department said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  