-- 
German Company-Car Study Urges Government to Cut Subsidies

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-05-03T16:30:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/german-company-car-study-urges-government-to-cut-subsidies-1-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government should change the way it taxes company cars to reduce
revenue loss through subsidies and cut harmful emissions, a
study commissioned by the Environment Ministry said.  The government should replace the current system that taxes
the private use of company cars based on their list price with a
system based on the purchase price and kilometers traveled,
according to the  study  by the Cologne-based Fifo economic
institute posted on its website. The revised rules should also
discourage companies from buying cars that use a lot of
gasoline, it said.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) 
fell at least 2 percent earlier today after the Financial Times
Deutschland newspaper carried a report on the study. European
carmakers slid as much as 2.4 percent as a group, the worst
performance among 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx
 Europe  600 Index.  Even so, the study envisaged a “rather limited impact” on
the industry. “There will be fewer trips, but company car users
are unlikely to give up their cars altogether,” it said.  The study doesn’t reflect any “current initiative” by
Merkel’s government, Elke Mayer, a spokeswoman for the
Environment Ministry in Berlin, said by phone. The ministry is
examining the study and hasn’t reached any conclusions, she
said.  Cut Revenue Loss  The overhauled system would reduce revenue loss from the
subsidization of company-car use by as much as 4.6 billion euros
($6.8 billion) per year, generate as much as 900 million euros
in social-insurance contributions and cut emissions by as much
as 5.7 million tons of carbon dioxide, according to the study.  The report echoes the 2009 coalition agreement between the
parties in Merkel’s government, in which they agreed to review
the “appropriateness” of the taxation of the private use of
company cars. Of the 2.1 million cars sold in  Germany  per year
on average between 2007 and 2009, 1.1 million were company cars,
of which 750,000 were used privately, the study said.  Volkswagen, Europe’s largest carmaker, closed 1.7 percent
lower in  Frankfurt  at 132.50 euros. BMW fell 1.7 percent to
63.37 euros. Daimler, the world’s biggest makers of luxury cars,
fell 1.6 percent to 51.65 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  