-- 
Glaxo Said to Pay $120 Million to End Denture-Cream Suits

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-03T20:35:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/glaxo-said-to-pay-120-million-to-settle-suits-over-poligrip-denture-cream.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  has paid at least
$120 million to resolve claims that some of its  Poligrip 
products have caused neurological disorders because the denture
cream contains zinc, two people familiar with the accords said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, resolved more than 100
lawsuits over the past nine months alleging it failed to warn
consumers about Poligrip’s zinc-related health risks, the people
said. The accords averaged more than $1 million apiece said the
people, who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  “GSK has been dogged by litigation over a variety of its
products and has been moving aggressively to resolve those
cases,” Navid Malik, a London-based analyst with  Matrix
Corporate Capital LLP , said in a phone interview. “I see these
settlements as part of that effort.”  Officials of London-based Glaxo agreed in February to
remove zinc from its line of denture-cream products after
researchers linked some neurological problems, including nerve
damage, to heavy use of zinc-laden denture adhesives. The
company’s Super Poligrip Original, Ultra Fresh and Extra Care
products all contained the ingredient, which improves adhesive
power.  Bethany Burtyk, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for  Glaxo , said
the company doesn’t comment on cases in litigation.  Settlement Agreements  Glaxo, which said in July 2010 that it had resolved some
Poligrip suits, noted this year in a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission  filing  it had “reached agreements in
principle to settle the vast majority of the current cases.”
Glaxo officials didn’t comment in the filing on the value of the
settlements.  The drugmaker was willing to pay hefty settlements in the
denture-cream cases to clear away “legacy issues so it can once
again position itself as a growth company,” Malik said.  Glaxo announced Jan. 17 it was taking a $3.5 billion charge
to cover expenses linked to a U.S. probe of its sales practices
and product-liability lawsuits related to its Avandia diabetes
drug. The reserve brought to $6.4 billion the amount the
drugmaker has set aside for legal costs tied to Avandia and its
Paxil antidepressant.  In February, Glaxo posted its second loss in three quarters
because of legal costs tied to the Avandia investigation and the
lawsuits.  Profit Rises  On April 27, Glaxo officials reported a 14 percent increase
in first-quarter profit after selling its stake in Quest
Diagnostics Inc. The sale of the drugmaker’s interest in the
medical-testing firm generated $405.5 million, executives said.  The drugmaker also sold its U.S. and Canadian rights to the
Zovirax herpes cream to Mississauga, Ontario-based  Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)   Glaxo and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the Cincinnati-based maker
of the competing Fixodent denture cream, had lawsuits filed
against them consolidated before a federal judge in Florida in
2005.  Procter & Gamble , which hasn’t announced any settlements of
suits alleging the world’s largest consumer-products company hid
Fixodent’s zinc-related health risks, is facing its first trial
June 20 in Miami, according to court filings.  Kris Parlett, a Procter & Gamble spokesman, declined to
comment today on whether the company had settled any of the
Fioxdent suits.  Plaintiffs’ Lawyer  Andres Alonso, a New York-based lawyer leading the
plaintiffs steering committee in the consolidated case before
U.S. District Judge Cecilia M. Altonaga in Miami, didn’t return
calls seeking comment on the Glaxo settlements.  “I’m not surprised that the per-case average of the
settlements is around $1 million because that reflects the
seriousness of the injuries alleged in these cases,”  Carl Tobias , who teaches product-liability and mass-tort law at the
 University of Richmond , said in a phone interview.  Lawyers for Glaxo and Procter & Gamble argued in court
filings that zinc-laden denture cream is safe when used in
accordance with labeling instructions.  The companies said consumers who applied the creams more
than once a day to slipping dentures were overusing the product
and subjecting themselves to increased levels of zinc.  Consumers’ lawyers countered in their court filings that
the drugmakers knew for years that their products contained
harmful levels of zinc and failed to warn customers.  Zinc’s Effects  They contend zinc poisoning can purge the body of copper,
which can lead to nerve damage. Such damage may result in
weakness in the arms and legs, balance problems and  memory loss ,
according to researchers.  A wave of suits followed a 2008 study of patients suffering
from neurological problems done by doctors at the  University of
Texas Southwestern Medical Center  in  Dallas . Results of the
study linked the cause of those ailments to denture-cream use.  In the case set for trial next month, lawyers for Florida
resident Marianne Chapman alleges Procter & Gamble defectively
designed Fixodent by including zinc in its formulation,
according to court filings. Zinc poisoning caused Chapman to
suffer “severe neurological injuries,” her lawyers said in an
April 22 filing.  Procter & Gamble’s attorneys countered in their own April
22 filing that Chapman’s overuse of Fixodent during an eight-
year period caused the spinal-cord disease that produced the
neurological symptoms for which she’s seeking compensation.  Glaxo’s American depositary receipts, each representing two
ordinary shares, fell 6 cents to $43.56 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares rose as much as 41 cents,
or about 1 percent, earlier today. The company rose 10.5 pence
to 1,316 pence in London trading.  The consolidated case is In Re Denture Cream Products
Liability Litigation, 09-02051, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  Florida  (Miami.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 