-- 
GM Rises to No. 1 on Sales Toyota Can’t Match After Quake

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-05-03T18:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/gm-rises-to-no-1-on-china-sales-toyota-can-t-match-after-quake.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , less than two
years after declaring bankruptcy, is poised to reclaim the
global auto sales lead this year from a  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) 
rattled by natural disasters and reports of slipping quality.  GM may retain the top spot after auto-parts production in
Japan recovers from the March 11 earthquake. Detroit-based GM
plans to invest at least $5 billion in  China  to double sales to
5 million vehicles by 2015. After years of losing ground in the
U.S. to cars like Toyota’s Camry, GM’s Malibu has won better
reviews and a new version is coming.  Add it up and GM may retake the sales crown lost in 2008,
when the U.S. automaker lost $30.9 billion and sought a federal
bailout following Toyota’s most profitable fiscal year. Today GM
is on the mend while Toyota confronts a slumping reputation, a
stronger yen that hurts profit on U.S. sales, and the prospect
that its production in Japan won’t recover until November.  “It’s safe to say that GM is crawling back in the mature
markets and growing quickly in emerging markets,” said  Jeff Schuster , executive director of forecasting for J.D. Power &
Associates, a research firm in  Westlake Village ,  California .
“It’s a challenging road ahead for Toyota. They face some real
issues in the U.S.”  Toyota President Akio Toyoda in March said he would start a
campaign to rebuild the company’s image in the U.S. following
recalls that totaled more than 10 million vehicles. Toyota had
to repair the cars because sticking accelerator pedals and
faulty floor mats led to some sudden acceleration claims.  The Toyota City, Japan-based automaker this week plummeted
to 43rd place from No. 20 in a Harris Interactive’s annual poll
assessing the reputation of 60 corporations.  Malibu Rising  Even before the recalls, auto critics were saying the
competition had started catching up to Toyota. Edmunds.com rated
the 2008 Malibu higher than the Camry. While  Consumer Reports 
still recommends many Toyota models, its critics find Toyota is
using cheaper interior materials these days, said Jake Fisher,
senior auto engineer with the Yonkers,  New York , magazine.  Toyota’s margins have also been hurt by a weaker dollar. Of
the cars and SUVs the company sells in the U.S., about 30
percent are made in  Japan , including 11 of 12 Lexus models and
all Prius hybrids. After years of a weak yen boosting profits,
the Japanese currency has strengthened to 81 yen to the dollar
from 112 at the end of 2007.  Each 1 yen change versus the dollar equates to about 30
billion yen ($370 million) of effect on profit, Toyota said.  In China, the world’s fastest-growing car market, Toyota
has been slower to invest in factories and small, inexpensive
cars.  GM’s China Momentum  GM arrived earlier and has won over consumers with high-end
Buicks and cheaper Korean-engineered Chevrolet models, said
Michael Dunne, president of Hong Kong-based Dunne & Co., which
consults on the auto market in China and the rest of  Asia .  “GM has the right products and very good momentum,” Dunne
said.  The bankruptcy proceedings left GM with a strengthened
balance sheet, and the carmaker has maintained market leadership
in the U.S. and China. GM earned $6.17 billion last year, the
most since 1997, and Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson is
hurrying new models, pushing for more electric-drive cars, and
investing in Brazil and China.  GM even gained share in the first quarter in profitable
U.S. pickup sales. Its Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra
increased deliveries in the first three months of the year by
30,418 -- more than all of the Toyota Tundra pickups sold in
those months. The Japanese automaker in 2007 approached its goal
of selling 200,000 Tundras a year. In 2010, it sold 93,309.  U.S. Sales  GM’s 26 percent jump in U.S. sales in April exceeded
the average of seven analysts’ estimates for a 14 percent boost. 
Toyota’s deliveries increased 1.3 percent, trailing the 1.4 percent
average gain estimated by four analysts.  J.D. Power  had predicted another tight race in 2011 after
last year, when Toyota’s sales of 8.42 million vehicles exceeded
GM’s by 30,000. Now GM is gaining, said Schuster, the J.D. Power
forecaster.  Toyota has lost production of about 500,000 vehicles since
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, said Javier Moreno, a spokesman. Full output won’t return before November.
GM has also boosted U.S. deliveries through March this year by
69,000 more than Toyota.  Toyota ‘Turmoil’  “Given the turmoil Toyota is in right now, GM is poised to
take the No. 1 spot,” said Henner Lehne, global director of
sales forecasting for research firm IHS Automotive. “In the
near term, we have GM overtaking Toyota. It will be a battle
over the next several years.”  GM, which last month revealed a redesigned Chevrolet Malibu
in  Shanghai  and New York, needs to keep growing in China to stay
ahead of Toyota and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , he said. Wolfsburg, Germany-
based Volkswagen also aspires to lead global sales, Lehne said.  Volkswagen, the world’s third-largest carmaker, aims to
increase deliveries 5 percent in 2011 after reporting record
sales of 7.2 million last year. Toyota said in December it
expected to sell 8.37 million vehicles this year after
delivering 8.42 million in 2010. GM, which sold 8.39 million
vehicles last year, hasn’t given a 2011 target.  GM’s position in China is one reason analysts and investors
say its stock may be poised to rise in the next year. While the
shares have traded at or below the $33 initial public offering
price since March 4, all 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
recommend buying or owning the stock.  GM Rising  GM rose 71 cents to $32.89 at 2:18 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The average price target of 14
analysts is $42.79. Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each
representing two ordinary shares, fell 75 cents to $79.41 in New
York. They’ve fallen 9.3 percent since March 10, the day before
the earthquake.  Carmakers should be wary of the global sales title, said
 Sean McAlinden , chief economist at the Center for Automotive
Research in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . GM boosted profit-eating
incentives to keep its lead through 2007 and Toyota ran into
quality problems after becoming No. 1, he said.  “Volkswagen wants to be the next GM just like Toyota
did,” he said. “It’s not about market share and it’s not about
size. It’s about producing the right number of cars to get
higher pricing and profitability.”  VW has said it aims to surpass GM and Toyota with 10
million sales by 2018. Executives privately aim to meet the goal
by 2015, a person with knowledge of the matter said in October.  Profit Margins  VW last year reported the highest net margin among the five
largest carmakers at 5.4 percent, according to Bloomberg data,
and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  posted a 5.1 percent margin. GM was at 4.6
percent, while Toyota earned a 2.5 percent net margin in the
calendar year. Toyota plans to report fiscal fourth-quarter
profit May 11. GM reports its first-quarter results May 5.  “We’re focused on running a profitable global
enterprise,” said Jim Cain, a GM spokesman. “So sales races
aren’t important to us.”  GM and Volkswagen are also looking to win buyers from
Toyota in segments such as family sedans. GM will begin selling
the new Malibu in January to take on the Camry, the top-selling
car in the U.S. VW will open a factory in Chattanooga,
 Tennessee , this year to boost volume of the midsize Passat. VW
also slashed the base price from $28,000 to around $20,000 to
take on Camry and Honda Motor Co.’s Accord.  China Decides  The winner will be decided in China, the world’s largest
national market, said Dunne, the consultant. GM and Volkswagen,
whose joint ventures are the top sellers, have been introducing
the more models for less than $10,000 that make up the fastest-
growing segments. GM, like Honda and Nissan Motor Co., is
starting a China-only brand of low-cost vehicles called Baojun.  GM and its Chinese joint venture partners will expand sales
to 3.5 million by 2014 from 2.3 million last year, according to
J.D. Power. VW will build its China sales to 2.8 million from
1.9 million, while Toyota deliveries are expected to grow to 1.2
million from 857,000, the company said.  “Toyota has been more conservative and methodical,” Dunne
said. “Most of their growth has been where the Camry and larger
Crown play. That’s the slowest-growing segment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 