-- 
Goldman Sachs Ends Recommendation to Short Five-Year U.S. Treasury Notes

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T05:26:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/goldman-sachs-ends-recommendation-to-short-five-year-u-s-treasury-notes.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. dropped its
recommendation for investors to bet against U.S. five-year
notes, citing Federal Reserve comments and the pace of
inflation.  Goldman, one of the 20 primary dealers authorized to trade
directly with the Fed, initiated the trade on March 18 at a
yield of 1.94 percent and a target of 2.30 percent, Francesco
Garzarelli, Goldman’s London-based chief interest-rate
strategist, wrote today a report to clients.  “We are exiting the trade essentially flat,” the report
said. “The trade performed well through mid-April until a
combination of dovish Fed comments, slightly softer-than-
expected inflation prints, and ongoing concerns that high fuel
prices will hit  consumer spending  triggered a wave of short
covering.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled April 27 the central
bank will maintain its record monetary stimulus after ending
large-scale bond purchases in June. The Fed said its preferred
gauge of inflation, the personal consumption expenditures price
index minus food and energy, will rise by 1.3 percent to 1.6
percent this year, up from its earlier estimate of 1.0 percent
to 1.3 percent and within its preferred range of 2 percent or a
bit lower. Oil rose to a 31-month high yesterday.  The five-year yield was little changed today at 1.97
percent as of 1:16 p.m. in Singapore, declining from 2.35
percent on April 8, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
price of the 2 percent security maturing in April 2016 was 100
1/8.  Goldman Sachs will look for opportunities to bet against,
or short, the note again, the report said. So-called short
covering is when investors reverse wagers on an asset declining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nicholas Reynolds at 
 nreynolds2@bloomberg.net . 