-- 
Greece Should Shun Government Debt Restructuring, Premier’s Adviser Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-04T11:52:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/greece-should-shun-debt-restructuring-premier-s-adviser-says.html
Greece  doesn’t need to restructure its
debt for now and should only consider an extension of its
international loans, said Herakles Polemarchakis, an economic
adviser to Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou .  “The debt has to be addressed,” Polemarchakis said in an
interview at an event late yesterday at the  London School of
Economics . “I think that the rescheduling -- or re-profiling as
it is called sometimes -- of the 100 billion euros given by the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union, that’s
something that could easily be done.”  Greek bond yields and the cost of insuring the country’s
debt against default rose to records last week, rekindling
speculation that a debt write-off or extension of repayment
timelines will be the way out of the country’s fiscal quagmire.
Possible options open to Greece include rescheduling the loans
with the EU and IMF, lengthening the payback period of private
debt, and a restructuring, Polemarchakis said.  “For the moment we don’t need to talk about anything
except possibly for the easiest, which is the rescheduling of
the EU and IMF loan,” said Polemarchakis, who is a professor at
the University of Warwick in  England .  A rescheduling would mean “no nominal loss, but you pay
over a longer period,” he said. “By restructuring, I mean some
loss of face value.”  Market Access   The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold Greek
10-year bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds widened
to 1,221 basis points today from 1,199 points yesterday. That
compares with a low this year of 754 basis points in February. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Greece’s refinancing needs of 58 billion euros ($86
billion) are covered this year by the loan package from the EU
and IMF. Under the aid plan, Greece is supposed to regain market
access next year, refinance at least three-quarters of its
maturing medium- and long-term debt, and then fully fund debt
rollovers beginning in mid-2013.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said this week in
 Athens  that easier terms for 110 billion euros of international
loans would help avoid a debt restructuring. A restructuring,
causing losses for bondholders would lock the country out of
markets for a decade or more, he also said.  “For the very short run, we all know that the funding
required by the banks of Greece are covered for the next two to
three years by the memorandum,” Polemarchakis said in a speech
at the LSE organized by the college’s Hellenic Observatory.  “As far as restructuring pressure is concerned, there is
no pressure right now,” he said. “For the medium run, I agree
that calculations should be done, but as long as the IMF and the
EU support the banks, they pay our debts. I do not think this is
an issue to be concerned about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  