-- 
Liberty Global Target Kabel BW Sees Regulatory Takeover Decision in 2011

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-03T14:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/liberty-global-target-kabel-bw-sees-regulatory-takeover-decision-in-2011.html
Kabel Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH, the
German cable television operator that  Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA)  agreed
to buy, said it would reap benefits from being part of a larger
group and expects a regulatory decision this year.
  “There are no synergies when it comes to local networks, but
especially in terms of the platform and offering customers new
experiences, to be bigger is better,” Chief Executive Officer
Harald Roesch said in an interview at the ANGA cable conference
in Cologne today.  Liberty Global, controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone ,
agreed in March to acquire Kabel BW,  Germany ’s third-biggest
cable operator, from private-equity firm EQT Partners for 3.16
billion euros ($4.7 billion euros). The deal is currently under
regulatory review and Roesch said he predicts the fate of the
deal will be clarified by the end of the year.  “It would be harder for Kabel BW on its own to get into
the top league in that business field and we are facing more and
more competition from over-the-top providers like YouTube, Apple
TV and Netflix,” Roesch said. “Financially we don’t notice the
competition now, but we have to start thinking about it, because
it will become” a big issue in three to five years.  Having lagged behind other major European markets in
offering premium television, Internet and telephony services,
German cable companies are now expected to outperform the
region’s market growth, according to IHS Screen Digest. Demand
for such services is allowing cable companies to boost growth
and bring in profit with so-called triple-play services that
combine television, Internet and telephony.  Kabel BW’s sales and earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization more than doubled since EQT
acquired the Heidelberg-based company in 2006.  “We have grown considerably in recent years and we are
already highly profitable. And we are striving to continue to
grow sales and profits sustainably,” Roesch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  