-- 
Iceland Aims to Skip Court Fight as Depositors Face Full Payout

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/iceland-aims-to-skip-court-fight-as-depositors-face-full-payout.html
Iceland asked  Europe ’s Surveillance
Authority not to pursue a court battle against the island,
arguing foreign claims triggered by Landsbanki Islands hf’s 2008
failure may be repaid in full once its assets are liquidated.  The government in Reykjavik yesterday sent a letter to the
European Free Trade Association’s Surveillance Authority,
Economy Minister Arni Pall Arnason said at a press briefing in
Reykjavik yesterday.  “We’re hopeful that our remarks will lead to the ESA being
able to close the issue and not proceed with the matter,”
Arnason said in an interview, before publishing the contents of
the letter.  Iceland faces a year-long legal battle over $5.9 billion in
depositor claims from the U.K. and  Netherlands  after voters
rejected a government accord to back repayment with taxpayer
funds, Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said last
month. The risk of a protracted dispute prompted  Standard &
Poor’s  on April 13 to put Iceland’s BBB- rating, the lowest
investment grade, on credit watch negative amid “higher
economic risks.”  The cost of insuring against an Icelandic default has risen
20 percent since voters rejected the depositor accord in an
April 9 referendum. Credit default swaps on five-year debt rose
to 260 basis points last week, from 216 on April 11.  “In our talks with the U.K. and the Netherlands, we’ve
explained the situation and the fact that Landsbanki will begin
payments later this year,” Arnason said in the April 29
interview. Repayment may start “as early as the autumn,” he
said.  New Estimate  An estimate published by the  Finance Ministry  on March 2
showed Landsbanki’s resolution committee expects the lender’s
estate to cover 89 percent of depositor claims, once all its
assets are liquidated.  A new estimate due to be published May 19 may “show an
even higher rate of recovery,” Arnason said. “Should anything
be outstanding once Landsbanki has completed all payments and
winding-down proceedings, that’s something that we’ll discuss
with the U.K. and the Netherlands.”  The bank’s estate may cover 100 percent of claims, Finance
Ministry spokeswoman Rosa Bjork Brynjolfsdottir said April 10.  Landsbanki, which together with Kaupthing Bank hf and
Glitnir Bank hf had amassed debts about 10 times the size of
Iceland’s economy before the 2008 meltdown, is in talks with
eight banks to handle the sale of its stake in frozen-goods
chain Iceland Foods Ltd., it said last week.  Other assets held by the lender include stakes in jeweler
Aurum Holdings, toystore Hamleys Plc and the department store
House of Fraser.  Estate in Liquidation  Larentsinus Kristjansson, the head of Landsbanki’s
resolution committee, declined to comment on a Financial Times
report that the Iceland Foods transaction alone may generate as
much as 2 billion pounds ($3.3 billion), in an April 26
interview.  More than 350,000 British and Dutch depositors in Icesave,
as the high-yielding Landsbanki accounts were known, risked
losing their savings when the bank collapsed more than two years
ago. The island has since relied on a $4.6 billion International
Monetary Fund-led loan to stay afloat, and put in place capital
controls to prevent a krona selloff.  The economy contracted 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter
from the third, bringing last year’s overall decline to 3.5
percent, the statistics office said March 8. Unemployment held
at 8.6 percent in March, the highest rate in almost a year, the
Directorate of Labor said on April 12.  Persuading Investors  The economy will expand 2.3 percent this year, 2.9 percent
in 2012 and 2.7 percent in 2013, the central bank said April 20.  “As the picture of the Icelandic economic recovery becomes
clearer we expect to resume our plans to issue Treasury bonds in
foreign currencies,” Arnason said. “When we explain the real
facts and figures and focus on the underlying strong foundations
of the economy, the people in the investor community we’ve
spoken to have agreed with our conclusion that the economy is on
solid ground.”  The EFTA’s Surveillance Authority in May last year started
infringement proceedings against Iceland under its obligation to
cover all depositor claims. Those proceedings had been shelved
during Iceland’s parliamentary handling of Icesave. The accord
was put to a referendum after being blocked by President Olafur R. Grimsson. The government said last month it may look into
curbing the president’s ability to veto laws passed in
parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik   valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 