-- 
Microsoft’s Bing to Be Default Search Engine on BlackBerry

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-05-03T15:25:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/microsoft-s-bing-to-be-default-search-engine-on-rim-s-blackberry.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing will be the
default search engine and map application on  Research In Motion
Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry smartphones, a boon for the software maker as
it seeks expand in mobile devices and catch up with  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Bing will be “deeply integrated” into the devices, creating
“unique experiences for millions of BlackBerry customers,”
Microsoft Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said today in an
unbilled appearance at the annual BlackBerry World trade show in
Orlando, Florida. He said the partnership will be ready in time
for the  holiday shopping season  later this year.  Microsoft is trying to challenge Google, whose share of the
U.S. search market is more than four times larger than that of
Bing. The RIM partnership also advances Microsoft’s efforts to
expand in mobile devices, a campaign that includes a pact with
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s largest mobile-phone maker by unit sales.  Microsoft has added search features, stepped up the
marketing of Bing and teamed up with former rival Yahoo! Inc. to
increase its market share. Google had 65.4 percent of searches
in February, compared with Bing’s 13.6 percent, according to
Reston, Virginia-based research firm ComScore Inc.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, fell 11 cents to
$25.55 on the Nasdaq Stock Market at 11:23 a.m. New York time.
Google, based in  Mountain View , California, declined $1.21 to
$537.35. Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM added 17 cents to $48.27.  Facebook, Angry Birds  RIM, the second-largest North American smartphone maker, is
trying to pack more features into its handsets and PlayBook
tablet to challenge larger rival  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  The Bing
announcement was one many that RIM made to generate buzz for the
PlayBook and a touch-screen edition of the BlackBerry Bold it
debuted at the show yesterday.  The phone maker is looking to counter mixed reviews for the
PlayBook and a plunge in its share price caused by the company
cutting its sales and profit forecasts last week.  RIM co-CEO Mike Lazaridis said that the popular game “Angry
Birds” will be available on the PlayBook soon. RIM executives
demonstrated a new PlayBook app for social-networking website
Facebook and the Android player, which allows BlackBerry users
to download apps originally built for Google’s Android platform.  The new Bold, which has a faster browser, is designed to
replace the current Bold and other aging models, which have lost
market share to Apple’s iPhone and devices using Android. RIM’s
forecast cut, which the company said came because new products
were taking longer to develop than originally anticipated,
triggered the stock’s biggest drop in 19 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Orlando,  Florida , at
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  