-- 
Middle East Risks More Unrest, Needs to Address Jobs, IIF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-03T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/middle-east-risks-more-unrest-needs-to-address-jobs-iif-says.html
Countries in the Middle East and North
Africa, where popular uprisings led to political changes, face
the risk of renewed turmoil if governments fail to take the
measures to help create jobs,  a banking industry group  said.  “Among the populations of countries such as Egypt,
Tunisia, Jordan and  Morocco , expectations are that change will
bring about a revival of growth that will be more widely shared,
improved job opportunities and, in general, a better life,” the
Washington-based Institute of International Finance said in a
report on the region released today. “There is a real risk of a
second wave of protests if the prospects for improvement in
living conditions remain dim.”  Unrest in the region that holds more than half the world’s
oil began with protests in Tunisia against high unemployment and
political repression, which forced President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali from power in January. It spread to Egypt, where Hosni Mubarak was toppled in February, and other countries including
Libya, Yemen and Bahrain.  The IIF, an industry group that represents some of the
world’s largest commercial banks and financial firms, expects
the economy of oil-importing countries in the region as a whole
to contract 0.5 percent this year, before expanding 4.2 percent
in 2012. Tunisia will shrink 1.5 percent this year and  Egypt  2.5
percent, according to the IIF.  For governments of transition and their successors, “given
the relatively large size and low productivity of public sectors
in the region, the reform agenda would need to focus on creating
the legal and institutional environment for fostering
entrepreneurship, investment, and market-driven growth,” the
IIF wrote in the report.  Tunisia, Egypt  Such a package of measures to be implemented over the next
few years should be part of financial aid by international
institutions or bilateral donors, the IIF said. Both Tunisia and
Egypt have been in contact with the  International Monetary Fund 
and the  World Bank  about their potential needs.  The organization forecasts that growth in the Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes  Saudi Arabia  and the  United
Arab Emirates  among its six members, will accelerate to 6.5
percent this year before slowing to 4.3 percent in 2012. It sees
expansion of 5.2 percent this year and 6 percent next year in
oil exporting countries that don’t belong to the GCC, such as
 Algeria .  The projections are based on average Brent oil prices of
$115 a barrel in 2011 and $110 a barrel in 2012.  Brent crude  for
June settlement slid $1.21, or 1.2 percent, to $124.50 a barrel
on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe Exchange yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 