-- 
Million-Dollar Condos Bulge, Sway Above Manhattan’s High Line

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/million-dollar-condos-bulge-sway-above-manhattan-s-high-line.html
The new 13-story condo of glass and
diagonal steel struts seems to sway gently over what was once a
derelict elevated railroad, the High Line park.  Climb up there on a fresh spring day and you see why these
tracks that for decades delivered dead animals to butchers on
 Manhattan ’s lower west side now attract happy New Yorkers and
curious tourists.  As builders put finishing touches on a new 20-block-long
second phase of the park, HL23, as the condo is called, adds a
pleasurable exclamation point to one of the best public spaces
in  New York .  A lush lawn, the only traditionally parklike element within
the High Line’s cultivated wildness, stops in front of the
building.  Los Angeles architect Neil Denari shaped HL23 to capture
the unique views over the High Line’s 37-block length.  The lot is improbably skinny and complicated. The glass
front of HL23 bulges toward West 23rd Street in Manhattan’s
Chelsea neighborhood, dodging an awkward dogleg in the beefy,
rivet-dotted rail bed. It slopes back at the top to respect the
zoning envelope.  On the side that hugs the High Line, undulating wave-
patterned stainless-steel panels peel away from each other as
they corbel over the park in two softly rounded undulations.  Denari is a cerebral architect who composes with impeccable
proportions and juggles the visual weight of materials. That’s
usually thought unsellably arcane in residential buildings. Not
here.  Machined Eloquence  HL23 isn’t entirely finished yet. But a machined eloquence
is coming into focus as the contractor tidies the building for a
June 1 move-in date.  Denari balanced angularity with rounded corners in metal
trim. He etched white patterns in the glass that trace the
tubular structural tendons inside. The radiused diagonals
whimsically bind the building like net stockings.  Thin frames of stainless steel hold massive sheets of
unusually transparent glass (triple-glazed for superior energy
performance). Tilt windows placed at random interrupt the rigor
of the glass-and-metal grid. The wavy metal panels along the
side suggest a metallic pelt.  Denari was an adventurous choice for developers Alf Naman
and Garrett Heher, since he isn’t even a household name in
 California , where he has mainly designed finely detailed stores.
He has never done an apartment building before.  HL23 encloses just 11 full-floor and duplex apartments,
with prices ranging from $2.75 million to $12 million for a
penthouse duplex.  Veined Marble  The apartment interiors were designed by  Thomas Juul-
Hansen , with not quite the same delicacy. There’s a lot of
thickly veined marble.  The building’s bulges and recesses frame dramatic vistas
from the expansive living and dining areas. You get a
surrealistically angled view down to the street from units where
the glass rakes outward. The sloped-back planes of glass on the
upper floors evoke artists’ garrets.  Massive retracting windows wrap the penthouse’s rooftop
party room, panoramically framing the skyline in three
directions. A terrace offers sliver views of the  Hudson River 
and New York Bay.  The city has rebuffed several proposals to dangle buildings
over the High Line. Denari was permitted to hug it so closely
because he shaped HL23 in collaboration with the  Department of
City Planning  to complement the park.  In its dance with the city, HL23 is an unusually graceful
partner.  Sip or Sup  For a drink or a meal along the new stretch of the High
Line, Muse food writer Ryan Sutton notes the Standard Grill for
its Continental and American fare, Swiss brasserie Trestle on
Tenth, for the crepinette of pork shoulder, and El Quinto Pino,
with an exquisite $15 uni panini.  If parched, try the Standard Biergarten, known for its
sausages as well,  Mario Batali ’s  Del Posto , which has well-
crafted drinks, and tapas bar Tia Pol, offering small plates and
wine.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press will publish
his book “The Agile City” in May. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 