-- 
IMF Raises Latin America Economic Growth Forecast Amid Overheating Signs

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   C a r l o s   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-05-03T18:35:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/imf-raises-latin-america-growth-forecast-to-4-7-amid-overheating-signs.html
Economies in Latin American are
showing signs of overheating as growth this year is poised to be
faster than previously estimated, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report today.  Driven by high commodity prices and abundant global
liquidity, Latin America and Caribbean economies should expand
4.7 percent this year, up from the 4 percent forecast made in
the IMF’s previous regional outlook in October. Peru and
 Argentina  will lead  South America ’s expansion at 7.5 percent and
6 percent respectively as  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy,
climbs 4.5 percent. Mexico will grow 4.6 percent, the IMF said.  In 2012, Brazil will grow 4.1 percent and Mexico 4 percent.  “Early signs of overheating pressures and possible
excesses are appearing,” the IMF said in its report.  At the same time that demand pressures remain high
throughout the region, credit growth is accelerating in many
countries, the IMF said.  “We’ve been saying that the big problem for the region is
overheating, but they’re not listening to us,” Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of the IMF’s Western Hemisphere department,
told reporters today in  Mexico  City. “We’re becoming, slowly,
addicted to foreign credit.”  Credit, Growth, Inflation  The growth of credit is fueling concern that lending levels
are becoming unsustainable, especially in commodity-exporting
countries experiencing strong inflows, the IMF said in the
report.  “Although commonly used metrics do not yet suggest the
presence of credit booms or clear evidence of asset bubbles,
financial oversight needs to be strengthened and extended,” the
Washington-based lender said.  As growth accelerates, inflation rates will climb and the
region’s current account deficit widen, the IMF said.      Inflation
in Latin America and the Caribbean will end the year at 6.8
percent, up from 6.6 percent last year and 4.8 percent in 2009,
while the region’s current account deficit will expand to 1.4
percent of gross domestic product from 1.2 percent in 2010, the
IMF said.  Venezuela  will lead the region in consumer price increases
this year with an inflation rate of 32 percent, compared with an
estimated 27 percent in 2010, the IMF said. Prices will rise 11
percent in Argentina and 5.9 percent in Brazil, the IMF said.  Vigilance Urged  Brazil’s current account deficit will expand to 2.6 percent
of GDP this year from 2.3 percent in 2010 and Argentina’s
surplus will shrink to 0.1 percent of GDP from 0.9 percent.  Policy makers must monitor the evolution of inflation rates
to ensure that price shocks from high global food and fuel costs
don’t cause domestic prices and inflation expectations to rise,
the IMF said.  Bloomberg’s global commodity index, which calculates the
mean of commodity indexes including energy, grains, food,
precious metals and livestock, has risen 30 percent in the past
12 months.  With the gap between potential and actual economic output
closed in much of  Latin America , policy makers must tighten
monetary and fiscal policies to prevent inflationary pressures
from mounting, the IMF said. Inflation rates tend to accelerate
when economic output exceeds its potential.  Policy Reaction  “Fiscal policy, after being expansionary in most countries
in 2010, needs to ‘downshift’ this year, at least into a neutral
gear,” according to the report. “On monetary policy, countries
have taken steps to raise  interest rates  and -- in a few cases -
- reserve requirements, though further tightening is
warranted.”  Countries such as Brazil and Chile that have announced
budget cuts must ensure their “timely implementation,” the IMF
said. The IMF said that Brazil should ensure the state-run
 development bank  known as BNDES reduces lending, which more than
doubled to 137.4 billion reais ($86 billion) last year.  Latin American countries also may take steps to contain
credit growth by raising  reserve requirements  or restricting
foreign borrowing limits, the lender said.  “These measures should be aimed at preserving financial
sector stability and, although recognizing their effects on the
macroeconomy, not be deployed as a substitute for basic
macroeconomic policy adjustments,” the IMF said. “Capital
controls may also be part of the policy reaction on a temporary
basis.”  Currencies  Countries also should remain flexible about their exchange
rates and don’t need to rule out measures designed to weaken
currencies, the IMF said. Such measures shouldn’t be implemented
before other potentially more effective instruments can be
applied, the IMF said.  “Foreign exchange market intervention could continue to be
part of the policy toolkit, particularly after a substantial
degree of appreciation has been allowed,” the lender said.
“Interventions appear to be more effective when there are signs
that the currency may be becoming overvalued.”  The currencies of  Chile , Colombia and Brazil have gained
12.3 percent, 11.8 percent and 8.5 percent respectively against
the dollar in the past 12 months, beating the four other major
Latin American countries tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 Rwoods13@bloomberg.net ; or
Carlos Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman@bloomberg.net . 