-- 
Subbarao Tweaks India’s Rate-Rise Playbook as Inflation Undermines Bonds

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-05-04T13:46:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/india-raises-key-rates-by-more-than-analysts-estimated-to-fight-inflation.html
The Reserve Bank of  India ’s decision
to double the magnitude of interest-rate increases signals it is
ready to step up the battle against inflation even at the risk
of damping the nation’s economic growth.  The central bank’s half a percentage point increase in the
benchmark repurchase rate to 7.25 percent yesterday was the
biggest move since July 2008. Governor  Duvvuri Subbarao 
indicated he would tighten borrowing costs further and predicted
inflation will stay at “elevated levels” until September.  Bond yields surged to the highest level in 2 1/2 years
today as Subbarao accelerated monetary tightening after eight
quarter-point moves since mid-March 2010. India’s inflation,
already the fastest among  Asia ’s major economies, may quicken as
surging oil costs put pressure on Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
to allow higher fuel prices this year.  “The RBI’s focus on inflation over growth signals a major
shift in its policy,” said Samiran Chakraborty, Mumbai-based
chief economist at Standard Chartered Plc. “Controlling prices
must be the priority now, even if it comes at the cost of
sacrificing growth in the short term.”  The yield on the 7.80 percent note due April 2021 gained
six basis points to 8.29 percent at the 5:00 p.m. close in
Mumbai, the highest level for a 10-year security since October
2008. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Significantly Overshot’  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index dropped for an
eighth day, its longest losing streak in nine years, declining
0.4 percent. The  Indian rupee  advanced 0.1 percent to 44.46
against the dollar.  “The uncertainties have increased, the drivers of
inflation have changed, inflation pressures from the demand side
have increased and all these reasons prompted us to take a
bigger step,” Governor Subbarao told Bloomberg-UTV in an
interview today. “We’ll need to persevere with our anti-
inflationary stance.”  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation accelerated to
8.98 percent in March and exceeded the central bank’s 8 percent
estimate, prompting Subbarao to say yesterday that price gains
have “significantly overshot even the most pessimistic
projections over the past few months.”  By comparison, consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in  China 
and 4.2 percent in  South Korea .  “There is going to be some sacrifice of growth,”  Reserve
Bank  Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  told Bloomberg-UTV in an
interview yesterday. “The choice was to address the more
significant risk and that is why we decided to shift our
orientation by taking a more aggressive action.”  Growth Forecast  Rising borrowing costs will slow India’s economic growth
this year and help ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward
bias” by March 31, 2012, Subbarao said.  India’s economy  may
expand “around 8 percent” in the year through March from 8.6
percent in the previous 12 months, he estimated.  “With 9 to 10 percent levels of inflation, the RBI has no
option but to slow the pace of growth in the near-term,” said
Jahangir Aziz, an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Mumbai
and a former economic adviser in India’s finance ministry.
“Growth has to be sacrificed now if you want to keep it going
in the medium-term.”  The Reserve Bank yesterday sought to curtail risks tied to
defaults by borrowers that may emerge if economic growth slows,
asking lenders to set aside more funds to cover bad loans and
double provisions for restructured debt.  The move came less than two weeks after it asked commercial
banks to keep surplus funds as a buffer for when the economy
slumps. India’s central bank is joining global policy makers in
seeking to toughen rules after the 2008 credit crisis forced
U.S. and European regulators to bail out lenders including
Citigroup Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Fuel Prices  “The inflation rate will remain close to the March 2011
level over the first half of 2011-12, before declining,”
Subbarao said in yesterday’s statement. “These projections
factor in an upward revision of petrol and diesel prices.”  The end of provincial elections gives the government room
to ease fuel-price controls on state refiners such as Indian Oil
Corp., the nation’s biggest refiner.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a report April 27 that the
government may start allowing Indian Oil and others to charge
more for the fuels once elections in four states and one union
territory conclude on May 10.  Prime Minister Singh has sought to appease voters with
price caps on diesel, kerosene and cooking gas after inflation
triggered nationwide protests earlier this year.  Policy Stance  Inflation erodes spending power in India, where the per
capita income is about $1,230, versus $40,580 in the U.S.  Indian Oil hasn’t increased diesel prices since June 26 and
gasoline since Jan. 16, according to the company’s website.  Oil has climbed 23 percent in  New York  this year as revolts
that overthrew governments in Tunisia and  Egypt  raised concern
that supplies from the Middle East would be disrupted as
protests spread.  “While the persistence of inflation over the next few
months has been incorporated in this policy, the  Reserve Bank 
will continue to persevere with its anti-inflationary stance,”
Subbarao said.  Recent economic indicators such as the purchasing managers’
index and credit expansion signal consumer demand is holding up,
stoking price pressures.  Services-industry growth accelerated, with the purchasing
managers’ index climbing to 59.2 in April from 58.8 in March,
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said today. A reading
above 50 indicates expansion.  Loan Growth  Commercial loans rose 22 percent from the previous year as
of April 8, more than the 20 percent rate prescribed by the
Reserve Bank.  Inflation pressures are also building up as companies
including Videocon Industries Ltd. and  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) 
increase prices to counter higher costs of raw materials.  “The relentless rise in input costs is adding to the cost
of doing business,” Suresh M. Hegde, head of finance at
Videocon, an Indian maker of washing machines and television
sets, said in an April 29 interview. “We are also facing wage
pressures and will be forced to raise prices.”  Maruti, India’s largest carmaker, boosted prices of its
vehicles by as much as 9,000 rupees ($202), the automaker’s
sales chief, Mayank Pareek, said April 5.  “The extent to which the increase in input prices
translates into output prices will have an influence on the
inflation path,” the central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai Serviced at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  