-- 
Indian Rupee Drops to One-Week Low as Central Bank Raises Rates

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a   a n d   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-05-03T12:19:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/india-s-rupee-drops-a-second-day-as-foreign-funds-sell-equities.html
India ’s rupee fell to a one-week low
after overseas investors cut holdings of local shares on concern
rising  interest rates  will boost costs and erode earnings at the
nation’s companies.  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised its benchmark repurchase
rate to 7.25 percent from 6.75 percent today to slow inflation,
the ninth increase since March 2010. Only seven of 25 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the move, while the rest
expected a quarter-point increase. Foreigners’ sales of Indian
stocks exceeded purchases for the fifth day on April 29, the
longest stretch in three months, exchange data show.  “Higher interest rates will eventually hurt corporate
profits and that will drag stocks and the rupee down in the
longer term,” said Vikas Babu, a currency trader in Mumbai at
state-owned  Andhra Bank .  The Indian currency dropped 0.4 percent to 44.5175 per
dollar at the 5 p.m. close in Mumbai, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It’s advanced 0.2 percent in the past month, the
second-worst performance among the 10 most-traded Asian
currencies. The rupee will weaken to 45.20 in two to three
months, Babu predicted.  Three-year bond yields for top-rated firms have climbed to
a 29-month high of 9.51 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Reliance Industries Ltd., India’s biggest company by
market value, and Maruti Suzuki India Ltd., the largest
carmaker, said last month that profits rose at a slower pace in
the quarter ended March 31 compared with a year earlier.  India’s economic expansion may slow to “around 8 percent”
in the financial year that began April 1 from an estimated 8.6
percent in the previous 12 months, the central bank said.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG cut growth
forecasts for  Asia ’s third-biggest economy last month, citing
the impact of higher interest rates.  ‘Hurt Economic Growth’  “The bigger-than-expected rate increase could hurt
economic growth at a time when there are already signs of a
moderation in industrial activity,” said Priyanka Kishore, a
Mumbai-based foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered
Plc.  India’s factory output increased an average 3.8 percent in
the first two months of 2011 from a year earlier, compared with
16 percent in the same period of 2010, the latest government
data show.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.27 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.01
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 