-- 
Infineon Raises Full-Year Earnings Forecast on Chip Demand

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-05-03T11:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/infineon-raises-full-year-profit-sales-outlook-on-demand-1-.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest chipmaker, raised its full-year forecast for the
fifth time since the beginning of 2010 as second-quarter revenue
and profit surged on demand from the car and energy industries.  Sales in the 12 months through September will gain
20 percent from 3.3 billion euros ($4.9 billion) a year earlier
and operating profit will be “broadly in line” with the
19.8 percent of revenue achieved in the first half, Infineon
said in a statement today. The company had predicted that sales
would rise by a mid-teens percentage and the operating profit
margin would gain by a high-teens percentage.  “All divisions were making strong contributions to a
result that was better than expected,” Lionel Pellicer, an
analyst at AlphaValue in Paris with a “reduce” recommendation
on the shares, said by phone. “Order intake is strong and shows
why the company’s confidence is high.”  Infineon, based in Neubiberg,  Germany , is selling more
chips used in cars and lighting equipment as the global economic
recovery gathers pace. Sales and profit will be “broadly flat”
in the third fiscal quarter, Infineon said today.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
the world’s biggest semiconductor producer, in April forecast
sales for its second quarter that may top analyst estimates.  ‘Tight’ Capacity  The level of new orders and the backlog is prompting
Infineon to consider raising its budget for investments this
year, which currently stands at 700 million euros, the company
said. Last year, investments totaled 325 million euros. Capacity
will nonetheless remain “tight” in coming months, Infineon
Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  said in a conference call
with reporters today.  The shares rose as much as 3.4 percent to 8 euros in
Frankfurt trading today and were up 2.7 percent as of 12:29 p.m.
The stock has gained 14 percent this year, valuing Infineon at
8.6 billion euros.  “Our order books are full and our capacities are still
maxed out,” Bauer said. “Our success is becoming more
sustainable by the day. A focus on markets that are less
volatile and that have stronger margins means Infineon stands
on a healthy foundation and the company has the figures to
prove it.”  Second-quarter net income more than doubled from the
previous quarter to 572 million euros. That exceeded the
554 million-euro median estimate of three analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Profit was boosted by an after-tax gain of 378
million euros related to the sale of the wireless mobile-phone
business to Intel, which closed during the quarter. Sales gained
7.8 percent from the previous quarter to 994 million euros.  Japan  Aftermath  The company said it is “monitoring closely” the impact of
the March 11 earthquake in Japan and its aftermath on Infineon’s
supply chain and market.  While “risks remain” with regard to raw-material supply
and the ability of customers to get all components they need,
the company hasn’t experienced any disruptions, it said. Supply
of chip-making equipment from Japan may tighten in coming
months, Bauer said.  The executive, who took over as CEO almost three years ago,
has finished an overhaul that included the spinoff of
unprofitable memory-chip unit Qimonda in 2006 and the sale of a
mobile-phone component division to Intel announced in August.
The German company has had positive net income for seven
consecutive quarters after quarterly losses for more than
two years.  Varied Uses  Infineon’s remaining units produce chips for vehicles,  wind
turbines , household appliances, lighting systems and  identity
cards . Infineon trails the European leader in semiconductors,
 STMicroelectronics NV (STM) , in sales.  Infineon’s sales forecast assumes a euro exchange rate of
$1.40. The European currency was trading at $1.478 as of 12:21
p.m. Frankfurt time.  Infineon had 2.3 billion euros in net cash at the end of
the quarter following the sale of the wireless unit, the company
said. Surplus cash will be spent on expanding current operations
and returning money to shareholders, the company reiterated.  It’s “challenging” to find acquisition opportunities,
Chief Financial Officer Dominik Asam said in a webcast with
analysts today.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) ’s announcement last
month that it would purchase National Semiconductor Corp. for
$6.5 billion demonstrated that valuations are “quite high,”
CEO Bauer added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  