-- 
Inverness, Distributor of ‘Young Guns,’ Files for Bankruptcy

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-03T20:14:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/inverness-bermuda-based-film-distributor-files-for-chapter-15-bankruptcy.html
Inverness Distribution Ltd., the
Bermuda-based film distributor linked to the producer of “Young
Guns” and “Last of the Mohicans,” filed for bankruptcy after
royalties for movies declined.  Inverness, formerly known as Morgan Creek International,
listed debt of as much as $100 million in a  Chapter 15  petition
filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . It didn’t
include an estimate of assets. The company changed its name in
April 2010 and works with  Morgan Creek Productions , producer of
films including “Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves” and “Ace
Ventura: Pet Detective.”  Bermuda courts appointed liquidators for Inverness on Feb.
28 because it is “deeply insolvent, has breached its
contractual obligations, (and) was managed by individuals whose
interests conflict with those of Inverness,” Michael Morrison
and Charles Thresh, foreign representatives for KPMG Advisory
Ltd., said in court papers.  James Robinson, the company’s president and director until
its bankruptcy, has been the sole shareholder since 2004,
according to the filing. Chapter 15 is used by a company to
block creditor lawsuits in the U.S. or to help organize U.S.
creditors while it reorganizes in another country.  Most of Inverness’s assets are contractual rights to
distribute films produced by Morgan’s Creek to theatres, home
video markets and television through agreements with third
parties including Warner Brothers and  NBC Universal , according
to court papers.  ‘Dramatic Decline’  Payments from major U.S. movie studios for television and
home-video rights “experienced a dramatic and unexplained
decline,” in the months before bankruptcy, Thresh and Morrison
said. For some film libraries, payments plunged 71 percent in
the last quarter of 2010, according to the company’s filing.  Inverness hasn’t explained the declines, and entered new
distribution agreements without telling its lenders, Thresh and
Morrison said.  Current lenders under a $150 million loan taken in 2005 are
 Societe Generale (GLE) , as agent to the loan, and Santander UK Plc,
ING Bank NV, Bank of Ireland and Commerzbank AG. Inverness has
failed to make payments since February 2010. In January of this
year, the agent declared the $74.1 million balance due.  As collateral for the loan, Inverness gave the lenders’
agent to rights to distribute, lease, license, sell, distribute
or broadcast its movies.  Blockbuster Bankruptcy  Inverness joins in bankruptcy movie-rental chain
 Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , whose relationship with movie studios was
challenged by new distribution models. Blockbuster filed for
bankruptcy in September, saying sales fell while rival Netflix
Inc. grew by renting movies online and through the mail.  Universal Studios , Sony Pictures Home Entertainment Inc.,
 Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment  and other studios said
they had claims for movies they continued to ship during
Blockbuster’s bankruptcy. Blockbuster’s lenders argued that
movie titles were given to the company, not leased.  The case is In re Inverness Distribution Ltd. 11-12106 U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 