-- 
Brazil Stimulating Bank Consolidation, Itau’s Setubal Says

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-07-11T18:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/itau-unibanco-first-quarter-profit-rises-15-as-brazil-lending-accelerates.html
Brazil  is stimulating the
consolidation of small and medium-sized banks as it seeks to
create larger financial institutions and foster competition,
said Itau Unibanco Holdings SA’s Alfredo Setubal.  “The government wants bigger and stronger banks, capable
of effectively competing,” Setubal, executive vice-president at
the Sao Paulo-based lender, said during an interview today at an
investors conference. “We may see more movements involving
smaller banks, like we’ve seen recently, with the government and
the central bank stimulating consolidation.”  Tie-ups would strengthen the portfolios of smaller firms as
some of Brazil’s largest banks have started offering credit
products such as payroll loans that were traditionally sold by
medium-sized institutions. Capital levels at smaller banks also
have come under pressure after the central bank in December
required lenders to use more capital to back longer-dated
consumer loans to prevent a credit bubble.  Banco BMG SA on July 7 completed the acquisition of Banco
Schahin SA, pledging to invest 1.5 billion reais ($960 million)
in the bank and increasing its net capital to about 3.5 billion
reais, according to an e-mailed statement. Belo Horizonte-based
BMG said the consolidation of Brazil’s banking industry should
continue to present “good opportunities to the market,” BMG
said in the statement.  Payroll Lending  BMG, which provides 18 percent of all payroll lending in
Brazil, received a loan from Brazil’s bank deposit insurance
fund, known as FGC, to facilitate the acquisition.  Brazil’s small and medium-sized banks may have to acquire
or merge with other lenders to raise capital as an alternative
to selling loan portfolios,  Valor Economico  reported on May 23,
citing Anthero Meirelles, a central bank director.  Smaller institutions must rely less on selling loan
portfolios to raise funds after larger banks agreed to acquire
lenders including  Banco Panamericano SA (BPNM4)  and Banco Schahin, the
Sao Paulo-based newspaper said, citing Meirelles. The market in
which banks bought and sold loans dried up after the start of a
probe in November into accusations of fraud at Panamericano.  A spokesman at the central bank declined to comment.  Consolidation likely will increase at a time when default
rates are rising, Setubal said. Itau Unibanco’s average default
rate may reach 4.5 percent to 4.6 percent, he said. The lender,
Brazil’s biggest bank by market value, previously forecast a
default rate between 4.2 percent and 4.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Felipe Frisch in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro in Brasilia at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  