-- 
Iusacell’s Totalplay Sees 100,000 Subscribers by Year-End

-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T18:25:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/iusacell-s-totalplay-sees-100-000-subscribers-by-year-end-1-.html
Totalplay , the new fiber-optic
Internet business of  Mexico ’s Grupo Iusacell SA, will have
100,000 subscribers by the end of this year, said Iusacell owner
and Chairman  Ricardo Salinas .  Totalplay expects to reach 300,000 customers by the end of
2012, Salinas said at an event in Mexico City. Closely held
Iusacell, Mexico’s third-biggest wireless company, introduced
Totalplay today after tests last year. Megacable Holdings SAB,
Mexico’s biggest cable-TV carrier, has 1.7 million customers.  The Iusacell unit represents new competition for Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man. His Telefonos
de Mexico SAB has about 70 percent of Mexico’s high-speed
Internet subscribers and 79 percent of  phone customers. The
company has a partnership with satellite-TV provider Dish
Mexico, co-owned by EchoStar Corp. and MVS Comunicaciones SA.  “Competition is the best way to improve the offerings for
the consumer,” Salinas said.  Totalplay offers packages of video, Web and phone service
over fiber-optic lines in parts of Mexico City and the nearby
city of Toluca, according to the company’s website. The company
is working on a three-dimensional video service, Salinas said.  Iusacell, based in Mexico City, trails Slim’s America Movil
SAB and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in wireless subscriptions. Grupo Televisa
SAB, the broadcaster that controls three Mexican cable carriers,
agreed last month to acquire 50 percent of Iusacell, including
the Totalplay business, for $1.6 billion.  Totalplay will serve “the highest end of the market,”
complementing Televisa’s cable and satellite TV units, Alfonso
de Angoitia, executive vice president for the broadcaster, said
on a conference call last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Mexico City at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 Tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  