-- 
Jets Coach Ryan Tells El-Erian ‘New Normal’ in Football Is Labor Confusion

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-05-04T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/jets-coach-ryan-tells-el-erian-new-normal-in-football-is-labor-confusion.html
Rex Ryan  says the “new normal” in
the  National Football League  includes not knowing what will
happen with its labor dispute, and that his  New York Jets  are
ready to deal with that to win the Super Bowl championship.  Ryan, the third-year coach of the Jets, told Mohamed El- Erian, a fan of the Jets who helped coin the “new normal”
phrase as chief executive officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., that his team is prepared for anything as the
NFL opens and closes for business on the decisions of federal
courts.  Ryan taped a radio segment yesterday for “Bloomberg
Surveillance” hosted by  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “Whenever they say it’s on, then it’s on,” Ryan said at
Bloomberg LP’s  New York  headquarters. “If they say it’s on
tomorrow, then I promise you we’ll be ready to go.”  Ryan said coaches are just starting to feel effects of the
NFL’s on-again, off-again lockout after last week’s draft of
college players. The NFL locked out players in March after talks
collapsed over how to divide about $9 billion in annual revenue,
the most of any sports league.  Owners last week won a temporary stay of a federal judge’s
order blocking the lockout from the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals. The Jets selected Temple University tackle Muhammad
Wilkerson in the first round of the draft, the last scheduled
piece of football business until the labor situation is
clarified.  “Up until the draft, it was almost business as usual for a
coach because everything you do is just getting ready for that
draft,” Ryan said.  Scoring Chances  Now, he said, the Jets are studying their opponents, trying
to get a head start on the season. They’re also addressing their
weaknesses, particularly how they play offense after reaching
scoring position, the area inside the 20-yard line known as the
red zone. That requires looking at last season’s games and even
hiring outside consultants, such as former Indianapolis Colts
assistant Tom Moore.  “We have to get better in the red zone, so we’re really
studying that,” Ryan said. “Who are the teams that do it the
best? Who defends it the best?”  Ryan said he thinks the labor conflict will be resolved
before the season is scheduled to start in September and his
team is planning accordingly.  “There are three things I’m sure of,” Ryan said. “The
first thing is, owners want there to be football. The second
thing is, I’m very sure that the players want to play football.
And the third thing is, I’m very sure the fans want to watch
football. With those three things, it’s going to be hard for
there not to be football.”  Motivate Team  Ryan, the co-author of  “Play Like You Mean It” 
(Doubleday, 280 pages, $26.95) with Don Yeager, said in the
radio interview that included El-Erian, who helps oversee the
world’s biggest bond fund, that he uses a variety of
motivational techniques to keep his team engaged. He urges
players to mention two teammates and a coach in every media
interview, for example, to help them encourage each other
publicly.  El-Erian, who serves as co-chief investment officer with
Pimco founder  Bill Gross , coined the term “new normal” to
describe what he forecasts is an era of prolonged below-average
global economic growth and investment returns.  “If you have someone say some kind words about you --
which is very rare in my case -- but when you have that, you
feel fantastic,” he said. “As the season goes on and on, we’ll
challenge them to mention four teammates, a coach and somebody
else in the organization.”  Ryan said he thinks the Jets can win the  Super Bowl  this
season, after reaching the American Football Conference title
game for the second consecutive time last season.  “The first year, I said that before his first tenure’s up,
we will see President Obama, and the only way to do that is win
a championship,” he said. “Well, his first term’s not up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 