-- 
Kabel Deutschland Sees ‘Huge Opportunity’ for Organic Growth, Chief Says

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-03T09:47:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/kabel-deutschland-sees-huge-opportunity-for-organic-growth-chief-says.html
Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) ,
Germany’s largest cable operator, predicts organic growth even
as it continues to make acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer
Adrian von Hammerstein said.  “Consolidation is good, it is positive for the market, but
we see a huge opportunity for organic growth,” the CEO said in
an interview at the ANGA cable conference in Cologne today.
 Liberty Global Inc. (LBTYA) , controlled by U.S. billionaire  John Malone ,
agreed to buy Germany’s third-largest cable operator, Kabel
Baden-Wuerttemberg GmbH, from EQT Partners for 3.16 billion
euros ($4.7 billion).  Kabel Deutschland looked at Kabel BW, and decided against
pursuing it. The Unterfoehring-based company will continue to
make acquisitions of customer groups within its footprint and
make deals to supply cable services to housing associations in
 Germany . “There are always deals like this in the pipeline,”
von Hammerstein said. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011,
the company has said sales would rise as much as 7 percent.  European cable companies will raise sales by more than 30
percent by 2014 from 19 billion euros in 2010, according to IHS
Screen Digest. Cable companies in Germany have trailed their
European counterparts in selling telephone and broadband
services to their television customers, so growth in the country
is expected to outperform Europe-wide growth, according to IHS
Screen Digest.  Kabel Deutschland climbed 0.9 percent to 46.58 euros at
11:42 a.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Dividend  Kabel Deutschland doesn’t compete in the territory of Kabel
BW or Liberty Global’s other cable company in Germany, Cologne-
based Unitymedia. The three operate in different regions and
their main competitor is  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  Liberty Global,
controlled by U.S. billionaire John Malone, has agreed to buy
Heidelberg-based Kabel BW from EQT Partners.  Kabel Deutschland will present its dividend policy with
annual results on June 8, Von Hammerstein said. The company will
pay its first dividend for the 2011 to 2012 financial year after
the annual general meeting in the autumn of 2012.  On Feb. 22, the company reported a 43.9 million-euro net
loss for the nine months ended Dec. 31. With the redemption late
last year of euro-denominated senior notes due 2014, Kabel
Deutschland will save about 50 million euros in annual interest.  For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011,  Kabel Deutschland 
has said it expects revenue growth at the upper end of its 6.5
percent to 7 percent guidance. It has predicted adjusted
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
at 720 million euros to 725 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  