-- 
Natural Gas Futures Slip for Second Day on Mild Weather Outlook

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-05-03T19:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/natural-gas-futures-slip-a-second-day-in-new-york-on-mild-weather-outlook.html
Natural gas futures declined for a
second day in New York on forecasts of moderating temperatures
that may reduce demand for the power-plant and heating fuel.  Gas futures dropped as much as 0.8 percent as forecasters
including WSI Corp. predicted normal temperatures in the
Northeast through May 12. WSI, based in Andover, Massachusetts,
also sees normal weather in the upper Midwest.  “It’s spring, and gas demand is low,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG Economics, an energy research
firm in  London ,  Arkansas . “There’s a lot of uncertainty in the
market at this time of year.” Gas futures may drop near $4.50
per million British thermal units if the recent rally fails to
hold, Williams said.  Natural gas for June delivery fell 2.3 cents, or 0.5
percent, to settle at $4.67 per million Btu on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Gas has risen 6 percent this year.  The high temperature in New York on May 7 may be 69 degrees
Fahrenheit (21 Celsius), 1 degree above normal, according to
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in
Chicago may be 68 degrees, matching the normal temperature.  Power plants  use 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies,
according to the Energy Department.  U.S. nuclear-power production rose from the lowest level in
almost 12 years as Dominion Resources Inc. started the Millstone
2 reactor in Connecticut, a Nuclear Regulatory Commission report
today showed.  Nuclear Plants  Power generation nationwide increased 278 megawatts, or 0.4
percent, from yesterday to 68,945 megawatts, or 68 percent of
capacity, according to the NRC report and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Thirty of the nation’s 104 reactors were offline, including
the three at the Browns Ferry plant in  Alabama  that were knocked
out after tornadoes destroyed regional transmission lines on
April 27. Those reactors, located near the Tennessee line, were
undamaged and are expected to power up this week.  The nuclear plant shutdowns, coupled with weak seasonal
demand, “could pressure the market back to the $4.10-$4.25 area
over the next few weeks,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst
with Citi Futures Perspective in New York, in a note to clients
today.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the most active U.S. natural-gas
driller, reported a first-quarter loss yesterday after losing
money on energy hedging contracts.  Stockpile Estimates  U.S. natural-gas supplies probably rose less than the
seasonal average last week as lower nuclear production boosted
demand for the power-plant fuel, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Inventories rose 67 billion cubic feet in the week ended
April 29, according to the median of five estimates. The five-
year average stockpile change for the week is an increase of 78
billion, according to Energy Department data. Supplies jumped 83
billion cubic feet a year earlier.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
199,959 as of 2:42 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 321,000. Volume was 279,182 yesterday. Open interest was
992,434 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
920,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  