-- 
Navy SEAL Raid on Bin Laden Compound Reflects Tradition of Grit, Secrecy

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   D o u g l a s   W a l l e r
-- 
2011-05-03T23:50:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/navy-seal-raid-on-bin-laden-reflects-tradition-of-grit-secrecy.html
The fatal shooting of  Osama bin Laden 
with two bullets, the first to the chest and the second to the
head, was the climax in a risky, secret Navy SEAL mission of the
kind the U.S. is turning to more frequently for its national
security.  In a post-Cold War era of “irregular warfare” against
antagonists such as insurgents and drug traffickers, the U.S.
leans increasingly on covert skills and operations. The U.S.
military’s  Special Operations Command , which includes the SEALs,
has more than tripled its budget and quadrupled the number of
operatives deployed overseas since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.  In the Iraq and  Afghanistan  wars, SEAL teams have engaged
in intense combat during raids on al-Qaeda and Taliban
strongholds. During the early moments of March 2003 invasion of
 Iraq , SEALs working with British and Polish commandos conducted
one of the largest special operations raids of the war when they
simultaneously took control of two major offshore oil platforms
and oil manifolds on the Al Faw Peninsula.  During the first  Gulf War  to expel Iraqi invaders from
 Kuwait , 15 SEALs in four speedboats set off explosive devices
along the coast to fool Iraqi defenders into thinking that a
large Marine force was landing.  Tributes  Two SEALs have received the Medal of Honor posthumously for
their actions in the recent wars -- Petty Officer  Michael
Monsoor  in Iraq and Lieutenant  Michael Murphy  in Afghanistan.
The Navy has named a new DDG-1000 destroyer after  Monsoor  and a
DDG-51 destroyer after  Murphy .  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in August paid tribute to
the brutal physical conditioning that the Navy’s Sea, Air, Land
commandos, or SEALs, endure in their training. He stood on a
Coronado, California, beach to witness 67 sand-covered sailors
crawl out of the water as they completed the standard ritual of
“ Hell Week .”  “Knowing that they’ll be going into the fight and the fact
that they’re all volunteers is very moving,” Gates told
reporters afterwards.  President  Barack Obama , in the weeks before the raid,
consulted closely with Vice Admiral  William McRaven , head of the
Pope Air Force Base, North Carolina-based Joint Special
Operations Command, a White House official told reporters
yesterday.  ‘Special Mission Units’  The JSOC, a highly classified sub-command of  Special
Operations Command , is in charge of operations involving so-
called “special mission units.” The units execute
counterterror missions to kill high-level Taliban and al-Qaeda
leaders and train to interdict weapons of mass destruction that
terrorists might possess.  This command includes the Army First Operational
Detachment-Delta, or Delta Force; the 75th Ranger Regiment; the
160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment; and the Navy’s
counterterror SEAL force, the  Special Warfare Development Group .
Previously known as SEAL Team Six, it conducted the bin Laden
raid.  Mike Thornton, a Navy SEAL who received the Medal of Honor
for saving the life of a fellow commando during the Vietnam War,
helped establish SEAL Team Six in 1980 and watched special
operations forces grow. He said he has been impressed by
accounts of the bin Laden mission and knows the dedication and
hard work the commandos put into it.  “I was just very proud of them,” Thornton said in a
telephone interview from Fort Hood in  Texas , where he was
addressing troops. Thornton, 62, retired from active duty in
1992 and now works as a  public speaker  and fundraiser for
military-related foundations.  Every Mission Different  He wouldn’t comment on the details of the bin Laden
mission, saying every operation is different and it was
impossible to know precisely the conditions under which the
commandos were operating.  “This is war,” Thornton said. “People have to understand
that freedom is not free.”  McRaven told Obama during a March 29 meeting that he wanted
his units to conduct dress rehearsals for the raid, said the
White House official. Obama asked how quickly the rehearsals
could go and what the risks would be to the military personnel -
- for example, what would be likely to happen if residents
detected the helicopter force a minute from the compound.  Situation Room  Obama had a 12-minute telephone conversation with McRaven
the day before the raid, wishing the JSOC force good luck. Obama
said he would personally be following the mission closely.  A now-famous  photo  of the president and his national
security team monitoring the operation in the White House
Situation Room shows Air Force Brigadier General  Marshall B.
“Brad” Webb , assistant commanding general of JSOC, sitting at
the head of the table.  Obama in April nominated McRaven to head the entire U.S.
Special Operation Command, under which JSOC falls. He would
succeed the current commander, another SEAL, Admiral Eric Olson.  SEAL commandos are among the most physically fit and
ferocious operatives in the Special Operations Command. They
specialize in  waterborne operations , such as scuba diving,
underwater demolition, coastal raids and river combat. They
also have developed other capabilities, such as parachuting,
helicopter assaults and clandestine attacks on dry land.  The two dozen SEALs who carried out the operation to
capture or kill bin Laden flew in by helicopters, one of which
they had to blow up when they found that a technical glitch
would prevent it from carrying them back out.  ‘Wild Bill’  The SEALs trace their roots to World War II -- specifically
to General William “Wild Bill” Donovan’s commandos in Office
of Strategic Services, the predecessor to the CIA, and to the
Navy frogmen who surveyed beaches and cleared obstacles for
Allied amphibious landings.  After President  John F. Kennedy  ordered the armed services
to increase their number of counter-insurgency units, the Navy
in the early 1960s converted many of its underwater demolition
teams into SEALs with the added mission of guerrilla and
counter-guerrilla warfare.  ‘Green Faces’  During the  Vietnam War , the Vietcong nicknamed the unusual
American force the “men with green faces,” because the SEALs
seemed to spring up from the ground at any time to kill or
kidnap guerrillas.  A Navy man -- there are no women among the SEALs --
undergoes more than a year of additional training to qualify for
the elite unit. Applicants typically are  physically fit  sailors
or officers in their late teens or early 20s.  The quest to become a SEAL begins with a seven-week
swimming and exercise course for conditioning. Next comes 25
weeks of basic underwater demolition training that includes
rigorous, almost brutal physical conditioning, dive training,
small-boat seamanship and ground combat instruction.  That’s the period that includes Hell Week, when they are
allowed only a few hours of sleep amid practically nonstop
physical exercise and immersion in chilly water. The training is
conducted at the  Naval Special Warfare Command  headquarters at
Coronado,  California , near  San Diego , and, until the 1970s, also
took place at a SEAL base in Norfolk, Virginia.  Hell Week  Hell Week teaches the future commando to turn his mind off
the pain and misery and focus on the mission. As many as three-
fourths in each class drop out of the 25-week course. Those who
remain go on to 26 weeks of qualification training that includes
lessons in close combat and guerrilla warfare.  The group commonly referred to as SEAL Team Six is the Navy
force’s secret counterterrorism unit. It’s located on one of the
many Navy bases in the Norfolk area, housed in a heavily guarded
compound with a bland cover name on the sign in front to confuse
the curious.  The secrecy of the bin Laden operation, which U.S.
officials said they didn’t reveal to any allies, reflects
another characteristic of SEAL operations: Officials wanted to
ensure that the mission could be carried out successfully and
without interruption.  In the end, the SEAL commandos on the scene were able to
declare the codename confirmation for mission success against
bin Laden -- Geronimo EKIA, or Enemy Killed in Action.  John Brennan , assistant to the president for  homeland
security , praised the commandos during a White House briefing
yesterday. Respecting the secrecy that surrounds their work, he
did so without ever specifically identifying them as SEALs.  “The accomplishment that very brave personnel from the
United States government were able to realize yesterday is a
defining moment in the war against al-Qaeda,” Brennan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Waller in Washington at 
 dwaller10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  