-- 
NBC Says Trump’s Show Goes On as He Says He’ll Seek Presidency

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-05-03T04:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/nbc-says-trump-s-reality-show-goes-on-as-he-says-he-ll-seek-presidency.html
NBC is continuing  Donald Trump ’s
television series “Celebrity Apprentice” after the  New York 
real estate developer said he intends to run for president.  A spokeswoman for the network’s entertainment division,
Rebecca Marks, said “Nothing’s changed,” when asked about the
future of the program. She declined to elaborate.  Trump said in an interview with Bloomberg News on May 1
that he had decided “in my mind” to run for president, but
wouldn’t make an official announcement before the season finale
of his reality television show later this month.  “In my mind, I have already decided,” Trump, 64, said in
the telephone interview. “I am going to announce. But I can’t
do anything until the show ends.”  The distinction between a decision to run and a formal
announcement isn’t relevant under election law, said Paul S.
Ryan, an attorney at the  Campaign Legal Center .  “When you’ve decided to run for office, and you’ve
accepted or spent more than $5,000, you’re a candidate,” Ryan
said.  He said Trump’s travels to  Iowa  and  New Hampshire  suggest
he’s spent some money on exploring a candidacy.  Trump spokeswoman Rhona Graff didn’t immediately respond to
a request for comment.  Equal Time  The decision by NBC, majority-owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , could
open up its affiliates to demands of equal air time from Trump’s
rivals for the 2012 Republican nomination, Ryan said.  “NBC has a lot of thinking to do,” said Dave Levinthal, a
spokesman for the  Center for Responsive Politics,  a Washington-
based group that tracks money in politics. “It’s definitely
getting into some sticky territory when you have a person who is
all but running for president who’s got a pretty popular
platform.”  NBC’s decision to allow the show to run through its
scheduled season end on May 22 stands in contrast to actions
taken by News Corp.’s Fox News. In March, Fox placed two
contributors, former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  and
former Senator Rick Santorum of  Pennsylvania , on leave because
both have said they may seek the Republican presidential
nomination. Their contracts were terminated May 1.  “Celebrity Apprentice” is one of NBC’s highest-rated
shows, attracting about 8 million viewers a week, said  Brad Adgate , research director at Horizon Media Inc. in New York. The
program can charge similar ad rates to popular shows such as
”The Office” while costing far less to produce, he said.  Program Interruption  NBC interrupted the showing of the program late on May 1
when President  Barack Obama  delivered a televised speech from
the White House to announce that U.S. military forces had killed
al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in  Pakistan .  Some recent polls have shown Trump at or near the top of a
large field of potential Republican candidates. In an April 26
Rasmussen Reports poll,  Trump led  with support from 19 percent
of 1,000 likely Republican primary voters surveyed. The poll’s
margin of error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.  A Gallup Poll conducted April 15-20 showed Trump  tied  with
former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee  at 16 percent, atop a
list of 15 possible candidates. Gallup questioned 1,047
Republicans and Republican-leaning independents. The poll had an
error margin of plus or minus 4 percentage points.  Trump gained attention in recent weeks by questioning
whether Obama was born in the U.S. and whether he was eligible
to be president. He’s also questioned the president’s school
grades, suggesting Obama may have gotten special treatment to
gain admission to colleges, including  Harvard Law School , where
he graduated magna cum laude.  Obama on April 27 released a long form of his birth
certificate showing he was born in Honolulu. Obama said it was
time to stop being “distracted by sideshows and carnival
barkers” in remarks to reporters about the document.  Trump said in the May 1 interview he was “proud” of
prompting the president to issue the birth certificate,
reiterating comments he made in a press conference last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 Afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  