-- 
New Zealand Farm Loan Rule Changes May Curb Lending, KPMG Says

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-03T03:17:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/new-zealand-farm-loan-rule-changes-may-curb-lending-kpmg-says.html
New Zealand  proposals requiring banks
to change how they measure the risks from lending to farmers may
raise costs and curb rural lending, according to KPMG LLP.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand last month called for
submissions on proposals that banks change their lending models
to take more account of the possibility of falls in farm prices.
The proposals will force the banks to hold more capital against
an estimated NZ$47 billion ($38 billion) of rural loans, KPMG
said in its New Zealand  Financial Institutions Performance
Survey  published today in Auckland.  “One would expect this will ultimately increase lending
costs to farmers and potentially act as a brake on growth in the
rural economy,” KPMG said.  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard last year highlighted
high levels of debt held by farmers, particularly by those who
were new to the  dairy industry  and had invested heavily to
convert sheep farms, buy livestock and build new cow sheds. High
milk payments and low finance costs may be masking the risks
faced by some farmers as conditions deteriorate, KPMG said.  Some dairy farmers “are struggling under high debt levels
and rising costs, although mitigated by the high commodity and
low interest rate environment,” KPMG said. “There is
significant concern about their future ability to meet their
obligations in less benign economic conditions.”  Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy
exporter, raised its forecast milk payment to farmers in
February because of higher world prices and reaffirmed that
distribution in March. Still, milk powder prices at its April 19
auction were near a two-month low as supply from New Zealand and
northern hemisphere producers increases.  “The present milk payout is perceived as being about as
good as it gets,” KPMG said.  The  Reserve Bank  plans to change requirements for rural
lending from June 30, it said in a discussion paper posted on
its website last month. Banks have in recent times been
recognizing the need to revert to tighter credit standards and
the proposals reflect changes already being incorporated in
lending decisions, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  