-- 
New Deutsche Bank CEO Means Krause Versus Weber Vying With Jain

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-05-03T22:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/new-deutsche-bank-ceo-turns-on-krause-vying-with-weber-for-power-with-jain.html
Stefan Krause, who left the  auto
industry  after a 20-year career to join  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  as
chief financial officer, had a memorable introduction to the
banking world in April 2008. On his first day, Germany’s biggest
lender announced a record loss on loans and asset-backed
securities.  “They said, ‘Stefan, welcome, we have to write down 2.5
billion euros,’” says Krause, a boyish-looking 48-year-old
whose office overlooks the Frankfurt skyline. Ten months later,
the bank posted a record 3.8 billion euro ($5.4 billion) loss --
its first full-year deficit since World War II, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its June issue.  By then, Krause was already helping Chief Executive Officer
Josef Ackermann chart the bank’s route out of the crisis. Within
a year, he had cut assets by about a third and engineered the
takeover of retail lender  Deutsche Postbank AG. (DPB)  In 2009,
Deutsche Bank was back in the black -- with a profit of 5
billion euros. In October 2010, Krause helped pull off a record
10.2 billion euros capital increase to complete the Postbank
takeover and boost reserves.  These accomplishments have boosted Krause’s chances of
succeeding Ackermann, 63, who since taking over in 2002 has
built Deutsche Bank into  Europe ’s largest investment bank based
on revenue.  On Shortlist  Though Ackermann’s contract runs until the spring of 2013,
the Swiss native may leave earlier and could designate a
successor by the end of this year, according to people familiar
with the matter, who say Krause is on the shortlist of internal
candidates along with  Anshu Jain , 48, head of the corporate and
investment bank, and Chief Risk Officer Hugo Banziger, 55, both
of whom have been with the bank for about 15 years.  The succession race has intensified with  Axel Weber , 54,
who stepped down as Bundesbank president in April, joining the
mix as a potential successor or co-CEO. Jain oversees the
business that generated 73 percent of the bank’s revenue in
2010, something analysts say makes him the front-runner.  Banziger’s risk management is credited with helping the
bank avoid taking state aid, making him the second favorite,
analysts say. One of the bank’s goals is to reduce its
dependence on investment banking, a shift in which Krause plays
a leading role. “You should definitely have Krause on your
list,” says  Olaf Kayser , an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Mainz,  Germany . “Krause’s standing in the bank
has risen quickly. He’s shown an ability to grasp the
complexities of the banking world despite his automotive
background.”  Lawsuit Fallout  Whoever succeeds Ackermann will have to deal with continued
fallout from the financial crisis. On Tuesday, the U.S.
government sued the bank for more than $1 billion, claiming it
“repeatedly lied” so that thousands of risky mortgages qualified
for a government insurance program.  A bank spokeswoman,  Renee Calabro , told Bloomberg News by
email that the bank believes the lawsuit’s claims are
“unreasonable and unfair, and we intend to defend against the
action vigorously.”  The suit also names MortgageIT, a firm Deutsche bank bought
in 2007 and shuttered the following year. No individual bank
executives are named in the suit.  Car Guy  At Deutsche Bank, Krause still shows signs of being a car
guy. At the start, he peppered his speech with automotive
analogies, a habit he’s discarded. His office is decorated with
seven model cars, including a Corvette from 1962 -- his birth
year -- a Roy Lichtenstein BMW  art car  and a BMW hydrogen-
powered vehicle. Krause, whose hobbies include kite surfing,
drove a real version of the hydrogen car, which he wasn’t
allowed to park in enclosed areas because it lacks government
safety approval.  Asked about his prospects as Ackermann’s successor, Krause
demurs. “Joe’s contract runs until 2013, so this topic is being
raised way too early,” he says. Ackermann told German newspaper
Welt am Sonntag in April that his replacement doesn’t have to
come from within the company nor need years of banking
experience, signaling his preference for Weber.  Ackermann has given Krause, who was born in  Colombia  of
German parents, added authority by having him oversee the
internal strategy department, which evaluates acquisitions and
investments, a job Ackermann previously handled himself.  Casino Investment  Krause is also charged with salvaging the $3.9 billion
Cosmopolitan Resort & Casino in Las Vegas, which the bank
foreclosed on in 2008, and U.S. and Canadian port operator Maher
Terminals, which the bank values at $2.5 billion.  Krause’s next task is to convince investors that Deutsche
Bank can keep boosting its profits amid new regulations that
require financial institutions to have more capital and to sell
some derivatives via clearinghouses. Deutsche Bank will have to
set aside more reserves for risky assets under new rules
proposed by the Financial Stability Board, a body set up in 2009
by the Group of 20 nations that includes central bankers and
regulators.  Under the rules, Deutsche Bank’s core capital ratio -- a
buffer against possible losses -- may fall to 6.1 percent in
2012 from 8.7 percent as of Dec. 31, according to  Christopher Wheeler , an analyst at  Italy ’s Mediobanca SpA. That would be the
second-lowest level among 29 competitors when calculated to
reflect all of the regulatory changes, Wheeler says.  ‘Low Capital’  By contrast, Swiss bank  UBS AG (UBSN)  would have a ratio of 11.7
percent, Mediobanca estimates. “Deutsche Bank’s low capital is
definitely a challenge,” Wheeler says.  Deutsche Bank also relies more than competitors on borrowed
funds, or leverage, to increase returns. Its assets amounted to
51 times shareholders’ equity as of Sept. 30, up from 48 times
at the end of 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
requirements set by the International Accounting Standards
Board. Only Brussels-based Dexia SA had higher leverage among
Europe’s 15 biggest publicly traded banks.  Deutsche Bank is still trying to absorb three companies it
bought during the past few years: Postbank, which it gained
control of in November in a transaction valued at 6.4 billion
euros; Sal. Oppenheim Group, a wealth management firm that the
bank acquired in March 2010 for 1 billion euros; and ABN Amro
Holding NV’s commercial-banking operations in the Netherlands,
which the bank agreed to buy in October 2009.  Earnings Rise  “Now we have to make this all work in the confines of the
new system,” Krause says.  The acquisitions have helped reduce the dependence on
investment banking by bolstering the relatively stable
businesses of consumer lending, asset and wealth management and
transaction banking. These units accounted for about 29 percent
of pretax profit in 2009. Ackermann aims to boost that share to
more than 40 percent by 2013.  Deutsche Bank on April 28 reported a 17 percent increase in
first-quarter profit to 2.1 billion euros, exceeding analyst
estimates on record earnings at the consumer-banking and asset-
management units.  Investors remain skeptical, pushing the bank’s shares down
18 percent in German trading during the 12 months ended on April
11, to 42.65 euros, which places the company’s market value at
about 40 billion euros. That compares with a 6 percent decline
in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of 48
stocks in the same period.  Ambitious Target  Deutsche Bank wants to increase pretax operating profit to
10 billion euros in 2011 from 2010’s 7 billion euros, helped by
gains in investment banking and consumer lending and at units in
 Asia , according to company reports.  The German lender may report 8.3 billion euros in pretax
profit this year, according to 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
as of April 18.  “The 10 billion-euro target is very ambitious,” says
Peter Braendle, who helps manage about 60 billion Swiss francs
($67 billion) at Swisscanto Asset Management AG in Zurich.
“Investment banking remains very volatile and risky.”  If Ackermann achieves the earnings target, it would set the
stage for an exit at the annual shareholders meeting in May
2012, says  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets.  12-Month Timeline  “I think Deutsche Bank will probably name a successor in
the next 12 months because it wants to avoid a repeat of the
succession crisis we saw the last time around,” Becker says.
The bank’s supervisory board failed to agree on a replacement
when Ackermann was planning to step down in 2009. Instead, it
extended his contract, breaking the deadlock.  While Ackermann is liked by everyone, there isn’t the same
agreement on his potential successor, says Christian Hamann, an
analyst at Hamburger Sparkasse. “That explains why co-CEOs are
being discussed as a potential solution to make everyone
happy,” Hamann says. “Possible combinations include Jain with
Weber or Krause or Banziger.”  Any successor will have to balance the bank’s two roles: On
one hand, it’s a global investment bank that competes with the
likes of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and that gets about three
quarters of its revenue outside its home market; on the other
hand, the 141-year-old institution is Germany’s largest bank,
with ties to small and large business.  Advising Merkel  Deutsche Bank’s CEO is traditionally a key adviser to the
government. Ackermann counseled Chancellor Angela Merkel on the
rescue of property lender Hypo Real Estate Holding AG in 2008 as
well as on the sovereign-debt crisis last year.  The bank’s domestic importance makes some analysts question
whether the Indian-born Jain, who joined from Merrill Lynch &
Co. and doesn’t speak fluent German, will be chosen to succeed
Ackermann. “He’d be a shoo-in if not for political reasons,”
says Piers Brown, a London-based analyst at Evolution Securities
Ltd. The bank’s  supervisory board , which is equally divided
between shareholder and labor representatives, will choose the
successor.  Krause’s background -- and his contacts throughout German
industry, honed while he was at Bayerische Motoren Werke AG --
may boost his attractiveness as a candidate.  The child of German parents whose father imported
Volkswagens to Colombia, Krause grew up on a farm 30 kilometers
(19 miles) outside of Bogota, where he learned to ride horses
and brand cows.  Job in  Ecuador   Krause got the equivalent of a Master in Business
Administration at the University of Wuerzburg in Germany in
1986. He returned to  South America  to work in Ecuador for his
father’s business designing prefabricated homes and went back to
Germany after the venture failed. In 1987, he joined the finance
department at the engineering unit of Munich-based BMW, where he
got a glimpse of top-secret concept cars.  Krause moved to the U.S. in 1993 to work for BMW’s
financial services division, becoming its general manager in
1997. After a stint as head of sales in Europe, he was named, at
the age of 39, BMW’s chief financial officer in 2002, making him
the youngest member ever of the carmaker’s management board.  Krause was a candidate to succeed CEO Helmut Panke, who
left the post in 2006, but lost to production chief  Norbert Reithofer . Krause departed in 2008. Clemens Boersig, chairman of
Deutsche Bank’s supervisory board, who knew Krause from a
business administration association, approached him about
succeeding CFO Anthony Di Iorio when he retired.  Ties to German Business  “Stefan had market experience and financial experience at
BMW,” Di Iorio says. “And he had knowledge of and a
relationship to German business. That was a dimension I couldn’t
provide.”  While Deutsche Bank wrote down bad loans and asset-backed
securities during the financial crisis, it didn’t seek
government money, unlike either Commerzbank AG, Germany’s
second-biggest bank, or UBS. Still, the German firm did benefit
indirectly from actions by governments and central banks to
stabilize markets.  Deutsche Bank tapped the U.S. Federal Reserve for as much
as $55.2 billion on Nov. 13, 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Fed documents released in March in response to a
Freedom of Information Act request by Bloomberg News. The bank
also received $11.8 billion from  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , courtesy of a U.S. government bailout that covered the
insurer’s obligations on its credit-default swaps.  “We would have survived the financial crisis without
government intervention,” Krause says. “We lost our P&L in one
quarter, but we still had capital.”  Krause is aiming to make sure the bank is ready to
withstand any future crises. “The banking world has received a
completely new set of rules,” he says. “Finding a balance
within these new restrictions is the immediate next challenge.”
If he handles it well, Krause could wind up in the driver’s seat
at Deutsche Bank after all.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  