-- 
Novell Antitrust Lawsuit Against Microsoft Revived by Court

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-03T20:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/novell-antitrust-lawsuit-against-microsoft-reinstated-by-court.html
Novell Inc. (NOVL) ’s antitrust lawsuit
against Microsoft Corp., accusing the world’s largest software
maker of undermining Novell’s WordPerfect program, was revived
by a U.S. appeals court in  Virginia .  The federal appeals court in Richmond today said Novell
didn’t give up its right to pursue the lawsuit when it
transferred its claims related to its personal computer
operating system products to Caldera Inc. in 1996.  “Although the underlying lawsuit involves complex issues
of antitrust law, the primary question before us is one of
contract interpretation: whether a 1996 contract between Novell
and a third company divested Novell of its right to bring the
present claim,” Judge Allyson Duncan wrote in the 2-1 decision.  Kevin Kutz , a spokesman for Microsoft, said the company
doesn’t think Novell’s case has any merit.  “We are disappointed with the Fourth’s Circuit’s decision
to reverse in part the district court’s summary judgment ruling
which dismissed these very old claims, although we are pleased
that at this point only one part of one of Novell’s claims
remains,” said in an e-mailed statement.  Ian Bruce, a spokesman for Novell, didn’t immediately
return a phone message and an e-mail message seeking comment.  The lawsuit, filed in 2004, is a byproduct the U.S.
government’s landmark case against Microsoft that was settled
more than eight years ago after the Redmond, Washington-based
company was declared an illegal monopolist.  Novell, which briefly owned WordPerfect in the mid-1990s,
alleged Microsoft’s anticompetitive tactics undermined the
product.  Dissenting Appeals Judge  In a dissent, Judge Clyde Hamilton said U.S. District Judge
J. Frederick Motz in Baltimore correctly dismissed the case last
year.  WordPerfect’s share of the word-processing market fell to
less than 10 percent in 1996 from almost 50 percent in 1990. Its
value dropped from $1.2 billion in May 1994 to $170 million in
1996 when it was sold to Ottawa-based Corel Corp., Novell said.  Novell, which was purchased by Seattle-based Attachmate
Corp. last month, is seeking three times its losses, or as much
as several billion dollars.  Novell settled separate antitrust claims against Microsoft
for $536 million in 2004.  The case is Novell Inc. v.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , 10-1482,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 