-- 
NYSE Chief Meets With Holders to ‘Get Vote Done’ on Takeover

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-03T20:25:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/nyse-chief-meets-with-holders-to-get-vote-done-on-deutsche-boerse-merger.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer
 Duncan Niederauer  said he’s meeting with shareholders almost
every day to build support for the exchange operator’s takeover
by  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   “We’re going to hear them out and see what’s required to
get the vote done on July 7,” he said today during a Bloomberg
Television interview at the Milken Institute Global Conference
in  Los Angeles . “We know shareholder value creation is our No.
1 objective.”  Deutsche Boerse, based in  Frankfurt , agreed to buy NYSE
Euronext of New York on Feb. 15 to create the world’s largest
exchange owner.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , based in New York, and
Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  announced a rival
bid on April 1, which NYSE Euronext directors have twice
rejected. The Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer was valued at $41.85 a share
as of 4:24 p.m. New York time, 7.9 percent more than  Deutsche
Boerse ’s $38.79-a-share agreement.  The “spread between the offers seems quite large even if
it was obvious that one deal was riskier than the other,” Ian McDonald, a Baltimore-based U.S. exchanges analyst at T. Rowe
Price Group Inc., NYSE Euronext’s biggest owner with a 7.3
percent stake on Dec. 31, said in an April 10 interview. He
spoke when the difference between the offers was about 15
percent. “Shareholders can’t and hopefully won’t ignore that,”
he said.  ‘We Should Listen’  “I don’t object to T. Rowe Price or anyone else making
comments like that,” Niederauer said today. “They deserve to
be heard. We should listen to them.”  Nasdaq OMX and ICE said yesterday they intend to take their
offer directly to NYSE Euronext shareholders, turning their
proposal into a hostile bid. The Deutsche Boerse agreement
requires approval from 50 percent of NYSE Euronext owners and 75
percent from Deutsche Boerse. Nasdaq OMX and ICE may only be
able to accumulate a 20 percent stake in the company because
NYSE Euronext’s governing documents prevent investors from
buying more without the board’s approval.  NYSE Euronext’s board rejected the unsolicited offer on
grounds that it would require too much debt and face too many
regulatory hurdles. At the annual shareholder meeting last week,
Chairman Jan-Michiel Hessels called the bid an “empty vessel”
that wouldn’t create as much long-term value as the Deutsche
Boerse offer, which combines the two companies.  Nasdaq OMX and ICE propose splitting NYSE Euronext, with
trading of stocks and options as well as listings going to
Nasdaq OMX and the Liffe futures markets going to ICE. Both
groups have met with the U.S. Justice Department to determine
how they can win antitrust approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  