-- 
NYSE-Deutsche Boerse Merger Favored So Niederauer Can Close Sale: Real M&A

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-05-03T02:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/nyse-deutsche-boerse-merger-favored-so-niederauer-can-close-sale-real-m-a.html
It’s never been cheaper for Duncan Niederauer to buy votes from  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s shareholders to
fend off  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ’s $11.3 billion offer for the
219-year old exchange.  The difference between Nasdaq OMX’s higher bid and NYSE
Euronext’s preferred deal from  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  has narrowed
to $3.07 a share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the smallest gap since Nasdaq OMX made an unsolicited
offer with  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  on April 1. NYSE
Euronext and Deutsche Boerse, mulling financial incentives to
win support, can now top Nasdaq OMX with $805 million in cash,
less than half the cost when the competing bid was announced.  While NYSE Euronext’s directors have rejected the rival
offer twice, its owners last week told Niederauer, the bourse’s
chief executive officer, they aren’t getting enough compensation
from his February agreement to sell the company to  Deutsche
Boerse  for $9.5 billion in stock. Needing at least half of NYSE
Euronext’s holders to back the bid by July, a dividend would
help quell investor dissatisfaction and siphon off interest in
Nasdaq OMX’s cash-and-stock offer, which is currently 7.8
percent higher, according to Haverford Trust Co.  “Sweeten the deal and make it on par with the Nasdaq-ICE
offer,” said Tim Hoyle, director of research at Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust, which manages $6 billion and
owns shares of NYSE Euronext. “The Deutsche Boerse merger with
the New York Stock Exchange is a better deal to build a superior
exchange company, but price matters. Give us a little bit. It
would end the discussion.”  Going Hostile  Nasdaq OMX of  New York  and Atlanta-based ICE said yesterday
they intend to take their offer directly to shareholders,
turning their proposal into a hostile takeover, after NYSE
Euronext Chairman Jan-Michiel Hessels said the bid was an
“empty vessel” and wouldn’t create as much long-term value.  The tender offer is largely symbolic because NYSE
Euronext’s governing documents, mandated by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, prevent investors from accumulating a
20 percent stake in the company without the board’s approval.  Robert Rendine, a spokesman for New York-based NYSE
Euronext, declined to comment on whether the exchange planned to
offer shareholders an increased payout. Deutsche Boerse’s Naomi Kim and Frank De Maria at Nasdaq OMX also declined to comment.
ICE spokeswoman Kelly Loeffler didn’t respond to a phone call.  Deal Terms  In the  Nasdaq  OMX-ICE offer, NYSE Euronext owners will get
0.4069 Nasdaq OMX share, 0.1436 ICE share and $14.24 a share in
cash. The deal currently values each NYSE Euronext share at
$42.26, based on yesterday’s closing stock prices.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext, which announced their
all-stock transaction on Feb. 15, will give shareholders of NYSE
Euronext 0.47 in the combined entity for each share they own.  That deal currently values NYSE Euronext at $39.19 a share,
or $3.07 less than the Nasdaq OMX bid, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE Euronext closed at $40.40 yesterday.  The Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid premium over Deutsche Boerse’s offer
has narrowed from as much as $8.47, or 24 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gap has diminished as Deutsche
Boerse’s shares rallied 6.7 percent since April 1 and the euro
appreciated. In dollars terms, the bourse that traces its roots
back to the Frankfurt Stock Exchange and the  medieval fairs  of
the 11th century has advanced 12 percent over that span.  Financial Incentives  While Niederauer, 51, and Hessels, 68, told shareholders on
April 28 at NYSE Euronext’s annual meeting they haven’t met with
Nasdaq OMX and ICE because their bid isn’t legitimate, four
people with direct knowledge of the matter said last month that
NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse were considering financial
incentives to win support for their offer.  No decisions had been made, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the discussions are private.
If action is taken, it is unclear whether a special dividend or
another form of payment would be made before or after the deal’s
closing and which shareholders would get it.  To beat the Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid by a penny, NYSE Euronext
would have to pay its owners a one-time dividend of $3.08 a
share or persuade Deutsche Boerse to increase its offer by the
same amount in cash at current prices and prevailing exchange
rates. With 261.2 million outstanding shares of NYSE Euronext,
the outlay would equal about $805 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s 59 percent less than on the day Nasdaq OMX and ICE
announced their counter offer, when bridging the gap would have
cost almost $2 billion, the data show.  ‘Plenty of Financing’  “Our expectation is that NYSE-Deutsche Boerse will resolve
this so that full value will be given to the NYSE
shareholders,” said Michael Shinnick, a  South Bend , Indiana-
based  money manager  at Wasatch Advisors Inc., which oversees
$10.5 billion and has invested in NYSE Euronext. “We’re getting
close to what we consider fair value for NYSE. There’s plenty of
financing around for NYSE-Deutsche Boerse to boost their bid.”  NYSE Euronext, which has $351 million in cash, will earn
$2.49 a share this year on a fully diluted basis and pay $1.20 a
share in dividends, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That would leave the exchange with about $337 million
in retained earnings, the data show.  For Charles Rauch, primary credit analyst for NYSE Euronext
at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York, the narrowing gap between the
bids may ultimately mean NYSE Euronext won’t have to offer
anything for its preferred proposal to win shareholder approval.  ‘Keeps Shrinking’  “A special dividend is not a done deal,” he said. “If
the premium keeps shrinking, do they even need to do it?”  Combining NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse would create an
exchange company with operations in 11 countries generating 5.6
billion euros ($8.3 billion) in sales and 869 million euros in
profit annually. Earnings before interest and taxes for the
combined exchange would have been 1.1 billion euros in the year
ending Dec. 31.  For Nasdaq OMX, the deal would give it a monopoly on
listing companies in the U.S., the world’s largest capital
market, and ownership of the New York Stock Exchange, formed in
1792 under a sycamore tree on  Wall Street . ICE would purchase
NYSE Euronext’s Liffe futures markets, while Nasdaq OMX would
keep its U.S. options markets.  One way for NYSE Euronext to end the bidding contest would
be to borrow a “substantial amount” to pay the dividend,
according to a report from Patrick O’Shaughnessy, an analyst for
 St. Petersburg , Florida-based Raymond James Financial Inc.  Credit Ratings  The debt, which Nasdaq OMX alone would have to assume based
on its joint bid with ICE, would undermine Nasdaq OMX’s ability
to keep its investment-grade rating, he said.  Nasdaq OMX, which has $2.15 billion in long-term debt and
$4.79 billion in equity value, is rated Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service, its lowest investment grade, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. NYSE Euronext, with $2.16 billion in
long-term borrowings and a market capitalization of $10.6
billion, is rated A3, or four levels above junk, the data show.  “Our sense is that most NYSE shareholders prefer the
strategic logic of the Deutsche Boerse merger, but are still
uncomfortable with the current value gap,” O’Shaughnessy said
in the note. Taking on a “substantial amount of debt to pay out
a special dividend might effectively end Nasdaq’s ability to
afford the deal,” he wrote.  NYSE Euronext shareholders will vote on the Deutsche Boerse
deal on July 7. Owners controlling at least half of NYSE
Euronext must back the transaction for it to be approved,
compared with 75 percent at Deutsche Boerse.  ‘Rather Low’  All board members of NYSE Euronext won re-election last
week, getting about 80 percent support, according to a
preliminary vote count. That level was “rather low,” said Ted
Allen, head of publications and governance counsel at ISS Proxy
Advisory Services.  NYSE Euronext’s five biggest owners as of Dec. 31 -- T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., BlackRock Inc., State Street Corp.,
Vanguard Group Inc. and  Legg Mason Inc. (LM)  -- controlled 22 percent
of the company’s stock, ISS data show.  Bill Miller , the chief investment officer of Legg Mason
Capital Management Inc. in Baltimore, said April 27 that NYSE
Euronext’s refusal to meet with Nasdaq OMX is inconsistent with
the company’s obligations.  “Given that there have been rumblings to deal with Nasdaq,
anything that boosts the Deutsche Boerse bid now would help
quell that,” said Jeff Middleswart, who owns about 18,000
shares of NYSE Euronext and 30,000 shares of Nasdaq OMX as
president of Behind the Numbers LLC in  Dallas . “As long as
they’re within shouting distance, then NYSE can make the case
why we think this is a better bid, for reasons one through nine.
That would take some of the steam away from Nasdaq.”  Overall, there have been 8,215 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $823.5 billion, a 25 percent increase from
the $657.4 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Nagi at   chrisnagi@bloomberg.net . 