-- 
Obama Says Bin Laden’s Death Leaves World a ‘Better Place,’ Risks Remain

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T17:42:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/obama-says-bin-laden-s-death-leaves-world-a-better-place-risks-remain.html
President  Barack Obama  declared the
world a “better place” one day after announcing the death of
Osama bin Laden, even as the U.S. and its allies were on guard
against possible retaliation by al-Qaeda sympathizers.  Obama’s counterterrorism adviser,  John Brennan , called the
death of the world’s most hunted terrorist a “defining moment”
in the struggle against terrorism. Still, the administration
warned that al-Qaeda continues to pose a threat and the U.S.
issued travel alerts for Americans abroad, while potential U.S.
targets were placed on alert.  “We’re hoping to bury the rest of al-Qaeda along with bin
Laden,” Brennan said at a briefing yesterday. “This does not
mean that we are putting down our guard as far as al-Qaeda is
concerned. It may be a mortally wounded tiger that still has
some life in it, and it’s dangerous, and we need to keep up the
pressure.”  Bin Laden  was killed May 1 by U.S. commandos in a raid in
Pakistan almost 10 years after orchestrating the Sept. 11, 2001,
attacks in which terrorists hijacked four commercial airlines,
flying two of them into the  World Trade Center  towers in  New
York  and one into the  Pentagon  in Arlington,  Virginia , just
across the Potomac River from the nation’s capital. The fourth
plane crashed in a  field  in rural  Pennsylvania  after the
passengers attempted to overpower the hijackers. Almost 3,000
people were killed.  ‘Good Day’  “I think we can all agree this is a good day for
America,” Obama said yesterday. “Our country has kept its
commitment to see that justice is done. The world is safer, it
is a better place because of the death of  Osama bin Laden .”  Cheering crowds gathered spontaneously outside the White
House in Washington and at the  World Trade Center site  in New
York when word of bin Laden’s death was announced. Obama plans
to go to New York on May 5 to meet with families of those who
died in the Sept. 11 attacks, an administration official said.  An overnight  poll  by the Pew Research Center and the
Washington Post found that 72 percent of people in the U.S.
described themselves as “relieved” by the killing of bin Laden
and 60 percent reported feeling proud.  View of Obama  Obama also was viewed more favorably after the raid, with
56 percent saying they approved of the job he was doing and 38
percent disapproving. By comparison, a survey a month earlier
found 47 percent approved and 45 percent disapproving, according
to Pew.  The survey was conducted May 2 among 654 adults and has a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points.  Obama also spoke yesterday with seven world leaders about
the killing of bin Laden and the continued fight against
terrorism, including U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and
Mexican President Felipe Calderon, according to a White House
statement.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell for a second day,
dropping 0.5 percent to 1,354.86 at 1:34 p.m. in New York. Oil
for June delivery fell 87 cents to $112.65 a barrel at 11:39
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Pakistan ’s government released a statement expressing its
“deep concerns and reservations” about how the U.S. carried
out the raid without informing Pakistani officials.  Cooperation  “This event of unauthorized unilateral action cannot be
taken as a rule,” the statement said. With U.S. lawmakers
questioning how bin Laden could have hidden so near the
Pakistani capital and in a town dominated by the nation’s army,
the statement said that Pakistan “has been extending full and
proper cooperation on all counterterrorism efforts.”  With bin Laden dead, U.S. counterterrorism officials will
turn their attention to potential successors, such as Ayman al- Zawahiri, al-Qaeda’s No. 2 leader. Another possible candidate is
Anwar al-Awlaki, who has been tied to several terrorist attacks,
including the incident in which a Nigerian is suspected of
trying to blow up a Detroit-bound plane in 2009.  Zawahiri, who teamed with bin Laden in the 1980s in the
fight against the  Soviet Union ’s occupation of  Afghanistan , may
be even more difficult to find, since he is known for blending
in with the masses in Pakistan. The U.S. is offering a $25
million reward for information leading to his apprehension or
conviction.  Continuing Danger  U.S. and other Western officials emphasized that the danger
from terrorism hasn’t diminished -- and it may increase as
extremists are prodded to action by bin Laden’s death.  “Though bin Laden is dead, al-Qaeda is not,” CIA director
Leon Panetta, who oversaw the mission to kill bin Laden, said in
a statement sent to agency employees. “The terrorists almost
certainly will attempt to avenge him, and we must -- and will --
remain vigilant and resolute.”  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen, while calling
the killing of bin Laden “a significant success,” said in a
statement from alliance headquarters in Brussels that
“terrorism continues to pose a direct threat to our security.”  The State Department issued an alert to U.S. citizens
traveling or living abroad about potential anti-American
violence as a result of the raid.  Security was heightened across the U.S. and at government
installations worldwide. Protection around the U.S. consulate in
Karachi, Pakistan, was increased, with police and paramilitary
forces taking positions and setting up check posts outside the
building.  Transit Systems  In the nation’s capital, riders on the  Washington 
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, or Metro, saw more
uniformed officers yesterday. Transit police, along with other
 law enforcement  in the area, have increased security “as a
precautionary measure related to the death of bin Laden,” Metro
spokeswoman Lisa Farbstein said in a recorded voice message.  New York City Police Commissioner  Raymond Kelly  ordered
increased police presence in the  subway system  during the
morning rush hour and directed all officers to “remain alert,”
said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the department.  Brennan and other administration officials yesterday drew a
more complete picture of the 40-minute raid on bin Laden’s
Pakistan compound by a U.S. special forces team. They described
an almost 10-year hunt for bin Laden that broke when they
tracked a trusted al-Qaeda courier to a compound in Abbottabad,
a small city that is about 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the
capital, Islamabad, and is home to a number of retired Pakistani
military officers as well as the country’s military academy.  Planning the Raid  Once additional intelligence indicated a high likelihood
that bin Laden might be at the compound, Obama and his national
security team met repeatedly to plan the U.S. action.  And even though he lacked specific and definitive
intelligence placing the al-Qaeda leader in the house, the
president gave the final go-ahead the morning of April 29.  The president monitored the operation in real time with his
advisers from the White House Situation Room on May 1. Brennan
described it as an “anxiety-filled” period, where the
“minutes passed like days.” Obama was told of the initial
identification just after 7 p.m. Sunday night and later was
shown a photograph of the scene, an administration official
said.  “We got him,” Obama said, according to Brennan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  