-- 
Obama Seeks Comity With Lawmakers After Killing of Bin Laden

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-03T01:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/obama-seeks-comity-with-lawmakers-after-killing-of-bin-laden-1-.html
President  Barack Obama  welcomed
congressional leaders and their spouses to the White House
tonight, the day after the death of Osama  bin Laden  was
announced, for a previously scheduled dinner to improve the
relationship between the administration and Congress.  The president, joined in the East Room by more than 100
members of Congress and administration officials, along with
their spouses, said the successful military operation against
bin Laden “brought us together as an American family.”  “It is my fervent hope that we can harness some of that
unity and some of that pride to confront the many challenges
that we still face,” he said.  Later this week Vice President  Joe Biden  is to begin
discussions with members of Congress on legislation to raise the
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling and a long-term plan to trim the
 budget deficit .  Obama has outlined a plan to reduce the deficit by $4
trillion over 12 years through a combination of spending cuts
and tax increases. A Republican alternative aims to trim the
long-term budget shortfall largely through spending cuts of more
than $6 trillion over a decade.  Senate and House leaders from both parties attended the
dinner along with the senior members of many congressional
committees.  Obama said the killing of bin Laden created the same
“sense of unity” that prevailed in the nation after the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks, a unity that he said had “frayed” in the
intervening years.  Return of Bipartisanship?  “I hope the sentiments we witnessed after 9/11 and the
bipartisanship will return now that we have worked together in
this global manhunt,” Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the
chamber’s No. 2 Democrat, said before the dinner. “It would
sure be helpful to have both parties working together.”  Democrats and Republicans alike praised Obama and his
national security team for killing the al-Qaeda leader, who had
come to embody Islamic extremism and defined the U.S. fight
against global terrorism. Almost 3,000 people were killed in the
attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, when four passenger jets were
hijacked by followers of bin Laden. Two were flown into the
 World Trade Center  towers in New York City and one into the
 Pentagon  in Arlington,  Virginia , just across the Potomac River
from the nation’s capital; the fourth crashed in a field in
 Shanksville, Pennsylvania , after passengers attempted to
overcome the hijackers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  