-- 
Ohio River Sets New Record, Mississippi Waters Still Rising

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-03T13:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ohio-river-sets-new-record-mississippi-waters-still-rising.html
The  Ohio River  is at record heights
even as it has begun to fall in Cairo,  Illinois , and shipping in
the area is drifting to a stop, according to federal officials.  The river reached a crest of 61.72 feet late yesterday,
more than 2 feet above the previous record of 59.5 set in
February 1937, according to the  National Weather Service .  The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers yesterday blew up a levee
downstream from Cairo, relieving pressure from the rising waters
in the city where the  Ohio  joins the Mississippi, said David
Humphrey, lead forecaster for the weather service in Paducah,
 Kentucky .  “We’re at near-historic levels all along the Ohio,”
Humphrey said. “This is wet season. Spring flood happens every
year, but not like this.”  In addition to damaging homes and businesses, floods can
disrupt shipping by closing locks along rivers, delay planting
in agricultural areas and kill livestock. In 2008 and 2009,
flooding along the  Mississippi  and Red rivers caused billions of
dollars in damage, killed thousands of stock animals and drove
thousands of families from their homes.  Parts of the Ohio, Cumberland, Tennessee and Mississippi
rivers are currently closed to shipping because of safety
concerns or because the locks and dams along the waterways have
shut down, said  U.S. Coast Guard  Commander Doug Simpson.  “Nobody from the Cumberland and Tennessee basins can get
to the Ohio River right now,” Simpson said.  Shipping Affected  Shipping has also been affected by the Corps of Engineers’
decision to blow up the Birds Point Levee, flooding about
130,000 acres of farmland and 100 homes in Missouri.  “In order to ensure the safety of vessels in the area we
have the confluence of the Mississippi and Ohio closed right
now,” Simpson said.  Residents of Obion County in  Tennessee  were told to prepare
to leave their homes if the  rivers in the area  continue to rise,
according to the weather service. In  Louisiana , Governor Bobby Jindal declared an emergency last week in anticipation of the
flood waters eventually reaching that far south.  The Mississippi in  Baton Rouge , Louisiana, is at 34.8 feet,
just below the 35-foot mark considered flood stage by the
weather service. It is expected to rise to at least 38 feet by
the weekend, according to weather service forecasts.  Currently, 254 river gauges in the Midwest and U.S.
Northeast are showing some flooding, according to the weather
service.  Mississippi Rising  The flood waters on the Ohio will enter the Mississippi,
elevating flood risk. The Mississippi at New Madrid,  Missouri ,
is at 46.54 feet and is expected to rise to a record of 50 feet
later this week. The old record of 48 feet was set in 1937,
according to the weather service.  Humphrey said while there is a threat of rain in the
forecast for the next five days, heavy rainfall isn’t expected.  The 6- to 10-day outlook from  Commodity Weather Group LLC 
calls for below-normal rain in the southern U.S., including the
Mississippi River valley.  “These areas will be drier over the next 10 days, helping
to ease the severity of flooding a bit for cotton, rice, soft
wheat and corn in the region,” CWG said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  