-- 
Oil Drops on Economic Growth Concern as Bin Laden Death Boosts Volatility

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-05-03T12:28:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/oil-drops-on-economic-growth-concern-as-bin-laden-death-boosts-volatility.html
Oil dropped for a second day in  New
York  on signs growth in the  U.S. economy  may slow, while traders
prepared for further price swings on concern the death of Osama bin Laden will spark retaliatory attacks by terrorists.  Crude, which touched a 2 1/2-year high yesterday, fell as
much as 1.4 percent after the Institute for Supply Management’s
manufacturing index declined to the lowest in four months. U.S.
crude stockpiles rose last week from the highest since November,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. Oil options volatility increased after news of
the al-Qaeda leader’s death.  “U.S. oil demand is pretty soft as high prices are clearly
having a dampening effect,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “There’s no reason why the risk
premium should decline lastingly on bin Laden’s death. War in
Libya and unrest in the Middle East has been more important than
terrorism fears.”  Oil for June delivery dropped as much as $1.61 to $111.91 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract was at $112.40 at 1:21 p.m. London time.
Yesterday, it lost 0.4 percent to $113.52 after earlier reaching
$114.83, the highest since September 2008. Futures have gained
30 percent in the past year.  Brent crude  for June settlement on the ICE Futures Europe
Exchange in London fell as much as $2.24, or 1.8 percent, to
$122.88 a barrel. Yesterday, it dropped 0.6 percent to $125.12.  Price Swings  Oil in New York yesterday declined as much as 2.7 percent,
the most in two weeks, after  bin Laden  was killed in Pakistan,
before rebounding 0.8 percent. Implied volatility for at-the-
money options expiring in June, a measure of expected price
swings in futures and a gauge of options prices, was 28 percent
today, up from 26.2 percent April 29.  “Following the initial emotional response to bin Laden’s
death, markets soon snapped back to reality,” economists at
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. led by  Warren Hogan 
wrote in a note today. “There are now concerns that retaliatory
attacks could occur, and this has seen  oil prices  recoup most of
their early losses.”  Bin Laden encouraged attacks on oil facilities as a way to
damage the U.S. and European economies. Crude infrastructure in
 Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s largest reserves, was
targeted by al-Qaeda from 2002 as it sought to bring down the
ruling al-Saud family. Saudi Arabian forces foiled the biggest
attempted attack in 2006 on the Abqaiq oil-processing center,
which handles two-thirds of the kingdom’s supply.  Rising Streak  Crude has advanced this year as unrest in the Middle East
and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt and spread
to  Libya , Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen. Oil in
New York has increased for eight months, the longest rising
streak on record.  Brent, the European benchmark, traded at a premium of
$11.51 a barrel to U.S. futures. The difference between front-
month contracts in London and New York surged to a record $19.54
on Feb. 21. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  An Energy Department report tomorrow may show crude
stockpiles climbed 3 million barrels from 363.1 million last
week, according to the median estimate from seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The ISM’s manufacturing index declined to 60.4 last month
from 61.2 in March, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said
yesterday. That’s the lowest reading this year.  Credit Suisse cut its estimate of  China ’s economic growth
for this year and 2012 after the nation’s Purchasing Managers’
Index slipped to 52.9, below the median forecast of 53.9 in a
Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists. The country is the
world’s second-largest crude consumer, after the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  