-- 
Orders Placed With U.S. Factories Climb More Than Forecast

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-03T14:15:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/orders-placed-with-u-s-factories-increase-more-than-forecast.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories rose
more than forecast in March on increasing demand for machinery
and computers that points to further gains in business spending.  Bookings for manufacturers’ goods climbed 3 percent, a fifth
consecutive increase, after a 0.7 percent February advance, the
Commerce Department said today in Washington. The report also
revised up estimates for capital equipment bookings issued last
week.  Exports to emerging economies like  China , investing in new
equipment and the need to increase stockpiles are driving the
factory rebound at the forefront of the recovery.  Federal Reserve 
policy makers last week said the expansion was “proceeding at a
moderate pace,” boosted by stronger business spending.  “Manufacturing did pretty well in March,” said  Michael
Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .
“Momentum picked up a little bit toward the end of the quarter,
driven by exports, solid capital spending and inventories.”  Stocks pared earlier losses after the report. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,359.95 at 10:09 a.m. in
New York.  Treasury securities  were little changed.  The median forecast of 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 2 percent increase in orders after a previously
reported 0.1 percent decline in February. Estimates ranged from
gains of 0.8 percent to 3.5 percent.  Emerging Markets  Demand from fast-growing countries like China and  Brazil  is
spurring U.S. exports of machinery and consumer goods. Sales
overseas reached the highest level on record in January before
falling in February for the first time in six months.  A report yesterday showed factories continued to expand last
month. Manufacturing grew faster than forecast, driven by gains
in exports and inventories. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index fell to 60.4 last month from 61.2 in March, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group said. Readings greater than 50 signal
expansion and the measure has exceeded 60 for four consecutive
months, the best performance since 2004.  Orders for durable goods, which make up almost half of total
factory demand, increased a revised 2.9 percent in March, up from
a 2.5 percent gain reported last week, today’s figures showed.  Demand for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, climbed 4.1
percent, exceeding the 3.7 percent gain estimated last week in
the Commerce Department’s report on durable goods. The February
increase was also revised up to 0.9 percent from 0.5 percent.  Business Investment  Shipments of such equipment, which are used in calculating
gross domestic product, increased 2.3 percent after a 0.5 percent
gain in February, also up from last week’s estimates.  Business investment in equipment and software climbed at a
12 percent annual rate in the first quarter after a 7.7 percent
gain in the last three months of 2010, the Commerce Department
reported last week in the GDP report.  Excluding transportation equipment, where demand tends to be
volatile, orders rose 2.6 percent in March, today’s report
showed. Orders for machinery rose 4.4 percent, and increased 12
percent for computers.  Bookings for non-durable goods, including petroleum and
chemicals, climbed 3.1 percent in March, which may reflect higher
food costs and fuel costs, today’s report showed.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, posted first-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates and raised its full-year earnings forecast as sales
surged in  developing countries .  Global Growth  “We expect that the pace of world economic growth will
support continued recovery in the key industries we serve,”  Doug Oberhelman , chief executive officer at Caterpillar, said in a
statement last week.  Columbus, Indiana-based  Cummins Inc. (CMI) , a maker of  diesel
engines , more than doubled its first-quarter income from a year
earlier and boosted its forecasts for sales and profit this year.  “Our first-quarter results reflect continued strong growth
in key international markets, especially China, India and
Brazil,” Chief Executive Officer Tim Solso said in a conference
call last week. “We are seeing significant growth in demand for
our products and services in nearly every geographic market we
serve.”  Japan ’s March 11 earthquake and subsequent nuclear crisis
have affected some producers more than others.  Japan Disaster  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s largest carmaker, posted a
32 percent gain in U.S. sales in March while Japan’s Toyota Motor
Corp. reported a monthly decline. Japan’s Nissan Motor Co. and
Honda Motor Co. both posted sales gains even as they braced for
the full effect of the earthquake, which is still disrupting auto
and parts production.  U.S. auto sales fell in March to a 13.06 million annual pace
from 13.38 million in February, which was the most in 18 months,
according to industry data.  The business spending that helped lead the economy out of
recession is being helped this year in part by President Barack Obama’s compromise at the end of last year with congressional
Republicans on taxes. Companies can depreciate 100 percent of
investments in capital equipment in 2011.  “Household spending and business investment in equipment
and software continue to expand,” Fed policy makers said last
week after their policy meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  