-- 
Property Slowdown Sees Lend Lease Default Swaps Surge: Australia Credit

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-05-04T07:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/housing-slowdown-sees-lend-lease-swaps-surge-australia-credit.html
The cost of insuring debt of  Lend
Lease Group (LLC) , Australia’s biggest construction company, has
doubled relative to Asia-Pacific developers in the past year as
the highest interest rates in the developed world take a bite
out of  house prices  and slow construction of new homes.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Lend Lease’s bonds rose
46 basis points since May 2010 to 185 basis points, compared
with an 8 basis-point rise for an index of 12 developers and
construction companies in the region, CMA prices show. Moody’s
Investors Service said last month it may cut the credit rating
of  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , Australia’s largest engineering
company, as poor weather delays projects and labor shortages
affect the industry.  While concerns property prices will crash have abated,
 interest rates  at 4.75 percent compared with near zero in the
U.S. are slowing growth in a housing market identified by
Demographia as the least affordable in the English-speaking
world. Australian  home prices  dropped 1.7 percent in the three
months to March, the biggest decline since the third quarter of
2008, a report showed this week. Building approvals fell in
February for a second straight month.  “Throughout the development and construction process there
can easily be changes in cost pressures,” said Ben Byrne,
Sydney-based credit analyst at Nomura Australia Ltd. “External
influences such as weather or natural disasters, contract risk
or a change in market conditions and valuations can negatively
impact on the profitability of projects.”  Floods, Cyclones  Construction work delayed by floods and cyclones, record
levels of employment pushing wages higher and rising interest
rates constraining demand for new homes are taking their toll on
Australian developers, Byrne said.  Shares in the Standard & Poor’s/ASX 200 Real Estate Index,
which includes  Lend Lease , have dropped 3.7 percent over the
past 12 months, compared with a 1.4 percent advance for the
wider S&P/ASX 200 index.  Sydney-based Leighton said last month that weather and
planning issues caused cost overruns and delays on two projects
and forecast A$907 million ($986 million) in writedowns and
impairments in the year ending June 30, leading to a net loss of
A$427 million.  Concerns that Leighton’s troubles may spread to Lend Lease
may affect perceptions of the company’s creditworthiness,
Maurice O’Connell, senior analyst at Moody’s, said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Degree of Contagion’  “There is a degree of contagion there,” O’Connell said.
The engineering and construction “sector as a whole faces
increased project execution challenges over the next few years”
for reasons including “the tight contract market in
Australia,” O’Connell wrote in a note last month.  Iwona Polski, Lend Lease’s communications manager, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens boosted
the benchmark lending rate by 175 basis points to 4.75 percent
from early October 2009 to November last year to contain
inflation as a mining-investment boom drove unemployment below 5
percent, almost half the U.S.’s 8.8 percent.  That’s helped the nation’s currency soar 20 percent in the
past 12 months to $1.0855 as of 5:04 p.m. in Sydney today, after
surpassing $1.10 this week, the highest level since the so-
called Aussie began trading freely in 1983.  Ten-year government bond yields were little changed today
at 5.40 percent, or 216 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries.  Bond Risk  Credit-default swaps on Lend Lease, builder of a A$6
billion financial precinct in Sydney, have been the most
expensive among regional peers since Jan. 7, when they rose
higher than Singapore-based CapitaLand Ltd., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Contracts on Lend Lease, rated BBB- by S&P, the lowest
investment-grade rank, are 75 basis points more expensive than
the regional average for developers, compared with a gap of 34 a
year ago, the data show.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Lend Lease, which derives 77 percent of its income from
construction and development projects, faces more risks than
local peers such as Stockland, which gets most of its revenue
from managing properties and collecting rents, said Byrne.  The cost of protecting Sydney-based Stockland’s bonds from
default rose 35 basis points to 155 in the past year, CMA prices
show. The Markit iTraxx  Australia  index, the nation’s bond risk
benchmark which typically rises when investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves, increased 17 to 104.5 in
the same period, according to CMA.  Valemus Acquisition  Lend Lease agreed to buy Bilfinger Berger SE’s Australian
division Valemus Ltd. for A$1.06 billion in December, obtaining
a new five-year A$225 million debt facility to help fund the
acquisition, according to regulatory filings.  The extra yield investors demand to own the company’s 300
million pounds ($497 million) of 6.125 percent bonds maturing
October 2021 instead of similar-maturity government debt has
fallen 7 basis points this year to 316 basis points, according
to iBoxx prices.  While the company is managing its risks, it still faces a
“challenging operating outlook” across key markets, Paul Draffin, an S&P analyst wrote in a note in December. The debt-
funded purchase of Valemus “will absorb most of the group’s
debt capacity at the BBB- rating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  