-- 
Toyota, Honda Post U.S. Sales Gains Before Japan Earthquake Cut Production

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-05-04T02:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/toyota-honda-increase-u-s-sales-less-than-industry-ahead-of-quake-effect.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co.,
the automakers hardest hit by Japan’s record earthquake, managed
U.S. sales gains in April that may be their last for a few
months.  The increases, reported yesterday, trailed the industrywide
surge of 18 percent from a year earlier. Sales rose 1.3 percent
at Toyota, Japan’s largest carmaker, and 9.8 percent at Tokyo-
based Honda. Nissan Motor Co. posted a 12 percent gain, and
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  said its sales jumped 40 percent.  “The fact Toyota was essentially only flat in April is an
indication of what’s to come,” said  Jesse Toprak , vice
president of industry trends at TrueCar.com in  Santa Monica ,
 California , a website that tracks sales and price trends. “In
terms of the supply situation, this is only the beginning.”  Japan ’s March 11 quake and tsunami hobbled assembly work at
Toyota and Honda, with both estimating they won’t fully restore
worldwide production until this year’s fourth quarter. While
most global automakers reported some effect on operations from
disruptions at Japan-based parts suppliers, the output
reductions for Toyota and Honda have been the steepest and left
them unable to meet rebounding U.S. demand.  Industrywide April sales rose to 1.16 million cars and
light trucks from 982,134 a year earlier, according to Autodata
Corp. U.S. consumer confidence rose more than forecast in April,
signaling that six straight months of job growth are helping
Americans endure the highest fuel prices in almost three years.  Job Growth  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each representing
two ordinary shares, fell 47 cents to $79.69 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Honda’s ADRs, each
representing one ordinary share, fell 47 cents to $38.67 in New
York. Markets in  Tokyo  are closed today for a national holiday.  Hyundai fell 1,500 won, or 0.6 percent, to 240,500 won at
10:35 a.m. in  Seoul  trading.  U.S. sales for Japanese and South Korean auto brands rose
14 percent to 520,306 vehicles. Their combined market share fell
to about 45 percent from 47 percent a year earlier as they
failed to keep pace with the industry’s April U.S. sales
increase.  Among U.S.-based automakers, sales rose 26 percent for
 General Motors Co. (GM) , 13 percent for  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and 22 percent
for Chrysler Group LLC. In part because of the earthquake, GM is
poised this year to reclaim the title of world’s biggest
automaker from Toyota, which has held the crown since 2008.  ‘Double Hit’  Regular unleaded gasoline rose 37 percent in the past year
to $3.97 a gallon as of May 2, according to the American
Automobile Association. The peak was $4.11 in July 2008.  Toyota and Honda are unable to take full advantage of
rising demand for the types of fuel-efficient models that
consumers associate with the two companies, Toprak said.  “They’re getting a double hit,” he said. “We have a
recovery in overall demand that they’re missing out on, and
demand, particularly for very efficient models, is rising and
they don’t have inventory.”  Randy Pflughaupt, a group vice president for Toyota’s U.S.
unit, said on a conference call yesterday that it’s “somewhat
of a reality” that the Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker faces
limited vehicle supplies in May, June and July.  Limited Inventory  “While our current dealer supply of vehicles remains
adequate, we know that production constraints may start to
affect sales into the summer months,” John Mendel, Honda’s U.S.
executive vice president, said in a statement.  Toyota sold 159,540 Toyota, Lexus and Scion models in April,
up from 157,439 a year earlier. Camry sedan sales rose 9.1
percent, while shrinking inventory led to a 0.6 percent decline
for Prius hybrids. Corolla, the best-selling small car, also had
a decrease, which Pflughaupt blamed on limited supply.  “We’re feeling the crimp in some sense already,” he said.  Bob Carter , Toyota’s group vice president for U.S. sales,
said the company’s 47-day supply of vehicles at the start of May
varies by model. Prius has a less than 10-day supply.  At the start of the year, Toyota anticipated boosting U.S.
sales by 10 percent or more. Following the earthquake and its
disruption of operations, the company isn’t able to estimate
annual deliveries, Carter said.  Small Cars, Hybrids  Because of its limited supply of vehicles, Toyota this
month has trimmed incentives, dropping no-interest loan offers,
limiting 1.9 percent loans to only a few models and providing a
cash discount solely on Tundra large pickups, Carter said.  Toyota’s 1.3 percent sales gain compares with an average
estimate of a 1.4 percent increase by analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company’s U.S. market share for April tumbled 2.2
percentage points from a year earlier to 13.8 percent, according
to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata.  Honda sold 124,799 Honda and Acura vehicles, rising from
113,697. Models with gains included Civic small cars, CR-V
compact sport-utility vehicles, and Insight and CR-Z hybrids.  The company this week said supplies of the 2012 Civic line
that went on sale in late April probably would be limited during
the next few months as it works to restore inventories of parts
affected by the earthquake.  Honda’s 9.8 percent sales gain was less than a 14 percent
increase, the average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Its U.S. market share was about 11 percent, a decline from about
12 percent in April 2010, Autodata said.  Opportunity for Nissan  Nissan sold 71,526 Nissan and Infiniti autos in April, up
from 63,769 a year earlier. The Yokohama, Japan-based company’s
gains came from Sentra small cars, Altima sedans and Juke
compact crossovers.  Nissan canceled some North American production since the
March quake and expects operations to return to normal levels by
late May or early June, said David Reuter, a company spokesman.  Given the situation at Toyota and Honda, “I smell market-
share gains,”  Al Castignetti , vice president of U.S. Nissan-
brand sales, said in an interview. “It’s obviously an
opportunity for us.”  Nissan’s 12 percent sales gain missed the average estimate
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg of a 33 percent increase.
Nissan’s market share was 6.2 percent last month, compared with
6.5 percent a year earlier, according to Autodata.  Separately, Nissan yesterday was chosen to supply  New
York ’s next fleet of yellow taxi cabs, a deal city officials
valued at $1 billion over 10 years.  Nissan beat out proposals from two other finalists in the
“Taxi of Tomorrow” competition: Ford and Karsan Otomotiv
Sanayi & Ticaret AS of  Turkey . Nissan’s NV200 minivan will
become the new standard, eventually replacing the city’s 13,237-
car fleet, which now consists of 16 models.  Hyundai, Kia  Hyundai, based in Seoul, sold 61,754 cars and trucks, an
April record and up from 44,023 a year earlier. The increase was
led by deliveries of the revamped Elantra small car and the
Sonata sedan. The automaker’s market share rose 0.8 percentage
point to 5.3 percent.  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , Hyundai’s Seoul-based affiliate, boosted
April sales 57 percent to 47,074 vehicles, a record for any
month, on increases for Optima sedans and Forte small cars. Kia
gained 1 percentage point of market share, to 4.1 percent.  The South Korean automakers, which operate separately, sold
a combined 108,828 vehicles last month, a record.  Hyundai, Kia, Nissan, Ford, GM and Volkswagen AG all may
benefit from tight supplies at Toyota and Honda, Toprak said.  Subaru, the auto brand of Japan’s  Fuji Heavy Industries
Ltd. (7270) , said deliveries grew 6.7 percent.  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  raised
sales 9 percent, and  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  and  Suzuki Motor
Corp. (7269)  had respective gains of 106 percent and 9.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net  