-- 
Ozzy Osbourne Says He’s ‘Lucky To Be Alive’ After Decades of Debauchery

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-03T02:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ozzy-osbourne-lucky-to-be-alive-after-decades-of-debauchery.html
“I’m lucky to be alive,” Ozzy Osbourne told reporters at  New York ’s  Tribeca Film Festival ,
where a documentary on his life was making its world premiere.  He wasn’t exaggerating.  During his heyday as a heavy-metal star, Osbourne guzzled
enough booze and ingested enough drugs to kill himself several
times over. His decadent lifestyle made Keith Richards look like
a choirboy.  “A lot of the friends I used to party with are dead,”
Osbourne, 62, said at last week’s press conference. “I’m not
proud that I did all those things, but it’s part of my journey.
I can’t deny it.”  “ God Bless Ozzy Osbourne ,” co-produced by his son Jack,
is a startlingly candid look at the life of the rock legend who
once bit the head off a bat onstage.  The film follows Osbourne from his childhood in a working-
class section of Birmingham,  England , to his early stardom as
the lead singer for Black Sabbath, his collaboration with
influential guitarist Randy Rhoads and his failed first
marriage.  It also chronicles his personal and career revival, both
engineered by his second wife Sharon, who starred with Ozzy and
their kids in a popular reality show.  That was years after he defecated on a hotel room floor in
front of Motley Crue drummer Tommy Lee and smeared the stuff on
the wall. Unsurprisingly, he had shortcomings as a parent.  Skipping Rope  Asked what he learned from watching the film, Osbourne
replied: “What an asshole I’ve been in the past. When you’re in
the middle of it, you don’t realize you’re as bad as you are.”  Osbourne still has shoulder-length hair, a thick accent and
a vocabulary filled with unprintable words. However, his
renegade image has given way to a life that’s sober and
relatively tranquil. He’s currently in the middle of a world
tour, but when he’s home in  Los Angeles  he relaxes by painting,
listening to music and watching TV.  When he’s on the road, he stays in shape by skipping rope
and riding a stationary bike. And he recently got his first
driver’s license.  “I just got fed up with being messed up all the time,”
Osbourne said. “It just wasn’t fun anymore.”  Jack Osbourne, one of Ozzy’s six children, says he made the
film to “set the record straight” about his father.  “I’ve always heard the same stories from my mom and dad,
so I wanted to interview other people and get more of a three-
dimensional story,” said Jack, who attended the press
conference with his father and the film’s co-directors, Mike
Fleiss and Mike Piscitelli.  McCartney’s Praise  One unexpected admirer of Osbourne is  Paul McCartney , not
someone normally associated with heavy metal. McCartney is
interviewed in the film, along with Lee, Metallica bass player
Robert Trujillo, former Red Hot Chili Peppers guitarist John Frusciante and onetime Black Sabbath band mates Bill Ward, Tony Iommi and Gerry “Geezer” Butler.  Lee used to moon his audiences and once made a sex tape
with then-wife Pamela Anderson, but he admits he couldn’t keep
up with Osbourne’s antics.  “I wasn’t ready to compete on his level,” he says in the
film.  Bloomberg LP, which owns Bloomberg News, is a sponsor of
the Tribeca Film Festival.  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in New York at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 