-- 
Paper Seller Unlawfully Killed During Protests, Jury Says

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-05-03T17:54:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/paper-seller-unlawfully-killed-during-g-20-protests-jury-rules.html
Newspaper seller Ian Tomlinson was
unlawfully killed by a police officer during the April 2009 G-20
protests in  London , a coroner’s inquest found today.  A jury at the  inquest  into Tomlinson’s death said today
that a policeman used “excessive and unreasonable force” when
he hit Tomlinson and shoved him to the ground, a court official
said.  Tomlinson died shortly after he was videotaped being pushed
to the ground by police constable Simon Harwood, who was
controlling crowds at protests near the  Bank of England .
Tomlinson hadn’t been involved in the demonstrations and was
heading home when he found his way blocked by police.  Coroner’s inquests can come to a limited number of
verdicts: death by accident, suicide, unlawful killing, lawful
killing or industrial disease. If there is insufficient evidence
for any of those, they record an “open verdict.” They can
either be heard with a jury or a coroner sitting alone.  Rose Fitzpatrick, deputy assistant commissioner for the
Metropolitan Police Service, said in a  statement  that it was “a
matter of deep regret that the actions of an MPS officer have
been found to have caused the death of a member of the public.”  Harwood said in a statement issued by his lawyers that he
was sorry about Tomlinson’s death.  “In particular, he wishes that he had known then all that
he now knows about Mr. Tomlinson’s movements and fragile state
of health,” the e-mailed statement issued on his behalf by
Reynolds Dawson Solicitors said. “PC Harwood did not intend, or
foresee at the time, that his push would cause Mr. Tomlinson to
fall over, let alone that it would result in any injury.”  The  Crown Prosecution Service  said in an e-mailed statement
that it would review whether to prosecute anyone over the death.
Last year, the department had decided against bringing a case.  “The review will be conducted as quickly as is compatible
with the care and rigor required in a thorough exercise,” the
CPS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at   jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  