-- 
Penn West Trucks Alberta Oil After Rainbow Pipeline Shuts

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k   a n d   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-05-03T21:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/penn-west-trucks-alberta-crude-after-rainbow-pipeline-shutdown.html
Penn West  Petroleum Ltd. is trucking
crude oil, placing it in storage and using alternative pipelines
after a segment of Plains Midstream Canada LP’s Rainbow pipeline
was shut in Alberta following a leak.  “It affects us for sure, but we’ve got options to move
crude via other lines, you can truck and we’ve got storage
capabilities,” Jason Fleury, a spokesman for Penn West, said in
a telephone interview. No production has been shut in, he said.  Fleury declined to say how much crude was being trucked.
The Calgary-based company produces about 100,000 barrels a day
in northern Alberta, he said.  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA)  shut the 220,000-barrel-a-
day Rainbow pipeline, which runs from Zama in northern  Alberta 
to Edmonton, on April 29 after a leak was detected, according to
the company’s  website . Repair work will begin once a second
stopple unit, a piece of equipment used in the repairs, is
added.  The first stopple fitting was installed today and a plug
was set that isolated the rupture from the north, the company
said on its  website . A second stopple fitting was welded and a
plug was expected to be set today.  Plains expects to have the physical line repaired by the
end of the week. The restart of the line is “contingent on
regulatory approval,” according to the company.  The replacement pipe was hydrotested and the failed
pipeline section is being analyzed to discern the reason for the
failure, the company said.  A portion of the pipeline between Nipisi and  Edmonton 
remains in service, Roy Lamoreaux, a Plains spokesman, said in
an e-mail yesterday. The segment typically has volumes of about
50 percent of Rainbow’s daily volume, which averaged 187,000
barrels a day in 2010, according to Lamoreaux.  The leak has been contained within an area about 0.5 mile
(0.8 kilometer) by 150 feet (46 meters).  EnerMAX Services Inc.,  a trucking company in Alberta, is
moving crude along different routes because of the pipeline
disruption, Sean McKelvey, a business development manager at the
company, said in a telephone interview.  Crude that is typically moved south from the Rainbow Lake
area to Valleyview, Alberta, is now being moved from the Rainbow
Lake area east to Gordondale, Alberta, and the Boundary Lake
region along the Alberta-British Columbia border, he said.  The Rainbow pipeline ships condensate along with sweet, or
low-sulfur oil, and heavy crude, according to Plains’s  website.   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in  New York  at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net ;
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  