-- 
Pfizer’s Read Reviews Units With $18.3 Billion in Revenue

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-05-03T20:10:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/pfizer-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-cost-reductions-prevnar-sales.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  Chief Executive Officer
 Ian Read  said he is reviewing the possible sale or spinoff of
four divisions with $18.3 billion in annual revenue, led by the
company’s third-biggest unit, established products.  Results of the division reviews will be announced in the
second half this year and in early 2012, Read said today in a
telephone interview. The emerging-markets portion of  New York- 
based Pfizer’s established-products business is big enough to
stand on its own, with $915 million in sales in the first
quarter, he said. No decisions have been made.  “We need to fix the innovative core” of Pfizer, Read
said. “Part of that may be we become a smaller company.”  Read, who took control of Pfizer in November, said in
February that he was reviewing each of the company’s units to
focus on product development. The shares have climbed 17 percent
this year as investors bet that Read may create a leaner, more-
profitable company.  “Even though some of these businesses are growing, they’re
not growing fast enough and they’re not large enough to impact
the whole company,” said  Linda Bannister , an analyst at Edward
Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri , in a telephone interview
today. “With the core that’s left, good news in the pipeline
could really have an impact.”  Controversial Unit  Read said he is reviewing veterinary products, over-the-
counter medicines, baby formula and established products to
determine whether the company should divest or increase
investment for each unit. The question of whether Read might
shed the established-products division, which sells generic
drugs and brands that have lost patent exclusivity, has
generated the most controversy, said  Tony Butler , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in New York.  “Established products are a bit of a cash cow. You don’t
pay to market it,” Butler said today in a telephone interview.
“The real key is, if restructuring comes to fruition, what’s
the value of what’s left? That’s where things get a little
tricky.”  Pfizer fell 58 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $20.44 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Pfizer today reported first-quarter profit excluding
certain items of 60 cents a share, beating the 58-cent average
estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Reduced costs and
higher sales of its Prevnar pneumonia vaccine offset declining
sales of Lipitor, the best-selling drug in the world with $10.7
billion in sales last year. The company lost patent exclusivity
for Lipitor in Spain and  Canada  in 2010 and faces competition
from cheaper generics in the U.S. in November.  Lipitor Sales  Lipitor sales declined 13 percent to $2.39 billion, falling
short of the $2.55 billion average estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales will decline by more than half next
year after generic-drug makers flood the U.S. market with
cheaper copies, according to eight analysts surveyed.  Sales at Pfizer’s established products fell 15 percent
$2.37 billion for the quarter. As a stand-alone business, the
worldwide division is big enough to be “a player, to be a
substantial presence in the established products marketplace,”
Read said.  Read’s plan is to focus on making new drugs, responsible
for generating about 85 percent of the company’s revenue. Pfizer
has mixed results generating new products through research
spending, a process that needs improving, Read said.  “If approximately 85 percent of the company comes from the
innovative core, we can’t be successful unless the innovative
core is successful,” Read said. “What is the best way to
deliver value to shareholders? That’s the key question, and
that’s what I’m driven by and what my team is driven by.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 