-- 
Gross Says Fed Target at Virtually Zero Cheats Bondholders

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-05-03T17:27:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/pimco-s-gross-says-a-fed-funds-target-at-virtually-zero-hurts-bondholders.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest mutual fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said a
federal funds target at virtually zero poses an immediate threat
to bondholders amid rising inflation and negative real yields.  “There should be little doubt that simply holding
Treasuries at these yield levels for an extended period of time
represents an abdication of responsibility,” Gross wrote in a
monthly investment outlook posted today on Pimco’s  website .  Gross, 67, bet against U.S. government-related debt in
March and boosted cash to be the largest of the company’s Total
Return Fund holdings. Investors should focus on global
alternatives including higher-yielding emerging-market debt as
well as top-rated Australian and Canadian debt, Gross said in
his monthly outlook.  “Many of these countries have more pristine balance sheets
and higher real  interest rates  than those currently being
imposed in some developed markets,” Gross wrote.  Pimco’s $241 billion fund had minus 3 percent of its assets
in U.S. government-related debt in March after reducing the
position to zero in February, the  Newport Beach ,  California ,
company said last month on its website. The fund can have a
negative position by using derivatives or futures or by
shorting. Shorting is borrowing and selling an asset in
anticipation of making a profit by buying it back after its
price has fallen.  Cash Holdings  Pimco’s cash and equivalents rose to 31 percent in March
from 23 percent in the prior month, making the category the
largest component for the first time in four years. The firm’s
holdings of Treasuries totaled 63 percent in June, the highest
since October 2009, when it held the same amount.  “Bond and stock investors have been sailing on the ‘Good
Ship Lollipop’ for over 30-years following the Volcker
Revolution and the return of high real interest rates to
investment markets,” Gross wrote. “Now, however, with
governments attempting to impose financial repression, bond
investors should revolt.”  When he was Federal Reserve chairman,  Paul Volcker  broke
the back of inflation by raising rates as high as 20 percent
during the 1980s. Volcker stepped down from the Fed in 1987.  “Although we have warned for several years of the
deteriorating creditworthiness of America’s AAA rating, our de
minimis Treasury positions had less to do with much more
immediate issues than America’s balance-sheet prospects,” Gross
wrote in the monthly commentary. “Bond prices don’t necessarily
have to go down for savers to get skunked during a process of
debt liquidation.”  Geithner on Borrowing  The U.S. can borrow until Aug. 2 after reaching the
$14.29 trillion limit because of “stronger-than-expected tax
receipts” and by taking “extraordinary measures” such as
suspending the sale of bonds to finance state and local
infrastructure projects, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
said in a letter to congressional leaders yesterday.  The Fed has kept its target rate for overnight lending
between banks at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and
has aimed to boost economic growth through stimulus including
$600 billion of debt purchases under the second round of
quantitative easing, scheduled to end in June. The yield on the
Treasury 10-year note fell today to 3.25 percent, the lowest
level in six weeks.  ‘Being Shortchanged’  “The argument over whether the end of QE2 on June 30 will
result in higher yields and lower Treasury bond prices is, in a
sense, a secondary one,” Gross wrote. “Even if 10-year
Treasuries stay where they are at 3.30 percent, and fed funds
close to zero, savers and financial intermediaries are being
shortchanged by both of these yields and everything in
between.”  The real yield, or the difference between the  consumer
price index  year-over-year and the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note dropped to 0.59 percent today, the lowest level since
October 2008.  Treasuries returned 1.2 percent on average in April,
including reinvested interest, the most since they gained 2
percent in August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
U.S. Treasury Master index.  The Total Return Fund has returned 7.5 percent in the past
year, beating 87 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The one-month return is 1.6 percent,
beating 89 percent of competitors. The company is a unit of
insurer  Allianz SE (ALV)  in Munich.  Government-related debt refers to sovereign bonds, Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, agency bonds, interest-
rate swaps, Treasury futures and options and corporate
securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
according to Pimco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  