-- 
Pound Tumbles, Notes Surge as King, Data Stoke Outlook for Steady Rates

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-05-03T15:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/pound-declines-manufacturing-gauge-may-decline-to-lowest-since-october.html
The pound slid to 90 pence per euro
for the first time in more than a year and gilts surged after
worse-than-predicted manufacturing data boosted bets the Bank of
England will keep its main rate at a record low this week.  Sterling slumped versus all of its 16 major peers, losing
the most against the yen. An index of U.K. manufacturing by
 Markit Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply  unexpectedly declined to 54.6 from a revised 56.7 in
March. Central bank Governor Mervyn King said yesterday that
government indebtedness globally would worsen if  interest rates 
were to rise. Two-year gilt yields fell the most in almost 21
months.  “The chance of a rate hike in May has been priced out of
the market, and that’s been corroborated by the manufacturing
data,” said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis at Schneider
Foreign Exchange in London. “The comments by King have also
gotten sterling bulls pretty worried. The market today is
pushing back its rate-hike expectations, so that’s why the two-
year note yield is dropping.”  The pound lost as much as 1.1 percent to 90.06 pence per
euro, the first breach of the 90 pence level since March 30,
2010, before trading at 90.03 pence as of 4:06 p.m. in  London .
Britain’s currency fell 1 percent to $1.6486, and slumped 1.5
percent to 133.29 yen.  U.K. two-year notes rose for a second day, reducing yields
on the security due March 2013 by 16 basis points to 1.02
percent, the least since Dec. 8, after earlier falling 17 basis
points, the most since Aug. 6, 2009. The 10-year gilt yield
declined four basis points to 3.42 percent.  Short-Sterling Futures  The Bank of England is expected to keep its benchmark
interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent when it announces its
next decision on May 5, according to the median estimate of 43
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Short-sterling futures jumped
today, pushing the implied yield on the contract expiring March
2012 down 13 basis points to 1.24 percent, as investors removed
bets on interest-rate increases from the central bank.  “The market is mainly reflecting that the  Bank of England 
will probably keep rates on hold,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a
Geneva-based market strategist at Swissquote Bank SA. “It’s the
main reason the pound is suffering.”  The pound also slumped to the lowest since records began in
1975 against a basket of nine of its most-traded peers,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The index’s pound value dropped as much as 1 percent to 60.63.  Manufacturing Falls  U.K. policy makers face increasing pressure to raise
borrowing costs to curb inflation, which has soared to more than
twice the central bank’s 2 percent target. Even so, inflation
unexpectedly slowed for the first time in eight months in March,
to 4 percent after reaching 4.4 percent in February.  Economists predicted the manufacturing gauge would slip to
57 in April, according to the median of 19 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Last month’s reading, while the least since
September, remained above the 50 level that indicates expansion.  High levels of debt pose “massive” challenges for the
economy that “will last for many years,”King said yesterday
at a committee of the European Parliament in Brussels. “The
economic consequences of high-level indebtedness now would
become more severe if rates were to rise,” said King.  U.K. retailers’ outlook for sales deteriorated to the
weakest in a year and conditions may remain “tough,” the
 Confederation of British Industry  said. While a gauge of sales
rose to 21 from 15 in March, a measure of shops’ outlook for the
current month dropped to minus 1 from 18 in April, the London-
based business lobby said in a report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  