-- 
Private-Equity Managers Aim for Emerging Market Economies as Deals Shrink

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-05-03T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/private-equity-managers-aim-for-emerging-market-economies-as-deals-shrink.html
The world’s biggest private-equity
firms are increasingly looking to  India , Brazil and Africa for
investments as the leveraged-buyout industry resets itself in a
post-crisis economy.  “Emerging markets are the hot ticket,”  David Bonderman ,
co-founder of TPG Capital, said late yesterday during a panel
discussion at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly
Hills, California. Providence Equity Partners’ Jonathan Nelson,
Apollo Global Management LLC’s Leon Black and Carlyle Group’s
 David Rubenstein  also spoke on the panel.  Buyout managers who pursued deals valued at tens of
billions each during the LBO boom that crested in 2007 are
seeking to take advantage of growing populations outside the
U.S., many of which have increasing disposable income for
consumer products. Wealth created in natural resource-rich
countries will drive behavior in regions such as Africa,
Rubenstein said.  “That part of the world will become much wealthier,”
Rubenstein said. “You’ll have more and more of a middle
class.”  Investments in banks, telecommunications companies and
airlines all have done well in emerging markets historically,
Bonderman told the audience.  Nelson, whose firm has made investments in  China  and other
emerging markets during the past decade, cautioned that those
deals aren’t without risk.  “It’s very expensive to prosecute deals around the
world,” he said, adding that it was wise to target large,
growing markets including  Brazil .  Health Care  Deals still are available in the developed world, the
managers said. Black, co-founder of New York-based Apollo, said
his firm is buying debt from European banks forced to sell
securities by regulators. The generation reaching  retirement age 
in the U.S. makes health-care investments attractive, Rubenstein
said.  “Baby boomers as they age will spare no expense,” he
said.  Bonderman and Nelson both said a new Internet bubble was
inflating. When the subject of Facebook Inc. came up, Rubenstein
recalled telling his now son-in-law that he had no interest in
meeting  Mark Zuckerberg  about a potential investment in the
then-tiny company, now the world’s most popular social-
networking service.  “Now I have to keep working for a living,” Rubenstein
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  