-- 
Erdogan Promises Plan to End Libyan War as Qaddafi Buries Son

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-05-03T14:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/qaddafi-s-son-grandchildren-buried-as-nato-intensifies-libya-air-campaign.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  promised a plan to end the conflict in  Libya , after
leader  Muammar Qaddafi  attended a funeral service for his son,
who was killed during NATO’s intensifying air campaign.  “What needs to happen now is for Qaddafi to immediately
withdraw from power and to bring to pass his historical, human
and moral responsibility,” Erdogan said in a speech in Istanbul
today, adding that he will propose the plan during talks in  Rome 
this week, without giving details. Past attempts to mediate a
settlement have failed to make headway as Libyan rebels rejected
proposals that didn’t involve Qaddafi’s immediate departure.  Several thousand people attended the funeral in Tripoli
today of Qaddafi’s son, Saif al-Arab, 29, and three of his
grandchildren killed in an April 30 NATO airstrike on the
leader’s Bab al-Aziziya compound, the  Associated Press  reported.
Anti-aircraft fire thundered in the background while mourners
flashed victory signs and chanted for revenge, the AP said.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which is enforcing
a United Nations-mandated no-fly zone, has rejected a cease-fire
offer from Qaddafi, saying his forces must stop attacks on
civilians before it considers any truce. The insurgency since
mid-February in Libya, which has Africa’s biggest proven crude
reserves, has helped push  oil prices  up about 30 percent.  South Africa , which has attempted to broker a settlement to
the conflict, said yesterday that attacks on leaders and
officials would escalate tensions. Russia on May 1 accused NATO
of a “disproportionate use of force” and called for an
immediate cease-fire.  Rome Talks  Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  and Qatari Prime
Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani will co-chair talks
on Libya’s future in Rome on May 5. Representatives of Libya’s
Transitional National Council, the interim authority set up by
the rebels, will also attend.  Erdogan said the Islamic world shouldn’t be linked to
“tears, bloodshed and autocracy,” he said.  Responding to the deaths of Qaddafi’s relatives, crowds
attacked the British and Italian embassies in Tripoli on May 1,
according to government officials in London and Rome. Libya’s
ambassador to the U.K., Omar Jelban, was expelled from the
country yesterday after being given 24 hours to leave, the
Foreign Office said.  Assets Frozen  Much of the fighting in Libya is now centered on the rebel-
held western port city of Misrata, where opposition forces last
week pushed Qaddafi’s troops out of the city center.  NATO forces disrupted “a very despicable” attempt by
Qaddafi loyalists to lay three mines in the approaches to
Misrata harbour on April 29, Italian Vice Admiral Rinaldo Veri
said today at a press conference in Naples,  Italy . The mines
were designed to detonate on contact with a ship, he said.  The allied forces are establishing a “clear corridor” so
that humanitarian aid can safely enter the port, Veri said. If a
ship doesn’t comply with NATO guidance or acts suspiciously,
“it will be hailed and boarded,” he said.  Switzerland  froze 360 million Swiss francs ($416 million)
of assets connected to Qaddafi, the Foreign Ministry said late
yesterday. It also froze the assets of his family and
associates, Adrian Sollberger, spokesman of the Swiss Foreign
Ministry, said by telephone.  The Swiss government has also frozen 410 million Swiss
francs of assets connected to former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , his family and associates, as well as 60 million francs
linked to former Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, the
foreign ministry’s Sollberger said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 