-- 
Traders Bet Carstens on Hold for Longer as Inflation Slows: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-05-03T21:20:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/traders-bet-carstens-on-hold-for-longer-as-inflation-slows-mexico-credit.html
Traders are pushing back expectations
for Mexican rate increases this year after policy makers said
inflation will remain within the country’s target.  Yields on 28-day interbank rate futures due in September,
known as TIIE, have declined 17 basis points in the past month
to 4.95 percent, indicating that traders are betting central
bank Governor Agustin Carstens will wait until October to boost
borrowing costs. As recently as April 4, they predicted an
increase in July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While  developing countries  from  Chile  to  China  are raising
 interest rates  to cool inflation, Mexico is the only major Latin
American nation to keep them steady in the past year. Inflation
will remain within its range of 2 percent to 4 percent this year
and next, according to the minutes of the bank’s April 15
meeting released last week. Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent in
the 12 months through mid-April, near a four-year low set in
March and half the 6.4 percent pace in  Brazil .  “Every time that the minutes confirm a neutral tone on
inflation, the market takes a sigh of relief,” Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion pesos ($3.5
billion) of fixed-income securities at Interacciones Casa de
Bolsa SA in  Mexico  City, said in a telephone interview. “We had
a few months where the TIIE market was getting ahead of itself
and slowly the situation has corrected itself.”  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso notes due in
2024 dropped 38 basis points in April, the biggest monthly
decline since July, to 7.46 percent as concern that inflation
will accelerate eased, according to Banco Santander SA.  Futures Indication  Banxico, as the central bank is known, will raise the key
rate in October from a record low 4.5 percent after keeping it
unchanged for 18 straight meetings, trading in the futures
shows.  “Current monetary policy has been adequate and has
contributed to a favorable inflation performance,” policy
makers said in the  minutes  of their April 15 meeting. “ Core
inflation , which monetary policy has the ability to affect in a
fundamental manner, continues to show a favorable evolution.”  A central bank press official didn’t immediately return
calls seeking comment.  Traders’ expectations are moving closer to the median
forecast of economists in a Citigroup Inc. survey, which
predicts that the bank will wait until January to boost the
rate.  “Banxico is going to stay on hold for the whole year,”
Mauro Roca, director of emerging-market strategy for Deutsche
Bank AG, said in a telephone interview from  New York . “The
minutes of the last meeting that were released on Friday are
going in that direction. The main message is that they have room
to wait.”  U.S. Inflation  Quickening inflation in the U.S. may help push up prices in
Mexico, said  Alonso Madero , who helps oversee $5.5 billion of
debt at Mexico City-based Actinver. Consumer prices in the U.S.,
which buys about 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, rose 2.7
percent in March from a year earlier, compared with a 2.1
percent increase in the 12 months through February.  “I’d pay very close attention to inflation expectations in
the U.S.,” Madero said in a telephone interview. “If anything
changes, we could see a very violent reaction” in Mexico.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened 2 basis points to 138
at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI+ index.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 98, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with
debt agreements.  Commodity Prices  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 11.5710 per  U.S. dollar .  Yields on the interbank rate futures contracts due in
October rose 9 basis points to 5.12 percent.  Traders are also pushing back their Mexican rate bets after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 27 that
rising commodity prices will have a transitory effect on
inflation, said Gerardo Welsh, a trader at Base Internacional
Casa de Bolsa SA.  Commodity prices surged 30 percent during the past 12
months, according to the UBS Bloomberg CMCI index of 26 raw
materials.  “The market is pushing back a great bit toward the end of
the year and, taking into account the latest comments from the
Fed, maybe for the beginning of next year,” Welsh said in a
telephone interview from Monterrey, Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  