-- 
Railroad Rules, Euro Deficit Sanctions, Kuwait Capital Rules: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-03T12:08:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/railroad-rules-euro-deficit-sanctions-kuwait-rules-compliance.html
Eighteen members of Congress have
joined railroad industry groups in pressing a regulator not to
write rules that might cut profits of  Warren Buffett ’s
Burlington Northern Santa Fe and the three other railroads that
dominate the U.S. industry.  The  U.S. Surface Transportation Board  has scheduled a
hearing June 22 on whether to revamp regulations on providing
competitive access for so-called captive shippers, those whose
only hauling option is a single rail line. The board estimates
that 13 percent to 38 percent of freight railroads’ revenue
comes from captive shippers.  As of April 29, 183 comments had been filed by 201
organizations or individuals, including 11 House members and
seven senators from both parties, in the  docket  for the hearing.
Of those 18, three were among the top recipients of donations in
2010 from the railroad industry.  Holly Arthur, a spokeswoman for the American Association of
Railroads, the Washington-based trade group that represents the
industry, declined to comment beyond AAR’s written comments with
the board.  The association has 18 member railroads in  North America ,
including the four largest freight railroads:  CSX Corp. (CSX) ,  Norfolk
Southern Corp. (NSC) ,  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  and BNSF.  The June hearing will be the first in-depth look at
competition in the industry in more than a decade.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  ECB Calls for ‘Political’ Sanctions on Excessive-Deficit States  The  European Central Bank  called for “political”
sanctions to be imposed on euro-area states that run excessive
budget deficits.  In its 2010 annual report published yesterday, the
Frankfurt-based ECB said it’s “particularly concerned about
insufficient automaticity” of financial penalties and “calls
for the introduction of political and reputational measures on
top of financial sanctions to foster early compliance with the
surveillance framework.”  ECB officials have repeatedly said that euro-area
governments are not doing enough to prevent a recurrence of the
debt crisis that’s hobbled Greece, Ireland and Portugal. The
central bank wants financial sanctions to automatically come
into play once a nation breaches deficit limits, rather than
allowing politicians to decide.  Under the so-called Stability and Growth Pact, euro-area
states should not have an annual budget deficit of more than 3
percent of gross domestic product or outstanding debt of more
than 60 percent of GDP.  CFTC Takes Bulk of Swaps Market Regulation: Chart of the Day  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission will regulate
83 percent of the over-the-counter derivatives market under a
proposed rule, the CHART OF THE DAY shows.  New rules proposed April 27 lay out a regulatory road map
for how the $583 trillion swaps market will be divided, giving
the  CFTC  oversight over interest rate swaps, by far the largest
category of OTC derivatives at $451 trillion, according to
December 2010 data from the Bank of International Settlements.  The CFTC will also regulate commodity derivatives and
foreign exchange instruments not exempted from regulation by
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. CFTC will oversee broad-
based credit default swaps and the  Securities and Exchange
Commission  will regulate narrow-based swaps.  Neither agency defined which products will be included as
narrow or broad, nor did regulators address who would regulate
subprime credit default swaps, the primary cause of the
financial crisis.  Instruments based on yield, such as debt securities, loans
or security indexes, will be regulated by the SEC. Total return
swaps including equity swaps, which are popular with  hedge
funds , are also under the SEC’s jurisdiction.  The CFTC and SEC will share oversight of mixed swaps. The
two agencies have yet to decide on the treatment of insurance on
swaps, which the CFTC wants to regulate as swaps, and swaps
linked to sovereign debt futures, which the SEC wants to exempt
from regulation.  Compliance Action  Nasdaq Tightens Oversight of Reverse Mergers Amid SEC Scrutiny  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , the second-biggest operator of U.S.
stock exchanges, said it will more closely vet reverse-merger
companies before agreeing to list their shares.  The decision follows Securities and Exchange Commission and
short-seller scrutiny of Chinese companies that bought publicly
traded shell corporations in the U.S. Since January 2007,
reverse mergers have allowed about 600 corporations -- more than
150 from greater  China  -- to trade in the world’s largest
capital market without the rigors of initial public offerings.  Nasdaq OMX and NYSE Euronext’s decision to admit stocks
such as  Rino International Corp. (RINO)  and  Universal Travel Group (UTA)  on
their venues broadened access to investors prevented from buying
shares that trade over the counter. Rino is being investigated
by the SEC and Universal Travel is on its fourth auditor in
eight months. Nasdaq OMX’s new hurdles, which require SEC
approval, include a six-month waiting period.  Reverse mergers involve closely held corporations buying a
publicly traded shell company and retaining its U.S. listing. On
the Nasdaq Stock Market, eight of nine stocks in which trading
was  halted  as of April 29 are Chinese reverse mergers.  Reverse-merger companies will face new “seasoning”
requirements, according to  a Nasdaq OMX filing  to the SEC dated
April 18.  For more, click here.  Kuwait’s Capital Market Authority Tightens Rules for Companies  Kuwait’s Capital Markets Authority is requiring companies
to get approval before asking shareholders to back measures such
as capital increases and reductions or sales of bonds and other
securities, according to a statement to the Kuwait Stock
Exchange yesterday.  The authority began operating after bylaws for Kuwait’s
capital markets legislation were published March 13 in the
official Gazette.  Parliament approved a bill to create the authority, the
country’s first stock-market regulator, in February 2010.
Lawmakers said at the time that the bill would bring more
transparency to the exchange, which has lacked regulation.  Banks’ Role in Setting Libor Rates Said to Be Examined by EU  European Union antitrust regulators are examining whether
banks manipulated the daily London interbank offered rate, or
Libor, according to two people familiar with the probe.  The  European Commission  sent banks requests for information
last month on how rates are calculated, according to the people
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private.  The EU probe into Libor adds to U.K. and U.S. financial
regulators’ inquiries into the possible breach of rules
governing the benchmark borrowing rate.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s
third-largest bank by assets, said last week that it was
cooperating with U.S. and British regulators on their Libor
investigations.  EU regulators last week opened an antitrust investigation
into  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 14 other
investment banks over agreements in the market for credit-
default swaps that may harm competition.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the Brussels-based
commission, declined to comment on the Libor probe. JPMorgan
declined to comment.  For more, click here.  S. Korea to Probe More Banks Over Currency Derivatives  South Korea’s financial regulator and the central bank will
inspect at least two more banks over their currency derivatives,
the Financial Supervisory Service said in an e-mailed statement
today. The probes may start as early as mid this month, the FSS
said, without naming the banks.  Courts  U.S. Joins Whistle-Blower Suit Against Education Management  The U.S. Justice Department joined an employee whistle-
blower suit against  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , intervening for
the first time in the student recruitment practices at for-
profit colleges.  The suit alleges that Pittsburgh-based Education
Management, 40 percent owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. funds,
illegally paid recruiters based on the number of students they
enrolled, the company said in a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing yesterday. The government, in most cases,
forbids such incentive compensation for colleges accepting
federal aid because of concerns about encouraging enrollment of
unqualified students.  The Justice Department action in federal court in
Pittsburgh follows scrutiny by Congress and the U.S. Education
Department of for-profit colleges, which can receive as much as
90 percent of their revenue from federal financial aid. Several
states intend to join the Justice Department’s civil action in
federal court, Education Management said.  “The design of the compensation plan was based on advice
of counsel that the plan complied with” exceptions to federal
law banning incentive compensation,’’ the company said in its
filing. “The company intends to vigorously defend itself.”  Lynntoya Washington, a former EDMC employee, filed her
whistle-blower complaint under seal in 2007, according to an
online docket entry in district court in Pittsburgh. By mid-
morning yesterday, the case was still under seal.  The case is U.S. v. Education Management, 07-cv-00461, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania (Pittsburgh).  TPSA Polish Antitrust Order Complied With EU Rules, Court Says  Companies can’t get European Union-wide clearance by a
national competition authority in cases concerning possible
antitrust violations, the EU’s highest court said in a case
involving  Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , Poland’s largest phone
company.  The  European Commission  “alone” is empowered to rule on
finding that companies haven’t abused antitrust rules beyond
their home country, the Luxembourg-based EU Court of Justice
said in a ruling today.  Interviews/Speeches  Draghi, Angeloni on Banking Policy at Brussels Conference  European Central Bank governing council member Mario Draghi
said lack of consistency in implementing global banking
regulations was one of the “main causes” of the financial
crisis.  “We are not forgetful. We remember how the lack of
consistent implementation of Basel II was one of the main causes
of the crisis,” Draghi said yesterday at a conference in
Brussels.  Draghi also said investors must share the burden if banks
fail, saying “any tool kit of resolution should include bail-in
powers.” Bank stress tests must be credible and transparent, he
said.  Separately, Ignazio Angeloni, adviser to the Executive
Board of the European Central Bank, said the “worsening fiscal
situation in some countries poses serious challenges to
financial integration.”  Angeloni spoke at the Brussels conference yesterday, where
he presented the ECB’s Report on Financial Integration in
 Europe .  King, Enria Speak at European Parliament on Bank Stress Tests  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  said national
authorities should be ready to handle recapitalizations if the
European Union stress tests show they are needed.  “If it’s necessary for a recapitalization of a bank to
take place in Europe, then national authorities must be ready,”
he said during an appearance before the European Parliament
yesterday. “It would be most unfortunate” if results were to
be published and there was a “gap” before solutions to
recapitalizations are found.  Banks that pass the European Union stress tests shouldn’t
automatically be regarded “as safe,” King also said yesterday.  Warning there are still many economic risks, King said the
“most important” are “the sovereign debt crisis” and
“associated imbalances within the European economy” and
“unsustainable patterns of demand.”  In addition, King cautioned against the European Union
carrying out a so-called maximum harmonization of capital rules
for banks. That would “limit the countercyclical buffers that
could be imposed” on banks by regulators, he said.  Andrea Enria, chairman of the  European Banking Authority ,
the agency overseeing bank stress tests, said he foresees a
“window of six months” for action that may be needed at banks
after the results of the exams are publicized.  During the six months, “We expect remedial actions to be
taken,” he said at the European Parliament yesterday. “If this
is not the case we would seriously ponder which instruments we
have in our hands to make sure action is indeed taken.” used in
this year’s stress tests.  The definition of capital used to set the pass rate in this
year’s tests “is not the final Basel III requirement which will
be in place in 2018 and will be much tougher than the benchmark
we have applied,” Enria said.  Enria added that stress-test banks may face a broader range
of supervisory measures than just having to raise capital. This
applies also for banks that don’t actually fail.  Gensler Says CFTC Needs More Staff to Implement Rules  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, discussed the prospects of broader regulatory powers
for the CFCT and efforts to avoid another “flash crash” in
financial markets.  Gensler spoke with Mark Crompton on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bottom Line.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Swan Names Rod Sims to Head Regulator; Medcraft to Head ASIC  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan reported the appointment of
Rod Sims to head the  Australian Competition & Consumer
Commission . Swan also named Greg Medcraft to head the  Australian
Securities & Investments Commission . He reported the
appointments in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  