-- 
Rain May Curb Grain, Oilseed Output Globally, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-05-03T13:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/rain-may-curb-grain-oilseed-output-globally-oil-world-says.html
Rainfall and cold weather has delayed
planting of grains and oilseeds in  Canada ,  Russia , Ukraine and
the U.S., threatening already-low global inventories, Oil World
said in a report today.  In the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter of corn, soybeans
and wheat, heavy rains through Midwest and Plains states have
made fields too wet for planting, the researcher said. Rain in
Canada has delayed seeding of spring wheat and canola, and cold,
wet weather has kept farmers in Russia and Ukraine from seeding
spring grains, according to Hamburg-based oilseeds analysts Oil
World.  “The major threat is to be seen in planting delays caused
by very wet fields and local flooding” in Canada, Oil World
said. “In recent weeks the low temperatures have slowed melting
of a comparatively thick snow cover on already saturated fields.
There is the risk of considerable additional flooding in parts
of Saskatchewan and Manitoba.”  About 13 percent of planned corn was sown in the U.S. as of
May 1 versus 68 percent a year earlier, Department of
Agriculture data show. About 3 percent of Russian grains were
seeded as of April 21, about half of what was in the ground at
the same time last year, according to Oil World. In Canada,
canola and wheat seeding are behind the normal schedule.  “Much will depend on weather conditions in the next four
weeks and how quickly fields dry out to allow farm machinery to
enter and bring the seed into the ground,” Oil World said. “At
the moment we are quite skeptical whether the planting
intentions for canola and other crops can be accomplished.”  Record Food Prices  Corn futures have surged 98 percent in the past year, wheat
is up 56 percent and soybeans have risen 41 percent on increased
demand for raw materials. Food prices rose to a record in
February on tightening supplies of grains, oilseeds and sugar,
as well as firm demand for dairy products, according to the
 United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization .  In Russia, where the country’s worst drought in a half-
century curbed wheat production last year, leading to an export
ban that started in August, about 1 million hectares (2.47
million acres) were planted with spring grains, Oil World said.
That’s down from 1.7 million hectares a year earlier. Rapeseed
production is “better than last year” in Russia and Ukraine,
according to the report.  Deterioration in the quality of the U.S. wheat crop also
may curb usable supplies globally, the researcher said. Dry
weather has hurt crops in  Kansas , Oklahoma and  Texas , the
largest producers of U.S. winter wheat.  About 41 percent of plants were rated poor or very poor
compared with 7 percent a year earlier, USDA data show. In
 Oklahoma , 77 percent was rated poor or very poor, and in Texas,
74 percent earned the lowest ratings, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 