-- 
U.S. 10-Year Yields at Six-Week Low on Post-Bin Laden Concern

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T12:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/treasuries-snap-three-day-gain-before-factory-orders-report.html
Treasury 10-year yields reached a six-
week low amid concern terrorists will retaliate after the death
of  Osama bin Laden . Twelve-month bill yields fell to a record as
the U.S. cuts short-term debt sales.  Six-month rates dropped to a record yesterday as demand for
shorter-dated securities was boosted by the reduction in sales
and speculation the  Federal Reserve  will keep monetary stimulus.
Threats of reprisals for the death of al-Qaeda’s leader buoyed
longer-maturity Treasuries yesterday on demand for safety. The
Central Intelligence Agency must stay “vigilant,” said
Director Leon Panetta, who oversaw the mission.  “Markets are pricing in a higher  risk premium  on fear of
retaliation acts,” said  Kornelius Purps , an interest-rate
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “Investors are a bit
nervous after the announcement of the U.S. administration for
people to be cautious. This is supporting Treasuries.”  Ten-year yields were two basis points lower at 3.26 percent
as of 8:05 a.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, the lowest since March 18, when they touched 3.23
percent. The price of the 3.625 percent note maturing in
February 2021 was 103.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  delivered the news of bin
Laden’s killing in a televised address from the White House
almost 10 years after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The
administration warned that al-Qaeda continues to pose a threat
and the U.S. issued travel alerts for Americans abroad.  Continued Threat  The 12-month bill rates traded at 0.171 percent, the least
since 1959 when Bloomberg data began. The rate has declined from
0.262 percent at the start of the year.  News of bin Laden’s death comes as Democrats struggle to
find common ground with Republicans on how to reduce the fiscal
deficit. Government debt has more than doubled since the Sept.
11 attacks to $14.3 trillion, partly due to spending on military
actions in Afghanistan and  Iraq .  Six-month bill rates traded at 0.090 percent, after
touching a record 0.0895 percent. The Treasury cut the amount of
Supplementary Financing Program bills, or SFPs, it sells on
behalf of the Fed by $195 billion to help avoid exceeding the
U.S. debt limit. Congress is facing a vote as early as this
month on raising the $14.3 trillion U.S. debt ceiling.  ‘Technical Reasons’  “These technical reasons plus the Fed, which is seen on
hold for a long period,” are pushing bill yields down, said
Christopher Rieger, head of fixed-income strategy at Frankfurt-
based Commerzbank AG.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled April 27 that the
central bank will maintain its record stimulus after it ends
large-scale bond purchases. The Fed has kept its key rate at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and is aiming to boost
growth by completing $600 billion of Treasury purchases through
June.  Kansas City Fed President Tom Hoenig is due to speak today
at the Independent Community Bankers of America Spring Policy
Summit. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  will speak in
 Washington .  Treasury yields will rise through the rest of the year as
economic growth quickens, according to Bloomberg surveys of
banks and securities companies.  “Yields will shift up this year,” said Adam Donaldson,
Sydney-based head of debt research at Commonwealth Bank of
 Australia , the nation’s largest lender by market value. “We’re
very bullish on the  U.S. economy . There is a solid upswing that
looks as though it is becoming entrenched.”  U.S. factory orders rose 2 percent in March after a 0.1
percent decline the previous month, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists before the
Commerce Department reports the figure today.  A Labor Department report on May 6 will show the U.S. added
jobs for a seventh month in April. Payrolls rose by 185,000
workers last month after a 216,000 advance in March, Bloomberg
News surveys show.  The 10-year yield will climb to 3.93 percent by year-end,
based on the average forecast of economists, with the most
recent forecasts given the heaviest weightings. Donaldson
predicts 4 percent.  The Fed is scheduled to purchase $6 billon to $8 billion of
Treasuries due from November 2016 to May 2018 today, according
to its  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 