-- 
Renren Seeks Twice Facebook Valuation in Social-Media IPO

-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 
2011-05-03T18:57:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/renren-seeks-double-facebook-s-valuation-for-china-social-networking-ipo.html
Renren Inc.,  China ’s biggest social-
networking website by page views, is seeking a valuation more
than double that of Facebook Inc. as it aims to raise as much as
$743.4 million in a U.S. initial public offering today.  The Beijing-based company is offering 53.1 million American
depositary receipts for $12 to $14 each, according to a filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. At the
midpoint, Renren would trade at 67 times last year’s sales,
compared with 25 times for Facebook as valued by Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s investment in the U.S. company.  Renren is demanding a premium, with China’s economy
projected to grow three times faster than the U.S. and about
two-thirds of the population not yet online. The company, which
also offers games and daily deals for consumers, plans to use
the proceeds from the IPO to expand as it faces competition for
advertisers and users from local Internet companies Sina Corp.
and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (TCEHY)   “You can say it’s overvalued, but people are going to buy
it anyway,” said Darren Fabric, a Chicago-based managing
director at IPOX Capital Management LLC, which oversees about
$2.5 billion and invests in IPOs. “The growth is there, and
you’re paying for it big-time.”  Renren and at least 17 other companies worldwide are
attempting to raise at least $2.5 billion in IPOs this week,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the U.S., April had
the most new filings for initial offerings since August 2007,
 Renaissance Capital LLC , based in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said
last week.  More Visitors  At least three Chinese Internet companies announced IPO
plans last month as  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , the Beijing-based online-
video site, trades at more than 100 times 2010 sales following
its December IPO.  “We’re at least in exuberant territory, if not a bubble,
with Chinese Internet stocks,” said  Michael Yoshikami , who
oversees $1.1 billion as chief investment strategist at YCMNet
Advisors in Walnut Creek, California. “Investors need to be
very aware that if the company doesn’t execute on these lofty
expectations, they are in for a rude awakening.”  After its offering and a concurrent private placement to
investors, Renren may have a market value of $5.1 billion, based
on the $13 midpoint of the offering range.  Renren Users  Renren, whose name means “everyone” in Chinese, had 117
million users as of March 31, less than a quarter of the more
than 500 million users Facebook has globally. The company
boosted the maximum sought in its IPO by 27 percent on April 29.  Facebook, which is banned in China, said in January it had
a market valuation of $50 billion after raising $1.5 billion
from investors including Goldman Sachs and Russia’s Digital Sky
Technologies. The  Palo Alto , California-based company may have
reached about $2 billion in revenue last year, three people with
knowledge of the matter said in December.  Some Chinese Internet stocks may have “high valuation
risks,” said Kai-Fu Lee, a former Google Inc. executive whose
Beijing-based venture fund invests in startups, in an April 15
interview on Bloomberg Television.  Valuation Risks  Qihoo 360 Technology Co., the Beijing-based provider of
computer anti-virus products and Web browsers, has almost
doubled in value to 56 times last year’s sales since its March
29 IPO, when it raised $175.6 million. Youku.com, which has
booked combined net losses of 681 million yuan ($105 million)
since 2007, has more than quadrupled in value since its Dec. 7
IPO, Bloomberg data show.  Derek Palaschuk, chairman of Renren’s audit committee and
an appointee as independent director of the company, resigned
from the positions over the weekend, Reuters reported yesterday,
citing an interview with Palaschuk. He resigned to prevent an
accounting-fraud accusation at Longtop Financial Technologies
Ltd., where he is chief financial officer, from affecting
Renren, the report said.  Palaschuk’s name, which appeared in several of Renren’s F-1
registration statements, was absent from yesterday’s filing. He
previously served as the CFO of Beijing-based ELong Inc., and
also had also worked at Beijing-based Sohu.com Inc.  Softbank Corp.,  Japan ’s third-largest wireless carrier,
owns about 40 percent of Renren and isn’t offering shares in the
sale, according to the prospectus. Renren founder Joseph Chen,
who is also the chairman and chief executive officer, will sell
13 million shares to trim his stake to 23 percent from 28
percent. General Atlantic LLC, based in Greenwich, Connecticut,
and DCM, the  Menlo Park , California-based venture capital fund,
own stakes in Renren as well.  SouFun Holdings  General Atlantic is also an owner of  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the operator of China’s biggest real-estate website, whose ADRs
have more than doubled on the  New York  Stock Exchange after its
$125 million IPO in September. DCM is an owner of E-Commerce
China Dangdang Inc., the country’s biggest online book retailer,
whose stock is 42 percent above the Beijing-based company’s IPO
price after a Dec. 7 share sale.  Wang Yi, director of public relations at Renren in Beijing,
declined to comment on the pricing.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  are leading the offering. The
ADRs will begin trading on the NYSE tomorrow under the symbol
RENN.  China had 457 million Internet users at the end of 2010,
and about half of them used social-networking websites, compared
with a total population of 1.33 billion in 2009, according to
 data  from the government-sponsored China Internet Network
Information Center. The Asian country’s economy will grow 9.6
percent this year, versus 2.8 percent for the U.S., according to
estimates from the Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  ‘So Much Hype’  “Renren is really sitting at the intersection of those two
trends, which is why there’s been so much hype about it,” said
Nick Einhorn, an analyst at  Renaissance Capital . “Whether
investors think all of those companies are overvalued is
certainly something you could argue for, but given where Youku
and Qihoo are trading, it’s not unreasonable to expect Renren to
get the same kind of valuation.”  Besides its social network, Renren operates a group-buying
site that offers daily deals on local services and cultural
events, Nuomi.com, and an online games site. In 2006, Renren
acquired Xiaonei.com, a social networking site founded by
graduates of Beijing’s Tsinghua University in 2005. Renren,
formerly known as Oak Pacific Interactive, began operations in
2002, according to the IPO prospectus.  “The world has never seen the kind of growth we’re seeing
out of Internet companies in China,” said Lou Kerner, a social
media analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in New York.  Renren will be the first social-networking site to go
public in the U.S. LinkedIn Corp., based in  Mountain View ,
 California , filed for a $175 million IPO earlier this year and
has yet to release terms for the share sale.  Boingo, Thermon  In other IPO news, Boingo Wireless Inc., an operator of
wireless Internet hotspots, is attempting to raise as much as
$80.8 million offering 5.77 million shares at $12 to $14 each.
RPX Corp., the San Francisco-based provider of a patent-risk
management service, is seeking $131.4 million selling 7.3
million shares at $16 to $18 apiece.  Thermon Group Holdings Inc., the San Marcos, Texas-based
provider of equipment that protects industrial pipes from
freezing, aims to raise $140 million selling 10 million shares
at $12 to $14 apiece. VOC Energy Trust, the Austin, Texas-based
owner of oil and natural-gas properties in Texas and Kansas,
seeks $232.8 million selling 11.1 million units at $19 to $21
each.  Glencore International AG, the Swiss commodity trading firm
seeking $11 billion from a dual-city IPO in  London  and  Hong
Kong , is scheduled to announce a price range for the sale
tomorrow, according to company documents. Glencore’s IPO, if
successful, will be the biggest worldwide since General Motors
Co. raised $18.1 billion in November, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 