-- 
Reserve Bank of Australia Says Policy Stance Appropriate (Text)

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r
-- 
2011-05-03T04:40:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/reserve-bank-of-australia-says-policy-stance-appropriate-text-.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor Glenn Stevens explaining
the interest-rate decision today:  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 4.75 per cent.  The global economy is continuing its expansion, led by very
strong growth in the Asian region. The recent disaster in  Japan 
is having a major impact on Japanese production, and some
effects on production of manufactured products further afield.
Commodity prices, including  oil prices , have generally continued
to rise over recent months, pushing up measures of consumer
price inflation in many countries. A number of countries have
been moving to tighten their monetary policy settings. Overall,
though, financial conditions for the global economy remain
accommodative. Uncertainty remains over the prospects for
resolution of the banking and sovereign debt issues in  Europe .  Australia’s terms of trade are reaching higher levels than
assumed a few months ago, and national income is growing
strongly. Private investment is picking up, mainly in the
resources sector, in response to high levels of commodity prices.
In the household sector thus far, in contrast, there continues
to be caution in spending and borrowing, and a higher rate of
saving out of current income.  The natural disasters over the summer have reduced output
in some key sectors and the resumption of coal production in
flooded mines is taking longer than initially expected. It is
likely this caused a decline in real GDP in the March quarter.
Production levels should, however, recover over the months ahead,
and there will be a mild boost to demand from the rebuilding
efforts as they get under way. Over the medium term, overall
growth is likely to be at trend or higher.  Growth in employment has moderated over recent months and
the  unemployment rate  has been little changed, near 5 per cent.
Most leading indicators suggest further growth in employment,
though most likely at a slower pace than in 2010. Reports of
skills shortages remain confined, at this point, to the
resources and related sectors. After the significant decline in
2009, growth in wages has returned to rates seen prior to the
downturn.  Overall credit growth remains quite modest. Signs have
continued to emerge of some greater willingness to lend, and
business credit has resumed growth after a period of contraction.
Growth in credit to households, on the other hand, has softened
recently, as have housing prices in several cities. The exchange
rate has risen further and, in real effective terms, is at its
highest level in several decades. This, if sustained, could be
expected to exert additional restraint on the traded sector.  Recent data on inflation show the effects of production
losses due to the floods and Cyclone Yasi. The affected prices
should fall back later in the year, though substantial rises in
utilities prices are still occurring. The Bank expects that, as
the temporary price shocks dissipate over the coming quarters,
CPI inflation will be close to target over the year ahead.  Looking through these short-term movements, however, the
recent information suggests that the marked decline in
underlying inflation from the peak in 2008 has now run its
course. While the rising  exchange rate  will be helping to hold
down prices for some consumer products over the coming few
quarters, over the longer term inflation can be expected to
increase somewhat if economic conditions evolve broadly as
expected.  At today’s meeting, the Board judged that the current
mildly restrictive stance of monetary policy remained
appropriate. In future meetings, the Board will continue to
assess carefully the evolving outlook for growth and inflation.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Victoria Batchelor in Sydney at 
 vbatchelor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  