-- 
Robo-Investors Beware: What You Don’t Know Can Kill You: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-05-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/robo-investors-beware-what-you-don-t-know-can-kill-your-portfolio-books.html
The world is ruled, for good or evil,
by little more than ideas, as  John Maynard Keynes  observed.  One particularly fatal assumption is that markets follow
mechanical rules, argue Roman Frydman and Michael D. Goldberg in
“Beyond Mechanical Markets,” a groundbreaking look at how to
tame asset booms and busts.  Frydman is a professor at  New York University , Goldberg at
the University of  New Hampshire . Together, they set out to
expose most economic models, rational and behavioral alike, as
misguided and downright dangerous.  Financial markets aren’t utterly rational, almost perfect
allocators of capital, they say. Nor are they mere casinos
stampeded by herds of irrational gamblers. Yet these are the
concepts that first led lawmakers to ignore the grotesquely
swollen U.S. housing bubble and then, after the fizz went pop,
left them trying to stamp out speculation altogether.  For all their differences, these two models share an
“irreparable flaw,” the authors say: They presume that
individuals behave like robots in a world where the future
unfolds mechanically from the past. In reality, of course, the
future is unknowable and change unpredictable.  Serious investors, however rational, must base their
decisions on incomplete information and watch out for
technological innovations and other “non-routine changes.” Do
we know how many iPads  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will produce next quarter?
Does Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  have an exit plan?
What you don’t know can kill your portfolio.  Swinging Ever Higher  Confronted with imperfect knowledge and non-routine change,
investors may revise their forecasts bit by bit for long
stretches, tending to assume, as Keynes put it, “that the
existing state of affairs will continue indefinitely.” This is
a reasonable thing to do.  Corporate earnings and other economic indicators can, after
all, trend upward for years. As expectations rise, asset prices
swing ever higher and overshoot -- until the inevitable moment
when enough investors decide valuations are unsustainable and,
balking, pull back. Then the cycle slips into reverse.  Consider the U.S. in the 1990s. During much of the decade,
indicators ranging from gross domestic product to productivity
rose strongly, the authors say. This boosted optimism that a
technology revolution was afoot, prompting analysts to raise
forecasts and investors to bid up prices.  Speculative Excess  The boom was more than a phantasm. Though psychology was in
play, it was tethered to real trends. Companies old and new in
the early ‘90s were busy using novel  information technology  to
lower their costs and improve their products.  Later on, of course, the market went mad. One  Internet
company ,  Theglobe.com Inc. (TGLO) , surged 606 percent on its first day
of trading. By then, speculative excess had pushed the upswing
way past its due date.  Thus asset price swings both allocate capital and, all too
often, misallocate it, as the U.S. housing debacle showed. Until
we understand what drives price swings, we can’t hope to avert
another crisis.  For Frydman and Goldberg, the answer lies in that cocktail
of imperfect knowledge, non-routine change and psychological
influences such as confidence. To illustrate their argument,
they cite U.S. stock-market reports published by Bloomberg News.
These market wraps “provide a window into the decision-making
of the professional players whose trading determines prices,”
they write.  ‘Strong Conclusion’  Drilling into the reports, a doctoral student advised by
Goldberg,  Nicholas Mangee , extracted data showing what factors
influenced daily prices from Jan. 4, 1993, through Dec. 31,
2009. On virtually every day of the sample, Bloomberg
journalists (and the fund managers they quoted) cited
fundamental factors such as earnings and interest rates as a
driver of prices. On 55 percent of the days, at least one
psychological factor -- think fear and greed -- cropped up.  “Bloomberg’s market-wrap stories yield an exceptionally
strong conclusion,” the authors write. “In virtually no cases
do psychological or technical considerations alone move the
market.”  If the fund managers quoted in these news reports are
right, prices feed on non-routine changes in such things as
earnings and  oil prices . Contrary to mechanistic models,
investors aren’t robots; they are humans making decisions about
the future and choosing, as Keynes said, “between alternatives
as best as we are able.”  The challenge in this world of imperfect knowledge is to
keep asset prices from swinging so far out of whack that they
grossly misallocate capital and devastate society. That’s where
the state comes in.  Damping Swings  Governments could post guidance ranges for reasonable
values in various sectors and indexes, the authors say. These
ranges would draw on historical benchmarks, which show that
markets do correct themselves once price-earnings ratios cross
certain thresholds.  The state also could back up its guidance with actions
designed to damp the frequency and magnitude of excessive
swings. If prices soar above or swoon below the range, investors
might face higher  interest rates  or greater margin and
collateral requirements. A sensible approach, assuming
regulators have the guts to hit the brakes.  Though “Beyond Mechanical Markets” spares us equations,
it isn’t for anyone who suffers from attention-deficit disorder.
Readers must digest sentences stretching beyond 40 words and
exegeses on the Rational Expectations Hypothesis. They also must
bear with an account that says surprisingly little about the
role of credit growth in asset bubbles.  Yet of all the books I’ve read on the crisis that began in
2007, this one comes closest to laying a foundation for a more
pragmatic and genuinely useful school of economics.  “Beyond Mechanical Markets: Asset Price Swings, Risk and
the Role of the State” is from  Princeton  (285 pages, $35, 24.95
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 