-- 
Rockwell Pays $2.8 Million Over SEC Claims of Corrupt Payments

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-03T17:46:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/rockwell-pays-2-8-million-over-sec-claims-of-corrupt-payments.html
Rockwell Automation, Inc., the
Milwaukee-based maker of factory-automation software, will pay
$2.8 million to resolve U.S. regulatory claims it made improper
payments to win contracts from Chinese state-owned companies.  Rockwell reaped about $1.7 million in profits from sales to
Chinese companies associated with payments to state-owned
enterprises that provided integration services that could help
influence contract awards, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in an order today. The payments, which exceeded
$1 million, funded non-business trips for government employees
to places including Hawaii and  Australia , the SEC said.  Shares of Rockwell dropped as much as 2.5 percent to $84.85
before paring losses to $85.11 at 1:16 p.m. in  New York . The
allegations, involving employees of a Rockwell unit based in
 Shanghai , were resolved without an admission or denial of
wrongdoing, the SEC said.  Though the Chinese-government entities that received the
payments through third-party intermediaries did provide some
bona fide engineering services, Rockwell couldn’t substantiate
the specific services, the SEC said.  Rockwell discovered the payments in 2006 during a financial
review after targeting its China business for enhanced training
and scrutiny in 2004, the SEC said. After finding improprieties,
the company launched an internal probe and reported the payments
to the SEC, according to the order.  The company undertook several remedial measures, including
firing employees, enhancing internal controls and launching a
broad review of its other operations, the SEC said.  “These incidents, while isolated, have led us to heighten
our vigilance and further improve our training,” Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Keith Nosbusch said today in a
statement. “We are firmly committed to excellence in compliance
practices, as we are in all areas of responsible corporate
citizenship.”  Rockwell will pay $1.8 million in disgorgement, plus
$590,000 in interest and a $400,000 fine, the SEC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  