-- 
Romanian Central Bank Keeps EU’s Highest Rate Unchanged for Eighth Meeting

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 
2011-05-03T14:43:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/romanian-central-bank-keeps-eu-s-highest-rate-unchanged-for-eighth-meeting.html
Romania ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for the 12th consecutive month
as inflation will remain above its target range until next year.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  kept the main interest rate
at 6.25 percent today, matching the expectations of all 11
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Price growth will
“temporarily” accelerate in the second quarter before slowing
to the 2 percent to 4 percent target band next year, the
Bucharest-based bank said in an e-mailed statement.  “The monetary policy stance is aimed at preserving the
prospects for resuming disinflation, despite the recent
inflationary shocks,” the bank said in the statement. “The
outlook of continued and growing flows of volatile capital
triggers constraints” on monetary policy instruments.  Central banks around the world are struggling to rein in
accelerating inflation as global food and oil prices rise amid
turmoil in the Middle East. Several countries in eastern  Europe ,
including Hungary, Poland and  Russia , started raising  interest
rates  last year to slow price growth.  Romania had the EU’s highest inflation rate in March at 8
percent. The government raised its value-added  tax rate  last
year by five percentage points to 24 percent to narrow the
 budget deficit , prompting monetary policy makers to halt a rate-
cutting cycle aimed at boosting the economy.  ‘Underestimating’  The bank approved its quarterly inflation report today and
will present it at a press conference on May 5.  “The message of the central bank is that they will keep
the interest rate unchanged for the year as they continue to
search room for policy easing,” Nicolaie-Alexandru Chidesciuc,
chief economist at ING Bank in Bucharest, said by phone. “I
think it’s the wrong message and the bank is underestimating the
impact of the price increases. Keeping monetary policy relaxed
now fuels higher than anticipated inflation in 2012 and 2013.”  Policy makers may allow the leu to strengthen to help bring
the inflation rate within its target this year, Catalin Pauna,
the  World Bank ’s economist to the country, said in an interview
on April 19.  The leu has gained 4 percent against the euro in the past
three months, the best performance among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It weakened 0.3 percent
to 4.1064 as of 4:35 p.m. in Bucharest.  “The stronger currency over the last few months is helping
contain inflation, however, and the central bank is likely to
increase focus on the  exchange rate ,”  Elisabeth Andreew , Nordea
Bank AB’s head of currency strategy, wrote in a note to clients.
“We maintain our forecast of the leu at 4.10 per euro in three
months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  