-- 
True Finns Leader Backtracks on Offer to Discuss Portugal Aid

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-05-03T06:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/true-finns-leader-backtracks-on-offer-to-discuss-portugal-aid.html
The leader of  Finland ’s euro-skeptic
True Finns, Timo Soini, backtracked on signals he may be willing
to discuss a rescue plan for Portugal amid signs his party won’t
compromise on its opposition to European bailouts.  “We can’t vote for this and we won’t,” Soini said
yesterday in an interview in Helsinki after a presentation of
the party’s responses to questions from Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen, who is leading government talks after his National
Coalition won the most votes in the April 17 election.  The True Finns, which emerged as Finland’s third-largest
party in the vote, has taken government talks “seriously” and
still hopes to be part of a ruling coalition once differences
over  Portugal ’s bailout have been set aside, Soini said at
yesterday’s press briefing. Katainen pledged in his campaign not
to form government with parties opposed to bailout measures.  “If Finland can find a majority that can push this through
and a government is formed after that, then that will be a
different situation,” Soini said in the interview. His party
would have a “clear conscience” in such a scenario, he said.  Soini on April 30 told Finnish broadcaster YLE that he
would be open to negotiations on bailing out Portugal, which
last month became the third euro member to seek aid after  Greece 
and Ireland. The True Finns’ second in command, party secretary
Ossi Sandvik, told Bloomberg last week compromise is
“certain,” signaling it may accept a Portuguese rescue in
exchange for agreements on  job creation .  Finns Split  Finns are split in their view on bailouts, according to a
TNS Gallup Oy survey published today by  Helsingin Sanomat .
Thirty-eight percent back financial aid, 36 percent are opposed
and a quarter undecided. The poll had a margin of error of about
3 percentage points.  The spread between Portuguese bonds and German bunds was
little changed at 638 basis points today. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point. Finland’s 10-year debt yields were at 28 basis
points more than bunds, the second-smallest spread in the euro
region after Dutch bonds.  Soini’s shift shows he’s struggling to persuade his party
members and voters to accept any compromise now that government
talks have started, according to Ville Pitkaenen, a political
scientist at the University of Turku.  Party Opposition  “This underscores the cross currents within the True
Finns. Soini has to listen to his party and take their views
into account, he can’t push forward alone,” Pitkaenen said by
phone yesterday. “Even if he were ready to agree on some
compromise on the Portugal bailout, he may not get his party to
agree.”  Support for the True Finns rose by almost 15 percentage
points to 19 percent in last month’s election, after Soini
promised to prevent taxpayer funds contributing to more
bailouts. Katainen’s pro- Europe  National Coalition won 20.4
percent and the  Social Democrats  had 19.1 percent support.  “We will now see how big a hindrance” the True Finns’
stance on European policy “is to government talks,” Soini said
at the press conference. “I hope we’ll get a majority
government when this Portugal question has been resolved. That
may not be within the next two days, but within a month maybe.”  It’s up to Katainen to decide whether the True Finns can
join government, he said.  Party Meetings  Katainen will meet representatives from all parties today,
starting with his own at 9 a.m. local time, to discuss their
responses to his questions on Finland’s economy, foreign policy
and European economic issues.  Soini said his party can’t support the Portuguese bailout,
the permanent stability mechanism or increasing Finland’s
payments to the temporary rescue vehicle, while signaling he may
yet join a government that backs a rescue.  “The True Finns statement was exceptionally vague and
doesn’t make it any easier to form a government,” Sami Borg,
director of the Finnish Social Science Data Archive at the
University of Tampere, said by phone. “Soini will have to
persuade his flock, but the pressure to keep the campaign
promises is still there. The next move is Katainen’s.”  European leaders need to agree the details of how to bring
the region’s 440 billion-euro ($654 billion) rescue facility to
its full capacity, while negotiating terms of a loan to
Portugal. The country has a 5 billion-euro bond repayment due on
June 15.  Officials from the  International Monetary Fund , European
Commission and  European Central Bank  have been in Lisbon to draw
up a rescue package that the European Commission has estimated
at about 80 billion euros.  Europe’s permanent rescue plan “is a step toward
federation” that “doesn’t work,” Soini said, predicting that
Greece will need to restructure its debts and that “others” in
the euro region will follow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  