-- 
Russian Manufacturing Falls Most Since 2008 as Ruble Strength Hits Exports

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T08:04:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/russian-manufacturing-growth-has-largest-monthly-fall-since-2008.html
Russian manufacturing growth slowed in
April for the largest monthly drop since December 2008 after
export orders declined and companies scaled back investment.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index fell to a seasonally
adjusted 52.1, the weakest level since November, from 55.6 in
March,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in a report today, citing  data 
compiled by  Markit Economics , a financial information services
company. The survey-based index indicates a contraction when
below 50 and growth with a figure above 50.  “A decline in new export orders is worrisome as it usually
points to the direction of change in overall manufacturing
growth momentum in the coming months,”  Alexander Morozov ,
HSBC’s chief economist for  Russia  and the  Commonwealth of
Independent States , said in the report.  Growing producer prices and slowing demand for exports are
hampering investment and restraining output even as prices for
commodities pick up. Industrial production expanded in March at
the slowest pace since November 2009, rising an annual 5.3
percent.  The Economy Ministry expects gross domestic product to
expand 4.2 percent this year after growing 4 percent in 2010.
GDP rose an annual 4.5 percent in the first quarter, the
ministry estimates.  Medvedev’s Target  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said in February that Russia
should seek growth of as much as 10 percent a year within five
years to keep up with the pace of rival so-called BRIC
developing economies. Russia posted an average growth rate of
almost 7 percent from 1999 to 2008.  “The impact of export demand and manufacturing growth on
Russian GDP growth has declined,” Morozov wrote in the report.
“It raises the importance of a growth pick-up in other sectors
in order to sustain overall growth momentum in the economy.”  The ruble gained 0.3 percent to 40.5059 per euro and was
little changed against the dollar at 11:38 a.m. in Moscow. The
Micex Index of 30 stocks retreated 0.7 percent to 1,729.31.  Bank Rossii, which last week unexpectedly increased its
 interest rates  for the second time this year to cap inflation
while keeping  reserve requirements  unchanged, pointed to
“weak” fixed-capital investment and slowing industrial
expansion in its  statement  on April 29. Investment shrank during
the first three months of the year after 10 consecutive monthly
gains.  Export Orders  New export orders slipped in April for the first time in
five months, resulting in the steepest drop in work backlog for
the period and a “marginal pace” of employment gains, HSBC
said in the report.  Input prices grew sharply, fanned by the rising costs of
energy and raw materials, HSBC said.  Rail cargo turnover indicates the economy trails the pre-
crisis level by “slightly more than” 10 percentage points, OAO
Russian Railways Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Yakunin said
in an interview in Moscow April 25. Rail shipments are seen as a
proxy for changes in output because railroads account for about
85 percent of the nation’s total cargo transport, excluding
pipelines, according to VTB Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 