-- 
Russian Inflation Probably Accelerated to Fastest Pace Since October 2009

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-05-03T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/russian-inflation-probably-accelerated-to-fastest-pace-since-october-2009.html
Russian inflation probably accelerated
in April to the fastest pace since October 2009 as higher food
prices and gasoline shortages fanned cost pressures.  The annual inflation rate rose to 9.7 percent from 9.5
percent in March and February, according to the median estimate
of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices probably
increased 0.4 percent from a month earlier, compared with 0.6
percent in March, the survey showed. The Federal Statistics
Service plans to report the figures today or tomorrow.  The central bank unexpectedly raised its main  interest
rates  last week to rein in price growth after relying on a
stronger currency and higher  reserve requirements  for lenders to
meet its inflation target of 6 percent to 7 percent this year.
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government raised export duties
on gasoline to hold down prices and fight fuel shortages.  “The main driver continues to be food prices,” Anton Nikitin, chief economist at  Renaissance Capital  in Moscow, said
yesterday by e-mail. “Given the gasoline shortage in certain
parts of  Russia , that component will also spur inflation.”  Food-price growth likely remained near last month’s level
of 14.1 percent as higher gasoline costs pushed up prices for
vegetables, Nikitin said.  ‘Monetary Factors’  Bank Rossii cited the growing “role of monetary factors”
in sustaining inflation pressures when it raised the benchmark
rate to 8.25 percent on April 29, increasing borrowing costs for
the second time this year.  “Retail trade outstripping real incomes in recent months,
combined with growing lending to individuals and slower growth
of retail deposits, suggest a likely drop in people’s propensity
to save,” the central bank said in the statement. This “may
become a factor of increasing inflation risks.”  Retail sales increased 4.8 percent last month from a year
earlier even as real wages unexpectedly fell for the first time
in 16 months and disposable income dropped 3.4 percent.  The ruble gained 3.8 percent against the dollar in April,
its fifth straight monthly advance against the U.S. currency. It
was little changed at 27.36 per dollar at the close of trading
in Moscow yesterday.  Fighting inflation is a bigger priority than containing
ruble appreciation, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said April
25. The world’s biggest energy supplier “needs low inflation”
to make financing cheaper for companies and home buyers, Putin
said the same day, predicting the rate won’t exceed 7.5 percent
this year, the slowest on record.  The government is seeking to prevent inflation from sapping
purchasing power and consumer confidence less than a year before
parliamentary and presidential elections. Russians see
inflation, the fastest among the so-called BRIC countries, as
the country’s biggest challenge facing the country, according to
a poll by the state-run VTsIOM research center.  Policy makers’ surprise decision to raise rates suggests
“a change of heart” to focus on inflation after a previous
bias toward protecting the economy’s recovery, Vladimir Pantyushin, chief economist at  Barclays Capital  in Moscow, said
in an e-mailed research note April 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 