-- 
S. Korea Prosecutors Say N. Korean Hackers Shut Bank Network

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-03T10:00:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/s-korea-prosecutors-say-n-korean-hackers-shut-bank-network-2-.html
North Korea  was responsible for
paralyzing the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation’s
computer network in April in a second online attack in two
months linked to the Kim Jong Il regime, South Korean
prosecutors said.  Hackers used similar techniques employed in cyber assaults
that targeted websites in  South Korea  and the U.S. earlier this
year and in 2009, the Seoul Central District Prosecutors’ Office
said in an e-mailed statement today. The Unification Ministry
criticized the “provocation” and urged North Korea to stop
such attacks immediately.  The network of the bank better known in Korean as Nonghyup
was shut down on April 12, keeping its almost 20 million clients
from using automated teller machines and online banking
services. In all of the three bouts of online attacks, a method
called “distributed denial service” was used, according to the
statement.  Under the DDoS tactic, malicious codes infect computers to
trigger mass attacks against targeted websites, according to
 Ahnlab Inc. (053800) , South Korea’s largest maker of antivirus software.  Nonghyup will spend 510 billion won ($477.2 million) by
2015 to boost network security, the bank said in an e-mailed
statement. The company received 1,385 claims for compensation
related to the network disruption as of May 2, and 1,361 of them
have been settled, according to the statement.  North Korea’s postal ministry was responsible for the 2009
attacks, Won Sei Hoon, head of South Korea’s  National
Intelligence Service , told lawmakers in October that year.  Attacks in March this year targeted 40 South Korean
websites, including at the presidential office, the National
Intelligence Service, and Ministry of National Defense. They
were traced to the same Internet Protocol addresses used in the
2009 episodes, South Korean police said last month.  The hackers prepared for the April 12 attack on Nonghyup
for more than seven months, the Seoul Central District
Prosecutors’ Office said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  