-- 
Scene Last Night: Steven Cohen, Cruz, Jagger, Wintour

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-05T14:05:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/scene-last-night-steven-cohen-cruz-jagger-beyonce-wintour-bundchen.html
Steven A. Cohen , head of SAC Capital
Advisors, arrived with his wife, Alexandra, who wore red open-
toed shoes that matched the carpet leading in to the
Metropolitan Museum of Art. Penelope Cruz entered with Oscar de
la Renta, Beyonce with Jay-Z.  Also attending the museum’s Costume Institute Ball last
night were  Rupert Murdoch , chairman and chief executive of  News
Corp .,  David Koch , of Koch Industries Inc., and the event’s
honorary chairmen: Francois-Henri Pinault and his wife, Salma
Hayek.  “It’s really fun to arrive with a CEO,” said Patricia Clarkson, accompanied by Michael Kors CEO John Idol. “I think
that’s how I should always arrive.”  Fashion and wealth blended on this evening for one of the
biggest museum fundraisers on the planet. Tables, which were
sold out months ago, went for $100,000 to $250,000.  “An event like this can raise really significant funds to
give us great exhibits and buy great pieces for the Costume
Institute,” said Hamish Bowles, European editor at large at
American Vogue, which takes on the lion’s share of party
planning.  Stepping into the museum, guests found themselves with
reminders of the English countryside. A 30-foot-tall faux oak
tree rose from the information desk; heather, lavender, ivy and
roses decorated the grand staircase. Dinner was highland beef
and truffled potato tart, served with 2008 Chateau de Sales
Pomerol. Florence + the Machine performed.  ‘Savage Beauty’  The party offered a preview of the exhibition “ Alexander McQueen : Savage Beauty,” a tribute to the British designer who
died last year. Following the success of her wedding gown for
 Kate Middleton , McQueen designer Sarah Burton wore all white.  “It is really scholarship and exquisiteness at the very
highest level,” the president of the museum, Emily Rafferty,
said of the exhibition. She was standing at the top of the Met’s
outdoor stairs, in a red de la Renta gown and costume earrings.
Some of her first greetings went to the event’s chairmen, Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue,  Colin Firth  and designer
Stella McCartney.  Tom Ford, with a white flower on his lapel, stepped in
after  Yoko Ono . Josh Duhamel and his wife, Fergie, of the Black
Eyed Peas, walked in with  Tom Brady , of the  New England
Patriots , and Gisele Bundchen.  Jagger’s Sneakers  Mick Jagger strode up to the Fifth Avenue museum in black
Adidas sneakers and a suit by London tailor  Timothy Everest , to
which he added “an old pin from 1810,” he said. Glee’s Matthew
Morrison wore a white Dolce & Gabbana dinner jacket, and  Larry Gagosian  sported an American flag bowtie.  The director of “The King’s Speech,” Tom Hooper, wore a
tuxedo by English bespoke tailor Ozwald Boateng that was “the
exact same I wore to the Oscars,” he said. “The great thing
about being a man is that I can wear it twice and nobody gives a
damn.”  Designer Tory Burch said the key to a man’s success in
formal attire is in the details.  Kanye West , whose tuxedo Burch
designed, Hugh Dancy, Jason Bateman, and Koch all wore black
patent-leather shoes; Koch’s had bows.  As for the fit of a tuxedo, “This is one instance where
size matters,” said menswear designer Simon Spurr, who wore a
tie with a scorpion printed on it. “Buy one size smaller than
you think.”  However sexy a uniform a tuxedo can be, McCartney suggested
a man’s sex appeal comes from within, citing McQueen as a role
model. “Have a personality, be true to yourself, and don’t
conform in any way,” she said.  The gala raised $10.4 million for the Costume Institute.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 