-- 
Science Adviser Holdren Says Military Can Lead on Clean Energy

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T19:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/science-adviser-holdren-says-military-can-lead-on-clean-energy.html
The U.S. Defense Department, which
accounts for 93 percent of federal energy use, can lead the push
for a low-carbon economy, the science adviser to President
Barack Obama said.  Investments in advanced fuels and electric vehicles, as
well as new efficiency practices, may develop breakthroughs,
John Holdren, director of the  White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy , said today at a Washington conference on
 climate change  and the defense industry. The U.S. military is
responsible for 2 percent of the country’s energy consumption.  The Pentagon has an interest in low-carbon alternatives,
Holdren said. Extreme temperatures and severe weather caused by
climate change threaten U.S. troops and equipment and may
heighten international tensions, he said.  “The problem is that the world is getting most of the
energy that its economies need in ways that are imperiling the
climate that its environment needs,” the 67-year-old Holdren
said. “That is the essence of the challenge.”  More than 80 percent of global energy comes from oil, coal
and natural gas. Solutions such as low-carbon nuclear power also
present risks, he said.  The Defense Department buys oil products from London-based
BP Plc,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  of The Hague and other companies.
The Navy has tested biofuel in a fighter jet and surface
vessels.  Melting ice in the Arctic has already prompted disputes
over ownership of undersea resources, according to Holdren.
Disputes in the region, as well as increased ship traffic, may
require more military patrols, he said.  ‘Environmental Refugees’  Potential sources of climate-related conflict include water
shortages, civil disorder and “environmental refugees,”
Holdren said.  More frequent heat waves, storms, mud and dust also may
complicate U.S. defense operations and make military bases
vulnerable, he said. Troop health may be harmed by a “worsened
disease environment” caused by warmer temperatures, he said.  Money that must be spent to help deal with the effects of
climate change may divert funds from national defense, Holdren
said.  Holdren was a Harvard University expert on climate change,
energy and  arms control  when the Senate unanimously approved his
White House appointment in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  