-- 
Sears Holdings Shares Drop After Same-Store Sales Declined Last Quarter

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-05-03T20:32:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/sears-holdings-shares-drop-after-same-store-sales-declined-last-quarter.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the department-
store chain majority-owned by  Edward Lampert , dropped the most
in almost a year in Nasdaq trading after comparable-store sales
fell and the company predicted a first-quarter loss.  Sales at stores open at least a year declined 3.6 percent
in the quarter ended April 30, the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-
based company said yesterday in a statement. The first-quarter
loss will be $1.35 to $1.81, compared with the 3-cent profit
predicted on average by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Lampert and Lou D’Ambrosio, who was named chief executive
officer about two months ago, told shareholders today at the
company’s annual meeting that Sears will expand services and
technology to boost sales and understand customers better.
The chain has lost customers and market share to discounters
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Target Corp. (TGT)  as shoppers seek
to stay on budget.  “We believe these results point to the increasingly dire
prospects for Sears,” Gary Balter, an analyst at Credit Suisse,
said in a note to clients today. The New York-based analyst
rates the shares “underperform.”  Lampert today said Sears will “reinvent” clothing this
year with new brands such as the  Kardashian Kollection . The
company has “underleveraged” assets including brands, space in
stores and services, D’Ambrosio said. Sears would be
“opportunistic” about acquisitions, Lampert said.  “I think that there are a lot of companies that could be
very complementary to the things we’re doing,” Lampert said.  ‘Weak Performance’       Sales dropped 5.2 percent at the Sears chain and 1.6
percent at Kmart stores last quarter, according to the
statement. Appliances led declines after customers took
advantage of rebate programs a year earlier, Sears said.  “We could do a lot better,” Lampert said of the results.  Balter had forecast a 1 percent comparable sales decline
for Kmart, and a 5.5 percent drop at Sears stores.  Sears fell $8.30, or 9.9 percent, to $75.88 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time on the Nasdaq Stock Market, the biggest drop since May
20, 2010.  “We see little reason to own Sears given the state of the
business and our expectation of weak performance in 2011,” Greg Melich, an analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group,
said in a note to clients today. The New York-based analyst
recommends selling the shares.  April Sales  Sears’s declines come as sales at other department stores
are surging.  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, projected comparable-store sales at department stores
increased 8.8 percent on average in April. Most retailers are
scheduled to report sales for April on May 5.  Sales of sporting goods, jewelry and footwear increased
during the last quarter, the company said.  D’Ambrosio, who took over in February, is the former CEO of
telecommunications company Avaya Inc. and had worked as a
consultant to the Sears board on strategy and operations, the
retailer said earlier this year. He replaced W. Bruce Johnson.  The hiring of D’Ambrosio, an executive at  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  for 16 years before taking charge at
Avaya, is aimed at boosting technology in Sears retail
operations, Lampert said earlier this year.  Sears plans to report first-quarter results May 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 Mboyle20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  