-- 
SEB Says First-Quarter Profit Jumps on Recovery in Baltic States

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-05-03T06:35:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/seb-says-first-quarter-profit-jumps-on-recovery-in-baltic-states.html
SEB AB, the second-largest bank in the
Baltic states, said first-quarter profit almost quadrupled as it
recouped loan-loss provisions amid the region’s economic
rebound.  Net income jumped to 2.6 billion kronor ($432 million) from
674 million kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-based lender
said in a statement today. That beat the average 2.39 billion-
krona estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “SEB made a net release of provisions for credit losses,
reflecting the continued improved asset quality,” Chief
Executive Officer Annika Falkengren said in the statement. “In
the Baltic operations, where our businesses have been back in
black since the third quarter of last year, there was positive
risk migration among corporates.”  The recovery in Estonia, Latvia and  Lithuania , allowed SEB
to recoup 537 million kronor in bad-loan provisions in the first
quarter, following credit impairments of 1.81 billion kronor in
the year-earlier period. The Baltic countries suffered the
steepest recessions in the European Union in 2009.  The company’s net interest income, the difference between
what the bank earns from lending and what it pays on deposits,
rose 20 percent to 4.26 billion kronor, while net fee and
commission income advanced 9.7 percent to 3.5 billion kronor.  Sweden, home to four of the Nordic region’s six biggest
banks, wants its lenders to follow stricter standards than those
set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , and seeks to
push the changes through earlier, Finance Minister Anders Borg
said in March.  SEB’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, was 13 percent at the end of March. CEO Falkengren
said she expects  Sweden  to abide by the same capital rules as
the rest of the EU.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 