-- 
Sell Bullish Options on Indian State Banks on Rates, Morgan Stanley Says

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-05-03T05:26:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/sell-bullish-options-on-indian-state-banks-on-rates-morgan-stanley-says.html
Investors should sell bullish options
on  India ’s state-owned banks because their values may fall as
lower lending profits reverse the “strong” revenue growth of
the past two years, Morgan Stanley derivatives strategists said.  Viktor Hjort  and Gaurav Rastogi recommended selling six-
month over-the-counter CNX Bank Index call options with a strike
price 10 percent above the index level. The 12-member gauge has
rebounded 12 percent from a six-month low on Feb. 10.  State Bank
of India (SBIN)  Ltd. and the six other state-owned banks account for 34
percent of the index weight, the report said.  Net interest margins, a measure of lending profitability,
are likely to fall “sharply,” the Hong-Kong based strategists
wrote.  Anil Agarwal , an analyst at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , expects the
lenders to face “challenging” conditions over the next six to
nine months as the higher cost of oil reduces asset prices, they
said. That means there may be “little upside” for the index,
which makes call selling attractive, they said.  “Our cautious view on Indian financials is based on a
sharp slowdown in revenues,” the strategists wrote. “ Oil
prices  will put pressure on asset quality.”  The index’s three-month implied volatility of 26 is a
“high” premium relative to the one-month implied volatility of
16, the strategists wrote. That elevated cost for the longer-
dated contracts favors selling the calls, they said.  Crude futures lost 53 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $112.99 in
after-hours trading in  New York  after rising as high as $114.83
yesterday. Prices are up 31 percent the past year.  The CNX Bank Index gained 0.8 percent to 11,330.65 as of
10:49 a.m. in Mumbai, after falling 2 percent yesterday, ahead
of the central bank’s policy announcement later today.  Inflation Risks  India’s inflation risks have “amplified” because of high
commodity prices and “policy interventions” are needed, the
central bank said yesterday after markets closed, signaling the
possibility of raising borrowing costs today. It has increased
rates eight times since March 2010.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Investors use options
to guard against fluctuations in the price of securities they
own, speculate on share-price moves or bet that volatility, or
stock swings, will rise or fall. Over-the-counter options are
traded privately with financial institutions, as opposed to
listed options, which trade on exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 