-- 
Selling Dollar Versus Euro ‘Makes Sense,’ Aviva Investors Says

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-03T12:41:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/selling-dollar-versus-euro-makes-sense-on-fed-aviva-investors-says.html
The dollar will fall further against
the euro as the  Federal Reserve  keeps monetary policy loose, and
the end of its bond-purchase program won’t be enough to lift the
currency, according to Aviva Investors.  The dollar “probably has room” to decline to $1.60, a
level that previously made European policy makers uncomfortable,
said Pierre Lequeux, London-based head of currency management at
Aviva Investors, which oversees about $370 billion. The euro is
being supported by emerging economies that continue to diversify
their assets away from the dollar, he said.  “Investors will look beyond the end of QEII in June,”
Lequeux said in an interview at a Euromoney conference in
London, referring to the second round of so-called quantitative
easing. “It still makes sense to short the dollar against the
euro. The  U.S. economy  seems to have fundamental flaws.”  The dollar has dropped 9.5 percent against the euro this
year, making it the worst performer against the common currency
after the South African rand, even as some nations in the euro
region are grappling with the sovereign-debt debt crisis.  Fed ChairmanBen S. Bernanke, who has kept the target rate
for overnight loans between banks in a record low range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008, said last week that there
will be no change for an “extended period.” The  Federal Open
Market Committee  meets every six to eight weeks.  “The job market remains sluggish and the domestic activity
is still slow,” Lequeux said. “The U.S. has some fiscal
adjustments to do and that will affect growth. It’s hard for me
to be bullish on the dollar.”  ‘Political Commitment’  The  European Central Bank  boosted its main refinancing rate
on April 7 to 1.25 percent from 1 percent to tame inflation
expectations, and ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signalled
more increases may be on the way.  “There is a strong political commitment for the euro,”
said Lequeux. “And there’s also support from currency
diversification. That’s probably why the euro hasn’t fallen out
of bed, despite the sovereign-debt crisis.”  The dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.4796 per euro as of 1:20
p.m. in London. It dropped 0.5 percent to 80.80 yen.  Aviva Investors is a unit of  Aviva Plc (AV/) , Britain’s second-
biggest insurer by market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  