-- 
Senate Report on Meltdown Under Justice Department Review

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-05-03T18:34:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/senate-report-on-goldman-house-probe-is-under-review-by-justice-department.html
The  Justice Department  is reviewing a
report by a U.S. Senate panel that said  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
misled clients about the firm’s bets on securities tied to the
housing market, according to Attorney General  Eric Holder .  Holder told the House Judiciary Committee at a hearing
today that the department is reviewing the April report by the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, led by Senator
 Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat. Holder didn’t say which aspects
of the report, which probed the causes of 2008 financial crisis,
are under review.  “The department is looking right now at the report
prepared by Senator Levin’s subcommittee that deals with Goldman
Sachs,” Holder said in Washington.  At the time the report was released, Levin said he wanted
the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange
Commission to examine whether Goldman Sachs violated the law by
misleading clients who bought the complex securities known as
collateralized debt obligations without knowing the firm would
benefit if they fell in value.  Levin also said federal prosecutors should review whether
to bring perjury charges against Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and other current and former employees
who testified to Congress last year. Levin said they denied
under oath that Goldman Sachs took a financial position against
the mortgage market solely for its own profit, statements the
senator said were untrue.  ‘Truthful and Accurate’  In a statement when the report was released, New York-based
Goldman Sachs denied it had misled anyone about its activities.  “The testimony we gave was truthful and accurate and this
is confirmed by the subcommittee’s own report,” Goldman Sachs
spokesman Lucas van Praag said.  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to 
make any additional comment today.  Much of the blame for the market collapse belongs to banks
that earned billions of dollars in profits creating and selling
financial products that imploded along with the housing market,
according to the report. The Senate panel levied its harshest
criticism at investment banks, in particular accusing Goldman
Sachs and  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  of selling collateralized debt
obligations backed by risky loans that the banks’ own traders
believed were likely to lose value.  ‘Divergent Views’  In a statement at the time of the report, Deutsche Bank
spokeswoman Michele Allison said, “As the PSI report correctly
states, there were divergent views within the bank about the
U.S. housing market. Moreover, the bank’s views were fully
communicated to the market through research reports, industry
events, trading desk commentary and press coverage. Despite the
bearish views held by some, Deutsche Bank was long the housing
market and endured significant losses.”  The Senate panel’s report also examined the role of credit-
rating firms in the meltdown, lax oversight by  Washington 
regulators and the decline in lending standards that fueled the
mortgage bubble and ultimately led to hundreds of  bank failures .  The turmoil beginning in 2007 froze credit markets, took
down investment banks Bear Stearns Cos. and Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., sent housing finance giants  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  into government conservatorship and caused the worst
economic collapse in the U.S. since the Great Depression.  Last year Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to resolve SEC
claims that it failed to disclose that hedge fund Paulson & Co
was betting against, and influenced the selection of, CDOs the
company was packaging and selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  