-- 
No Timetable for Deficit-Reduction Plan, Senate ‘Gang of Six’s’ Crapo Says

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-04T15:12:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/senator-crapo-says-no-timetable-for-deficit-cutting-plan-1-.html
A member of the bipartisan “Gang of
Six” senators trying to devise a long-term deficit-reduction
plan said he may not agree to any proposal in time for a vote on
raising the U.S. debt limit.  “I do not let external factors like that cause me to set a
timetable or a deadline,” said Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho
Republican. Asked his view of how the negotiations were going,
Crapo said, “I go like this,” tracing with his finger a jagged
line that moved up and down. “I’m halfway on a ‘down’ but
hoping that I’m going to be on an ‘up’ real fast.”  Crapo’s comments yesterday, along with remarks by Senate
leaders of both parties casting doubt on prospects for a quick
debt-cutting deal, suggested that momentum behind the Gang of
Six may be flagging at a pivotal time in the talks. They are
debating income tax revisions and methods of controlling costs
of entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare.  Gang of Six co-leader Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss of
 Georgia , asked today whether he was as optimistic about reaching
an agreement as he was before Congress’s two-week recess last
month, said, “Probably so. We’re keeping our head down and
working hard.”  Many Republicans insist that they won’t agree to raise the
debt limit without a plan to cut the deficit.  ‘Clock is Ticking’  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said yesterday “the
clock is ticking” and that a separate group of lawmakers led by
Vice President  Joe Biden  was more likely to agree on a deficit-
reduction plan. That group is scheduled to meet tomorrow.  “The only way I can conclude that something is likely to
get a result anytime soon is in these debt-ceiling talks” that
Biden is leading, McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, told
reporters.  The two Republicans who will participate in those talks,
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia and second-ranking
Senate Republican  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , sent a letter to Biden
asking that Obama submit a specific proposal that can be
analyzed by the nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office . The
president last month outlined his approach for reducing
cumulative deficits by $4 trillion over 12 years.  “We believe a detailed proposal from the president will be
key to the success of the working group and vital for Congress
to make progress on these very important issues,” Kyl and
Cantor wrote in a letter dated yesterday.  Best Opportunity  Many lawmakers consider the debt-limit vote their best
opportunity this year to force major changes in the federal
budget. The Treasury Department said this week lawmakers will
need to raise the $14.3 trillion debt cap by Aug. 2, three weeks
later than it had previously predicted.  Four congressional Democrats will join the talks led by
Biden: Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  of  Montana ,
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Daniel Inouye of
 Hawaii , House Assistant Democratic leader Jim Clyburn of  South
Carolina  and Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the House
Budget Committee’s top-ranking Democrat.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,  said
the revised deadline gives his colleagues more time to consider
their options. He said he urged them in a private meeting not to
sign on to any of the competing budget-cutting proposals “until
we know what the end game is.”  ‘Floating Around’  “There are a lot of things floating around here -- and I
told my members just -- let’s not be signing on to all this
stuff until we really know where we’re headed,” Reid told
reporters. “We have some time to do some very, very good work
here, but we have to do it deliberately.”  The Gang of Six, three Senate Republicans and three
Democrats, is led by Chambliss and Democrat Mark Warner of
 Virginia .  Asked about the pressure to find agreement on a plan before
the debt-limit vote, Crapo said there will still be other
opportunities to address the deficit. He also said he opposes
proposals to create a mechanism that would force automatic tax
increases if lawmakers can’t agree on how to reduce the deficit.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad  told reporters
he planned to submit his own 2012 spending plan to his panel
either this week or early next week. He had been postponing that
plan to focus on the Gang of Six talks.  “No one should conclude” that his move reflects pessimism
about the possibility of a bipartisan deal among the six
senators, the North Dakota Democrat said. “The group of six
doesn’t have a plan at this moment -- I’ve got to have a plan to
take to the committee.”  Conrad said his budget proposal would make “modest savings
out of Medicare,” and “borrows heavily” from the presidential
deficit-cutting commission on which he served last year as well
as “ideas from the group of six” senators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  