-- 
Sensex is World’s Worst Perfomer as Interest Rate Increase Tops Forecasts

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-05-03T21:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/sensex-declines-for-seventh-day-before-central-bank-meeting-lenders-lead.html
Indian stocks dropped the most among
major indexes in the world after rate increases by the nation’s
central bank exceeded economists’ estimates. The nation’s stocks
listed in the U.S. also declined more than its BRIC peers.  Reserve Bank  of India today raised rates by 0.5 percentage
point, more than analysts’ forecast, and predicted inflation to
remain at about 9 percent until September because of higher oil
costs. An index tracking American depositary receipts of Indian
companies by Bank of New York Mellon fell 2.8 percent to a six-
week low as of 4 p.m. close in New York, exceeding losses of 2.1
percent for  China ’s ADRs, 1.3 percent for  Russia  and 2.1 percent
for  Brazil .  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , the largest maker of tractors,
fell the most in three months.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA) , a
builder of dams, roads and bridges, sank 8.2 percent. The ADRs
of  ICICI Bank Ltd. (IBN) , India’s second-biggest lender, fell 4.4
percent, the biggest in four months, trailed by a 3.7 percent
decline in U.S.-listed shares of  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , the country’s
third-largest.  “The central bank is reacting to the alarming situation of
inflation,” said  Manish Sonthalia , who manages $300 million in
stocks for wealthy individuals at Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd.
in Mumbai. “I was expecting a 75 basis point increase by the
end of the year, but there’s been front-loading of rate
tightening.” Sonthalia is avoiding companies that require large
amounts of capital as borrowing costs are set to rise.  Sensex  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, lost
463.33, or 2.4 percent, to 18,534.69 at the close in Mumbai. The
gauge fell for the seventh day, its longest run of losses since
November 2008, to close at the lowest level since March 24. The
S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange slid 2.4
percent to 5,565.25. Its May futures settled at 5,562.25. The
BSE 200 Index lost 2.3 percent to 2,292.08.  The Reserve Bank increased the repurchase rate to 7.25
percent from 6.75 percent. Only seven of 25 economists in a
Bloomberg survey had predicted the move, while the remaining
expected a quarter-point gain. The central bank boosted the
reverse repurchase rate to 6.25 percent from 5.75 percent.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the nation’s biggest, plunged 4.1
percent to 2,583.7 rupees. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Bankex
Index of 14 lenders fell for a seventh day, losing 3.1 percent,
the longest run of losses since November 2008.  Higher Reserves  The central bank asked lenders to set aside more funds to
cover bad loans and double provisions for restructured debt as
it sought to curtail risks tied to defaults by borrowers. The
monetary authority capped investments by banks into so-called
liquid plans by mutual funds that invest in debt instruments to
reduce the risk of sudden large outflows during an economic
slowdown.  Mirae Asset Global Investments (India) Pvt., which managed
3.8 billion rupees ($86 million) in assets as of March, has cut
holdings in state-run banks, said Gopal Agrawal, the company’s
chief investment officer in Mumbai. The rate increase “really
shows the RBI’s concern on inflation and they’ve taken a bold
step,” he said. “The mood of the market will be decided more
by the corporate earnings and the global outlook.”  Inflation in  India  is the highest after Russia among the
so-called BRICs economies and if left unchecked could rekindle
public protests and undermine Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government. Rising borrowing costs will slow economic growth
this year and help ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward
bias” by March 31, 2012, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said today.  The Bank of New York Mellon BRIC Select ADR Index fell 2.1
percent today, after gaining 2 percent this year through
yesterday. The measure tracks all the ADRs from Brazil, Russia,
India and China.  No Baby-Step Approach  “The Reserve Bank has tried to move ahead of inflation;
the baby-step approach has been sacrificed in light of rising
inflationary expectations,” said Aneesh Srivastava, who
oversees about $355 million as chief investment officer at IDBI
Federal Life Insurance Co. Srivastava, based in Mumbai, said he
would avoid developers and use the drop to buy consumer shares.  Mahindra & Mahindra plunged 4.5 percent to 708.1 rupees.
 Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the biggest truckmaker and owner of Jaguar
Land Rover, sank 5.1 percent to 1,163.1 rupees and its May
futures traded at 1,163.20 rupees. Its ADRs slid 3.9 percent in
New York to $26.20 each, the lowest in more than a month.  Automakers, Developers  Bajaj Auto Ltd. (BJAUT) , the second-largest motorcycle maker, slid
5.1 percent to 1,367.15 rupees.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the
largest engineering company, declined 4.2 percent to 1,537.4
rupees, its steepest drop since Feb. 24.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the biggest developer, slid 2.5 percent to 220.75
rupees. Jaiprakash Associates sank 8.2 percent to 84.9 rupees.
The company was cut to “neutral” from “buy” at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., which cited the “limited areas of potential
positive surprise” given the concerns over the company’s debt
levels.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Realty Index fell 2.9 percent to
2,140.90, its lowest level since March 23.  Rising interest costs and inflation are prompting Indian
billionaire Uday Kotak’s money management unit to trim holdings
in the nation’s consumer-goods stocks and add shares of lenders
and pharmaceutical companies.  “We are getting a sense that consumer discretionary
spending may see some kind of a slowdown in the next six to
eight months,” Pankaj Tibrewal, a  fund manager  at Kotak
Mahindra Asset Management Co., which has 322 billion rupees
($7.3 billion) in assets, said in an interview yesterday.  Price-Earnings Ratios  The Sensex has declined 9.6 percent this year on concern
faster inflation will cause borrowing costs to rise, crimping
growth in corporate earnings. Sensex stocks trade at an average
14.7 times estimated profit, down from 21.5 times in March 2010.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is valued at 11.5 times.  “A rising interest rate scenario is not conducive for
stock investors in near term,” IDBI Federal’s Srivastava said.
“Growth and company earnings will be impacted.”  Overseas investors sold a net 1.95 billion rupees ($43.9
million) of Indian stocks on April 29, paring their investments
in equities this year to 45.2 billion rupees, according to data
on the  website  of the  Securities and Exchange Board of India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net 
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  