-- 
Shanghai Pharma Share Sale to Raise $2.2 Billion as Temasek, Pfizer Invest

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-03T10:11:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/shanghai-pharma-share-sale-to-raise-2-2-billion-as-temasek-pfizer-invest.html
Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co.,
 China ’s second-largest drug distributor, will sell new shares to
Temasek Holdings Pte and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  in an offering in Hong Kong
of as much as $2.2 billion of stock to fund acquisitions.  Temasek, a Singapore state investment company, Pfizer,
Guoco Group and Bank of China Group Investment will buy a total
of $550 million shares for HK$21.80 to HK$26 apiece, according
to a marketing document sent to investors today.  The funds will enable Shanghai Pharma to buy manufacturing
assets in China, where demand for medicines is forecast by IMS
Health Inc. to expand at least  25 percent  this year. A soon-to-
be-released government plan may push for the nation’s three
biggest drug companies to increase their share of the market to
30 percent to 35 percent by 2015 from 21 percent in 2009, the
21st Century Business Herald reported last week.  “ Shanghai  Pharma should benefit from upcoming industry
consolidation, since it is already one of the biggest players,”
said Pan Lei, an analyst at Beijing-based Guodu Securities Co.,
who recommends buying the shares. “The company is seen as an
attractive investment because its drug distribution business
makes it stable.”  Shanghai Pharma, the first drugmaker in China licensed to
make Roche Holding AG’s Tamiflu medicine, plans to sell a total
of 664.2 million shares in the Hong Kong offering. Temasek will
invest $300 million, Guoco Group will invest $150 million, and
Pfizer and Bank of China Group Investment will each buy $50
million of shares, according to the document.  Funding Acquisitions  Shanghai Pharma, China’s third-largest drugmaker in 2009,
will use 30 percent of the proceeds from its  Hong Kong  offering
to buy other drug companies, and allocate 40 percent to expand
and strengthen its distribution networks, according to the
marketing document.  The company distributes medicines through 41 subsidiaries
and branches as well as 32 depots and warehouses across eastern,
southern and northern China, it said in a stock-exchange filing,
adding that only Sinopharm Group distributed more medicines in
2009. Shanghai Pharma’s 53 major products are sold through 1,682
pharmacies in nine provinces, it said.  Shanghai Pharma shares are halted from trading in Shanghai
until its Hong Kong shares begin trading on May 20, according to
the marketing document.  Temasek spokesman  Jeffrey Fang  and Pfizer’s Singapore-based
spokeswoman Neena Moorjani said they weren’t currently able to
comment on the investment. Guoco and Bank of China Investment
Group didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Shanghai Pharma signed a memorandum of understanding with
New York-based Pfizer on April 21 to pursue potential business
opportunities in China.  China International Capital Corp.,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are managing the
sale.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  