-- 
Soccer Ruling Body FIFA Seeks New Technology Tests to End Goal Controversy

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-03T16:43:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/soccer-ruling-body-fifa-seeks-new-technology-tests-to-end-goal-controversy.html
Soccer’s governing body is again
asking companies to find a solution to one of the sport’s
thorniest issues: whether a ball has crossed the goal-line.  FIFA’s invitation comes just three days after the latest
controversy. Chelsea’s Frank Lampard was given a goal in a 2-1
victory over Tottenham although video evidence showed the ball
hadn’t completely crossed the line. The goal could affect the
Premier League title race, where the Blues have closed to within
three points of  Manchester United . The teams meet on May 8.  A disallowed Lampard goal against  Germany  at last year’s
World Cup pushed FIFA President Sepp Blatter to re-examine the
issue, two years after the sport’s rulemakers decided not to
pursue technology. FIFA has been criticized by fans, players and
match officials over its failure to adopt video or computerized
ways of monitoring the ball’s flight.  The  International Football Association Board , which
regulates the game, said in April that trials by 10 companies
hadn’t met its  criteria , which include being able to deliver a
result to the referee within a second of the action.  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  said he couldn’t
understand how the technology hadn’t come in yet. The defeat at
Chelsea means his team’s chances of qualifying for the Champions
League are slim. Spurs are seven points behind  Manchester City ,
which is in the last qualifying spot, with four games left for
each team.  ‘Man on the Moon’  “We can put a man on the moon but we can’t decide if a
ball crossed the line: It’s beyond belief,” Redknapp told the
British Broadcasting Corp.  Blatter had until the  World Cup  opposed technology, saying
he preferred a uniform set of rules to dictate matches from the
highest level to local park games. The sport is also trialing
the use of extra officials placed behind the goals.  The latest round of testing will take place in two phases
at a stadium of the technology providers’ choice, FIFA said in a
statement. Expressions of interest must be submitted by June 3
and a formal registration will take place July 7.  At IFAB’s meeting in April, Blatter said there was a chance
that goal-line technology would be considered for the next World
Cup in  Brazil  in 2014.  “If it works definitely, the board will say yes to the
technology,” he said.  Shortlist  As well as providing a result within a second, any
technological solution must be transmitted via a vibration and
visual display to the referee’s watch. A shortlist will be
determined after the first testing phase between September and
December, FIFA said. The final round of tests, which are slated
to include simulated match conditions, will take place between
March and June 2012. The final result will be announced a month
later.  Hawk-Eye Innovations Ltd., a U.K.-based unit of  Sony Corp. (6758) 
that makes equipment used to review line calls in tennis, has
twice been involved with trials for FIFA. It didn’t take part in
February’s trials because the conditions didn’t simulate
matches.  Munich-based Cairos Technologies AG has proposed the
introduction of a microchip that could determine if a ball had
crossed the goal line.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London on  at
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  