-- 
Sony/ATV Said to Submit Takeover Offer for Warner Music

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-05-03T20:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/sony-atv-is-said-to-have-submitted-takeover-offer-for-warner-music-group.html
Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC, owned
by  Sony Corp. (SNE)  and Michael Jackson’s estate, submitted a bid for
 Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG)  ahead of yesterday’s deadline, two
people with knowledge of the auction said.  Sony/ATV made a joint bid with billionaire Ronald Perelman
and  Guggenheim Partners LLC , said the people, who weren’t
authorized to speak publicly.  Warner Music  yesterday called a
board meeting with the aim of picking a buyer in 48 hours,
people said then.  The entry of Sony/ATV increases the number of known bidders
to three after billionaire investor  Ron Burkle  decided to walk
away last week. Len Blavatnik, a former Warner Music director,
and brothers Tom and Alec Gores also submitted bids ahead of the
deadline, people familiar with the offers said yesterday.  Sony/ATV’s bid is in the $3 billion range offered by
Blavatnik and the Gores brothers, one person said. The company,
headed by Martin Bandier, is interested Warner Music’s
publishing business, while its partners are focused on recorded
music, one of the people said.  Will Tanous, a spokesman for New York-based Warner Music,
and Liz Young, a spokeswoman for Sony Music in  New York , had no
comment. Christine Taylor, a spokeswoman for Perelman’s
MacAndrews & Forbes in New York, didn’t respond to requests for
comment. Jeffrey Kelley, a spokesman for Guggenheim in Chicago,
declined to comment.  Warner Music, which began seeking offers in January, fell 3
cents to $7.37 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock has climbed 31 percent this year.  Ownership Breakdown  The record company, home to artists including Cee Lo Green
and the Black Keys, has long-term debt of $1.94 billion,
according to company filings.  Eight of Warner Music’s 13 directors are executives of
Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC, two Boston-based
private-equity firms that together hold 51 percent of the
company’s shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Providence Equity Partners  owns 8.3 percent and Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Edgar Bronfman Jr. owns about 7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  