-- 
Sony Data Breach Exposes Users to Years of Identity-Theft Risk

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-05-03T04:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/sony-breach-exposes-users-to-identity-theft-as-credit-card-threat-recedes.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , maker of the PlayStation 3
video-game console, may have exposed customers to years of
potential  identity theft  after hackers breached the company’s
online entertainment networks in mid-April.  The risk will stay with as many as 100 million customers of
Sony’s PlayStation Network, Sony Online Entertainment and
Qriocity film and music service for years, even as the chance of
credit-card fraud recedes, said Steve Ward, a spokesman for
Fairfax, Virginia-based online-security company Invincea.  “The attackers may have your name, your birth date,
potentially your mother’s maiden name,” Ward said in an
interview. “These are all the things used to check your
identity, and that can be used to falsify it.”  The value of stolen  credit-card  numbers diminishes each day
after a data breach becomes known because users and bank-card
issuers typically step up monitoring. Sony, which was attacked
between April 16 and April 19, said it had encrypted  customers’
credit-card numbers with security that would make codes
difficult to read by hackers who penetrated the system.  “There is no evidence that our main credit card database
was compromised,” Sony said in a statement to its users. “It
is in a completely separate and secured environment.”  The best sign that Sony’s assertion is true may be the
passage of two weeks without reports from credit-card issuers of
wide-scale fraud, according to an FBI cyber-crime investigator
who asked not to be named because he wasn’t authorized to speak
to the press.  As more days go by, it’s less likely card numbers were
stolen or, if they were, that potential losses will be large,
the person said.  The FBI’s  San Diego  office is investigating the matter,
said agent Darrell Foxworth, a spokesman for the office.  Third Service Attacked  Tokyo-based Sony said yesterday that the attack on its
PlayStation Network and Qriocity online music and film service
in mid-April also gave hackers access to data from Sony Online
Entertainment, a separate unit that makes role-playing games.
Hackers gained access to 23,400 credit card and debit records
from non-U.S. customers and the personal account information of
24.6 million account holders.  The disclosure that a third service was compromised came a
day after top Sony executives offered a public apology and said
they had no evidence a separate 10 million credit card numbers
registered to PlayStation Network and Qriocity had been stolen
in the attacks.  “We have to regain the trust and confidence of our
users,”  Kazuo Hirai , Sony’s executive deputy president in
charge of consumer products and network services, said May 1 at
a  Tokyo  press conference.  Financial Impact  Hackers exploited a known security vulnerability to gain
access to 77 million PlayStation Network and Qriocity user
names, addresses, gender, birth dates and other information,
Sony said. It wasn’t clear from the statement how many of the
24.6 million accounts in the newly reported breach share
duplicate user information.  The financial impact Sony faces depends on how well the
company convinces customers it “will make things right,”
 Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles , said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. He
estimates credit-card fraud, repairs to its networks and
marketing costs will amount to $50 million.  “There will be a hit if in fact they see their business
dip,” Pachter said. “I’d say $50 million, not $24 billion, and
I think Sony can handle $50 million.”  ‘Hash’ Protection  The breach of Sony Online Entertainment exposed information
from an outdated 2007 database, including about 12,700 non-U.S.
credit or debit card numbers and expiration dates, Sony said
yesterday in a statement. The credit-card information didn’t
include security codes, the company said. The three- and four-
digit codes are used as a second source of authentication for
many online vendors.  The stolen data may include 10,700 direct debit records of
customers in  Austria ,  Germany , the Netherlands and  Spain . The
compromised debit account information included customer names,
bank account numbers and account names, Sony said.  Sony also suggested customer passwords may have been less
vulnerable than originally thought.  Passwords were protected by a level of security called hash
algorithm in which the word users type in is converted on Sony’s
servers to a string of characters entirely unrelated to the
original password, Patrick Seybold, a Sony spokesman, said
yesterday on the company’s official blog.  “It is very difficult, if not impossible, to reverse the
process and find the password from the hash,” according to a
security website linked to the PlayStation blog.  E-Mail Vulnerabilities  There were signs the hackers may be trying to hijack e-mail
accounts by attempting to access ones provided to Sony, and
plugging in PSN passwords to see if they were re-used for both,
according to H.D. Moore, the chief security officer for Rapid7,
a Boston-based online security firm. Accounts that have been
compromised are vulnerable to use by spammers or other
malevolent individuals.  Andrew Kovacs, a  Google Inc. (GOOG)  spokesman, declined to say
whether the company had detected widespread password re-use
attempts on Gmail, one of the largest free e-mail services.  Sony has been recommending people who use the same password
for other unrelated services or accounts change them. The
company also said it is moving its  data center  from San Diego,
appointing a chief information security officer, updating game-
console system software and requiring users to change their
passwords.  Service Restoration  “We expect Sony to be able to overcome this issue by
implementing stronger security measures, enabling it to win back
the trust of its stakeholders,” Ryosuke Katsura, senior analyst
for Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo, who has an “outperform”
rating on Sony shares, said in a research note yesterday.  Sony said it expected online services to be fully restored
by the end of May, with partial restoration occurring in phases
around the world beginning this week. Customers may get
complimentary downloads and 30 days of free premium services,
Sony said.  It takes about a half a year to stabilize sales and
confidence in a company’s network after a breach, Lawrence
Ponemon, founder of the Ponemon Institute, which studies the
financial cost of data breaches, said in an interview.  “During that period, a company like Sony can lose millions
of dollars,” Ponemon said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 mriley17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  