-- 
Sony, Apple Must Fix User Trust in Privacy, EU Official Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-05-04T08:34:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/sony-apple-must-fix-user-trust-in-privacy-eu-official-says-1-.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  must work to
reassure users that their personal data will be safe from prying
eyes, the European Union’s justice commissioner said.  The leak of personal information from the Sony PlayStation
Network and reports on the collection and storage of location
data on Apple’s iPhones have understandably weakened trust in
technology, Viviane Reding said in prepared remarks for a speech
in Brussels yesterday.  “This trust has to be reinstated now” and “those in
charge have to take the relevant technical and organizational
measures to guarantee protection against data loss or an
unjustified access,” Reding said.  Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s executive deputy president in charge of
consumer products and network services, apologized on May 1 for
the security breach between April 17 and April 19 that exposed
77 million online customer accounts. Sony alerted customers on
April 26 about the security breach involving its PlayStation
Network and Qriocity video-and music-streaming services.  Reding said Sony should have let customers know about the
hacking sooner. “Seven days is much too long,” she said.  A group of data protection officials from the 27-nation EU,
which advises national authorities that can levy penalties, has
said several of its members “are considering possible actions”
after they have reviewed events involving the companies.  ‘Re-building’  “We are currently re-building PlayStation Network to
ensure enhanced security to protect our consumers data moving
forward and are doing everything we can to ensure this doesn’t
happen again,” Nick Caplin, a Europe spokesman for Tokyo-based
Sony, said in an e-mail.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment on Reding’s remarks.  A report by O’Reilly Radar, a website owned by Sebastopol,
California-based publisher O’Reilly Media, said Apple devices
log latitude-longitude coordinates along with the time of visits
to locations across the globe.  Apple said in a statement last week it is “not tracking
the location of your iPhone” and “has no plans to ever do
so.”  The Cupertino, California-based company said the iPhone
saves information on WiFi hotspots and cellular towers near a
handset’s current location, which helps the phone determine its
location when needed by the user.  EU rules apply to any companies that have users in the
region, Reding said.  “A social network with more than 200 million users in the
EU must stick to EU law, even if it is based in the U.S. and its
data is stored in a so-called cloud,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  