-- 
South African Jobless Rate Increases to 25%, Undermining Economic Recovery

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   G o r d o n   B e l l
-- 
2011-05-03T10:50:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/south-african-jobless-rate-increases-to-25-undermining-economic-recovery.html
South Africa ’s jobless rate, the
highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg, increased to 25
percent in the first quarter as Africa’s biggest economy failed
to create employment for new job-seekers.  The  unemployment rate  rose from 24 percent in the fourth
quarter, Statistics South Africa said in a report released in
the capital, Pretoria, today. The number of people in work fell
by 14,000 to 13.1 million.  Jobs were cut in the agriculture and retail industries as
employers reduced their workforce at the end of harvests and the
year-end holiday period. While economic growth has picked up,
reaching an annualized 4.4 percent in the fourth quarter, that
wasn’t sufficient to create jobs for school-leavers seeking
employment for the first time.  “Usually in the first quarter you see new entrants coming
into the labor market, so you see unemployment going up,” Peter
Buwembo, acting executive manager for labor statistics, told
officials in  Pretoria  today. “The informal sector is
turbulent.”  Employment in informal, non-farming industries dropped by
46,000 in the first quarter, while jobs in agriculture slumped
by 24,000, the statistics agency said. The formal sector added
56,000 jobs, with manufacturing employment increasing by 20,000
and financial services jobs rising by 37,000.  “The formal sector has seen recovery,” Buwembo said. “It
is starting to grow.”  Jobs Target  The government has estimated it needs economic growth of at
least 7 percent a year over the next decade to meet a goal of
slashing the jobless rate to 15 percent. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  estimated in his budget speech in February the economy
will expand 3.4 percent this year.  Joblessness has fueled inequality and crime and led to
violent protests in townships across Johannesburg last year.
President  Jacob Zuma  is under pressure from labor union allies
to speed up job creation as the ruling  African National Congress 
contests municipal elections on May 18.  The weak recovery in the jobs market may prompt the  Reserve
Bank  to delay raising interest rates until later in the year,
said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in
 London . The central bank has kept its benchmark interest rate at
5.5 percent this year, citing rising fuel and food costs as the
biggest risks to inflation.  The data “certainly reinforces our view of rate hikes
later rather than sooner,” Montalto said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Gordon Bell in Johannesburg at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 