-- 
South Korea ‘Going All Out’ to Limit Price Gains, Yoon Says

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-03T07:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/south-korea-going-all-out-to-limit-price-gains-yoon-says.html
The South Korean government is “going
all out” to curb inflation that’s among the biggest risks to
the nation’s economy, Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said.  The pace of consumer-price gains has slowed and it’s too
early to say if the trend will continue, Yoon said in an
interview in Hanoi today. The economy is still attracting
capital inflows that may seriously affect asset markets
including real estate, he said.  Rising food and energy costs and inflows of money are
impeding President  Lee Myung Bak ’s “war” on inflation, with
price increases breaching the central bank’s 4 percent target
ceiling each month this year. Governor Kim Choong Soo’s policy
board has boosted interest rates twice this year and meets May
13 to decide whether to move again.  “Internally and externally, we are having a hard time now
on how to overcome inflationary pressure” as oil and commodity
prices rise, Yoon said. “The inflation risks are from supply
shocks, not from the demand side as usual. How to deal with
inflationary pressures is our first task.”  While gains in the won may help to limit inflation, Yoon
reiterated today that the government may counter excessive
volatility in the currency.  “We respect the market functions but then if there is
extreme volatility in the market, then we will have smoothing
operations to ensure the market will function in a stable manner
for prudential purposes,” Yoon said.  The won retreated from a 32-month high today. Inflation
slowed in April to a 4.2 percent annual pace from 4.7 percent in
March, a government report showed May 2.  “There is still a lot of liquidity flowing in from
advanced economies where there are low  interest rates ,” Yoon
said. “That kind of foreign capital volatility can seriously
affect our markets” including housing, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  