-- 
Spain’s Power Deficit Rises 20% to $8.3 Billion as Costs, Subsidies Surge

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-05-03T15:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/spain-s-power-deficit-rises-20-to-8-3-billion-as-costs-subsidies-surge.html
Spanish utilities’ regulated costs to
deliver electricity to consumers exceeded revenue by 5.6 billion
euros ($8.3 billion) last year, a 20 percent increase that
forced the government to loosen its law capping the shortfall.  The so-called tariff deficit rolled over 30 percent of
consumer power bills for collection into future years under
 Spain ’s decade-old system of deferring electricity payments for
homes and businesses, the power regulator said on its website.  The 2010 deficit exceeded the regulator’s forecast by 74
percent, as power distribution costs jumped an unexpected 13
percent and subsidies for renewable power surged.  The Spanish government, which sets power rates, is failing
to bring costs in line with income and has generated an
accumulated debt for consumers of more than 16 billion euros to
be paid back out of future bills. Spanish law forces utilities
including  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  Endesa SA (ELE)  to finance the deficit
until they’re reimbursed over the years by consumers.  The government raised the limit on the tariff deficit to
5.5 billion euros in December as it became clear that the 2010
shortfall would breach the legal cap of 3 billion euros. The
executive left in place a requirement that it eliminate the
deficit by 2013.  Credit Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service Inc. last year said it was
considering downgrading the bonds of Iberdrola and  Enel SpA (ENEL) ,
Endesa’s owner, because the tariff debt strained their balance
sheets.  Endesa SA lent the system about 1.1 billion euros to cover
the gap last year, increasing its total loans to the system to
about 6.1 billion euros, according to Bloomberg calculations
based on the regulator’s figures. Financing the power system
forces Endesa to increase its own borrowing. It had long-term
debt of 16.3 billion euros at the end of last year, Bloomberg
data show.  Iberdrola put up 894 million euros last year and is owed
about 3.8 billion euros in total, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  The cost of power distribution jumped to 5.1 billion euros
in 2010 from 4.5 billion euros a year earlier when the National
Energy Commission had forecast costs would be unchanged.  The subsidies Spanish power users pay for renewable power,
such as solar installations, and to co-generation plants, which
turns excess industrial heat into energy, rose 8 percent to 7.1
billion euros last year. The regulator had forecast a decline of
10 percent.  The Spanish electricity system’s total revenue declined 12
percent to 12.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  