-- 
Spain’s Illegal Homes Overshadow Minister’s U.K. Sales Pitch

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-05-04T16:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/spain-s-thousands-of-illegal-homes-sour-development-minister-s-sales-pitch.html
Jose Blanco, Spain’s development
minister, tried to persuade U.K. investors today to purchase
unsold vacation homes in a country where more than 50,000 home
buyers have lost the legal rights to their properties.  “This is an ideal time to invest in Spanish real estate,”
Blanco, 49, told reporters after his presentation. “There has
been a significant drop in prices, while all the competitive
advantages we offer still exist,” the minister said. He will
deliver the same message to investors in  France , Germany,
 Switzerland , the Netherlands and  Russia .  The campaign follows renewed calls from European Parliament
members including Marta Andreasen,  Roger Helmer  and  Michael
Cashman  to freeze some of the funds the European Union gives
Spain until it resolves legal shortcomings that have stripped
once-legal buyers of ownership rights. A non-binding 2009  report 
by the parliament’s  petitions committee  criticized the country
for applying restrictions on coastal property retroactively and
showing “judicial laxity” toward corruption and speculation.  “It’s inconceivable that anyone would want to invest in
property in a country that has shown itself to be lawless when
it comes to property rights,” Andreasen, a member of the U.K.
Independence Party, said in a telephone interview. “Andalusia
has 300,000 illegal homes alone. If we extrapolate that to the
rest of  Spain , a million homes is a conservative number.”  Andalusian Properties  Andalusia , a popular tourist destination in southern Spain,
is one of the worst affected areas, according to the committee’s
report. A spokesman for Andalusia’s regional government, who
asked not to be cited by name, said an inventory of illegal
properties in the region is being compiled. So far, 25,000 have
been identified, he said.  Marisa del Valle, a spokeswoman for the public prosecutor
responsible for cases involving town planning and the
environment, said there’s no way of knowing how many homes have
been built illegally in Spain. Eva Santiago, a spokeswoman for
the  Ministry for Transport and Development , said her department
doesn’t have an estimate.  About 50,000 owners of beachside properties have lost
rights to their homes after Spain’s coastal law was amended and
applied retroactively, according to  PNALC , a group representing
owners affected by the coastal law. As many as 500,000 could
eventually be affected by the law, the organization said.  Maria Jose Cejas, a spokeswoman for the Ministry for the
Environment, said that fewer than 2,000 home owners have lost
their property rights under the new coastal law.  British Buyers  British nationals account for about 31 percent of all
foreign-owned homes in Spain, the transport and development
ministry estimates.  Each of  Spain’s  8,116 town halls has the authority to make
planning decisions and issue building permits with little
oversight from the regional or national governments. At the  peak 
of the housing market in 2007, municipal governments collected
40 billion euros ($59 billion) from real estate activities such
as building permits and land sales in that year alone, according
to Jose Antonio Perez, a professor who teaches about real estate
at the  Instituto de Practica Empresarial  in Malaga.  As property prices more than doubled in the 12 years to
2007, some local officials found unlawful ways of profiting from
 home construction . There are now 340 cases under investigation
of officials and politicians suspected of crimes, according to
Jesus Sanchez Lambas, head of the Spanish office of  Transparency
International , an organization that documents corruption.  In some cases, developers were given permission to build on
unclassified land or were allowed to proceed without the
appropriate permits, in return for cash or other incentives.  ‘Isolated Cases’  A spokesman for the Spanish Federation of Municipalities
and Provinces, who declined to be named in line with policy,
said “isolated cases of irregularities” don’t detract from the
work carried out by local government officials. The federation
has a good governance code that aims to improve transparency and
fight corruption, he said.  The national government set up a  website  in 2009 to enable
buyers to see the development plans of more than 900 cities to
check whether a property has been built within legally approved
areas, Santiago said. It has also increased the number of
investigators focusing on real estate corruption and imposed
harsher penalties for civil servants who break the law.  Leo Levett-Smith, a 68-year-old retired traffic policeman
from Cheshire,  England , and his wife were told that the three-
bedroom retirement home they bought in 2005 in Catral near
Alicante for 220,000 euros was illegal three years after the
transaction was completed.  ‘Legal Limbo’  The couple made the purchase through a registered real
estate broker, hired a Spanish notary to oversee the deal and
got a 130,000-euro mortgage from a Spanish savings bank. They
also paid 300 euros for an independent survey on the property.  “We left no legal stone unturned and paid property tax to
the local government to buy the place,” Levett-Smith said.
“Three years later, I was told it had been built without a
sufficient permit. I’ve spent three years living in a legal
limbo and the Spanish authorities have done nothing to address
the issue.”  Spain built 675,000 homes a year from 1997 to 2006, more
than France,  Germany  and the U.K. combined, according to a
 report  by a unit of Spanish savings bank Cajamar.  Falling Prices  Spanish residential property prices fell in real terms for
the first time in more than a decade during the first quarter of
2008 and have dropped by an average of 20 percent since then,
the Transport and Development Ministry said in a report today.
In large coastal towns, prices have fallen by as much as 40
percent, according to the report, which was distributed in
 London  before Blanco’s presentation.  The housing boom that ended in 2008 left Spanish banks with
315.8 billion euros in loans related to real estate activities
in the fourth quarter of 2010, according to the  Bank of Spain .
That’s after they were forced to take on properties and land in
return for canceling debt to bankrupt developers.  Over the past two years, more than 2,600 real estate and
construction companies went out of business, according to credit
insurer  Credito y Caucion , pushing unemployment to 21.3 percent,
the euro region’s highest.  The country has a surplus of more than 1 million empty
homes, both new and existing, according to  RR de Acuna &
Asociados , a Madrid-based research company. The Development
Ministry said in today’s report that there are fewer than
700,000 unsold homes in Spain. About 61 percent of those are in
Coastal areas, the ministry said.  Building Restrictions  In 1988, the country increased restrictions on coastal
development and applied the  law  retroactively to properties that
were already built. Owners of those homes can apply to extend
their stay in the property for as much as 60 years, though they
can’t sell it or pass it on to children. The concession can be
rescinded at anytime by the authorities if deemed to be in the
public interest.  Cliff Carter, a 62-year-old former engineer from northern
England and his Spanish wife, Maria, a retired teacher, say
investors should steer clear of Spanish property, after they
lost the rights to a 200 square-meter home on the coast of
Valencia that has been owned by their family for 40 years.  The Carters sold their home in the U.K. in 2003 to retire
to Spain assuming they had equity in the Spanish house, which
was built in 1970 and handed down by Maria’s late mother in
1998. In 2008, they were informed that it had been awarded to
the public domain after amended coastal law shifted the
boundaries of where development was banned.  Rights Lost  “We’ve been awarded a concession to live here for 30 years
and then they throw us out,” Carter said in an interview. “I
can’t sell the property and my children can’t inherit it.”  Diana Wallis , vice president of the European Parliament,
said that no member state should be allowed to apply laws
affecting property rights retroactively or arbitrarily.  “I’d like to ask Mr. Blanco how he thinks that anyone can
buy property in Spain and have peace of mind,” Wallis said.
“On the basis of what I have seen, it’s a minefield and frankly
I would say ‘do not touch.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 