-- 
Education Management Suit Brought on Behalf of 11 States

-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-04T03:55:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/states-join-whistleblower-suit-against-education-management.html
A whistleblower complaint against
 Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-largest chain of U.S.
for-profit colleges, was brought on behalf of 11 states and the
District of Columbia, according to court records unsealed today.  The suit alleges that the company illegally paid recruiters
based on the number of students they enrolled. The U.S. Justice
Department joined the suit, Education Management said yesterday.
Employees who signed up the most students were rewarded with
all-expense-paid trips to resorts in Las Vegas and Mexico,
according to the suit in federal court in Pittsburgh.  Congress and the Department of Education have already been
scrutinizing the sales practices, student-loan defaults and job
placement claims at for-profit colleges, which may receive as
much as 90 percent of their revenue from U.S. financial aid. The
suit was brought on behalf of  California ,  Florida ,  New York ,
 Illinois , Indiana,  Montana ,  Massachusetts ,  Minnesota ,  New
Jersey , New Mexico and  Tennessee  and the District of Columbia,
according to the complaint.  “The complaint alleges an especially egregious, systematic
and longstanding violation of the ban on incentive
compensation,” Harry Litman, the attorney representing two
former Education Management employees making the recruiting-
violation claims, said in a telephone interview. The filing
doesn’t indicate whether the 11 states will join the suit, he
said.  In most cases, the government forbids incentive
compensation for colleges accepting federal aid because of
concern the practice will encourage companies to enroll
unqualified students.  2007 Complaint  “The company intends to vigorously defend itself,”
Education Management said in a filing yesterday with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Several states are likely to
join the whistleblower suit, the company said in the filing.  The company’s compensation plan complied with government
exceptions to the ban on incentive compensation for college
recruiters, Education Management said.  Jacquelyn P. Muller, a spokeswoman for Education
Management, didn’t immediately return an e-mail and phone call
today seeking comment.  Education Management, which is 40 percent owned by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  funds, disclosed yesterday that the Justice
Department had joined the whistleblower suit.  The company, based in Pittsburgh, rose 17 cents to $17.75
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares have declined 1.9 percent this year.  Lynntoya  Washington , a former assistant director of
admissions for Education Management, filed her whistleblower
complaint under seal in 2007. Michael Mahoney, director of
training for the company’s online division and a former car
salesman, joined her, according to the papers unsealed today.  ‘Bling Bling’  Recruiters worked in a “boiler-room” atmosphere where
metrics other than enrollment weren’t considered in
compensation, the suit claimed.  “The walls and cubicle partitions of EDMC’s offices are
festooned with posters and charts graphing the progress of each
ADA (recruiter) toward her sales goals and whatever the current
prize is that she is competing for,” the lawsuit said. Managers
take material down when college accreditors visit, the suit
said.  It cites internal company documents, such as a matrix that
showed student enrollment numbers necessary to earn salary
increases. The complaint also cited an e-mail sent to recruiters
who signed up students. It included a picture of a man counting
money and the words, “Bling Bling,” according to the suit.  Along with trips to Puerto Vallarta and Cancun,  Mexico  and
Las Vegas, top recruiters received Godiva chocolates, movie
tickets, Pittsburgh Pirates baseball tickets and Starbucks gift
cards, according to the suit. Recruiters who didn’t meet sales
goals were terminated, it said.  Qui Tam  Education Management, which enrolls more than 148,000
students, operates the Art Institute chain, Argosy University,
Brown Mackie College and South University. Analysts project the
company will report revenue of $2.89 billion in the year ending
in June, according to the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News.  In whistleblower, or qui tam, lawsuits, private citizens
file fraud complaints on behalf of the federal government. If
the government joins a case, the whistleblower may get 15
percent to 25 percent of any money recovered.  At least 27 whistleblower cases have been filed against
for-profit colleges under the U.S. False Claims Act since the
1990s, primarily alleging violations of federal incentive-
compensation rules, according to a December 2009  article  by law
firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, which defends companies
against such suits.  Safe Harbors  In all but one case, the  Justice Department  declined to
intervene, the article said. In that case, prosecutors joined
the suit to address a different issue.  The Education Department plans, in July, to make all
incentive compensation for college recruiters illegal, removing
12 types of exemptions, or “safe harbors” that were put into
place in 2002 under President George W. Bush. The exceptions
allowed the practice when recruiters weren’t paid solely on the
basis of enrollments.  Education Management’s pay plan for admissions
representatives in July of 2003 was designed to comply with
these “safe harbors,” the company said in yesterday’s SEC
filing.  The case is U.S. v. Education Management, 07-cv-00461, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  Pennsylvania  (Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in  Boston  at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net . 