-- 
Sudanese Army, Southern Police Clash in Abyei Region, Killing at Least 13

-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 
2011-05-03T12:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/sudanese-army-southern-police-clash-in-abyei-region-killing-at-least-13.html
Fighting between  Southern Sudan  police
and Sudanese army troops in the disputed region of  Abyei  killed
at least 13 people, said the area’s chief administrator, Deng
Arop Kuol.  The  United Nations  said it collected 14 bodies after the
fighting on May 1. The clash occurred when at least 200 Sudanese
troops and six trucks with mounted machine guns were stopped by
southern police before reaching Abyei town, Arop Kuol said. The
soldiers were headed to a military unit inside Abyei that
includes troops from both northern and southern Sudan, he said.  “We strongly believe it was the Sudanese Armed Forces’ plan
to invade Abyei with those machine guns,” said Arop Kuol, a
member of Southern  Sudan ’s ruling Sudan People’s Liberation
Movement. “The police told them they were not informed of their
coming into Abyei armed and told them to wait.”  An hour-long firefight erupted. Eleven soldiers from the
joint military unit along with three people in civilian clothes
were found dead, Hua Jiang, a spokeswoman for the  United Nations
Mission in Sudan , said today in an e-mailed statement. The UN
could not confirm the identity the armed men who fought with the
police.  Sudanese army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled’s phone was
switched off when he was called seeking comment.  Abyei is contested by northern Sudan and oil-rich  Southern
Sudan , which is due to become independent on July 9. The future
of Abyei is the most contentious of the remaining issues to be
negotiated before the separation.  Bashir Threat  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir’s  National Congress Party 
may not recognize Southern Sudan’s independence if its
constitution claims the disputed region of  Abyei  as part of the
south, the state-run SMC news agency said on April 28, citing
senior NCP official Al-Derdiri Mohamed Ahmed.  Clashes in Abyei in January killed at least 70 people,
according to Southern Sudan’s army, while five more died on
March 22 in an attack on a village, according to Arop Kuol.  Fighting in the area three years ago between the armies of
northern and southern Sudan killed 89 people and forced more
than 90,000 people to flee their homes, according to the UN.  The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set key  oil fields , including Heglig and Bamboo, outside
of the Abyei region. Those fields and Diffra in Abyei are run by
the Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Co., which is 40 percent
owned by Beijing-based China National Petroleum Corp.  Oil Production  Abyei accounts for less than 2,500 barrels a day, according
to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  Abyei’s residents were scheduled to vote in January on
whether to join an independent south or remain with the north.
The vote was canceled because of disagreements over who was
eligible to take part.  The Ngok Dinka people, who are loyal to Southern Sudan,
said they alone should be allowed to vote in the region’s
referendum. The Permanent Court of Arbitration set Abyei’s
borders to the area around Ngok Dinka settlements, largely
excluding the pro-northern Misseriya ethnic group.  The Misseriya, supported by President Umar al-Bashir’s
government in Khartoum, say that as seasonal inhabitants of
Abyei they should also have the right to vote in the referendum.
The north-south peace agreement gave Abyei “special
administrative status” and its residents citizenship in both
the north and south.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Richmond in Juba via Johannesburg at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 