-- 
Swiss Life Premiums Drop 13% in First Quarter After Wrapper Sales Decline

-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 
2011-05-03T10:13:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/swiss-life-premiums-drop-13-after-wrapper-sales-decline-1-.html
Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) , Switzerland’s
biggest life insurer, said first-quarter premiums declined 13
percent after selling fewer insurance wrappers.  Swiss Life fell the most in two months in Zurich trading
after gross written premiums dropped to 6.81 billion Swiss
francs ($7.87 billion), missing the 7.08 billion-franc median
estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The insurer plans to boost earnings from its business
selling life products, known as wrappers, to wealthy clients via
units in Luxembourg, Liechtenstein and  Singapore . Wrapper
premiums slumped 65 percent to 594 million francs in the quarter
after the Italian tax amnesty, which ended on April 30, 2010,
boosted sales in the year-earlier period.  “Swiss Life missed our top line expectations due to a
sharp drop in the low margin insurance wrapper” products, said
Stefan Schuermann, an analyst with Vontobel Holding AG in
Zurich.  Swiss Life fell as much as 6.2 percent to 147.9 francs and
traded at 148.5 francs as of 12:07 p.m. in Zurich. That pared
the stock’s gain this year to 9.9 percent.  The company expects the cross-border unit, 90 percent of
which is wrapper business, to improve its results
“significantly” this year, Chief Financial Officer Thomas Buess said during a conference call. The wrapper business will
break even, he said.  Swiss Growth  The Swiss unit, the insurer’s biggest business, reported an
8 percent increase in premiums to 4.56 billion francs. The life
insurer is 90 percent through a program to reduce costs by as
much as 400 million francs by 2012, Buess said.  “The good news stems from the biggest market  Switzerland ,
where for the first time in years very solid growth rates could
be presented, the fruit of efficiency improvements over the last
few years,” said Schuermann, who has a “buy” rating on the
stock.  Swiss Life’s solvency ratio, a measure of an insurer’s
ability to absorb losses, was unchanged at 165 percent.  AWD Holding AG, the German financial-services broker Swiss
Life acquired in 2008, posted a 3 percent decline in profit from
operations to 9.5 million euros ($14.1 million).  “We are satisfied with the course of business in the first
quarter,” Swiss Life Chief Executive Officer Bruno Pfister said
in the statement. “The investment result for the first three
months took a very positive turn.”  The company’s net investment return in the first quarter
was 1 percent. Swiss Life expects to meet its full-year
investment return target of 3.4 percent to 3.6 percent, Buess
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  