-- 
Synagogue Bomb Case Motion for New Trial Is Denied by New York Judge

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-05-03T21:46:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/synagogue-bomb-case-motion-for-new-trial-is-denied-by-new-york-judge.html
A request for a new trial by four men
convicted last year of plotting to blow up synagogues in  New
York  and fire heat-seeking missiles at military planes was
denied by a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan today also
denied post-trial request made by  James Cromitie  and his three
coconspirators asking her to acquit the four men and dismiss
their indictment based on outrageous government conduct.  McMahon said in her ruling dismissing the motions that
there is “something decidedly troubling about the government’s
behavior” regarding Cromitie. Even so, she wrote, “sting
operations, even elaborate ones that appear designed to be shown
on the evening news, are legal; and Cromitie certainly gave the
government ample reason to think that he might be susceptible to
being stung.”  She also noted in her ruling that an informant in the case
was the “prime mover and instigator of all the criminal
activity that occurred,” and that it took Cromitie nine months
to “take the bait that was offered him.”  Cromitie and the other three men convicted in the case --
Onta Williams,  David Williams  and Laguerre Payen -- face as long
as life in prison at sentencing, scheduled for June 7. They were
convicted in October of charges including conspiracy to use
weapons of mass destruction within the U.S. in a plot to bomb
synagogues in the Bronx section of  New York City  and fire heat-
seeking missiles at military planes.  Victims of Entrapment  The men’s lawyers argued that they were the victims of
entrapment by a paid informant who lured them into the scheme
with offers of food, money and vacations. Cromitie’s attorney,
Vincent Briccetti, said in his request to dismiss the case that
the government “created the criminal then manufactured the
crime.”  The case is U.S. v. Cromitie, 09-cr-00558, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 