-- 
Syrian Forces Detain 1,000 People in 2 Days, Activists Say

-- B y   M a s s o u d   D e r h a l l y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-05-03T16:03:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/syrian-forces-detain-1-000-people-in-2-days-activists-say-1-.html
Syrian authorities have detained more
than 1,000 people in the last two days as the regime crackdown
intensifies against protesters demanding democratic change,
according to a local activist group.  About half of the detentions took place in the southern
province of Daraa, scene of the most violent clampdown by Syrian
forces, Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s  National Organization for
Human Rights , said in a phone interview today.  Syria has sent troops to quell demonstrations, inspired by
popular revolts in Egypt and  Tunisia , that have spread across
the country and posed the most serious challenge to the 11-year
rule of President Bashar Al-Assad. Qurabi estimates that more
than 550 people have died since the uprising began in mid-March.  The regime’s increasingly violent suppression of anti-
government protests has drawn condemnation from the  United
Nations , the U.S. and European Union countries. French Foreign
Minister  Alain Juppe  called in a parliamentary debate today for
sanctions on Syria “to end the massacre there.”  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who has
maintained friendly relations with the Syrian leadership, also
warned against repression.  In a speech in Istanbul today, Erdogan said UN Security
Council action would be required if there is a repeat of the
massacre in the central Syrian city of Hama, carried out by
Assad’s father in 1992. As many as 10,000 people died at Hama,
according to estimates cited by  Human Rights Watch . The current
outbreak of unrest is the most serious since then.  Second Detention  Among those detained in Syria was rights activist Diana
Jawabrah, who was taken for the second time since unrest erupted
in her home town of Daraa in March, Al Jazeera television
reported today. Jawabrah’s first arrest on March 16 was one of
the reasons that protests intensified there, before spreading to
other parts of the country.  Syrian authorities have called the protests part of a plot
to destabilize the regime, and the official Syrian Arab News
Agency said today that the army was cracking down on “terrorist
groups” in Daraa, detaining them and seizing their weapons.  The port of  Banias  and the central city of Homs -- both
scenes of violent unrest for weeks -- are also “under siege”
and surrounded by army and security forces, Qurabi said. He
named some of those detained as 85-year-old activist Omar
Qashash, lawyer Abdullah Khalil and Kurdish Syrian writer Omar
Kosh.  Sit-Ins Called  Protesters called for sit-ins in public squares starting at
sundown today, through an announcement on the Facebook page
“The Syrian Revolution 2011.” “We will prove to the world
that we are not terrorists as this corrupted regime is
claiming,” they said.  The crisis in Syria is “quickly going beyond the point of
no return,” the Brussels-based  International Crisis Group  said
in a report today. “The regime’s hope appears to be that a
massive crackdown can bring the protesters to heel,” a policy
that may lead to “loss of life on a massive scale,” sectarian
conflict and the destabilization of Syria’s neighbors, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 