-- 
Syrian Bloodshed Has No Libya-Style Armed Solution for Europe

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-05-04T12:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/syria-bloodshed-has-no-libya-style-armed-solution-for-europeans.html
When Muammar Qaddafi’s regime turned
its guns on protesters, European leaders declared that he’d lost
his legitimacy to rule, imposed sanctions, and eventually sent
warplanes to bomb him out of office.  As the death toll from Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown in  Syria 
passes 500, with 1,000 arrests in the last two days alone,
European leaders have limited themselves to condemnations.  The contrasting treatment reflects differences in how the
two leaders exercise domestic power, and the way their countries
fit into the regional patterns of politics and religion. Whereas
Qaddafi was an isolated figure, Assad’s Syria has closer ties to
other countries and is a fulcrum in numerous conflicts. And
while Qaddafi’s family ran Libya, Assad’s regime is opaque with
several centers of power.  “Different leaders, different systems, different context,
different consequences,” said  Ettore Greco , director of the
International Affairs Institute in  Rome  in a telephone
interview. “It’s correct for the Europeans to calibrate their
response to each crisis.”  France, Britain,  Germany ,  Italy  and  Spain  last week
summoned the Syrian ambassadors in their countries to protest
the violent crackdowns. The Libyan ambassador was ordered to
leave the U.K. on May 1, after crowds attacked the British
Embassy in Tripoli in retaliation for the bombing raid that
killed Qaddafi’s son Saif al-Arab and three of his
grandchildren.  ‘Exception Not Rule’  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  told L’Express magazine
that armed intervention “must be the exception, it can’t be the
rule.” In an interview published yesterday, Sarkozy said
sanctions will be effective against Syria, while in Libya there
was no alternative to military action.  Only Germany among the main European powers has called for
immediate sanctions on Syria, with Britain and  France 
threatening that they may follow if the violence persists. None
of them have questioned the legitimacy of Assad’s rule.  The nationwide death toll since mid-March is more than 550,
Syria’s  National Organization for Human Rights  says.  The air forces of France, Britain, Italy, Spain,  Belgium ,
the Netherlands,  Norway , Denmark and Sweden have been bombing
Qaddafi’s troops and military installations for six weeks to
prevent his army from attacking civilians. They have all called
for Qaddafi’s departure and are in contact with an umbrella
group representing rebel forces.  ‘Complex Society’  “The crimes of the Syrian regime are on the same level as
the crimes in Libya,” Henri Guaino, an adviser to Sarkozy, said
in an interview with RMC Radio. “Qaddafi’s regime was one of
folly. Syria is a very severe dictatorship, but it’s also a
complex society with many minorities.”  Qaddafi had no friends among the  Arab League , which
supported the no-fly zone and voted to expel  Libya . The 22-
member League hasn’t condemned the Syrian repression.  Russia and  China  abstained during the UN Security Council’s
vote on resolution 1973, which authorized the military action in
Libya, allowing it to pass. They’ve blocked European and U.S.
efforts to condemn Syria, saying it amounts to interference in
domestic matters.  “Legitimacy passes through the UN, and European
initiatives are being blocked by the Russians, who feel they
were taken for a ride” on the Libya resolution, said Zaki
Laidi, a research director at Paris-based Sciences-Po
University. Russia says the NATO attacks have exceeded the
boundaries of the UN mandate.  Regional Linchpin  Libya’s political isolation meant that beyond a flow of
refugees, the fall of Qaddafi’s regime doesn’t risk
destabilizing his neighbours. That’s not the case with Syria.  “Syria is a linchpin for a lot of issues in the region,”
said  Paul Sullivan , a professor at Washington-based National
Defense University. “Syria is a key player in the  peace
process . It is also a close ally of Iran. It is a vital player
in the politics of Lebanon. It is an important neighbor to
Turkey and Jordan. It is part of the Kurdish equation. It is an
important player in the situation in  Iraq .”  Lebanon, which sits on the  Security Council  until the end
of this year, voted for the resolution authorizing force against
Libya. It won’t support a condemnation of Syria, which occupied
parts of Lebanon from 1976 to 2005 and maintains close ties to
several Lebanese political parties.  Israel  View  Even Israel, which fought wars against Syria in 1948, 1967
and 1973, and still occupies Syrian territory, doesn’t
necessarily want Assad to fall, says Volker Perthes, director of
the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in
Berlin. “They prefer the guys they know,” Perthes said.  Signaling that the U.S. may share that view, Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  -- whose department classifies Assad as a
supporter of terrorism -- cited his identity as a “reformer”
to explain why measures taken by the U.S. and its allies in
Libya won’t be repeated in Syria.  Unlike oil-rich Libya, Syria has few overseas investments,
making it less sensitive to asset freezes and other financial
sanctions.  “Sanctions aren’t the silver bullet that some people think
they are,” said Science-Po’s Laidi. “They take time to put in
place and don’t always work. Look at  Iran ,” which hasn’t
stopped its nuclear program despite several rounds of UN
sanctions dating back to 2006.  Logistical Difference  Part of the different treatment is simply logistical, says
the IAI’s Greco. “Libyan rebels were able to seize part of the
country and set up a base and institutions,” he said. “In
Syria, there’s no such unified opposition, no military front.”  In addition, pushing out Assad wouldn’t necessarily end the
regime, whose support is based on the Ba’ath party and the
Alawite minority, which rules a Sunni majority  “In this confused situation, Bashar could even turn out to
be a moderating force within the regime,” Greco said. “He may
not, but no one knows. That’s why there’s good reason for
showing some caution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
5068 or  gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 