-- 
U.K. Manufacturing Drops to Seven-Month Low as Construction Orders Decline

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-03T09:22:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-k-manufacturing-index-drops-to-seven-month-low-on-slump-in-construction.html
A U.K. manufacturing index fell to a
seven-month low in April amid declining consumer confidence and
falling construction orders.  The gauge based on a survey by  Markit Economics  and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply fell to 54.6 from a
revised 56.7 in March, according to a report published in London
today. The median forecast of 19 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a decline to 57 from a previous March reading of
57.1. A measure above 50 indicates expansion.  The recovery in manufacturing may be losing momentum as the
biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II takes hold, countering
the benefit to exporters from a weaker pound. Policy makers will
probably keep the key interest rate at a record low of 0.5
percent this week to support the recovery, according to 42 of 43
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Export orders continue to grow at a very healthy rate but
domestic demand is suffering as a result of falling consumer
confidence and spending,”  David Noble , chief executive officer
at CIPS, said in an e-mailed statement. “The outlook for U.K.
manufacturing is definitely bleaker than it was at the start of
the year.”  The pound fell 0.9 percent and traded at $1.65 at 9:59 a.m.
in London. The yield on the two-year note fell 13 basis points
to 1.04 percent.  Domestic Deterioration  The rate of growth in a measure of total order books slowed
to an eight-month low and a deterioration in new business
reflected conditions in domestic markets, according to the
report. Exports rose on higher demand from the U.S.,  Europe ,
 China , Russia, the Middle East and Turkey.  Wolfson Microelectronics Plc (WLF) , an Edinburgh-based maker of
semiconductors for consumer electronic products, said April 27
first-quarter revenue rose 44 percent on mobile-phone sales.
Chief Executive Officer  Mike Hickey  forecast “strong” revenue
growth in 2011.  The U.K. economy expanded 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
erasing the contraction in the final three months of 2010.
Manufacturing expanded 1.1 percent, while construction shrank
4.7 percent, the most in two years. The pound’s 24 percent drop
on a trade-weighted basis since the start of 2007 made British
goods cheaper to buy abroad.  Officials Split  Bank of England officials are split on whether growth is
strong enough to withstand government cuts. U.K. consumer
confidence fell to minus 31 in April, the lowest since the depth
of the recession in February 2009, GfK NOP Ltd. said April 28.  Policy maker  Andrew Sentance  maintained a call last month
to raise the key rate a half point to 1 percent, while  Spencer Dale  and  Martin Weale  kept up a push for a quarter-point
increase to tame inflation at 4 percent, double the bank’s
target. The remaining six members of the Monetary Policy
Committee, including Governor  Mervyn King , voted for no change.  The bank announces its next policy decision on May 5 at
noon in  London . All 29 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast no change to the 200 billion-pound ($330 billion) bond-
purchase plan.  “Given they have a mandate of targeting 2 percent
inflation in two years’ time, the worrying outlook for growth
favors patience from BOE policy makers,”  James Knightley , an
economist at ING Financial Markets in London, said in an e-
mailed note to investors. “Today’s report further diminishes
the likelihood of a rate hike this week, with November looking
the most likely point for policy tightening at present.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  