-- 
U.K. Retail-Sales Outlook Worsens to Weakest in Year, CBI Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-03T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-k-retail-sales-outlook-worsens-to-weakest-in-year-cbi-says.html
U.K. retailers’ outlook for sales
deteriorated to the weakest in a year and conditions may remain
“tough,” the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  While a gauge of sales rose to 21 from 15 in March, a
measure of shops’ outlook for the current month dropped to minus
1 from 18 in April, the London-based  business lobby  said in a
report today. The sales gauge is up from 13 a year earlier.  U.K. consumer confidence slumped last month to its weakest
level since the depth of the recession in February 2009 as the
deepest government spending cuts since World War II took hold.
Retailers may face further pressure as inflation that was double
the  Bank of England ’s 2 percent target in March erodes spending
power.  “Despite slightly better year-on-year sales growth in
April, this survey shows things are far from rosy on the high
street,” CBI Chief Economic Adviser Ian McCafferty said in the
report. “With few signs of demand picking up rapidly in the
coming months, conditions on the high street look like remaining
tough for retailers.”  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the owner of U.K. store chains Argos
and Homebase, said on April 20 that earnings fell in the year
through Feb. 26 and that it expected trading this year “to be
difficult.” Associated British Foods Plc, the owner of Primark
clothes stores, cut its annual earnings forecast on April 27
because profitability at its clothing unit will be lower than
previously anticipated.  The CBI report showed demand on suppliers rose in April,
with a gauge of orders gaining to zero from minus 8 the previous
month. A measure of sales for the time of year climbed 1 point
to minus 23, while a gauge of the volume of stocks in relation
to expected demand was unchanged at 23.  The report was based on a survey of 66 retailers conducted
between March 30 and April 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  