-- 
Commercial Property Prices May Fall, Apollo’s Azrack Says

-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 
2011-05-03T15:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-s-commercial-property-prices-may-fall-apollo-s-azrack-says.html
U.S. commercial property prices may
fall within a year as building owners attempt to refinance $1
trillion in mortgages, according to Joseph Azrack, head of real
estate for Apollo Global Management LLC.  Rents in some cities don’t justify the rising prices being
paid and may force owners to give up properties when their loans
mature, Azrack said during a panel discussion yesterday at the
Milken Institute Global Conference in  Beverly Hills , California.  The market is “due for a correction” in the next 12
months as the first stage of the financial crisis’s aftermath,
including loan extensions, comes to a close, he said.  “Supply and demand fundamentals have stabilized and U.S.
banks at least have enough reserves/capital to take their
losses,” Azrack said today in an e-mail. “So the market
clearing process can begin, which is a prerequisite to longer-
term recovery in property cash flow and values.”  Real estate investors are focused on the least risky assets
amid an uneven U.S. economic recovery, bidding up prices in such
cities as  New York  and Washington. Property has shown “less of
a crack in prices than I would have expected” as deals for
offices, retail centers and other buildings remain on the “low
side,” billionaire  Warren Buffett  said in a May 1 interview.  Commercial values rose 4 percent in March from the previous
month and 22 percent from a year earlier, while remaining 14
percent below the August 2007 peak, according to research firm
Green Street Advisors Inc. in Newport Beach, California.  The Moody’s/REAL Commercial Property Price Index, which
tracks completed sales, shows prices 45 percent below their
peak. Greet Street’s index includes deals in negotiation or
under contract and is weighted by asset value.  Seeking Yield  The price run-up results from global investors needing to
place capital as low  interest rates  reduce yields on other
assets,  Barry Sternlicht , chairman of Greenwich, Connecticut-
based Starwood Capital Group LLC, said during the panel
discussion. A record number of private-equity property
investors, including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , are seeking to raise
$160 billion, according to London-based researcher Preqin Ltd.  That doesn’t mean the funds will succeed, Azrack said.  “When everyone is running for core, you should be running
away,” Sternlicht said.  The losses at such vehicles as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
Whitehall fund and Morgan Stanley’s real estate funds increase
the need for a “margin for safety” in property investing,
Sternlicht said.  “We’re not sure how much we’re going to get from our
traditional sources,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  