-- 
U.S. Likely to Release Death Photo of Bin Laden, Panetta Says

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T23:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-s-concerned-pakistan-officials-would-alert-targets-panetta-tells-time.html
CIA director Leon Panetta said he
thinks the government will release a photograph showing that
 Osama bin Laden  is dead, though a final decision hasn’t been
made.  “The White House will make that decision,” Panetta told
reporters after a private briefing for members of the  U.S.
Senate  in Washington. Earlier today, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said an image taken after the al-Qaeda leader was killed
by U.S. commandos may be “inflammatory.”  Panetta, in an interview with Time magazine, said the U.S.
ruled out working with Pakistan on the mission to capture or
kill bin Laden because of concerns that the terrorist leader
would be tipped off.  “It was decided that any effort to work with the
Pakistanis could jeopardize the mission: They might alert the
targets,” Panetta is quoted as saying in Time’s “Swampland”
blog.  The U.S. commando team collected an “impressive amount”
of materials from bin Laden’s compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan ,
including computers and other electronics, he said.  Panetta, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to replace
retiring Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  as Pentagon chief,
oversaw the May 1 operation in which a Navy SEAL team landed
helicopters in the bin Laden compound and killed bin Laden, who
orchestrated the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks by al-Qaeda terrorists.  While the operation was monitored by Obama and his national
security team in the Situation Room of the White House, Panetta
told Jim Lehrer of “PBS NewsHour” in an  interview airing 
tonight that neither he nor the president saw the actual
shooting.  “Once those teams went into the compound, I can tell you
that there was a time period of almost 20 or 25 minutes that we
really didn’t know just exactly what was going on,” Panetta
told PBS, according to excerpts on the network’s website today.
“There were some very tense moments as we were waiting for
information.”  Code Word ‘Geronimo’  Finally, he said, Admiral William McRaven, the commander of
Joint Special Operations Command, reported that he had heard the
word “Geronimo” -- the code word that the SEAL unit was to use
in the event bin Laden was captured or killed.  Asked if bin Laden had said anything, Panetta told Lehrer:
“To be frank, I don’t think he had a lot of time to say
anything.”  In a separate interview on NBC, Panetta said the assault
team was authorized to kill bin Laden. Still, the rules of
engagement said that if he raised his hands and offered to be
captured, then the commandos “would have the opportunity,
obviously, to capture him.  ‘‘But that opportunity never developed,’’ Panetta said.  Regarding the release of a photo of bin Laden, ‘‘I don’t
think there’s, there was any question that ultimately a
photograph would be presented to the public,” Panetta said,
according to a transcript provided by NBC. The debate is how and
when to release such an image and whether it would satisfy most
demands for proof, he said.  “The bottom line is that, you know, we got Bin Laden and I
think we have to reveal to the rest of the world the fact that
we were able to get him and kill him,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  