-- 
U.S. Army Corps Blasts Mississippi Levee to Divert Flooding

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T13:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-s-army-corps-blasts-mississippi-levee-to-divert-flooding-2-.html
The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers
 blasted  a Mississippi River levee to divert water onto more than
200 square miles of Missouri farmland to prevent flooding that
threatened to destroy the nearby city of Cairo,  Illinois .  Engineers detonated a section of the levee to create a gap
as wide as 11,000 feet (3,353 meters), Jim Pogue, a spokesman,
said by telephone from the site. Water spilled onto 130,000
acres of farmland that includes about 100 evacuated homes,
easing the flood risk for 2,800 residents of Cairo, located at
the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers.  “We executed the plan and it performed as expected,” Col.
Vernie Reichling, the commander of the Corps’ Memphis District,
said in a  release . “We are now moving to the next steps, which
are opening the two outflow crevasses at the southern end of the
floodway.”  Heavy rain has swelled  river levels  to their highest ever
along parts of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers, according to
government data. The Army Corps detonated a breach at the  Birds
Point levee  at around 10 p.m. last night near Cape Girardeau in
southeast Missouri. A second blast slated for early today was
delayed because of unsafe weather conditions, said Steve
Rochette, a spokesman. Crews are preparing for the second
controlled breech of the levee, though no time has been set,
Rochette said.  Damage Estimates  The U.S. estimates that breaching the levee will cause $314
million in damage within the floodway, compared with the
prospect of more than $1.7 billion in damage across swaths of
 Missouri , Illinois and  Kentucky  if water tops the levees
elsewhere on the system or the barriers burst in uncontrolled
flooding.  Missouri attempt to prevent the Army Corps plan failed
after Supreme Court Justice Samuel A. Alito denied the state’s
request on May 1.  River levels at Cairo fell to 60.51 feet at 8 a.m. compared
with 61.72 feet at the time of denotation, data from the
 National Weather Service  shows. River levels are expected to
fall to 59.4 feet on May 7, still above the 40-foot flood stage,
the agency said.  River levels downstream at  New Madrid , Missouri, rose to
46.54 feet, approaching the record level of 48 feet and above
the 34-foot flood stage, agency data show.  -- Editors: Steve Stroth, Millie Munshi  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Wilson in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 