-- 
U.S. Stocks Decline as Commodity Producers, Sears Shares Tumble

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-05-03T20:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-local-com-anadarko-retreat-in-europe.html
U.S. stocks retreated, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lower for a second straight day, as
declines in oil and gold prices drove commodity producers down
and  Sears (SHLD)  Holdings Corp. led a drop in retailers.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  and  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
paced losses in metal and energy companies, slumping at least
2.1 percent. Sears, the largest U.S. department-store chain,
tumbled 9.9 percent after saying it lost money last quarter.
 Pfizer (PFE)  Inc. slid 2.8 percent as sales of its Lipitor cholesterol
pill, the world’s best-selling drug, missed estimates.
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the second-biggest bank-card network, rallied
2.6 percent after earnings topped analysts’ estimates.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  declined 0.3 percent to 1,356.62 at 4 p.m. in
New York after falling as much as 0.9 percent at 4 p.m. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average rose 0.15 point, or less than 0.1
percent, to 12,807.51. Both gauges fell yesterday after rising
to the highest levels since 2008 amid higher-than-estimated
corporate earnings and economic data.  “People are taking some chips off the table,” said
 Michael Strauss , who helps oversee $27 billion as chief
investment strategist at Commonfund in Wilton, Connecticut.
“We’ve had good numbers, but we also had a good run in the
equity markets. In addition, there’s concern about the path of
inflation and  interest rates . Investors are treating things here
more cautiously.”  Earnings Scorecard  The S&P 500 has risen 7.9 percent this year. Earnings-per-
share  beat  estimates at 74 percent of the 336 companies in the
S&P 500 that reported results since April 11, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped 1.7 percent today
as India’s central bank raised interest rates by a more-than-
estimated 0.5 percentage point after forecasting inflation will
stay at an “elevated level.”  Stocks fell even after orders placed with U.S. factories
rose 3 percent in March on increasing demand for machinery and
computers, topping the median economist estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey for a gain of 2 percent.  Sears Holdings  declined 9.9 percent to $75.88, the worst
drop in almost a year. The retailer said it lost $1.35 to $1.81
a share in the first quarter, compared with the 3-cent average
profit estimate from analysts, as appliance sales dropped.  Gauges of energy and raw-material producers led declines in
the  S&P 500 , falling 2.4 percent and 1 percent, respectively, as
oil, silver and gold retreated. Silver futures tumbled, capping
the biggest two-day slide since October 2008, after margin
requirements on the Comex increased for the second time in less
than a week. Gold fell the most since mid-March.  Freeport, Chesapeake  Freeport-McMoRan, the largest publicly traded copper
producer, dropped 2.1 percent to $53.20. ConocoPhillips lost 3.8
percent to $74.53.  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  retreated 5.7 percent to $31.33.
The most-active U.S. natural-gas driller reported a first-
quarter loss, saying lost $725 million from energy hedging
contracts used to lock in oil and gas prices.  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, slumped 2.8 percent
to $20.44. Lipitor had sales of $2.39 billion in the first
quarter, missing the $2.55 billion average estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales will decline by more than
half next year after generic-drug makers flood the U.S. market
with cheaper copies, according to eight analysts surveyed.  Pfizer Chief Executive Officer  Ian Read  is selling units
and cutting jobs to prepare for the loss of U.S. patent
protection of Lipitor in November.  Four-Day Streak  The S&P 500 broke a four-day winning streak yesterday as
declines in commodity producers led the market lower following
an early rally spurred by the death of Osama bin Laden, leader
of the al-Qaeda terrorist network.  “We’re seeing a defensive move today,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist at Minneapolis-based Wells
Capital Management, which oversees about $340 billion. “There’s
some fear about terrorist retaliation. Still, you just cannot
knock this thing down too much. Profits have been fantastic and
most economic reports tell us there is economic momentum.”  MasterCard gained 2.6 percent to $282.38. Profit excluding
some items was $4.29 a share, beating the average analyst
estimate of $4.09, as consumers stepped up spending.  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS)  rose 10 percent, the  most  in
the S&P 500, to $18.15. The pay-as-you-go U.S. wireless provider
reported first-quarter subscriber additions of 725,945. That
beat the estimates of 475,000 from  Jason Armstrong , an analyst
with Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and 350,000 by  Todd Rethemeier  of
Hudson Square Research.  Record Options Trading  Alcoa rallied 2.6 percent, the most in the Dow, to $17.67
and bullish options volume surged to a record amid speculation
Rio Tinto Group will make a takeover offer for the largest U.S.
aluminum producer. More than 360,000 calls to buy Alcoa shares
changed hands, eight times the four-week average and the fourth-
largest call volume on U.S. exchanges, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mark Kelly , an analyst at Olivetree Securities in London,
said he was skeptical about “unsubstantiated” speculation
today that Rio has secured a syndicated loan it may use to make
a bid for  Alcoa for $25.50 a share. Rio has “generally been
happy” to focus on smaller purchases, such as Australian coal
miner Riversdale Mining Ltd., Kelly said today in a report.  Tony Shaffer, a spokesman for Rio, and Alcoa’s Michael Belwood said separately that their companies don’t comment on
market speculation.  The debate over U.S. borrowing limits may drive equity
markets down as much as 7 percent in July, according to Tobias Levkovich of Citigroup Inc.  No Catastrophe  The U.S. government is approaching the $14.29 trillion
limit that it’s allowed to borrow. A growing number of
Republican lawmakers such as Senators  Pat Toomey  and  Jim DeMint 
and Representative  Joe Walsh  are rejecting warnings that failing
to raise the debt limit would trigger a financial catastrophe.  “I’m concerned that the debt-ceiling debate can get
somewhat rancorous and nasty as the Republicans really want to
push for something important in terms of spending cuts,”
Levkovich, the chief U.S. equity strategist at the New York-
based firm, said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness” with Margaret Brennan. “Markets could get very
unsettled already in July.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Sutherland in New York at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  