-- 
U.S. May Pursue More Lenders After Suing Deutsche Bank on Loans

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i ,   H u g h   S o n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-05-04T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-s-to-announce-lawsuit-over-deutsche-bank-unit-s-mortgage-practices.html
The  U.S. Department of Justice  may
pursue claims against other lenders after suing Deutsche Bank AG
for more than $1 billion, alleging the firm lied while arranging
federal insurance on faulty mortgages.  The Housing and Urban Development Department is examining
loans insured through the Federal Housing Administration and may
refer additional cases to the Justice Department, HUD’s general
counsel, Helen Kanovsky, said yesterday in an interview.  “We go where the evidence takes us, and if it takes us to
the larger players on  Wall Street , so be it,” Kanovsky said.
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said it wouldn’t be a “fantastical
stretch” for prosecutors to scrutinize other lenders.  Deutsche Bank’s MortgageIT unit falsely certified that it
was examining default risks while qualifying loans for FHA
insurance, according to the government’s complaint. HUD has
already borne $386 million in claims and costs, and has yet to
make payments on defaulted loans with principal balances of $888
million. Some mortgages stem from the housing boom, when the
industry eased lending standards, fueling more than $2 trillion
in credit losses and writedowns.  “Nobody was doing any mortgage due diligence whatsoever,”
said Christopher Thornberg, principal at Beacon Economics LLC in
 Los Angeles . He said the government may have brought the claim
against Deutsche Bank as a “test case” before targeting other
banks or seeking to force settlements.  “The only question is, ‘Who’s next?’” Thornberg said.  Kanovsky and Bharara declined to identify lenders that
might face claims.  ‘Big Negative’  “We could see another potential big negative for the
industry out of this,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and an analyst with FBR
Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “It’s going to be a
continued earnings drag on the industry.”  Deutsche Bank said it will “vigorously” fight the
government’s allegations.  “We believe the claims against MortgageIT and Deutsche
Bank are unreasonable and unfair”  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman
for the Frankfurt-based company, said by e-mail. “Close to 90
percent of the activity covered by the DOJ allegations happened
prior to Deutsche Bank’s acquisition of MortgageIT.”  Countrywide Financial Corp. was the biggest originator of
FHA-insured loans during the agency’s fiscal year ending Sept.
30, 2008, as housing-market losses prompted the collapse of
financial firms including Bear Stearns Cos. and  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  The lender had $10.8 billion in endorsed
mortgages, according to FHA data.  Mortgage Lenders  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was the second-largest, with $9.8 billion
in loans, and National City Corp. was third with $3.6 billion.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which acquired Countrywide in 2008, was
No. 4 with $3.2 billion.  Jerry Dubrowski  of Bank of America, Veronica Clemons of
Wells Fargo and  Fred Solomon  of  PNC Financial Services Group
Inc. (PNC) , which acquired National City in 2009, declined to comment.  Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT concealed problem loans
through “egregious” violations of HUD rules for analyzing the
income and creditworthiness of borrowers, according to the
Justice Department’s complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan
federal court. MortgageIT endorsed more than 39,000 loans for
FHA insurance after 1999, making them “highly marketable for
resale,” the U.S. said. Of those, 12,500 defaulted.  Deutsche Bank paid $429 million in January 2007 to buy
MortgageIT. Bharara said it was closed in 2009.  Default, Eviction  “While Deutsche Bank and MortgageIT profited from the
resale of these government-insured mortgages, thousands of
American homeowners have faced default and eviction, and the
government has paid hundreds of millions of dollars in insurance
claims, with hundreds of millions of dollars more expected to be
paid in the future,” according to the complaint.  The  Justice Department  didn’t file criminal charges or
identify employees.  “Not every lie is a crime,” Bharara said.  Deutsche Bank fell as much as 3.7 percent in Frankfurt
trading yesterday. The shares for the day declined 2.1 percent
to 43.25 euros.  As of February, HUD had insurance claims and related costs
arising from 3,100 loans, according to the complaint. Another
7,500 mortgages defaulted without HUD making any payments yet,
according to the complaint.  The FHA paid $15.3 billion in claims in the 12 months ended
March 31, according to payout records.  Triple Damages  The U.S. sued under the False Claims Act, which means it
can seek triple damages and penalties of more than $1 billion.
It also claims breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, gross
negligence and indemnification. It seeks compensatory damages
for past and future payments, as well as punitive damages.  “It’s good to have people cracking down,” David H. Stevens, president of the  Mortgage Bankers Association , said in
an interview. Stevens, who headed the FHA from mid-2009 until
March and fined “hundreds” of lenders for violations during
his term, said he had no personal knowledge about the case.  The case is U.S. v.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , 11-cv-2976, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;
Hugh Son in New York at   Hson1@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 