-- 
U.S. Nuclear Output Rises as Millstone 2 in Connecticut Starts

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-05-03T13:49:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-s-nuclear-output-rises-as-millstone-2-in-connecticut-starts.html
U.S. nuclear-power production rose
from the lowest level in almost 12 years as Dominion Resources
Inc. started the Millstone 2 reactor in  Connecticut , the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission said.  Power generation nationwide increased 278 megawatts, or 0.4
percent, from yesterday to 68,945 megawatts, or 68 percent of
capacity, according to an NRC report today and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Thirty of the nation’s 104 reactors were offline, including
the three at the Browns Ferry plant in  Alabama  that were knocked
out after tornadoes destroyed regional transmission lines on
April 27. Those reactors, located near the Tennessee line, were
undamaged and are expected to power up this week.  The  Tennessee Valley Authority , which operates the plant,
has reconnected two 161 kilovolt lines of external power and is
working to reinstall the 500 kilovolt line that sends power to
the grid, the NRC said. The repairs have allowed the TVA to
remove an “unusual event” designation, the lowest of four
categories in the NRC’s emergency classification system,
declared after the tornadoes, the federal agency said.  Generator Tripped  A diesel generator used to keep the shut reactors cool was
taken out of service yesterday when a breaker tripped for
“unknown reasons,” the agency said. Cooling to Unit 1 was
restored in about an hour with a connection to offsite power,
the NRC said. Another generator failed April 28 because of an
oil leak and caused a “momentary” lapse in cooling Unit 2.  Dominion increased output at its 884-megawatt Millstone 2
to 18 percent of capacity. Another reactor at the site, the
1,227-megawatt Millstone 3, is at full power. The plant is
located about 3 miles (5 kilometers) southwest of New London,
Connecticut.  Southern Co. (SO)  boosted the 883-megawatt Edwin I. Hatch 2
reactor in  Georgia  to 23 percent of capacity from 3 percent
yesterday. The 876-megawatt Hatch 1 is operating at full power.
The plant is about 74 miles west of Savannah.  The 621-megawatt Nine Mile Point Unit 1 in  New York 
automatically shut down at 8:50 p.m. yesterday local time and
the reason was “not understood at this time,” the NRC
reported. The reactor was being kept in “hot” standby, meaning
it is at operating pressure and temperature.  Nine Mile Point  Constellation Nuclear Energy Group LLC, a joint venture of
 Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG)  and Electricite de France SA,
was operating the reactor at 47 percent of capacity since April
27 for repairs on one of three pumps that supply water to the
reactor core.  Another unit at the site, the 1,140-megawatt Unit 2, is at
full power. The plant is 6 miles northeast of Oswego.  Public Service Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)  boosted the 1,174-
megawatt Salem 1 unit in  New Jersey  to 18 percent of capacity
from 8 percent yesterday. The reactor was shut April 21 after
water intake filters became clogged, and has fluctuated in
output since returning to service a few days later. Another unit
at the site, 1,130-megawatt Salem 2, is closed.  The plant is about 18 miles south of Wilmington,  Delaware .  Exelon increased output at the 1,112-megawatt Peach Bottom
3 reactor in  Pennsylvania  to full power from 89 percent of
capacity yesterday. Peach Bottom 2, another 1,112-megawatt
reactor at the site near the Maryland line 47 miles southeast of
Harrisburg, was at full capacity.  Some reactors close for maintenance and refueling during
the spring and fall in the U.S., when demand for heating and
cooling is lower. The outages can increase consumption of
natural gas and coal to generate electricity.  The average U.S. reactor  refueling outage  lasted 41 days in
2009, according to the  Nuclear Energy Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  