-- 
U.S. House Members Plan to Save GE-Rolls F-35 Fighter Engine

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-05-03T21:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/u-s-house-members-plan-to-save-ge-rolls-f-35-fighter-engine-1-.html
Senior U.S. House members are planning
to try to revive an alternative engine being developed for the
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Rolls-
Royce Group Plc.  The Defense Department last month terminated the second
engine, which it says is unneeded and wasteful spending.  Pratt &
Whitney , a unit of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , is the primary
engine supplier for  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35.  The House Armed Services Committee this week is writing the
2012 defense authorization bill, which will set military policy
and funding targets for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  Representative Roscoe Bartlett, a Maryland Republican who
leads the panel’s air and land forces subcommittee, proposed
today as part of the bill to limit money spent on improving the
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter engine unless the secretary of defense
makes funds available for “two options” for the F-35
propulsion system. His panel is scheduled to debate the proposal
tomorrow.  General Electric and Rolls-Royce have been building an
alternative engine, known as the  F136 . The Pentagon issued a
“notice of termination” to the two companies on April 25
because Congress didn’t include funding in the fiscal 2011
budget.  President  Barack Obama  and Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
have opposed the development of the second engine.  ‘Self-Fund’ Program  Reinstating the terminated GE-Rolls Royce program would
entail having the companies fund the work themselves for at
least the remainder of 2011 and during 2012, according to GE
Aviation spokesman  Rick Kennedy .  “We expect that we are going to be asked to self-fund the
program for 2011 and 2012, and we are prepared to do that,”
Kennedy said in a telephone interview. “It is going to require
significant commitment from us.”  The House Armed Services Committee chairman, California
Republican Representative Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, said he
would seek to keep the second engine alive. Like McKeon,
Bartlett also supports the development of a backup engine for
the F-35.  The funding limitation targets improvements to the F-35
engine’s thrust and seeks to inject competition between two
makers if the Defense Department decides to spend money to make
changes to the primary engine.  Gates has said that completing development of the
alternative engine would cost taxpayers $3 billion. GE disputes
that figure, saying the development cost would be about $1
billion, with an additional $800 million to start production.  No Money Included  The House voted in February to strip $450 million for the
second engine from the fiscal 2011 Pentagon spending bill -- a
first for the lower chamber, which previously had supported the
project.  For two years in a row, the Senate Armed Services Committee
and the Senate Appropriations Committee haven’t included money
for the additional engine in their versions of the defense
authorization and appropriations bills.  The chairmen of those panels, Democratic Senators  Carl Levin  of  Michigan  and Daniel Inouye of Hawaii, both back the
second engine. They have said that they didn’t include funding
because the Senate has enough votes to remove it from the
defense bills.  GE rose 16 cents today to $20.64 in New York composite
trading.  -- Editors: Robin Meszoly, Leslie Hoffecker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 