-- 
Huaneng Power Rises Second Day, Leads Gains Among Utilities

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-03T06:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/huaneng-power-rises-second-day-leads-gains-among-utilities-1-.html
Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , the
listed unit of  China ’s largest power group, rose for a second
day in Shanghai trading on speculation the government may allow
power producers to increase prices to curb shortages.  Huaneng Power jumped 5.1 percent to 6.40 yuan at the midday
break, the highest since Nov. 11. A gauge of utility stocks
advanced 1.3 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups in
the CSI 300. Huadian Power International Corp. climbed 2.9
percent to 4.27 yuan. China may face a summer power shortage of
30 million kilowatts as supply lags behind demand growth, the
China Electricity Council said April 28.  “If the shortage lasts for more than one year, China may
need to approve more coal-fired power projects,” Dave Dai, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets,
said in an e-mail. “Before that they need to raise tariffs so
that independent power producers will be willing to spend on
capital.”  A 25 percent increase in China’s benchmark coal prices last
year and the government’s decision to freeze power prices since
November 2009 has left almost a fifth of China’s state-run coal-
fired  power plants  facing bankruptcy, China Power International
Development Ltd. said April 1. Huaneng Power reported a 32
percent decline in 2010 profit, missing analyst estimates.  The country’s central and eastern regions have been facing
tight power supply this year and some areas may have a
“relatively large” deficit this summer, the National
Development and Reform Commission said on April 15. The
country’s biggest grid operator, State Grid Corp. of China,
plans to limit electricity supply to businesses operating in the
eastern province of Jiangsu because of a looming shortage, China
Business News reported on April 27.  “The situation may worsen” in the months ahead, Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd., said today. “The problem will need to be tackled by
summer.”  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net  