-- 
Lufthansa Deepens Cost Cuts to Boost Profit as Oil Rises

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-05-03T12:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/lufthansa-targets-profit-gain-as-cost-cuts-offset-fuel-s-rise.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest airline, aims to increase profit this year by
deepening spending curbs to stave off an industrywide threat to
earnings from fuel prices.  Lufthansa, which posted net income of 1.1 billion euros
($1.6 billion) in 2010, will accelerate cost cuts as  oil prices 
are likely to continue rising, Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz said today at the annual  shareholders’ meeting  in Berlin.  “All of the group’s business segments and the group
headquarters are continuing to implement or intensify their
cost-reduction programs,” Franz told investors. “We are
optimizing processes and reducing costs everywhere.”  Carriers’ earnings will slump almost 50 percent this year
as oil prices limit the benefit of the economic recovery, the
 International Air Transport Association  said March 2. Crude oil
touched a 2 2/1-year high yesterday. Cologne, Germany-based
Lufthansa is reducing spending at its main brand while working
to make its Austrian Airlines and British Midlands units
profitable with job cuts and a focus on more lucrative routes.  Lufthansa’s profit last year was its biggest since 2007,
helped by a recovery in  air travel , higher fares on long-
distance flights and a one-time tax gain of 400 million euros.
The company forecast on March 17 that fuel costs will rise by
about 1.6 billion euros this year to 6.8 billion euros.
Lufthansa is Europe’s No. 2 airline after Paris-based  Air
France-KLM (AF)  Group, based on passenger traffic.  Sticking to Forecast  The German carrier stuck to forecasts that sales will rise
as passenger and freight traffic increase and that operating
profit, or revenue minus expenses and adjusted for gains and
losses related to assets or financial investments, will increase
from the 382 million euros earned last year. Lufthansa is hiring
4,000 people, including pilots, flight attendants and ground
employees, to support expansion plans.  Lufthansa rose as much as 0.6 percent to 15.26 euros and
was up 0.1 percent as of 2:35 p.m. in Frankfurt trading. That
narrowed the stock’s decline this year to 7.1 percent.  The Lufthansa brand has a goal of reducing costs by 1
billion euros from 2008 through 2011. At least 350 million euros
in savings from the program are due this year. Austrian Airlines
is likely to break even in 2011, while British Midland, also
known as BMI, will post a loss, Franz said.  Group earnings in 2010 were burdened by pilot strikes, a
Europewide flight ban resulting from an  ash cloud  emanating from
an Icelandic volcano and heavy snowfall in the region.  Earthquake, Turmoil Effects  IATA, the airline industry’s main trade group, said today
that growth in air travel slowed last month as the Japanese
earthquake on March 11 and political turmoil in the Middle East
and North Africa curbed demand. Those events reduced Lufthansa’s
first-quarter operating profit by about 38 million euros, Franz
said. The carrier is scheduled to publish quarterly figures on
May 5.  “Any hopes that 2011 might turn out to be a ‘normal’ year
were obliterated by the events that occurred in  Japan ,” Franz
said. “We must always plan for turbulence.”  Lufthansa is proposing a dividend of 60 cents a share on
2010 earnings after dropping the payout a year earlier. Franz
said today that conditions for paying a dividend will probably
be fulfilled in 2011 as well, even as a new aviation tax in
 Germany  poses a “major competitive disadvantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  