-- 
Ugandan Opposition Rejects Talks With Government on Accelerating Inflation

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-05-03T08:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/ugandan-opposition-rejects-talks-with-government-on-accelerating-inflation.html
Uganda ’s main opposition group said it
won’t take part in talks with the government scheduled for today
over accelerating inflation until the authorities apologize for
the arrest of one of its leaders and key officials resign.  Opponents of President Yoweri Museveni want the state to
apologize for the “brutal manner” in which Kizza Besigye, leader
of the Forum for Democratic Change was tortured and arrested
last week before it begins talks, John Ken Lukyamuzi, the
chairman of a group of four opposition parties known as the
Inter-Party Coalition, said by phone from the capital, Kampala.  Besigye led a so-called walk-to-work campaign last month to
protest at surging prices for foods and gasoline. Inflation
accelerated to 14.1 percent in April, from 11.1 percent in
March, as food costs jumped 31 percent, the Uganda Bureau of
Statistics said on April 29.  Besigye was arrested on April 28. Video footage broadcast
last week by  NTV Kenya , a closely held television company,
showed plainclothes policemen breaking the window of his car
with a hammer, spraying pepper spray at Besigye while he was in
his vehicle and then bundling him into the back of a pickup
truck. Besigye was hospitalized in neighboring  Kenya  for
treatment of injuries suffered during his arrest, according to
his party.  Museveni Meeting  Last week, the  Daily Monitor , a Kampala-based newspaper,
said Museveni would meet opposition leaders today to discuss the
rising cost of living.  “The president should apologize to the public about the
manner Dr. Besigye was arrested,” Lukyamuzi said. “We also
demand that the state drop all charges against arrested
protesters and for those responsible for the harassment to
resign.”  Internal Affairs Minister Kirunda Kivejinja, the police
chief Kale Kayihura and police commanders involved in
“harassment of the opposition” should resign as additional
conditions for the talks, which should be chaired by a “neutral”
person, he said.  Uganda, with a population of more than 30 million, is
 Africa ’s largest producer of robusta coffee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 