-- 
Human Rights Watch Urges U.A.E. to Free Democracy Activists

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-03T08:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/human-rights-watch-urges-u-a-e-to-free-democracy-activists.html
Human Rights Watch  called on the
 United Arab Emirates  to cease its crackdown on non-governmental
organizations and free activists who have been detained.  “This attack on civil society is further proof that those
in power in the U.A.E. see anyone calling for reform as fair
game,”  Joe Stork , deputy Middle East director of New York-based
 Human Rights Watch , said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Authorities should immediately stop their hostile takeover of
civil society and free the peaceful democracy activists.”  The U.A.E. minister of social affairs, Maryam Khalfan Al
Roumi, signed a decision April 21 dissolving the board of
directors of the national Jurists’ Association, a lawyers union,
state-run Emirates News Agency, or WAM, said April 27. A decree
also dismissed the Teachers’ Association board and replaced its
members with state appointees, WAM said. Both associations were
among four non-government organizations to sign a public appeal
calling for greater democracy in the country.  The U.A.E. has been spared in the wave of protests taking
place across the Arab world this year. The government said March
2 that it would allocate 5.7 billion dirhams ($1.6 billion) to
fund water and infrastructure projects in the country’s northern
emirates, which have traditionally lagged behind the rapid
development of others such as Dubai and  Abu Dhabi .  United Arab Emirates Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan said April 20 that no one “is above the law,”
when asked about the recent arrests of several pro-democracy
activists. He said the arrests were “in procedure with laws and
rules of the U.A.E.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 