-- 
UN Says Qaddafi, Rebels Setting Unacceptable Conditions for Cease-Fire

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-03T21:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/un-says-qaddafi-rebels-set-unacceptable-cease-fire-conditions.html
Libya ’s government and rebel leaders
battling it have attached unacceptable conditions to declaring a
cease-fire, complicating efforts to formulate peace proposals,
the  United Nations  special envoy for the conflict said.  “Both Libyan authorities and the Transitional National
Council have informed me they were ready and willing to
implement a cease-fire provided the other party does the same,”
Abdul Ilah al-Khatib told the UN  Security Council  today in  New
York . “The main difficulty is getting both sides to agree on
the essential elements of a political process.”  The Libyan government refuses to accept a cease-fire unless
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization halts its UN-authorized
bombing campaign to protect civilians, al-Khatib said. The
rebels won’t enter into any agreement with Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  or his family, he said.  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said today that
he plans to present a plan during talks on May 5 in Rome among
alliance foreign ministers. Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said his government will ask its international allies
to agree to an end date for military action in Libya, a move
NATO rejects.  Libyan government leaders “told me that if NATO attacks
stop they would be in a position to hold discussions on
elections, democracy and constitutional reforms,” al-Khatib
said.  “The TNC, on the other hand, said that a cease-fire is not
sufficient to end the conflict if it is not directly linked to
the departure of Colonel Qaddafi and his family,” he said.  Asset Freeze  Al-Khatib said the Qaddafi regime has expressed “grave
concern” about the impact of the UN-imposed asset freeze on the
government’s ability to deliver basic services to the people.  Erdogan said in a speech in Istanbul that “what needs to
happen now is for Qaddafi to immediately withdraw from power and
to bring to pass his historical, human and moral
responsibility.”  Frattini made his comments to reporters in  Rome  today after
the Northern League party said it may withdraw its support from
the Italian government unless the country limits its military
operations in Libya. Parliament began debate on a motion by the
League to set an end date to Italy’s expanded role in the
bombing campaign.  “We have agreed on a text that states how, together with
the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization  and the allies, we will
try to set a date” to end the operations, Frattini said after
the governing parties including the League reached an agreement
on Italy’s role in Libya at a meeting in Rome.  ‘Unhindered’ Aid  Italian Vice Admiral Rinaldo Veri said today at a briefing
in Naples,  Italy , that NATO’s military operation will last until
Qaddafi “stops attacking his own civilians, until his fighters
retreat to their bases, until humanitarian aid can flow
unhindered.”  Frattini and Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani will co-chair the alliance talks in Rome, which will
include US. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and envoys from
the Libyan opposition leadership council.  “The objective of this meeting is to establish
coordination for a political initiative, to take a decision on
economic support for the National Council of Benghazi, and to
set up a road map for a cease-fire and form a new constitutional
assembly for reconciliation,” Frattini told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  