-- 
Uranium Spot Prices Decline in ‘Disinterested’ Market, Ux Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-05-03T02:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/uranium-spot-prices-decline-in-disinterested-market-ux-says.html
Uranium spot prices fell 0.5 percent
as demand for the nuclear fuel declined, almost two months after
 Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power station was damaged by
an earthquake,  Ux Consulting Co.  said.  Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery dropped 25
cents to $55.25 a pound in the seven days through yesterday, Ux
said in an e-mailed report today. The price is based on the most
competitive offer tracked by the Roswell, Georgia-based company.  Four of the six reactors at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima nuclear plant were damaged by hydrogen blasts after a
magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami on March 11 knocked
out backup power and cooling systems. Radiation leaks have
forced the evacuation of tens of thousands of people. The crisis
may hurt the atomic power industry’s credibility more than the
1986 Chernobyl disaster, UBS AG analysts said April 4.  “Both price and demand have declined, as the implications
of the accident have begun to sink in,” Ux said in its report.
“The price may continue to drift down to the extent that
sellers seek to place material in a largely disinterested
market.”  Nuclear-power utilities buy the bulk of their uranium for
processing into fuel from mining companies, with the contracts
mostly extending beyond 12 months. The market for immediate
delivery, or  spot market , allows trading for delivery within a
year and includes financial investors. The U.S. government also
periodically conducts auctions to reduce stocks.  Long-term demand for uranium has declined because of the
Fukushima crisis, Ux said. The spot price for the nuclear fuel
has fallen about 20 percent since the incident and could drop
further, it said.  “Reactors are being shut down or delayed around the
world,” Ux said. “It appears that our base case requirements
will drop by about a half billion pounds through 2030, and our
high case by roughly 600 million pounds, the result of our
projection that demand growth will be delayed by four to five
years over what was previously forecast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  