-- 
News Corp., Agnellis Make ‘Friendly’ Approach to CVC for Formula 1 Racing

-- B y   D a n   L i e f g r e e n   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 
2011-05-04T01:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/murdoch-s-news-corp-agnellis-exor-weighing-bid-for-formula-one-racing.html
News Corp. and  Exor SpA (EXO) , the Agnelli
family’s investment company, are exploring the possibility of a
bid for the Formula One auto-racing competition.  The pair is seeking other investors to back a bid, although
a formal offer may not be made, they said in a joint statement
yesterday. Formula One owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd. said it
had received a “friendly” approach from the group, which
acknowledges that the series is privately owned and “not
currently for sale.”  “CVC recognizes the quality of Exor and News Corporation
as potential investors, but any investment in Formula One will
require CVC’s agreement and will need to demonstrate that it is
in the interest of the sport and its stakeholders, taken as a
whole,” CVC said in an e-mailed statement.  CVC, a London-based private equity company, took control of
the most-watched motor sport by buying a 14 percent stake from
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2005. It purchased the holdings
of  Bayerische Landesbank , Formula One Chief Executive Officer
 Bernie Ecclestone  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. the previous year.  James Murdoch ,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s deputy chief operating officer,
informed CVC that the approach is “friendly” and “at a very
preliminary stage,” CVC added.  Exor and News Corp. said they want to design a plan “for
the long-term development of Formula One in the interests of the
participants and the fans of this sport.”  Ferrari Link  Turin, Italy-based Exor is the biggest shareholder in
carmaker Fiat SpA, with a stake of about 30 percent. Exor also
controls soccer team Juventus SpA and is the largest shareholder
in truck-maker Fiat Industrial SpA. Exor Chairman John Elkann
also serves as Fiat’s chairman.  Fiat owns sports-car maker Ferrari SpA, the oldest team in
Formula One, which hosts Grand Prix races from  Monaco  to
 Melbourne . Ferrari competes for the constructors’ championship
with automakers including Renault SA and Daimler AG’s Mercedes
and the sport has attracted team owners like U.K.-based
billionaire Richard Branson and Indian liquor magnate  Vijay Mallya .  On April 20, Sky News reported that the media company was
trying to get Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim  to participate in
making an offer.  News Corp. would be unable to buy Formula One because of a
promise to the European Commission to keep the series on free-
to-air television, Ecclestone was cited as saying by The
Independent on April 30. Ecclestone told the newspaper that he
values Formula One at $6 billion to $7 billion.  CVC “are not interested in selling,” Ecclestone said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Liefgreen in Milan at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  