-- 
Turk Telekom Mobile Unit Avea Seeks One-Year Trial Tax Cut

-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 
2011-05-03T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/turk-telekom-mobile-unit-avea-seeks-one-year-trial-tax-cut.html
Avea Iletisim Hizmetleri AS,  Turkey ’s
smallest mobile-phone company, asked the government to cut
mobile services tax, the highest in the world with nearly 60
percent of mobile bills being tax, for a trial period of one
year, its chief executive Erkan Akdemir said.  “Let’s cut taxes for a year and then let’s see whether we
will have a fall in government’s tax revenue or an increase
because the reductions may trigger more mobile usage and in turn
raise tax revenue,” Akdemir said in embargoed comments at a
news conference late yesterday. “If we fail to increase tax
revenue, we go back to high taxes again,” he said.  Avea, owned 81 percent by  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM) , is
competing with Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS, the country’s
biggest mobile operator, and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s local unit in
Turkey’s telephone and technology market that grew 6 percent to
$35 billion in 2010, the country’s regulator said in January.
Avea’s subscribers rose to 11.8 million at the end of March from
11.6 million at the end of December, Akdemir said.  A “price and coverage war” between Turkey’s three mobile
phone operators will soon end, because regulatory price cuts
that took effect in April 2010 and an increasing competition
since then are hampering growth, Akdemir said.  “It’s very worrying for the market that Turkcell’s
revenues in the first quarter fell almost 9 percent in Turkey,”
he said. “Regulators and lawmakers must do something to prevent
this.”  Avea’s sales rose 8.7 percent from last year to 703 million
liras in the first quarter of this year. The company plans to
invest as much as 25 percent of its annual sales in 2011,
Akdemir said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  