-- 
Turkish Inflation Accelerates to 4.3% on Consumer Demand

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-05-03T11:24:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/turkey-april-inflation-accelerates-to-4-3-on-consumer-confidence-surge.html
Turkey ’s inflation rate increased for
the first month in seven in April after clothing prices rose and
consumer confidence climbed to the highest level this year.  Inflation accelerated to 4.3 percent from 4 percent in
March, a four-decade low, the statistics agency in Ankara said
on its website today. The rate was expected at 4.4 percent,
according to the median estimate of seven economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  The central bank is seeking to control demand for goods and
services by increasing banks’ reserve requirements to deter
lending rather than raising  interest rates . It says the
reserves, which it’s increased four times since December, will
start to curb loan growth from the second quarter. The central
bank cut the benchmark one-week repo lending rate by a total of
75 basis points in December and January to a record low of 6.25
percent in an effort to weaken the lira and support exports.  The central bank’s strategy “might actually work, but it
will take some time to achieve results, which makes the picture
look vulnerable to exogenous risks,”  Tevfik Aksoy , London-based
head of emerging-market economics for the region at Morgan
Stanley, said in an e-mailed report to investors. “ Core
inflation  does not look as good in April, but it’s still too
soon to worry.”  The core inflation rate, which excludes food, energy,
alcoholic beverages and tobacco, rose 4.4 percent annually
compared with an increase of 3.8 percent in March.  Acceleration  Yields on benchmark two-year bonds climbed four basis
points to 8.41 percent at 1:54 p.m. in Istanbul. The main ISE
National 100 share index fell 0.1 percent to 69,432.37. The lira
weakened 0.5 percent to 1.5295 per dollar.  “I see annual inflation accelerating to 7 percent by July,
then falling in the third quarter and rising in the fourth,
ending the year again at 7 percent,” said  Yarkin Cebeci , an
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Istanbul.  Bond yields have risen more than 1.3 percentage points
since January on expectation the inflation rate will rise and
because banks sold bonds to pay for the extra reserves demanded
by the central bank.  The central bank has revised its forecast for year-end
inflation to an annual 6.9 percent from 5.9 percent because of
higher  oil prices  and taxes on imported textiles, governor Erdem Basci said on April 28. Inflation is expected to accelerate in
the second quarter before slowing in the third, he said.  Clothing, Transportation  Consumer prices rose 0.9 percent month-over-month in April,
the statistics office said. The rate was expected to increase 1
percent, according to the survey. The price of clothing and
footwear rose 11 percent on the month, transportation gained 1
percent and household textiles climbed 1.8 percent, the agency
said.  Consumer confidence  climbed to 111.04 last month, the
highest level since December, from 104.53 in March, CNBC-e
television reported yesterday in its monthly survey.  “Traditional rate hikes and/or real fiscal tightening”
would probably be more effective in slowing domestic demand,
Cebeci said.  Lending by banks increased 35.7 percent in the week to
April 22 compared with a year ago, the industry regulator said
on May 2. The trade deficit surged 91 percent to $9.8 billion in
March, compared with $5.1 billion a year earlier, the statistics
office in Ankara said April 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 