-- 
Turkish Lira Falls to Two-Week Low as Inflation Accelerates

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-05-03T15:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/turkish-lira-heads-for-two-week-low-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Turkey ’s lira fell to a two-week low
to the dollar as inflation quickened from the weakest in 41-
years, eroding returns, and as fears of attacks by al-Qaeda
after U.S. forces killed Osama Bin Laden curbed risk appetite.  The lira lost 0.8 percent to 1.5345 per dollar at 6:03 p.m.
in Istanbul, the lowest level since April 19. Two-year benchmark
bonds fell, sending yields up eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 8.45 percent, according to the TEB Local
Benchmark Bond Index.  Inflation in April accelerated for the first month in seven
after clothing prices rose and  consumer confidence  climbed to
the highest this year. The annual rate rose to 4.3 percent from
4 percent in March, which was a four-decade low, the statistics
agency in Ankara said on its website today. Inflation was
expected at 4.4 percent, according to the median estimate of
seven economists in a Bloomberg survey.  “The lowest level in inflation has been left behind and
market expectations for the year-end have settled at 7
percent,” said Mehmet Besimoglu, economist at Oyak Menkul
Degerler AS.  The lira was the worst performer against the dollar among
more than 20 currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It was the third-
worst performer over the past month after the Peruvian peso and
Argentinian peso.  ‘Unconventional’  “Obviously, the unconventional monetary policy is still a
burden for the currency,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a Frankfurt-based
currency analyst at Commerzbank, said in e-mailed comments.  The Turkish central bank is keeping its policy mix of low
 interest rates  and higher  reserve requirements  in order to
contain the current account deficit. “This is unlikely to
change until inflation picks up significantly, which as shown
today, it has not,” Nguyen said.  Turkey’s benchmark stock index rose to levels beyond 70,000
points for the first time in five months after  Turkiye Halk
Bankasi AS (HALKB)  posted earnings for the first quarter that exceeded
estimates, raising expectation of similar performances for other
banks.  The main ISE National 100 climbed 0.8 percent to 70,072.02
at the 5:30 p.m. close. That was the highest level since Nov.
11. Halkbank climbed 45 kurus, or 3.4 percent to 13.55 liras.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  