-- 
Turks Offer Libya Cease-Fire Plan as Western, Arab Officials Meet in Rome

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T22:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/turks-plan-to-unveil-cease-fire-plan-in-rome-meeting-to-end-libya-strife.html
Days after the death of  Osama bin Laden  demonstrated the reach of U.S. military power, Western and
Arab foreign ministers head to Rome to hear out a Turkish plan
to end a conflict in Libya that has killed thousands and driven
crude  oil prices  to a 2 1/2-year high.  Italy , reliant on Libya for a quarter of its crude oil,
will host the second meeting of 22-nation Libya Contact Group.
The meeting comes amid signs of growing frustration in the
alliance as the seven-week NATO air campaign has been unable to
stop Muammar Qaddafi’s military attacks seeking to crush a
popular revolt that began in mid-February.  On the eve of the meeting,  Turkey  has aligned itself more
tightly with Western allies and toughened its language against
Qaddafi. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , seeking to take
center stage as broker of a new cease-fire settlement, has
shifted from calls for a peaceful transition to demanding the
Libyan dictator step down “immediately.”  “There is much more than a plan, but you will have to be
patient and wait,” Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini 
told reporters in Rome. “The objective of this meeting is to
establish coordination for a political initiative, to take a
decision on economic support for the National Council of
Benghazi, and to set up a road map for a cease-fire.”  Frattini, under pressure at home to press international
allies to agree to an end date for the military operations in
 Libya , will co-chair the talks with Qatari Prime Minister Sheikh
Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani.  United Arab Emirates , which has
supplied warplanes, will also be represented.  ‘Tears, Bloodshed and Autocracy’  “What needs to happen now is for Qaddafi to immediately
withdraw from power and to bring to pass his historical, human
and moral responsibility,” Erdogan said yesterday in Istanbul.
Declining to disclose plan details, Erdogan said the Islamic
world shouldn’t be linked to “tears, bloodshed and autocracy.”  Past cease-fire overtures, including one effort by  South
Africa , failed to gain traction as Libyan rebels refuse
proposals that don’t foresee Qaddafi’s immediate departure. The
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, mandated to enforce a United
Nations-ordered no-fly zone, have insisted Qaddafi forces must
stop attacks on civilians before any truce can be contemplated.  The top priority in  Rome  is the creation of a fund, made up
primarily of donations, to meet the requests of rebels,
according to an Italian official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity. Responsibility for handling any contact with Tripoli
will pass to the UN to avoid what the Italian official called
misguided and confusing efforts by some nations to act as go-
betweens.  $2 Billion Loan  Among the foreign ministers expected in Rome is U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who skipped out on the
first-round contact group meeting in mid-April in Doha, where
Libyan rebels asked to borrow $2 billion and said they would be
rid of Qaddafi in a “matter of weeks.”  Representatives of Libya’s Transitional National Council,
the interim authority set up by the rebels, will also attend and
renew requests for money and weapons to continue fighting.  Ali al-Tarhouni, head of economic and oil affairs for the
council, said yesterday in Benghazi that the group will seek as
much as $3 billion, a loan to be secured against future oil
revenue, and “is hoping to get most or all of this.”  Oil interests will also loom large over discussions.
France’s  Total SA (FP) , Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Spain ’s Repsol SA are the
three Mediterranean refiners which, being closest to Libya, are
the most the most reliant on its crude. Eni, the biggest foreign
oil producer in Libya, said first-quarter oil production fell
8.6 percent due to the turmoil in the North African country.  East Vs. West  Stalemate persists in Libya, split between the oil-rich
east, controlled by rebels, and Qaddafi’s stronghold in the
west. Much of the fighting has centered on the western port city
of Misrata, transformed into a humanitarian catastrophe under
the frequent shelling by Qaddafi’s forces.  The allies are seeking to establish a “clear corridor” so
that aid can safely enter the port after NATO stopped an effort
to mine the entry to the harbor.  Casting a new light over the meetings are the deaths of
Qaddafi’s youngest son and three of his grandchildren, killed in
an April 30 NATO airstrike said to have targeted a command
bunker, and the fatal shooting this week of the world’s most-
wanted terrorist during a secret U.S. mission.  Both may carry a message for Qaddafi, as U.K. Foreign
Minister  William Hague  indicated when briefing members of
Parliament yesterday. “Whether individuals are targeted depends
on how they behave,” he said.  -- With assistance from Lorenzo Totaro in Rome and  Benjamin Harvey 
in Istanbul. Editors: Terry Atlas, Robin Meszoly  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  