-- 
Luxury Sales to Rise 8% in 2011, Matching 2010 Pace, Bain Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-03T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/luxury-sales-to-rise-8-in-2011-matching-2010-pace-bain-says.html
Sales of  luxury goods  may rise 8
percent this year, matching 2010’s pace, as demand strengthens
in the U.S. and  Europe  and emerging-market shoppers splurge on
$1,000 handbags and other items, according to Bain & Co.  Spending on luxury apparel, accessories, watches, jewelry,
perfume and other products may climb to 185 billion euros ($274
billion) in 2011 from 172 billion euros last year, excluding
currency moves, the consulting company said today in a report.
Bain predicted in October growth of 3 percent to 5 percent on
the same basis.  Sales of luxury goods jumped 8 percent to a record last
year, exceeding the 170 billion euros spent in 2007 -- the
previous best year since at least 1995 -- as demand rebounded
after the recession, Bain estimated. “In 2011, luxury goods
will continue to enjoy strong momentum,” it said.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the world’s largest
maker of luxury goods,  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  and  PPR (PP)  SA last month
reported strong quarterly sales, suggesting that the March 11
earthquake in Japan won’t stall the industry’s rebound.  The long-term impact of the disaster, which left more than
25,000 people dead or missing and triggered the world’s worst
nuclear crisis in a quarter century, won’t be “significantly
negative,” Bain predicted.  “The situation in Japan came back to normality after the
earthquake,” Claudia D’Arpizio, a Milan-based partner at Bain,
said in a phone interview. Though Japanese demand for European
and American luxury brands was already stagnating, consumption
won’t be “dramatically different from last year,” she said.  Japan  Recovery  Japan, the second-largest market for luxury goods, may see
the first signs of recovery in the third quarter as consumers
lift spending and reconstruction boosts the economy, D’Arpizio
said. Annual luxury sales in the country will decline to 17
billion euros from 18 billion euros, Bain estimated.  Mainland China will remain the fastest-growing market for
luxury goods in 2011 as sales rise 25 percent to 11.5 billion
euros, Bain predicted. The country is on course to become the
world’s third-largest luxury market in five years, it said. The
U.S. is the largest market, accounting for 48.1 billion euros in
2010, according to Bain.  Wealthy only-child teenagers and a new generation of
working women who are spending on themselves mean luxury brands
need to change the way they target offers and interact with
consumers in  China , D’Arpizio said.  “It’s a big market where you need to be sophisticated in
your approaches,” she said.  Retailers’ Confidence  In Europe and the Americas, which together account for more
than two-thirds of global luxury consumption, sales this year
may climb 7 percent and 8 percent respectively, Bain said. Store
traffic has increased and shoppers are spending more on average,
it said.  “Retailers interviewed for the Bain study expressed a high
level of confidence that consumers will keep coming into stores
and continue making purchases with the same vigor that preceded
the global financial crisis,” Bain said.  Excluding China, sales will increase 15 percent in the
Asia-Pacific region. Lifestyle changes are driving sales
increases in  Russia  and new stores will fuel growth in the
Middle East and  Brazil , Bain said.  By 2014, global luxury sales may rise to as much as 221
billion euros, Bain estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 