-- 
Valeant Targeting ‘Multiple’ Buys After Teva Grabs Cephalon

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-03T20:12:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/valeant-targeting-multiple-buys-after-teva-grabs-cephalon.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals International
Inc. (VRX)  is in talks with “multiple” potential acquisition targets
after it was thwarted in an effort to take over  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH) ,
Chief Executive Officer Michael Pearson said.  “We have many irons in the fire around the world,”
Pearson said today in a telephone interview. “We are looking to
pay fair prices for assets.”  Valeant yesterday dropped its $73-a-share bid for Cephalon,
first made on March 29, when  Petah Tikva , Israel-based Teva
Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. agreed to buy the drugmaker for
$81.50 a share, or a value of $6.2 billion. The Mississauga,
Ontario-based company has lost a number of other acquisitions
because it didn’t want to overpay, Pearson said. Most of the
deals Valeant is considering are for closely held companies,
Pearson said.  “Three hundred million to $500 million is our sweet
spot,” Pearson said. While Valeant’s focus is on closely held
companies, “we also keep our eyes open for public companies. We
are not going to rush into things. We are going to be
disciplined on the price.”  If the right deal came along, “we could go a little
higher” than the $5.7 billion Valeant offered to acquire
Cephalon, Pearson said.  Pearson said the company has made 24 acquisitions in the
past 3 1/2 years. When Valeant combined with Biovail Corp. in
September, Pearson cut about 25 percent of the workforce and
sliced research spending.  Under Pressure  Pearson will be under pressure from investors to keep
bringing new deals to fruition, said Gary Nachman, an analyst at
Susquehanna International Group in  New York , which owns shares
of Valeant, Cephalon and Teva.  Valeant’s stock increased 19 percent from the day before
Pearson’s initial bid for Cephalon through the close April 29,
the last trading day before Teva announced its purchase. The
shares declined $1.28, or 2.6 percent, to $48.30 at 4:02 p.m.
today in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The share rise came because investors liked Pearson’s
choice of targets, Nachman said.  “He’s getting credit for being even more aggressive than
people thought he was going to be,” Nachman said in a telephone
interview. “He’s said all along that there are a lot of other
companies he could look at. There’s continued momentum in the
M&A thesis in this space.”  Potential Targets  Jazz Pharmaceuticals Inc. (JAZZ) , the  Palo Alto , California-based
maker of treatments for neurological and psychiatric conditions,
and  Medicis Pharmaceutical Corp. (MRX) , which has a dermatology
business that would complement Valeant’s products, are among the
companies that would fit Pearson’s strategy of stripping out
expenses by cutting staff and reducing tax rates, Nachman said.  Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd., which focuses on treatments for
gastrointestinal diseases, may also be a target, he said.
Medicis is based in Scottsdale,  Arizona , and Salix is in
Morrisville,  North Carolina .  Telephone messages left for Jazz spokeswoman Ami Knoefler,
Medicis spokeswoman Kara Stancell and Salix spokesman G. Michael
Freeman weren’t immediately returned.  “It doesn’t have to be the size of Cephalon, but he’s
committed to doing deals,” Nachman said.  Cephalon investors said Valeant’s bid undervalued the
company and Teva recognized the potential of the experimental
drugs under development, said David Maris, an analyst with CLSA
in New York.  “Most of the Cephalon shareholders that I’ve spoken to
like the pipeline,” Maris said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “If you want to see the pipeline come to fruition
you want a company that’s going to continue to invest in the
pipeline.”  Valeant takes a more “pillage-the-pipeline approach” and
“would sell off almost all the assets,” he said  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
 Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 