-- 
Vale Success Strategic for Brazil’s Government, Mantega Says

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-05-03T15:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/vale-s-success-strategic-for-brazil-mantega-says.html
Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, is of strategic importance for Brazil and it is
natural that the government should take interest in the company,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said.  Mantega, speaking at a Senate hearing in Brasilia today,
said he held several talks with Vale shareholders during the
process of choosing a replacement for Chief Executive Officer
 Roger Agnelli  and that the change complied with company bylaws.
Agnelli ignored government criticism over job cuts and requests
to invest more in steel to boost exports, Mantega said.  “I followed the process closely and talked with
shareholders,” Mantega said. “The government has a stake and
needs to be concerned.”  Vale last month named the former head of its nickel unit,
Murilo Pinto de Oliveira Ferreira, to replace Agnelli after
months of speculation Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  would
push for the change.  Brazil ’s government criticized Vale’s
management over the past two years for not spending more on
domestic steel and fertilizer output to generate jobs.  Previ and Funcef, the pension funds of state-run banks
Banco do Brasil SA and Caixa Economica Federal, along with the
Petros retirement fund for government-controlled oil producer
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, own 49 percent of the holding company
that controls Vale.  Other shareholders of the holding company include Bradespar
SA, the holding company of Bradesco, Mitsui & Co. and BNDESPAR,
a subsidiary of the Brazilian state-owned  development bank .  Golden Shares  In addition to the BNDES stake and the ruling Workers
Party’s ties to the pension funds’ management, the government
owns 12 so-called golden shares in Vale that give it veto over
decisions including the location of the company’s headquarters.  The golden shares stem from the 1997 privatization of Vale,
founded by Brazilian dictator Getulio Vargas in 1942 to supply
steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA as part of a drive to
industrialize the country.  Vale lost 44 centavos, or 1 percent, to 44.82 reais in Sao
Paulo trading at 11:20 a.m.  New York  time after falling as much
as 1.5 percent to its  lowest  level since Sept. 24 earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  