-- 
Vital Capital Raises $250 Million for Its First Africa Private Equity Fund

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-03T15:17:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/vital-capital-raises-250-million-for-africa-private-equity-fund.html
Vital Capital Investments LP, the
private-equity firm that invests in housing and agriculture
businesses in  Africa , said it raised more than $250 million for
its first fund.  Vital Capital Fund I will invest in African markets such as
 Angola , Ghana and Mozambique, Eytan Stibbe, the fund’s founding
managing partner and chief investment officer, said in a phone
interview today. The fund aims to raise another $250 million,
which would make it among the largest in the region, according
to Stibbe.  “Many of the African markets have been growing fast
without correlation with the rest of the world,” Stibbe said.
“We feel it’s the right time to invest.”  Private-equity funds in Sub-Saharan Africa raised $156
million in the first quarter, after attracting $1.5 billion in
2010, according to the Emerging Markets Private Equity
Association. Developing-nation funds worldwide raised about $23
billion last year, according to EMPEA.  Buyout firms are increasingly looking to emerging markets
such as Africa, India and  Brazil  for investments as the
leveraged-buyout industry takes advantage of growing populations
outside the U.S. Carlyle Group, the world’s second-biggest
private equity fund, is seeking to raise about $500 million for
a fund targeting Africa, two people with knowledge of the plans
said in March.  ‘Impact Investing’  Economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa will accelerate to
5.9 percent next year from 5.5 percent in 2011, according to
April forecasts from the Washington-based  International Monetary
Fund . That compares with projected global growth of 4.5 percent
next year, according to the IMF.  Vital Capital has already invested in Kora Housing, a
developer of affordable housing in Angola, Africa’s second-
largest producer of oil, according to Stibbe. The fund, which
counts retired U.S. Army General Wesley Clark among its advisory
board members, is a proponent of “impact investing,” a
strategy that places capital in ventures with social or
environmental goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 