-- 
Vodafone Said to Jointly Bid With Clessidra, Wind for Metroweb

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-05-03T11:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/vodafone-said-to-jointly-bid-with-clessidra-wind-to-buy-metroweb-in-italy.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  made a joint
binding bid with buyout firm Clessidra Sgr SpA and Wind
Telecomunicazioni SpA for Italian network  Metroweb SpA , said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  Metroweb, owner of the largest fiber-optic network in Milan
and the region of Lombardy, received four binding bids and the
sale process is expected to be completed by July, one of the
people said.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and F2i SpA, Antin
Infrastructure Partners SAS and a unit of  Axa Private Equity 
also made bids, according to the people who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private.  Vodafone, the world’s biggest mobile-phone operator, and
Wind,  Italy ’s third-largest operator, initially had made
separate bids, according to the people. Clessidra is the biggest
contributor in the joint bid with Vodafone and Wind, three
people said. First-round bids had come in between 430 million
euros ($637 million) and 450 million euros, people with
knowledge of the matter said in March.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  is advising
on the sale.  Metroweb has about 6,600 kilometers (4,100 miles) of cables
and the potential to reach one million households. In 2006,
 Stirling Square Capital Partners , a London-based private equity
firm, bought 76.5 percent of Metroweb from Milan’s municipal
utility  A2A SpA (A2A) , which holds the remaining stake in the company.  Axa Private Equity  Chief Executive Officer Dominique Senequier said April 29 that the fund’s infrastructure unit was
making an offer for Metroweb. Clessidra Chief Executive Officer
Claudio Sposito said April 1 he planned to submit a binding
offer.  Rising Profits  Spokesmen and officials for Wind, Vodafone, Clessidra, F2i,
 Intesa Sanpaolo , Antin, Axa Private Equity, Lazard and Stirling
declined to comment today.  Milan-based Metroweb had 2010 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization of about 42 million euros
and revenue of about 51 million euros. That compares with Ebitda
and sales of 29.6 million euros and 39 million euros
respectively in 2006 when Stirling took over.  Metroweb, led by Chief Executive Officer Alberto Trondoli,
is an independent open network access provider that offers its
infrastructure to third parties including Telecom Italia SpA,
 FastWeb SpA (FWB) , Vodafone and Wind.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  