-- 
VW Aims for ‘Profitable Growth’ on Additional Models, Factories

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-03T08:30:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/vw-aims-for-profitable-growth-on-additional-models-factories.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s plans to add factories
and models will ensure “profitable growth” at  Europe ’s biggest
carmaker in coming years, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said.  “We’re now laying the foundations for profitable growth in
all segments and business fields,” Winterkorn said today at the
carmaker’s annual shareholders meeting in Hamburg. “VW moved
into the fast lane in 2010; that’s where we intend to keep the
company in coming years.”  VW will introduce about 30 models and vehicle upgrades in
the coming months across its brands, which include luxury
division Audi and Czech unit Skoda, Winterkorn said. VW is
expanding operations in China and will open a U.S. factory in
Chattanooga,  Tennessee , on May 24.  VW, based in Wolfsburg,  Germany , is counting on growth in
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China to help surpass  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  as the world’s biggest carmaker no later than 2018. VW has
forecast global sales will increase 5 percent this year after
reporting a record 7.2 million deliveries of cars, sport-utility
vehicles and vans in 2010.  The German manufacturer said April 27 that earnings before
interest and tax more than tripled to 2.91 billion euros ($4.3
billion) in the first quarter from 848 million euros a year
earlier. Sales rose 31 percent to 37.5 billion euros.  “In light of this, 2011 looks set to be a good year
despite the economic uncertainties,” the CEO said today. “Both
for the automotive industry and for Volkswagen.”  Winterkorn reiterated last week that rising demand in  China 
will help boost revenue and Ebit this year. VW’s Chinese joint
ventures, which aren’t included in the group’s operating profit,
contributed an additional 557 million euros in first-quarter
earnings.  Global deliveries of cars, sport-utility vehicles and vans
at VW, which is merging with sports-car manufacturer Porsche SE,
rose 14 percent last quarter to 1.99 million vehicles. Net
income increased to 1.6 billion euros from 423 million euros a
year earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Hamburg via 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  