-- 
Wall Street’s Sheriff Needs Many More Deputies: Rory Lancman

-- B y   R o r y   L a n c m a n
-- 
2011-05-03T23:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/wall-street-s-sheriff-needs-many-more-deputies-commentary-by-rory-lancman.html
Three years after the collapse of
Countrywide Financial Corp. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
ushered in the hardest recession since the Great Depression,
throwing millions of Americans out of their jobs and homes,
almost none of the wrongdoers has been held accountable or
victims made whole.  It’s as if this calamity just fell from the sky, to be
borne with the same bewildered resignation that our ancestors
might have shown in the face of an earthquake, volcanic eruption
or other catastrophic natural disaster.  The same 1921 law that deputized famed Wall Street sheriffs
 Eliot Spitzer  and  Andrew Cuomo , the Martin Act, bears
substantial responsibility for blocking defrauded investors --
particularly New York’s pension funds -- from recouping their
losses and holding wrongdoers accountable.  The  Martin Act  has succeeded in siccing state law
enforcement on financial wrongdoing, particularly during periods
when the federal government’s enthusiasm for such work has
waned. It’s also come up woefully short in helping investors get
their looted money back.  The Martin Act’s strength lies in its common-sense
understanding of how the securities markets really function.  For instance, under federal law, investors aren’t legally
wronged merely because a company misrepresents or omits
important facts. Rather, they must detail -- at the very outset
of a case, before company executives have to turn over any
documents or sit for any depositions -- how that
misrepresentation was made with the intent to defraud them, and
how they relied on it in deciding to purchase the stock.  Real Responsibility  In contrast,  New York ’s Martin Act holds company executives
and securities-industry professionals responsible for
foreseeable misrepresentations or omissions of essential facts
in their communications -- period. To paraphrase  Peter Parker :
with great power to generate commissions comes great
responsibility.  Also, where federal law is mostly limited to the primary
perpetrators of wrongdoing, the Martin Act extends its long arm
to a fraud’s collaborators and facilitators: auditors, ratings
companies and investment advisers who turned the other way,
traded their honest judgment for quick commissions or failed to
try to understand the financial instruments they were hustling
to unsophisticated clients.  Yet the most important difference between federal and New
York state law exposes the Martin Act as sorely lacking.  Dual Track  Federal law long ago recognized the importance of combating
investment fraud along a dual track: government action to
prosecute wrongdoing and seek what restitution it can for
victims, and private action in the form of litigation by the
defrauded investors to recover their losses, if the merits of
their claims and the magnitude of their damages make such an
exhausting and expensive endeavor worthwhile.  Not so in New York. The Martin Act empowers only the
attorney general to bring securities cases. Worse, courts are
shutting down traditional state common-law negligence claims
brought against securities-market participants, on the theory
that the Martin Act, in granting exclusive authority to the
attorney general, was intended to prevent lawsuits by private
investors.  Conceived to be a friend to investors, New York’s Martin
Act is smothering the ability of defrauded investors to seek
restitution. That’s why the deputy majority leader of the state
Senate, Republican Tom Libous, and I have proposed  legislation 
that would authorize pension funds to sue for damages that
result from violations of the act.  As Congress and the federal courts impose increasingly
stringent substantive and procedural limitations on holding
wrongdoers in our securities markets accountable, New York
urgently needs to give its investors -- particularly its public
and union employee pension funds -- the means to bring claims of
their own, to recover some of their tens of billions of dollars
in losses and to identify those who caused those losses.  Because the financial crisis didn’t just fall from the sky.  (Rory Lancman, a Democrat, has been a member of the New
York State Assembly since 2007. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rory Lancman at  lancmanr@assembly.state.ny.us   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  