-- 
Warmup May Come to Central U.S. Next Week, CWG’s Rogers Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-03T11:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/warmup-may-come-to-central-u-s-next-week-cwg-s-rogers-says.html
Warm or seasonable weather will
probably cover most of the U.S. next week, according to  Matt Rogers , president of  Commodity Weather Group LLC .  The 6- to 10-day forecast calls for warmer-than-normal
weather to spread from the Great Lakes to the U.S. Gulf Coast
and parts of the Southwest, Rogers said. During the May 8 to May
12 time frame covered by the forecast, cold pockets will
probably be confined to parts of the Pacific Northwest and
sections of Montana and Wyoming.  Rogers, based in Bethesda, Maryland, said he isn’t sure how
much the middle of the U.S. will warm next week. There is
disagreement between the computer models. He forecasts the U.S.
Northeast will have seasonable weather.  “We inched slightly warmer today, but remain cautions,”
Rogers wrote in a note to clients.  Natural-gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  After next week, Rogers forecasts the eastern U.S. will
experience cooler-than-normal weather. In the 11- to 15-day
outlook, Rogers predicts a large pocket of cool air will develop
east of the Great Plains and the  Rocky Mountains , and a large
part of central and eastern Canada will probably be above-
normal.  New York ’s average temperature for this time of year is
usually about 60 degrees Fahrenheit (16 Celsius), according to
 MDA EarthSat Energy  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . The average is 57
degrees in Chicago and  Boston ; 61 in Philadelphia; 68 in
Atlanta; and 72 in Dallas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  