-- 
Web Dating Going Mobile Bucks Privacy Concern Over Apple, Google

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-05-03T22:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/web-dating-going-mobile-bucks-privacy-concern-over-apple-google.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are trying
to reassure iPhone and Android handset users they aren’t
tracking their locations. Online dating companies are betting
their bottom lines on doing just that.  Meetic SA, the French owner of the European operations of
Match.com, is joining start-ups including New York-based  MeetMoi
LLC  in offering location-based dating services. Meetic will
introduce features this year that let handset users find out
real-time who’s around them and interested in meeting, and match
potential soulmates who, for example, frequent the same gym,
Managing Director Philippe Chainieux said in an interview.  Taking advantage of smartphones’ location data is a logical
step for dating services, whose users are increasingly accessing
their matches from handsets. The number of European Web users
visiting a dating service “almost every day” through a mobile
device rose 49 percent between February 2010 and the same month
this year to 2.8 million, according to researcher comScore Inc.
The number doing so at least once a week climbed 44 percent.  “As soon as mobile services are made available, uptake is
usually faster than on the traditional Internet,” said Luca Benini, vice president and commercial director for comScore in
 Europe . “You can expect that everything that can be geo-
localized will be eventually.”  The boom in mobile dating coincides with increased
regulatory scrutiny of location data on smartphones. Germany,
 France  and Italy said last month they are checking whether
Apple’s iPhone and iPad products violate privacy rules by
tracking, storing and sharing data about users’ locations.
Cupertino, California-based Apple said it isn’t tracking users’
locations and plans to cut the amount of data the iPhone stores.  Flirt Charts  Meetic (MEET) , Europe’s largest online-dating service, plans to
use geo-location to shore up offerings for its 860,000
subscribers at the “flirt” end of a chart it uses to plot
relationship types and the amount users are willing to pay to
find them. “Love” and “long-term” matchmaking rely more
heavily on existing, Internet-based access.  “Instead of going to find Mr. Right or Ms. Right at the
other end of the world, maybe he or she is someone you go by
every day,” Chainieux said. “We want to be able to say whether
people who correspond to your criteria are in the same place as
you.”  Convenient mobile services will give dating sites a chance
to boost their “conversion rate,” or the frequency at which
users migrate from free to paid services, the executive said.  Stock Performance  Meetic offers a range of prices for an online subscription,
with promotions starting at 14.95 euros ($22) per month. Mobile
access will be free for these subscribers. The company charges
10 euros a month for mobile-only service. Meetic’s profit
reached 24 million euros in 2010, an increase of 23 percent a
year earlier.  The website operator, based in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, has declined 6 percent this year, compared
with a 17 percent jump at Edinburgh-based Cupid Plc and a 26
percent increase at IAC/InterActiveCorp, which owns Match.com’s
U.S. operations.  In some ways, traditional dating sites like Meetic have
lagged more specialized services in bringing location-based
dating to the masses, which have tracked the rising popularity
of more general location services like Foursquare.  Location-based iPhone and Android app  FlirtMaps  topped
500,000 downloads last month, with that figure expected to
double by the end of the year, according to Marco Franciosa, the
chief technology officer of parent Zodiak Active. Grindr, a
location-based app for gay men that started operations in 2009,
boasts 62,000 users in  London  alone, according to its website,
and is planning a version for straight daters.  Background Checks  Still, safety concerns may slow the adoption of location-
based dating. Last month, a Los Angeles woman who said she’d
been sexually assaulted by a date she met online sued Match.Com.
This and similar incidents may prompt calls for background
checks by dating sites that would “incur significant additional
cost and time delay,” said Fiona Orford-Williams, an analyst at
Edison Investment Research in London.  To ease some of those concerns, FlirtMaps limits geo-
localization to a one-kilometer radius, leaving any more
specific co-ordinates for users to reveal themselves. Meetic is
considering making only men visible on its pending real-time
“flirting” service, keeping women’s locations at a given
moment mostly off the map.  One major group of sites for singles is holding back from
geo-location. Higher-end “matchmaking” sites, which pair
partners looking for long-term love based on complicated
personality profiles, “haven’t figured out how to make it
useful,” said Peter Schmid, the chief executive officer of
Germany-based  Parship.com . “We have to be very careful about
the use of new technologies.”  Parship, ElitePartner  Even so, matchmaking sites -- which promote an electronic,
less expensive version of “concierge romance services” like
those offered by London’s Gray & Farrar International -- are
moving gingerly toward mobile services. Parship, which operates
in countries including  Italy , the U.K., and France, will roll
out an application for Android devices this year, complementing
an existing iPhone app, Schmid said.  Rival ElitePartner, which says it has about 2 million
members, is betting mobile applications will push more users to
sign up for paid services, rather than sticking with a basic
free platform. “Mobile will increase the activity of the
member, that’s clear,” said CEO Jost Schwaner. “Our
perspective is that when activity rises, you will migrate into
that second level. I’m totally convinced.”  Virtual Roses  In the longer term, mobile dating and matchmaking apps may
become hubs for the sort of virtual currencies now common within
Facebook games like Zynga Inc.’s FarmVille, with star-crossed
daters sending each other virtual roses, for example, Schwaner
said. FlirtMaps is already in this business, with features like
“FlirtBombs,” a single message sent to the nearest 100
members, available in exchange for purchased “FlirtCoins.”  Although moving dating to mobile devices may involve
peculiar challenges, there’s no reason it can’t eventually grow
even more than its traditional desktop counterpart, according to
FlirtMaps’ Franciosa.  “It used to be  Tom Hanks  and Meg Ryan falling in love over
the Internet in ‘You’ve Got Mail,’” he said. “But we’re in a
different era now.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  