-- 
Westpac First-Half Profit Rises 7% as Bad Debts Decline, Lending Increases

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 
2011-05-04T06:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/westpac-posts-first-half-net-income-of-4-29-billion-missing-estimates.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,  Australia ’s
second-biggest lender, said first-half cash profit rose 7
percent as bad debts fell and home lending increased.  Cash earnings gained to A$3.17 billion ($3.43 billion) in
the six months ended March 31 from a year earlier, the bank said
today. The shares fell the most in six months after net profit
of A$3.96 billion missed the A$4.13 billion median estimate of
four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Chief Executive Officer Gail Kelly has boosted earnings by
raising borrowing costs more than the country’s central bank to
offset higher funding costs and slowing credit growth.
Melbourne-based rival  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
yesterday posted the smallest half-yearly profit increase in 2
1/2 years as lending profitability slipped.  “Westpac is reasonably well positioned to continue
delivering solid results in the second half,” Victor German, an
analyst at Nomura Australia Ltd. with a “buy” rating on the
stock, said in a telephone interview. “Their cost performance
is very good and the revenue trends were good.”  Westpac shares fell 2.5 percent to A$24.11 in Sydney, the
biggest drop since Nov. 8, as the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index
lost 0.9 percent. Westpac has gained 8.6 percent this year, the
second-best performer among Australia’s four largest lenders
behind  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , which advanced 11 percent.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  has climbed 3.7 percent and ANZ
Bank has added 0.4 percent.  Improving Sentiment  “The Australian economy and banking environment is still a
really healthy place,” Chief Financial Officer Philip Coffey
said at a briefing to reporters in Sydney today. “Having
unemployment around 5 percent and forecast to go lower, that’s a
good place to be doing banking.”  While consumers are set to remain cautious, “we expect
sentiment to gradually improve over the remainder of 2011,”
Kelly, 55, said in today’s statement.  ANZ Bank said yesterday that net income in the six months
to March 31 gained 3 percent to A$2.66 billion from the previous
six months, which missed the A$2.77 billion median estimate of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  National Australia will publish first-half figures tomorrow,
and Commonwealth Bank is due to release a trading update for the
March quarter on May 11.  Margin Widens  Demand for mortgages and business loans slowed after the
central bank’s seven interest-rate increases from October 2009
to November 2010. Lending to households rose 0.4 percent in
March from the previous month, the smallest monthly gain in nine
months, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said April 29.  Central bank Governor Glenn Stevens left the benchmark rate
unchanged at 4.75 percent yesterday, citing weaker credit demand.  Westpac’s net interest margin, a measure of profitability
of the bank’s lending business, widened in the six months to
March 31 to 2.21 percent from 2.17 percent in the previous six
months.  The impairment charge for bad debts fell 47 percent in the
half from a year earlier to A$463 million, Westpac said.
Operating expenses declined 1 percent from the year earlier
period, and 2 percent from the previous six months.  Customer deposits rose A$17 billion, more than fully
funding loan growth of A$10 billion, Westpac said.  Rate Rises  Australian banks faced public and political condemnation
for raising borrowing costs in November by more than the central
bank’s quarter percentage-point increase, prompting Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  to introduce measures aimed at boosting competition
between lenders, including scrapping exit fees on customers who
switch mortgage providers.  The bank’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of its ability
to absorb potential losses, was 9.5 percent from 9.1 percent at
the end of September. Westpac will pay a dividend of 76
Australian cents a share for the half.  Westpac said March 11 that it finalized with the Australian
Tax Office the tax treatment of its St. George Bank takeover,
which means it doesn’t need to pay tax on the increase in value
of certain derivative contracts for the 2011 to 2014 fiscal
years. That boosted net profit in the six months to March 31 by
A$1.1 billion.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  