-- 
Williams-Sonoma Picks Clicks Over Bricks With Global Rollout

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-05-03T20:10:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/williams-sonoma-chooses-clicks-over-bricks-with-global-rollout.html
Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM) , the 55-year-old
housewares chain known for its meticulously arranged stores and
baking demonstrations, is cooking up a new strategy: remaking
itself as an  Internet company .  Web orders are already the fastest-growing source of
revenue for the San Francisco-based company, and now it’s
preparing to make its e-commerce sites global by the end of
June, Chief Marketing Officer Patrick Connolly said last week.
Williams-Sonoma, which also owns Pottery Barn and  West Elm , will
invest tens of millions in the project.  “We are absolutely obsessed with the Web right now,”
Connolly said. By the end of next month, the company’s e-
commerce site will go live in more than 75 countries.  The Internet gives Williams-Sonoma a way to target
international consumers without building as many brick-and-
mortar stores -- part of a plan for direct sales to reach as
much as 50 percent of revenue in the next five years. The chain
is currently limited to the U.S.,  Canada  and a handful of
locations in the Middle East. With the global economy
rebounding, wealthy overseas shoppers have more money to spend
on higher-end cookware and furniture.  The challenge for Williams-Sonoma is rival housewares
chains are doing the same thing.  Pier 1 Imports Inc. (PIR)  expects to
complete its expansion into e-commerce by next year, while Sur
La Table revamped its Internet business in January, adding
product recommendations and other features. Williams-Sonoma’s
closest e-commerce rival in housewares and home furnishing is
Crate & Barrel, according to Internet Retailer Magazine.  Stores as Showrooms  “What they and other retailers are starting to figure out,
is that their stores are more showrooms, and a lot of their
transactions are happening online,” said Brian Nagel, an
analyst for Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  Williams-Sonoma also has to contend with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,
the world’s largest Internet retailer, which has expanded its
range of housewares in recent years. Amazon’s sales jumped 38
percent to $9.86 billion last quarter, topping analysts’
predictions.  At Williams-Sonoma, e-commerce revenue rose 27 percent last
year, helping the company return to growth after two years of
declines. The housing slump had taken a toll on the business
because there was less demand for new furniture, linens and
cookery. Many consumers also shifted to less-expensive retailers
during the recession.  Comeback Effort  The company is now in turnaround mode, boosted by the
Internet and increasing consumer spending on  luxury goods , Nagel
said. He raised his price target for Williams-Sonoma’s stock 21
percent last month to $51.  In the fiscal year ended Jan. 30, total revenue rose 13
percent to $3.5 billion -- the highest level since 2007. Profit
more than doubled last year to $200.23 million. The company
estimates that fiscal 2011 revenue will range from $3.64 billion
to $3.72 billion.  The shares have risen 39 percent in the past year,
approaching a five-year high. Still, most analysts have remained
neutral on the stock: Sixteen rate the shares a hold, while
seven recommend buying them, according to a Bloomberg survey.
The shares dropped 34 cents to $42.35 today in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading.  Online purchases reached $1.2 billion in 2010, making it
the company’s most profitable and fastest-growing segment.
Williams-Sonoma will spend at least $40 million this year on e-
commerce and the supply chain that supports it, and has created
100 positions to build that part of the business, Connolly said.  ‘Embracing the Web’  “Over the past several years we’ve taken it up a notch,
really from being a catalog company with websites, to embracing
the Web and becoming an Internet company,” he said.  Williams-Sonoma added several features to its website last
year that it says increased sales, including an electronic gift-
card option and a feature called  Williams-Sonoma Reserve  that
offers free shipping on most items for an annual $30 fee.  The retail recovery has made e-commerce companies more
attractive to acquirers. That’s raised the potential that
Williams-Sonoma could draw a takeover bid -- possibly from a
buyout firm. At least 20 U.S. e-commerce companies entered deals
to be acquired this year, compared with 13 in the year-earlier
period, according to Bloomberg data. Such deals have fetched
premiums of more than 100 percent over market values.  EBay Inc. announced plans in March to acquire GSI Commerce
Inc. for $2.4 billion. GSI, which hosts retailers’ websites,
will help EBay compete with Amazon. Walgreen Co., meanwhile, is
spending $429 million to buy Drugstore.com, helping the
drugstore chain shore up its Internet offerings.  ‘High Demand’  “The thing that’s become very clear over the last 30 or 60
days is that Internet-related assets are in very high demand,”
says Matt Nemer, an analyst at  Wells Fargo & Co . who covers
Williams-Sonoma. “This is one of a select few of companies
that’s really good online, and that could have value to a lot of
potential players.”  Connolly declined to say whether the company has received
takeover offers.  “We do have some incredible assets in e-commerce and in
our supply chain, but we’re thinking more about how to grow our
business, not how to be acquired by somebody else,” he said.  Most rivals aren’t as far along in expanding online. Pier
1, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , is aiming for the Internet to
contribute 10 percent of revenue within five years.  Sur La
Table , with more than 80 stores in the U.S., revamped its e-
commerce business in January. It currently gets about a 10th of
its sales from its online and catalog orders.  Sur La Table is adding features to its website such as
product recommendations based on a customer’s search and
purchase history, as well as electronic gift cards, said Eli
Winkler, vice president of marketing at the Seattle company.  Most consumers prefer to at least research items online,
even if they buy the products in stores, said Van Baker, an
analyst at Stamford, Connecticut-based  Gartner Inc. (IT)   “I don’t think any retailer can really afford not to have
an e-commerce presence,” Baker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  