-- 
Wim Wenders Reconnects With God, Praises 3-D Movies: Interview

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-03T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/wim-wenders-bonds-with-god-walks-on-volcano-praises-3-d-films-interview.html
Wim Wenders clips a microphone onto
his zip-up sweater as he gets ready for an on-camera interview.  The 65-year-old director is dressed like a teen, in skinny
jeans and sneakers. A thick gray fringe flops across his brow.
The Bloomberg video producer asks him to say a few words for a
sound check.  “Words of wisdom or of foolishness?” he deadpans, looking
wearily through blue designer frames.  Germany’s best-known filmmaker -- whose “Wings of Desire”
(1987) showed an angel wandering around Berlin -- likes to fuse
philosophy with everyday life. His films, documentaries, and
photographs all seem to ponder the meaning of existence.  Wenders is in London to present “ Pina ,” a 3-D tribute to
dancer-choreographer Pina Bausch, and promote his photography
show at the  Haunch of Venison  gallery. His often desolate images
-- an abandoned Ferris wheel in  Armenia , the remains of the East
German parliament, a dormant volcano in Sicily -- cost 3,500
euros ($5,182) to 25,000 euros a piece.  I wonder how it feels to have a selling exhibition. “As a
filmmaker, you sell tickets too!” he says. “You’re happy if
people come, and the theater’s full.”  Wenders was born in Dusseldorf in August 1945. He lived as
a boy at his grandfather’s, about the only house standing. His
first memories were of rubble, and it shows: Wenders’s camera
often seeks out places where life seems to have come to a
standstill.  ‘Pina’ Death  The subject of “Pina,” choreographer Bausch, died two
days before filming was to start. The mesmeric 3-D documentary
shows dancers of all origins, ages and shapes performing
Bausch’s dances in factory yards, tunnels, monorails or fields.  “I found in Pina the big sister I never had. We felt very
close,” Wenders remembers. “We were born four years apart, but
almost in the same area.”  Professionally, “we both realized that we couldn’t build
on anything, that we had to start from scratch.”  Wenders is keen on 3-D. He labels it a “fantastic new
tool” which -- except in the case of “one giant masterpiece
called ‘Avatar’” -- is “not taken seriously.”  “You have a new language, 3-D, that can heighten reality
in incredible ways, and can take you into real places, and what
the studios have done so far is take it out of this world,” he
says. “That’s sort of a pity.”  Wenders is more drawn to documentary now. Fictional films
take longer than they used to: three or four years “if you’re
lucky.” His last, “Palermo Shooting” (2008) -- a stylish but
clunky tale of a tormented photographer -- was panned at the
 Cannes Film Festival .  Film Freedom  I ask how he fits in with the film world. “I don’t fit in!
I never wanted to fit in,” he replies. “I very often refused
big budgets and offers, because I still feel today that the more
money you have, the less you can say.”  “If you have $100 million, your ability to say something
is very limited. If you have 10 percent of it, you have much
more freedom, and if you have 1 percent of it, you can say
whatever you want.”  Wenders reluctantly lists recent films he likes: “Gomorrah” 
(2008), an Italian organized-crime movie; and “Of Gods and Men” 
(2010), a French story about monks in  Algeria .  We turn to Wenders’s new belief in God. It “was the case
when I was a little boy. I got sidetracked in between,” he
says. What made him come back? “Life. Death. My parents’
death.”  “Like everybody else, I was a socialist student, and of
course an atheist, and I looked into psychoanalysis and Buddhism
and what not,” he explains. “I came back and realized the best
thing that ever happened to me was still what I believed in when
I was a kid.”  Though the walls behind are covered with photos, film is
still his main medium, and his future.  “People need movies more than ever,” he says. “People
need to see better lives.”  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 