-- 
Wyoming Boosted to Highest Credit Rating by S&P to Join 11 States at AAA

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-05-04T17:10:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/wyoming-s-issuer-credit-rating-is-raised-to-aaa-by-s-p-with-stable-outlook.html
Wyoming ’s general-obligation debt
rating was raised one step by  Standard & Poor’s  to AAA, the
highest investment grade, as the firm cited the state’s
“conservative budgeting and forecasting practices.”  Wyoming, the least-populous state, joins 11 others with top
credit ratings from S&P. The company said Wyoming’s outlook is
stable.  “We base the upgrade on what we see as strong
institutional budget procedures and performance,” low long-term
debt and pension liabilities, and “strong economic
performance,” S&P credit analystDavid Hitchcock said in a
statement.  Wyoming’s  Powder River Basin  holds the largest and least-
expensive coal reserves in the U.S. The state provides almost 40
percent of the domestic coal used to generate electricity last
year, according to the Interior Department. Governor Matt Mead
has said he hopes to attract other industries to the state.  The home of Yellowstone National Park saw its population
jump  14.1 percent  between 2000 and 2010, according to the Census
Bureau, while the national population grew  9.7 percent .
Wyoming’s unemployment rate for March was 6.2 percent, below the
national rate of 8.8 percent, according to the U.S. Labor
Department.  In March, S&P upgraded two of Wyoming’s neighbors,  Idaho 
and  South Dakota , to AA+, one step below the top rating, from
AA.  Mead, a Republican who took office in January, has worked
to consolidate state agencies and secure additional funding for
cities and counties, his office said in a  statement  marking his
100th day as chief executive. Mead inherited a  budget surplus 
and has expanded the reserve, Renny MacKay, a spokesman, said in
a telephone interview.  “This rating will provide another boost as Wyoming’s
economy grows and diversifies,” Mead said in a statement.  The other states with AAA ratings from Standard & Poor’s
are:  Delaware ,  Florida ,  Georgia ,  Indiana ,  Iowa ,  Maryland ,
 Minnesota ,  Missouri ,  North Carolina ,  Utah  and Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  