-- 
Hyatt Shares Decline After Renovation Costs for Hotels Reduce Earnings

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-05-03T20:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/hyatt-earnings-double-as-hotel-revenue-is-lifted-by-increasing-confidence.html
Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H) , the chain
controlled by the Pritzker family, fell more than 3 percent in
New York trading after reporting a decline in earnings before
some items because of renovation costs.  First-quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, excluding items such as gains on sales of real
estate and discontinued operations, fell to $109 million from
$112 million the year earlier, the Chicago-based company said
today in a statement. That trailed the estimates of analysts
including  Patrick Scholes  of FBR Capital Markets Corp., who
predicted an increase to $121 million.  “The Ebitda miss was primarily from lower-than-expected
operating profit from owned hotels as renovation disruption was
greater than most anticipated,” Scholes, based in Arlington,
 Virginia , wrote in a note to clients today.  Hyatt is spending as much as $400 million to upgrade its
properties. The company said on Feb. 17 that displacement from
renovations will hurt results through the third quarter of this
year. Interruptions have been slightly higher than previously
expected, Chief Financial Officer Harmit Singh said today during
a conference call with investors.  “We want to finish renovations as soon as possible,”
President and Chief Executive Officer Mark Hoplamazian said
during the call. The hotelier expects to start seeing
“gradually higher results” in the fourth quarter, he said.  Stock Slump  Hyatt fell $1.56, or 3.5 percent, to $42.58 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has lost 7
percent this year.  First-quarter net income climbed to $10 million, or 6 cents
a share, from $5 million, or 3 cents, a year earlier. The
hotelier was expected to earn 5 cents, the average estimate of
nine analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Revenue increased to $875 million from $841 million a year
earlier. Revenue per available room, or revpar, for hotels owned
or leased for at least a year climbed 8.1 percent at full-
service hotels in  North America  and 11 percent overseas.  “Their level of growth will be lower than at some other
companies because of the renovations that are under way,” David Loeb, an analyst at Milwaukee-based Robert W. Baird & Co. said
in an interview before the earnings were released. “It’s a good
long-term strategy but will hold them back a bit in the short
term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in New York at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  