-- 
Yields at 2009 High as RBI Tells Banks to Ready for Defaults: India Credit

-- B y   A n u r a g   J o s h i   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-05-04T07:06:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/yields-surge-as-banks-told-to-ready-for-defaults-india-credit.html
Relative borrowing costs for  India ’s
companies reached a two-year high after the central bank raised
benchmark  interest rates  more than economists forecast and  asked 
lenders to set aside more money to cover potential defaults.  The difference between three-year yields for the highest-
rated company debt and  government bonds  widened to 188 basis
points yesterday, the most since June 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The average rate for AAA borrowers of
9.56 percent compares with 3.26 percent in China and 1.39
percent in the U.S.  Banks will need to set aside cash for 25 percent of loans
that have been classed as “doubtful” for up to one year from
20 percent earlier, the  Reserve Bank of India  said yesterday
after raising borrowing costs 50 basis points. Mumbai-based
IndusInd Bank Ltd. and Pramerica Asset Managers Pvt. predict
corporate borrowing costs will reach 10 percent by June.  “There is a limit to which rates can be passed on to
borrowers without triggering defaults,” Jagdish Pai, Bangalore-
based executive director at state-run  Canara Bank , said in an
interview yesterday. “We are reaching those levels.”  Earnings Impact  India’s benchmark government bonds dropped after the
Reserve Bank lifted the repurchase rate, at which it lends, to
7.25 percent. Seven of 25 economists in a Bloomberg survey had
predicted the move, while the rest forecast a quarter-point
increase. The yield on the 7.8 percent note due April 2021 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.26 percent
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rate on ICICI Bank Ltd.’s 7.2 percent rupee notes due
in May 2015 increased nine basis points to 9.44 percent and the
yield on HDFC Bank Ltd.’s 7.5 percent security maturing June
2015 climbed nine basis points to 9.43 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Lenders will need to set aside cash
for 40 percent of loans classified as “doubtful” for three
years, the  Reserve Bank  said.  “There will be a net impact on earnings in the short
term” for banks, said Sampath Kumar, an analyst at Mumbai-based
brokerage India Infoline Ltd. “But it eventually means the
banks will have better balance sheets.”  The new provisions will hurt some industries more than
others, according to IndusInd Bank. Property developers are set
for “large-scale distress” sales as they need to repay 1.8
trillion rupees ($40.4 billion) of debt in the coming two to
three years, according to the local unit of London-based Knight
Frank LLP.  Real-Estate Sector  “The RBI’s objective is to prepare banks if there is an
economic downturn and non-performing loans balloon,” J Moses Harding, a Mumbai-based executive vice-president at IndusInd
Bank, said in an interview yesterday. “The degree of impact
will be higher for some sectors such as real estate and  consumer
durables .”  The central bank is monitoring real-estate prices in
Mumbai, Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said at a press conference
yesterday. The weighted average price of homes in the nation’s
commercial capital rose to a record 9,234 rupees a square foot
in the first quarter even as sales dropped to lowest since 2009,
Mumbai-based  Liases Foras  Real Estate Rating & Research Pvt
estimated.  The central bank is “fairly liberal” with debt
provisioning and made it easy for lenders to restructure non-
performing loans,  Anil Agarwal , an analyst at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in a report dated May 2. Restructuring typically requires
banks to change the lending terms or replace an existing loan
with new debt when a borrower struggles with the repayment.  Rupee Performance  “Banks have been on a restructuring spree for the last two
years,” Agarwal wrote. “On these restructured loans, the
provisioning requirement can be as low as 1 percent. Even when
loans become NPLs, banks are required to make only minuscule
provisions.”  India’s rupee has advanced 0.3 percent this year as three
increases to the repurchase rate since Dec. 31 added to the
currency’s yield appeal. The rupee traded at 44.5675 per dollar
today. The difference in yields between the nation’s government
debt and U.S. Treasuries due in a decade has widened to 500
basis points from a nine-month low of 436 reached April 8.  India’s bonds are down 0.5 percent this month after a 1
percent drop in April, the worst performance among 10 Asian
local-currency debt markets outside  Japan , indexes compiled by
HSBC Holdings Plc show.  The increase in provisions is unlikely to hurt banks as
most lenders have sufficient capital, according to state-run
 Union Bank of India . The percentage of lenders’ capital to risk-
weighted assets, or the capital adequacy ratio, must be at least
9 percent, according to the central bank.  ‘Well-Capitalized’  “The banking system is well-capitalized to manage any
default risks,” S.C. Kalia, Mumbai-based executive director at
Union Bank, said in an interview yesterday.  Five-year credit-default swaps on  State Bank  of India, the
nation’s largest lender that some investors regard as a proxy
for the sovereign, has climbed four basis points this year to
165 basis points, according to CMA in  New York . The contracts
pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “Because of the rate hike, if there is a slowdown in
growth and if there is a huge impact on a particular sector,
there is a possibility” companies will have trouble repaying
debt, Mahendra Jajoo, the Mumbai-based head of fixed-income
investments at Pramerica Asset Managers, a unit of  Newark , New
Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc., said in an interview
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anurag Joshi in  Mumbai  at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  