-- 
Zeltia Says Yondelis Won’t Be Affected in Europe by J&J Move

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-03T15:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-03/zeltia-says-yondelis-won-t-be-affected-in-europe-by-j-j-move.html
Zeltia SA (ZEL) , the Spanish developer of
cancer medicines from sea creatures, said sales of Yondelis in
Europe won’t be affected by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s decision to
withdraw an application seeking U.S. approval for the drug.  J&J last week stopped its bid to have Yondelis approved for
use alongside the U.S. drugmaker’s Doxil for ovarian cancer
after the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  requested additional
trials. That “could have a hit on sales where the product is
already approved,” Luis de Blas, an analyst at Banesto Bolsa,
wrote yesterday in a report.  “We continue to sell our products and our recurrent
business is doing well," Chairman Jose Maria Fernandez Sousa- Faro said during a press conference today in Madrid, where
Zeltia is based. When asked whether Yondelis’ sales and
marketing in  Europe  would be hurt by the J&J withdrawal, he said
"no."  As a result of the withdrawal, Zeltia will miss out on a
$10 million payment due upon U.S. approval from  New Brunswick ,
New Jersey-based J&J, which owns the rights to Yondelis outside
Europe and  Japan , Zeltia  said April 29 . Zeltia dropped 5.5
percent yesterday, the first full trading day after the
announcement.  ‘‘We won’t be able to have that expected milestone payment
for which we were very excited’’ this year, Fernandez Sousa-Faro
said.  Zeltia had anticipated U.S. approval of Yondelis this year,
the executive said. The Spanish company sells the drug in Europe
for ovarian cancer and soft-tissue sarcomas.  Licensing Agreements  ‘‘We don’t know how long the delay will be,’’ the chairman
said. ‘‘But we’re already negotiating other licensing agreements
which could be even bigger than that one.’’  Fernandez Sousa-Faro reiterated a plan to reach positive
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
this year and declined to comment on when the company will post
a profit. Zeltia said last week that its first-quarter net loss
widened to 3.11 million euros from 1.96 million euros a year
earlier.  Zeltia shares have lost 5.6 percent this year, after
dropping almost 30 percent last year. The Ibex 35 Index has
gained 9.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  