-- Thailand Begins Peace Talks With Southern Muslim Insurgents
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-03-29T01:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/thailand-begins-peace-talks-with-southern-muslim-insurgents.html
Thai negotiators held the first
round of formal peace talks with a militant Muslim group in the
country’s south to stem violence that has killed more than 5,000
people in the past decade.  Representatives of Revolution National Front, known as BRN,
agreed on terms of reference for the peace dialogue with the
government, according to a joint e-mailed statement. The talks
were held at a police training school in Kuala Lumpur yesterday
after Malaysia agreed to act as a facilitator.  “Both sides exchanged views and information pertaining to
the issue of violence in an open and sincere manner,” according
to the statement. “Discussion was also focused on finding ways
and means to resolve the issue” and “achieving justice.”  The insurgency has stifled investment in the south, where
14 provinces account for about 80 percent of  Thailand ’s rubber
production. Separatists have fought for an independent state in
Yala, Narathiwat, Pattani and part of Songkhla province since
Thailand formally annexed the autonomous Malay-Muslim sultanate
in 1902.  Before her 2011 election victory, Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said she would consider devolving power to locals in
the south in a special administrative zone. About 95 percent of
Thailand’s 67 million people are Buddhist.  Ustaz Hassan Taib represented the rebels, with Paradorn
Pattanatabut, secretary-general of the National Security Council
of Thailand, leading the government delegation, according to the
statement. Both sides agreed to meet again April 29 after
reporting to their superiors, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in Hong Kong at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 