-- Taiwan President Apologizes After Aide Charged With Taking Bribe
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   C i n d y   W a n g
-- 2013-03-29T06:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/taiwan-president-apologizes-after-aide-charged-with-taking-bribe.html
Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou
apologized today after an aide in his ruling Kuomintang Party
was charged with taking NT$1 million ($33,500) in bribes over a
Taipei real estate development.  Lai Su-ru, a Taipei city councilor, acknowledged taking the
money, which she denied was a bribe, the Taipei District Court
said in a statement today. She resigned yesterday as director of
Ma’s party chairman office, Kuomintang spokesman Hsiao Hsu-tsen
said.  “As party chairman I must accept the criticisms against us
and take up the responsibility of supervision and reform,” Ma
said in a statement released today. “I hereby apologize to the
people of this nation.”  The case involving the Taipei Twin Towers development
threatens to tarnish the corruption-fighting reputation Ma has
cultivated since he took office in 2008. Ma’s predecessor, Chen Shui-bian, is serving a 20-year prison sentence for bribery,
while another former leader, Lee Teng-hui, was indicted on
embezzlement charges in 2011.  The Taipei city government  said  in October a consortium led
by Kuala Lumpur-based IGB Corp. was favored to build the Taipei
Twin Towers, only to  announce  in March that the consortium
failed to furnish a initial performance bond. The Edge Financial
Daily said the project is worth NT$80 billion.  A group of Taipei city councilors said in November they
were concerned that the bidding process for the project had been
compromised by corruption, the China Post reported. Lai remains
in her city post.  “There’s no gray area in corruption,” Ma said. “It is my
firm belief that anyone, no matter what party or status, should
feel the full effect of the law.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  