-- Mandela Spends Second Day in Hospital for Lung Infection
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-03-29T11:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/mandela-spends-second-day-in-hospital-for-lung-infection.html
Nelson Mandela’s doctors say he’s
“making steady progress” as he spent a second day in the
hospital for a lung infection, a spokesman for South African
President Jacob Zuma said.  Mandela, South Africa’s first black president, is “in good
spirits and enjoyed a full breakfast this morning,” spokesman
Mac Maharaj said today in an e-mailed statement.  Mandela, 94, was admitted before midnight local time on
March 27, his second hospital visit this year after a check-up
less than three weeks ago. His health took a “downturn” that
day and he was brought to the hospital to prevent the infection
from spreading, Maharaj told Johannesburg-based broadcaster eNCA
yesterday.  “We appeal to the people of South Africa and the world to
pray for our beloved Madiba and his family,” Zuma said
yesterday, using Mandela’s clan name. “We have full confidence
in the medical team.”  The Nobel Peace Prize-winner was hospitalized from Dec. 8
to Dec. 26 to treat a lung infection and to have gallstones
removed. He contracted tuberculosis while imprisoned on Robben
Island during his 27-year incarceration for fighting white
minority rule. Mandela led South Africa for five years after the
African National Congress, or ANC, won the first all-race
elections in 1994 that marked the end of apartheid rule.  He spent a night in a Pretoria hospital on March 9 for
scheduled medical tests.  In  Washington , President  Barack Obama  yesterday said he
hoped Mandela will pull through, as he has from previous health
threats.  “We will be keeping him in our thoughts and prayers,”
Obama said at the White House during a meeting with leaders of
four sub-Saharan African nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  