-- Argentina Has Last Chance to Influence U.S. Court in Bonds Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-03-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/argentina-has-last-chance-to-influence-u-s-court-in-bonds-case.html
Argentina  has what may be its last
chance to influence a U.S. appeals court considering a lawsuit
over the country’s attempts to avoid paying holders of its
defaulted debt.  The South American nation, which defaulted on a record
$95 billion in debt in 2001, faces a deadline today to submit a
proposed formula to pay holders of $1.3 billion of the defaulted
bonds.  Argentina’s top leaders have vowed never to pay the
“vulture” investors that hold the debt. They’ll have to soften
that stance or risk losing the case, said Anna Gelpern, a law
professor at American University in  Washington  who is an expert
on government debt. A compromise that would satisfy the court is
still possible, though not likely, she said.  “I just think it is a very narrow window” between what
the court requires and what Argentina is willing to deliver,
Gelpern said. “This assumes that everybody is actually acting
rationally and in good faith. Still, the window is very
narrow.”  In November, U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa said
Argentina must pay the entire $1.3 billion claimed by the
creditors in the lawsuit whenever it made any payment on its
restructured debt. The issue was argued in front of the U.S.
Court of Appeals in New York on Feb. 27.  On March 1, the appeals court ordered Argentina to provide
a suggested formula for paying the creditors, led by Elliott
Management Corp.’s NML Capital Ltd., which refused to take the
restructured bonds at a deep discount.  Final Chance  Argentina’s lawyer, in the Feb. 27 hearing, “appeared to
propose” an alternative to the payment formula devised by
Griesa, according to the appeals court. The three-judge panel
gave Argentina a final chance to influence its decision. The
judges said they may ask the creditors to file a response before
the panel rules.  The judges said Argentina must tell them how and when it
proposes to make current its payments on the defaulted bonds and
the rate it proposes to pay. The panel also seeks assurances
that Argentina’s government will take the necessary actions to
make the payments.  The panel said March 26 that it won’t grant a full-court
reconsideration of its ruling in a related appeal. In that
decision, the court barred Argentina from treating restructured-
debt holders more favorably than holders of the repudiated debt.  The country has claimed that a ruling forcing it to pay
holders of the defaulted bonds would make it vulnerable to more
than $43 billion in additional claims it can’t pay and trigger a
new default.  Argentina’s legislature in 2005 passed a so-called lock law
barring payment on the defaulted bonds.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  