-- Arizona Voter Map Witness Proves Bad Faith, Lawyer Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   H e r m a n n   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-03-29T21:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/arizona-voter-map-witness-proves-bad-faith-lawyer-says.html
Republicans seeking to void
 Arizona ’s redrawn voter districts over claims they favor
Democrats were presented with a “smoking gun” at trial when a
witness testified the plan wasn’t accurate, a lawyer for the
Republicans said.  A witness for the state’s Independent Redistricting
Commission admitted that a pre-clearance submission of the
redistricting plan to the U.S. Department of Justice “just
wasn’t right,” David Cantelme said in closing arguments today
at the federal trial in Phoenix.  The witness, Stanford University professor Bruce Cain,
testified that the commission, in its presentation to the
Justice Department, reported the redistricting plan would create
six Hispanic districts and one Native American district when in
fact it provides for nine Hispanic districts, Cantelme said in
court today.  Cain’s admission was the “smoking gun” that proved “bad
faith on the part of the commission,” Cantelme said.  The commission’s representation of six Hispanic districts
was a misdirection and “Professor Cain admitted that,”
Cantelme said.  The lawsuit accuses the commission of “a pattern of
discriminatory intent” by concentrating Republicans in
 districts  that exceed the average population while leaving
Democrats with pluralities in a disproportionately large number
of underpopulated districts.  Voting Strength  Redistricting is intended to ensure members of the U.S.
House of Representatives and state legislatures represent
roughly equal size populations. Yet from the first Congress,
party leaders began exploiting the map-making exercise by
weakening the voting strength of some groups to gain partisan
advantage, a practice known as gerrymandering.  Colin F. Campbell , a lawyer representing the commission,
said in his closing argument that the commission made clear to
the Justice Department that the plan included “at least” six
Hispanic districts and one Native American district, “but that
there could be three others depending on several factors.”  “There was no effort whatsoever to deceive,” Campbell
said. Cantelme’s claim that the commission “lied to the DOJ is
completely untrue,” Campbell said. “They told them what they
were doing, and told them about all the districts.”  Arizona has 30 members in its Senate and 60 members in its
House of Representatives; each district is represented by one
senator and two house members.  Registered Voters  Under the redistricting plan completed last year, 16 of the
17 legislative districts with a Republican plurality -- more
registered Republican voters than any voters registered with
another party -- exceed the ideal population of 213,067,
according to the Republican plaintiffs in the case.  Only two of the districts with a Democratic plurality
exceed the ideal population, they said.  “In creating districts, the commission had to follow the
Voting Rights Act,” Campbell said. “It is the law and protects
minority populations that have been discriminated
against in the past.”  The case is Harris v. Arizona Independent Redistricting
Commission, 12-cv-00894, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Hermann in Phoenix federal court at  aphoto61@cox.net ;
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  