-- Autism Risk Isn’t Increased by Vaccine Schedule, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-03-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/autism-risk-isn-t-increased-by-vaccine-schedule-study-finds.html
Autism risk isn’t increased by the
use of recommended childhood vaccines, U.S. health officials
found in a study addressing parent concerns that too many
immunizations may cause the disorder.  An analysis of 1,000 toddlers showed no differences in
exposures to vaccines between autistic and normally-developing
children, according to findings published in the  Journal of
Pediatrics  by researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in Atlanta. The CDC recommends 10 immunizations
before age 2, and some require more than one shot.  Multiple studies have shown measles, mumps and rubella
vaccines don’t individually cause autism. A third of parents
surveyed in a previous report were concerned too many vaccines
given before age 2, or on the same visit, may be a contributor.
About 1 in 10 toddler parents refuse or delay vaccinations
because they believe the  schedule  to be unsafe, the study said.  “This is a very important and reassuring study,” said
Geri Dawson, the chief scientific officer of Autism Speaks, an
advocacy organization, in a telephone interview. She wasn’t
involved in the study. “It’s going to be very helpful in
addressing some of the concerns parents have had about
vaccination schedules.”  The research compared data taken from managed-care groups
for 256 children with autism and 752 without. It found no
differences in the amount of antigens the kids were exposed to
in the first 2 years of life. It also found no support for the
idea that too many vaccines on one doctor’s visit might increase
the risk of autism.  Antigen Worry  Antigens are substances  in vaccines  that cause the immune
system to create antibodies. Some people have suggested that
these immune-stimulating proteins hurt children’s developing
bodies if too many are administered too quickly.  “This adds more weight to the evidence that vaccines don’t
cause autism,” said Frank DeStefano, a study author and the
director of immunization safety office at the Atlanta-based CDC,
in a telephone interview.  Vaccines were singled out by parents in part because of a
1998 study by Andrew Wakefield at the Royal Free Hospital in
 London  published by the Lancet. That study was retracted in
2010, and was determined to be fraudulent, according to a report
in the Lancet in January 2011.  The vaccine link seemed convincing to parents because some
autistic children develop normally over their first year of life
and then regress, losing their skills, Dawson said. That happens
in about a quarter of autistic people.  ‘One Question’  “It’s understandable that parents think about what could
cause this regression to happen and vaccines were one
question,” Dawson said.  Today’s study looked at a subset of children who also
experienced the regression, and found no differences there
either.  “Vaccinations have been one of the most successful public
health interventions of the past 100 to 200 years,” DeStefano
said, noting the eradication of polio and other once-common
childhood illnesses from the U.S. “Delaying or not vaccinating
exposes a child to potentially life-threatening disease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  