-- Libor Suits by Bondholders Tossed Over Lack of Damages
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-03-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/banks-win-dismissal-of-substantial-portion-of-libor-sui.html
Banks including  Bank of America
Corp. ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  won dismissal of
antitrust lawsuits by plaintiffs claiming they were harmed by
the rigging of the London interbank offered rate.  In more than two dozen interrelated cases before U.S.
District Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in  New York , the banks were
alleged to have conspired to depress Libor by understating their
borrowing costs, thereby lowering their interest expenses on
products tied to the rates.  While potential damages were estimated to be in the
billions of dollars, the judge ruled the cases must be dismissed
because of the inability of litigants that included brokerage 
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , pension funds and other bondholders to 
show they were harmed. Buchwald, whose March 29 ruling allowed 
some commodities-manipulations claims to proceed to a trial, 
said that, while private plaintiffs must show actual harm, her 
ruling didn’t impede governments from pursuing antitrust claims 
tied to attempts to manipulate Libor.  “We recognize that it might be unexpected that we are
dismissing a substantial portion of plaintiffs’ claims, given
that several of the defendants here have already paid penalties
to government regulatory agencies reaching into the billions of
dollars,” Buchwald wrote. “There are many requirements that
private plaintiffs must satisfy but which government agencies
need not.”  Key Metric  Libor is a key metric for setting  interest rates  for
trillions of dollars in financial instruments. It fixes the
rates under which banks lend money to one another for as little
as a day and as long as a year. Rates for 10 different
currencies including the  U.S. dollar , Japanese yen and British
pound are computed daily after canvassing banks that comprise
membership panels for each type of money.  Global authorities have been investigating claims that more
than a dozen banks altered submissions used to set benchmarks
such as Libor to profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives
or make the lenders’ finances appear healthier.  Barclays agreed to pay 290 million pounds ($441 million)
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  paid $612 million to U.S.
and U.K. regulators to resolve claims.  UBS AG (UBSN)  agreed to pay 1.4
billion Swiss francs ($1.47 billion).  Other defendants in the lawsuits include Credit Suisse
Group,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Deutsche Bank AG,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
RBS.  Dismissed Claims  Buchwald dismissed the antitrust claims because the
plaintiffs didn’t allege enough facts to show that they were
harmed by the alleged misconduct. The judge dismissed some
commodities-manipulation claims because they centered on
transactions that were too long ago. Other such claims may
proceed, she said.  Explaining her decision to dismiss the claims after the
regulatory settlements, Buchwald said private cases must be
“examined closely” to ensure plaintiffs are “properly
entitled to recover and that the suit is, in fact, serving the
public purposes.”  “The broad public interests behind the statutes invoked
here, such as integrity of the markets and competition, are
being addressed by ongoing governmental enforcement,” she said.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte-based Bank of
America, and Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, declined to comment on the ruling.  Michael Hausfeld , a lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment on the decision.  The consolidated case is In re Libor-Based Financial
Instruments Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-02262, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  