-- Bank of Ireland U.K. Mortgage-Rate Rise Concerns Tyrie
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-03-29T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/bank-of-ireland-u-k-mortgage-rate-rise-concerns-tyrie.html
U.K. lawmaker Andrew Tyrie said
Britain’s finance regulator must ensure customers are being
treated fairly as a result of Bank of Ireland Plc raising
interest rates for some mortgages.  Tyrie wrote to Martin Wheatley, the U.K.’s chief conduct
regulator, asking for details on how the Financial Services
Authority is dealing with the increase, according to copies of
the correspondence made public by the lawmaker today.  In Wheatley’s response, he said the mortgages covered by
the change pre-date the FSA’s 2004 regulation of the so-called
tracker mortgages, and that he didn’t believe the terms of the
loans that track a government base rate were unfair. The agency
met with the bank before the change was announced to tell its
senior management it must ensure fair outcomes for customers,
Wheatley said.  “We need more information to be confident that the
regulator has thought carefully about this issue,” Tyrie, the
chairman of Parliament’s Treasury Select Committee, said in a
statement today. Wheatley’s response to him “appears to fall
short,” he added.  Bank of Ireland, seeking to return to profit after a
government bailout, said it will increase interest costs for 7
percent, or 13,500, of its U.K. customers by widening the spread
between its rates and the Bank of  England  base rate. By Oct. 1,
the spread for some will widen to 3.99 percent, from 1 percent,
the lender said on Feb. 28. The increases won’t affect the
bank’s U.K. Post Office customers, it said at the time.  Capital Levels  Bank of Ireland said today the change is the result of
“the significant increase in the cost of funding these
mortgages since 2008 and the need for banks to maintain greater
levels of capital.” The lender declined to comment on
correspondence between the Treasury Select Committee and FSA.  Ireland’s largest lender by assets, which is 15 percent
state-owned, has been unprofitable on a pretax basis since 2009,
following the collapse the Irish real estate market. It stopped
selling new U.K. mortgages in January 2009, except through its
Post Office joint venture and Northern Ireland branches.  Irish banks, while prohibited contractually from increasing
spreads on domestic mortgages that track the European Central
Bank benchmark rate, have been raising variable rates for the
past two years to boost their lending margins.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  