-- Berlusconi Seeks Sway in Government as President Pick Nears
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-29T14:44:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/berlusconi-seeks-sway-over-government-as-president-choice-nears.html
Former Italian Prime Minister
 Silvio Berlusconi  told President Giorgio Napolitano he is ready
to cooperate with rivals in the formation of a government and
said he wants a voice in picking the next president.  “We were and still are open to giving life to a
coalition,” Berlusconi, 76, told reporters in  Rome  today after
meeting Napolitano. “We think it’s logical that if we form a
government together, a coalition government, then together we
must discuss about who will be the best president of the
republic.”  Napolitano, 87, is seeking to reconcile rival forces in
parliament and pick a leader to replace Prime Minister  Mario Monti . The process has been at an impasse since Feb. 24-25
elections left no bloc with a majority in the upper house of
parliament.  Napolitano took charge of the negotiations yesterday after
Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the biggest parliamentary group,
failed to muster a majority. Napolitano’s seven-year term ends
in May, and it’s up to lawmakers to select his replacement.  Italy is under pressure to come up with a government
capable of halting the recession and protecting the country from
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Italy’s 18-month economic contraction
deepened last year as Monti implemented fiscal austerity to cut
the deficit and curb bond-market speculation.  Light-years Apart  Luigi Zanda, head of Bersani’s senators, said after
Berlusconi’s comments that a government in partnership was
unlikely because their respective policy positions were “light-
years apart,” newswire Ansa reported.  Italian 10-year bond yields rose 24 basis points to 4.76
percent in the four days ended yesterday on concern that the
debt crisis could intensify amid tension in Cyprus. Markets were
closed today for a holiday.  Berlusconi, a billionaire, said he didn’t speak with
Napolitano about the choice of the next president. He is pushing
for a government shared by his forces, the  Democratic Party  and
Monti’s bloc. The next administration must be led by politicians
and not so-called technocrats, like the professors and
bureaucrats that composed Monti’s cabinet, Berlusconi said.  “Considering the negative and I’d say tragic experience of
the technocrats, an absolutely political government” is needed,
Berlusconi said. “We’re absolutely ok with the candidacy of
Bersani as with other possible candidates.”  Berlusconi finished second to Bersani in the elections last
month. Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement, the euro-skeptic
party, captured a quarter of the votes to place third. Monti, a
former university president, came in fourth.  Berlusconi’s Gains  Berlusconi’s standing among voters has improved since the
elections, according to a poll distributed today by SWG
Institute. Berlusconi’s coalition led with 32.5 percent support
among voters, compared with 29.6 percent for Bersani’s bloc,
24.8 percent for Grillo and  8.7 percent for Monti.  Berlusconi’s ally Roberto Maroni, head of the  Northern
League , accompanied the ex-premier to the presidential palace
and said he shared the same views on the government. Maroni
reiterated he wouldn’t support a government composed by non-
politicians.  “It would be a thousand times better to go to elections,”
Maroni told reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  