-- Chesapeake Picks COO Dixon as Replacement for McClendon
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-03-29T23:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/chesapeake-s-mcclendon-departs-as-ceo-search-continues.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  picked
Chief Operating Officer Steven C. Dixon to be acting chief
executive as co-founder Aubrey K. McClendon steps down from the
natural gas explorer he led for almost a quarter century.  Chesapeake’s board appointed Dixon and two others to a
newly-established Office of the Chairman while it continues the
search for a permanent CEO, the Oklahoma City-based company said
in a statement yesterday. The other members of the office are
Chairman Archie Dunham and Chief Financial Officer Domenic
Dell’Osso, the company said.  McClendon, 53, agreed in January to resign no later than
April 1 after a shareholder revolt by  Carl Icahn  and
Southeastern Asset Management Inc.’s O. Mason Hawkins cost the
CEO his annual bonus and the chairmanship last year. A board
inquiry into McClendon’s use of personal stakes in company-owned
wells to obtain more than $800 million in private loans cleared
him of any intentional wrongdoing in February.  Dixon, 54, is a University of Kansas-trained geologist who
joined Chesapeake in 1991, two years after the company’s
founding, as vice president of exploration. He has been COO
since 2006, a role he will continue to perform, according to the
statement.  “Steve has full authority to lead our company and will
ensure that Chesapeake maintains its culture of excellence, hard
work and agility,” Dunham said in an e-mail to employees
yesterday. Dixon “has the reins and he knows the path
forward.”  U.S. equity markets were closed yesterday for the Good
Friday holiday. Chesapeake’s stock has risen 23 percent this
year, erasing almost all of 2012’s 25 percent decline.  Shale Revolution  Directors are working with Chicago-based executive-search
firm  Heidrick & Struggles International Inc. (HSII)  to find a permanent
CEO, according to the statement.  A tireless promoter of gas as an alternative to coal and
Middle Eastern oil imports, McClendon built Chesapeake into the
largest U.S. gas producer by employing cutting-edge drilling
techniques in domestic shale formations overlooked by major
international energy giants.  McClendon oversaw a 500-fold increase in Chesapeake’s
market value from its 1993 debut as a public company to a peak
of $35.6 billion in June 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Since then, stung by cratering gas prices and growing
investor mistrust, the company’s value fell by more than half to
about $13.6 billion.  Chesapeake agreed to sell $12 billion in pipelines,
oilfields and other assets in 2012, short of McClendon’s
original sales target, as a cash flow shortfall threatened to
derail drilling plans and erode the company’s compliance with
lending covenants.  Unfinished Business  The new permanent CEO will inherit a $4 billion to $7
billion asset-sales target for this year and the unfinished task
of converting a company that pumps enough gas to supply 20
percent of American household demand into an oil producer.  Icahn and Hawkins, who together control 22 percent of
Chesapeake’s stock, pushed for McClendon’s resignation after
concluding his presence and the controversy surrounding his
personal business deals was hurting the company’s share price, a
person with knowledge of the discussions said in January.  As one of the first explorers to embrace horizontal
drilling and hydraulic fracturing, McClendon helped usher in a
revival of U.S. gas and oil production with discoveries such as
the Haynesville Shale in  Louisiana  and Utica Shale in  Ohio .  The success of the drilling methods led to a glut of North
American gas that drove prices to a 10-year low in early 2012,
prompting Chesapeake to cut jobs, curtail  capital spending  and
offer oilfields and other assets up to the highest bidders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  