-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Climbs by Most in Five Months
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-03-29T16:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/consumer-spending-in-u-s-increases-by-most-in-five-months.html
Consumer spending  climbed in
February by the most in five months and confidence unexpectedly
improved in March, showing job-market gains are helping
Americans overcome tax increases and concern about  federal
budget  cuts.  Purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the
economy, rose 0.7 percent after a 0.4 percent advance the prior
month that was bigger than previously estimated, according to
Commerce Department data today in  Washington . Another report
showed  consumer sentiment  advanced to a four-month high.  Record  stock prices  and rising home values combined with
gains in wages are helping households repair finances left in
shreds by the recession, making it easier to cope with a two
percentage-point increase in the payroll tax. The pickup in
spending at retailers including  Macy’s Inc. (M)  is giving the
world’s largest economy a boost just as efforts to narrow the
 budget deficit  prompt government cutbacks.  “The economy is in a very good place right now ahead of
the fiscal restraint,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York .
“There are no signs in the data that the expiration of the
payroll-tax cut is affecting consumers whatsoever. This recovery
is sustainable.”  Stock markets in the U.S. were closed today for the Good
Friday holiday.  Consumer confidence  climbed this month as Americans grew
more optimistic about the outlook for the economy. The Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan’s final March sentiment index
rose to 78.6, exceeding all estimates in a Bloomberg survey,
from 77.6 in February.  Record Revision  The 6.8-point revision from a preliminary March reading of
71.8, released two weeks ago, was the largest on record,
according to economists at JPMorgan Chase and Co. and Barclays
Plc in New York. Economists projected a final reading of 72.6,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  “Consumers discounted the administration’s warning about
economic catastrophe following the cuts in federal spending, and
consumers have renewed their expectations that job gains will
accelerate in the months ahead,”  Richard Curtin , the sentiment
survey’s chief economist, said in a statement.  The gauge of  expectations  six months from now, which more
closely projects the direction of consumer spending, also
advanced to a four-month high. The group’s index of current
conditions, which measures whether Americans think it’s a good
time to make big investments and gauges consumers’ views of
their personal finances, matched November as the  strongest
reading  since January 2008.  Last month’s increase in consumer spending beat the median
forecast of a 0.6 percent rise in a Bloomberg survey of 78
economists.  Department Stores  Some merchants are projecting the pace of sales will be
sustained. Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department-store
chain, said sales at stores open at least a year will rise 3.5
percent this year, after growing 3.7 percent in 2012.  “We think the customer is OK, not particularly strong, not
particularly weak,”  Karen Hoguet , chief financial officer at
Cincinnati, Ohio-based Macy’s, said at a March 14 conference.
“We look at the momentum we have coming into the year and we
feel quite confident.” At the same time, “that doesn’t mean
that we’re not cognizant of all that’s going on in Washington
and what’s gone on with the payroll tax,” she said.  Figures today from the Labor Department showed payrolls
climbed in 42 states in February, while the jobless rate dropped
in 22. Texas led with an 80,600 hiring increase, the biggest in
data going back to 1982, followed by  California  with 41,200.
 Rhode Island ,  Vermont , California and  New Jersey  showed the
biggest declines in unemployment rates.  Personal Income  The Commerce Department’s report showed  incomes  increased
1.1 percent, exceeding the 0.8 percent advance projected by
economists surveyed. The gain in February followed a 3.7 percent
drop the prior month that reflected, in part, the higher  payroll
tax  rate.  The saving rate increased to 2.6 percent from 2.2 percent
in January, which was the lowest since August 2007. Wages and
salaries climbed 0.6 percent after falling 0.6 percent. Figures
for both months were reduced by $15 billion at an annual rate,
reflecting the impact of the accelerated bonuses paid out last
year before tax rates climbed.  Disposable income , or the money left over after taxes, rose
0.7 percent after adjusting for inflation. It dropped 4 percent
in the prior month.  Adjusting consumer spending for inflation, which renders
the figures used to calculate gross domestic product, purchases
rose 0.3 percent for a second month, today’s report showed.  An index of prices tied to spending patterns increased 1.3
percent from February 2012, the same as in January. The gain is
below the  Federal Reserve ’s goal of keeping inflation around 2
percent, leaving policy makers room to keep pumping money into
financial markets to spur growth and reduce unemployment.  Core Inflation  The so-called core measure, which excludes food and fuel
costs, rose 0.1 percent from the prior month, and was also up
1.3 percent from February 2012.  The economy grew at a 0.4 percent annual rate in the fourth
quarter, following a 3.1 percent gain in the previous three
months, revised figures showed yesterday. The fourth-quarter
slowdown was due to the biggest slump in military spending since
1972 and slower inventory building. Consumer purchases rose at a
1.8 percent rate, revised down from a prior estimate of 2.1
percent.  Economic growth will move up to a 2 percent rate in the
first quarter, according to the median estimate of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from March 8 to March 13.  Incomes are being buoyed by payroll growth. Employers added
a net 236,000 workers in February after a 119,000 increase the
prior month. Average hourly earnings climbed 2.1 percent from
February 2012, matching the year-over-year gains in the previous
two months as the strongest since March 2012.  Retail Sales  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  is among retailers enjoying a pickup
in sales. Same-store purchases at the San Francisco-based
company’s West Elm home-goods chain increased 19 percent in the
fiscal fourth quarter, while sales at Pottery Barn Kids advanced
7.7 percent.  Spending on big-ticket items like automobiles is also
growing as households replace older vehicles and take advantage
of low borrowing costs. Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.3
million annual rate in February after a 15.2 million pace the
prior month, Ward’s Automotive Group data showed.  Rising stock prices and a recovering housing market are
helping boost household finances. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index closed at a record high of 1,569.19 yesterday. The
S&P/Case-Shiller of property values in 20 U.S. cities jumped 8.1
percent in the 12 months to January, the biggest year-to-year
gain since June 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  