-- Copper Analysts Join Hedge Funds in Bet on Decline: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-03-29T14:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/copper-analysts-join-hedge-funds-in-bet-on-decline-commodities.html
Copper analysts are the most
bearish in 12 weeks as the metal extends its worst start to a
year in more than a decade on mounting concern that a supply
glut will build as economies weaken.  Nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to fall
next week. Five forecast gains and four were neutral, making the
proportion of bears the highest since Jan. 4. Prices reached an
almost seven-month low of $7,486.25 a metric ton March 19.  Hedge
funds  are holding the biggest ever bet on a decline, Commodity
Futures Trading Commission data that begins in 2006 show.  Global copper inventories are already at a nine-year high
and delays to Cyprus’s bailout prompted worries among investors
that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  China  tightened curbs on
the  property market  this month to moderate prices. The nation’s
manufacturing expanded at the slowest pace in five months in
February and retail-sales growth slipped. Europe and China
account for about 60 percent of the world’s copper consumption.  “People built up big stockpiles in anticipation of a much
stronger economic recovery than the one we’re actually seeing,”
said  Julian Jessop , chief international economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in London. “There’s nervousness about financial
markets and a lack of risk appetite. Even if demand does pick
up, it can be met by existing stocks.”  Copper Price  Copper fell 4.9 percent to $7,540 on the London Metal
Exchange this year, the worst start since 2001. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 1.3 percent and the
MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities rose 5.9 percent.
Treasuries fell 0.3 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index
shows.  Speculators have been getting more bearish for the past
five weeks and held a net-short position of 25,719 futures and
options as of March 19, CFTC  data  show. They held a net-long
position of 24,531 contracts in December as prices headed for a
4.4 percent annual gain.  Stockpiles in warehouse monitored by the LME, the largest
metals bourse, surged 78 percent since the start of January
after dropping the past three years. Inventories monitored by
the exchange and those in  Shanghai  and  New York  stand at about
886,531 tons, the most since November 2003 and equal to about
four months of North American demand.  Copper fell for a second straight monthly drop as the 17-
nation euro area remains mired in recession and Cyprus’s 10
billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout weighed on confidence. The
island nation is the fifth country to seek a rescue since the
euro crisis began in 2009. Unemployment in  Germany , the region’s
biggest economy, unexpectedly rose in March, the Nuremberg-based
Federal Labor Agency said yesterday.  China’s Growth  China’s economy  grew 7.9 percent in the fourth quarter.
Expansion will accelerate to 8.3 percent in the second quarter
before slowing through the end of the year, according to the
median estimate of as many as 36 economists compiled by
Bloomberg. Chinese refined copper imports slumped 12 percent in
February to the lowest in 19 months, customs data show.  Growth in the nation’s copper usage will still accelerate
to 8 percent this year, from 3 percent in 2012, and stockpiles
of the metal in the country will decline in the next several
months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a March 27 report. The
bank expects prices to rise to $9,000 in six months.  The  International Monetary Fund  is predicting global growth
of 3.5 percent in 2013, from 3.2 percent in 2012. Global
equities are near the highest since June 2008 on mounting
optimism that the American economy is strengthening. Sales of
new U.S. houses in February capped the best back-to-back months
in more than four years, Commerce Department data show.
Construction accounts for about 40 percent of consumption, the
Copper Development Association estimates.  Receding Glut  Demand will outpace supply by 269,000 tons in the six
months through September, cutting this year’s glut to 92,000
tons, Barclays Plc estimates. That’s down from a 142,000-ton
surplus in 2012. There are already signs of more demand, with
orders to withdraw the metal from LME warehouses jumping almost
fourfold since March 6 to the highest since April.  There are also risks to supply. Workers at Codelco, the
world’s largest copper miner, plan a 24-hour strike within the
next month, a labor union leader said March 15. Exports may slow
amid a port strike in northern  Chile , the top producer, which
started March 16.  Price Drop  Copper closed below its 200-day moving average every day
since Feb. 28. The decline in prices is an opportunity to buy
and the record bearish position of speculators means there’s a
potential for a short squeeze,  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said in a report this week. A short squeeze refers to
the forced covering of bets on losses as a market moves higher.  In other commodities, three of nine people surveyed expect
raw sugar to rise and the same amount predicted a drop. The
commodity slid 9.5 percent to 17.66 cents a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York this year.  Fifteen of 21 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week and five said the grain will drop, while 14 of 21 said
soybeans will climb and four expect lower prices. Fourteen of 19
traders predicted gains in wheat and two were bearish. Corn fell
0.4 percent to $6.9525 a bushel in  Chicago  this year as soybeans
retreated 0.3 percent to $14.0475 a bushel. Wheat declined 12
percent to $6.8775 a bushel.  Seventeen of 32 traders and analysts surveyed said gold
would rise next week, nine were bearish and six predicted little
change. Bullion fell 4.7 percent to $1,596.55 an ounce in London
this year after advancing the previous 12 years, the longest run
of gains in at least nine decades.  Metals Index  Natural gas and cotton are among this year’s best
performers in the S&P GSCI gauge of raw materials, while lead
and zinc are among the worst. The  LMEX (LMEX)  index of industrial
metals is down 5.6 percent this year and set for the first back-
to-back monthly decline since 2011. The measure slid 9.2 percent
in 2012’s second quarter and is 5.4 percent above the two-year
low set in August.  “Base metals are still all about China, with Europe in the
deep freezer and the pick-up in U.S. housing activity not really
having a great impact,” said Ole Hansen, head of commodity
strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “I see a potential
repeat of last year with some second-quarter weakness testing
the lows from the second quarter last year but that should
probably be it before a recovery begins after the  summer .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  