-- Cuomo’s $135.1 Billion N.Y. Budget Passes Extended Tax
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-29T04:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/cuomo-s-135-1-billion-n-y-budget-passes-extended-tax.html
New York lawmakers passed a $135.1
billion fiscal 2014 spending plan that extends a higher tax on
top earners, giving Governor Andrew Cuomo his third consecutive
on-time budget.  The plan raises the state’s minimum wage to $9 an hour over
three years and provides about $1.1 billion in tax cuts and
credits to businesses and middle-income families that will be
phased in by 2016. The credits will be paid for in part by an
extension of a tax surcharge on couples earning more than $2
million annually, which was set to expire next year.  From 1985 to 2004, the budget was late 19 out of 20 years.
Before Cuomo took office in January 2011, there hadn’t been a
timely budget since 2006. This year’s on-time passage marks
three in a row, which hasn’t happened in almost three decades,
when Cuomo’s father, Mario, was governor. The timeliness has the
state on the verge of gaining its highest Standard & Poor’s
credit rating since 1972.  “I’m hap-hap-happy,” Cuomo said in a March 27 radio
interview, the day his proposed budget was approved by the
Senate. “These three years in a row getting the budget passed
on time and the integrity of the budget is better, I think it is
irrefutable proof that government is working.”  The first-term Democrat has worked with lawmakers to close
more than $13 billion in budget gaps over the past three years,
partly by getting the state’s largest unions to agree to wage
freezes. This year’s talks were complicated by a new arrangement
in the state Senate, where a group of five Democrats now shares
leadership power with Republicans.  DiNapoli Opposition  The spending plan is also notable for what it didn’t
achieve. In his January proposal, Cuomo had called for raising
the minimum wage to $8.75 from $7.25 this year. That won’t
happen until the end of 2014, with the final increase to $9 by
2016. A measure aimed at speeding recovery from  Hurricane Sandy 
by allowing private companies to finance public infrastructure
projects was rejected by lawmakers.  Cuomo also pressed a plan meant to give pension-cost
certainty to local officials by stabilizing annual contribution
rates for 25 years. The approved pension mechanism is similar to
one Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli has had in place since 2010,
which allows localities to defer a portion of their annual bill.  The 55-year-old governor also wasn’t able to get lawmakers
to agree to a measure allowing New York City to decriminalize
the possession of up to 15 grams (0.5 ounce) of marijuana, which
Cuomo floated during negotiations after he failed to get it done
last year.  Magazine Limit  The budget did include a change to Cuomo’s signature gun
bill that rolls back a ban on the sale of seven-round magazines.
No manufacturer makes a seven-bullet holder. The change allows
up to 10-round magazines to be sold, though permits them to be
packed with only seven rounds.  The budget closed a $1.35 billion deficit without adding
new taxes. It also creates a two-year spending and revenue
framework, which Cuomo said March 20 is “a more intelligent way
to actually plan a budget.”  By extending the tax on New York’s highest earners for
three years, which raises about $1.9 billion annually, Cuomo was
able to avoid dealing with the issue during an election campaign
in 2014 and use some of the funds to pay for the tax cuts and
credits that Republicans wanted in return for their approval of
the minimum-wage increase.  Business Credits  Small business will get up to a $5,000 credit for hiring a
veteran -- up to $15,000 for those who are disabled. Another
measure provides an extra credit designed to draw NBC’s “The
Tonight Show” back to New York from Los Angeles.  The state also will spend $375 million to give a $350 tax
credit for families with at least one child and earning from
$40,000 to $300,000 a year. That rebate will be available for
three years and won’t begin until 2014, with the first checks
being sent a few weeks before the November election that year
when Cuomo may be running for a second term.  The extra time for the higher tax that funds the givebacks
is drawing the ire of some business groups, including the
Partnership for New York City, which supported the temporarily
higher rate in 2011 when it was approved along with cuts for
couples earning less than $300,000. The higher rate was set to
end next year.  “Extension of the surcharge at the time is the worst
possible message New York state could send to our most important
job creators and revenue generators,” Kathryn Wylde, the
partnership’s president, said in a letter to Cuomo. Her group
has previously backed his spending plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 