-- Cyprus Trading May Resume Tuesday, Exchange Chief Says
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-03-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/cyprus-trading-may-resume-tuesday-exchange-chief-says.html
Cyprus’s stock exchange may resume
limited trading on April 2 after closing for more than two weeks
as the country faced a banking crisis and ejection from the
euro, Chief Executive Officer Nondas Metaxas said.  “We have formed at the exchange so-called crisis
committees and they are meeting continuously,” Metaxas said in
an interview in Nicosia yesterday. “There are three or four
committees meeting now, making different scenarios which we will
be studying Tuesday morning, when we might get more information
to see which stocks will be traded. We may resume trading on a
number of  stocks  but this is not something which we can say with
100 percent certainty.”  Metaxas said the bourse had initially planned to allow
transactions on March 28, when the country’s banks opened for
the first time in almost two weeks. The bourse decided to remain
shut due to uncertainty surrounding new  capital controls , which
include a 300-euro ($385) daily limit on bank withdrawals and
restrictions on transfers to accounts outside the country.  After more than a week of wrangling between officials in
Nicosia and Brussels, Cyprus reached a 10 billion-euro bailout
agreement in the early hours of March 25. As part of the deal,
President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to shutter Cyprus Popular
Bank Pcl, largely wiping out deposits above the insured limit of
100,000 euros. Depositors in Bank of Cyprus Pcl stand to lose as
much as 40 percent of their uninsured savings. The country’s
parliament rejected an earlier deal that imposed losses on all
depositors.  Stocks Slide  The  Cyprus General Market Index (CYSMMAPA)  declined 11 percent this
year through March 15, the last day on which trading took place,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge has slumped
98 percent from its October 2007 high, compared with a 23
percent drop in the  Stoxx Europe 60 Index (SXXP)  in the same period.  Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank, the nation’s
biggest banks, account for 59 percent of the index’s weighting,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Both companies are also listed
in  Athens .  Hellenic Bank Pcl (HB) , the third-largest lender, makes up
another 15 percent of the Cypriot gauge.  “You can see that what happens with these two banks is
more or less a shock for the exchange,” Metaxas said.
“Nevertheless, for the past few months we have seen a decline
in the overall trading of these stocks and we have prepared a
strategic plan whereby we are diversifying by designing and
implementing new products. We hope that by diversifying our
products, by diversifying our listing, by diversifying our
market we will be able to survive this situation.”  Athens Cooperation  In addition to steering the market’s dependence away from
financial stocks, Metaxas said the exchange is in talks with
Hellenic Exchanges SA, operator of the  Athens Stock Exchange (EXAE) , to
increase “synergies.” He didn’t rule out a merger of the two
companies.  “We have a very close strategic cooperation with the
Athens Stock Exchange,” he said. “We are discussing a number
of measures which we could take together to increase trading in
both markets. We have some specific thoughts on the table but we
are waiting to see when the dust settles. Everything is possible
in the relation to the Athens Stock Exchange, but it’s very,
very early to say anything at this stage.”  Metaxas said he’s also in talks with other European
bourses, though he declined to give details.  “Other exchanges have shown a lot of interest,” he said.
“I can’t say because we have signed non-disclosure agreements,
but I can say we are discussing with many exchanges in  Europe 
which have approached us and they want to explore certain
opportunities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Nicosia at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  