-- Dell Says Blackstone, Icahn Offers May Be Superior
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/dell-says-blackstone-icahn-offers-may-be-superior.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  Chief Executive Officer
Michael Dell met this week with  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which is
seeking to acquire his namesake company, people familiar with
the matter said.  The discussions focused on a proposal, outlined by
Blackstone late last week, that values Dell at more than $14.25
a share, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the meeting was private.  Blackstone’s offer, as well as a separate proposal by
billionaire  Carl Icahn , could end up being superior to a $24.4
billion deal led by  Silver Lake  Management LLC, according to a
statement earlier this week by Dell, the third-largest personal
computer maker. Michael Dell, who founded the company in 1984,
considers Blackstone’s offer to be management friendly, a person
with knowledge of the matter said this week.  Silver Lake and  Michael Dell  had agreed to pay $13.65 a
share in the largest leveraged buyout since the financial crisis
-- a deal criticized by the company’s biggest shareholders as
too low. Rival bidders had until a March 22 deadline to put
forth alternatives, and the company has said it’s open to
working with third parties on new proposals.  Icahn would pay $15 a share in cash for as much as 58.1
percent of the stock, Dell said this week. Under the Icahn and
Blackstone plans, some shares may continue to be publicly
traded.  The challenges to the original bid, which came as Dell
struggles to catch up with a new wave of nimbler competitors in
mobile computing and business services, mean Michael Dell could
lose control of the firm he founded in his Texas dorm room. His
plan was to  retool  Dell as a maker of data-center gear and
software for corporations -- without the scrutiny of public
investors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  