-- Tepco Could Have Prevented Fukushima Disaster, Panel Chief Says
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-03-29T08:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/tepco-could-have-prevented-fukushima-disaster-panel-chief-says.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , the
operator of the crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, could have
prevented the nuclear accident in 2011 if it had been prepared
enough for the natural disaster, the chief of the company’s
reform committee said.  “If the natural events, mainly the tsunami height, would
have been examined in more detail, then I think Tepco would have
taken initial precautions to have prevented the tsunami
impact,”  Dale Klein , a former chairman of the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission , told reporters after his five-member
committee recommended measures to improve safety at nuclear
plants owned by the company known as Tepco.  Reactor meltdowns and the massive radiation release at the
Dai-Ichi plant after the quake and tsunami stemmed from “man-
made” failures, according to an investigation commission led by
 Tokyo  University professor emeritus Kiyoshi Kurokawa.  Fukushima prosecutors began a criminal investigation into
the accident in August after more than 1,300 residents filed a
complaint against Tepco executives, including former Chairman
 Tsunehisa Katsumata .  Tepco shouldn’t think the disaster was out of its control
and needs to accept the fact that it was unable to avoid “an
accident that should have been prevented through precautions
based on its best effort,” the company said in its 103-page
report today.  Response Measures  The utility plans to set up an office, which will directly
report to the company’s board, to monitor nuclear safety as part
of reform measures, it said. Tepco executives will undertake
training to learn from the Fukushima disaster and will examine
case studies involving other companies, it said.  “There were a series of unfortunate decisions made that
underestimated the forces of nature and the what-ifs that should
have been prepared if a larger-than-expected tsunami would have
occurred,” Klein said at the news conference at Tepco’s
headquarters in Tokyo today.  Tepco officials have to “sincerely” take Klein’s view
regarding the operator’s responsibility, said Kazuhiko Shimokobe, who became chairman in June.  Tepco said in August 2011 that its research in 2008 showed
its Fukushima nuclear plant could be hit by a tsunami more than
10 meters high. That contradicted earlier claims by executives,
including former President  Masataka Shimizu , who resigned after
the disaster, that such a tsunami was unforeseeable.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  