-- Merrill Sued for $309 Million by Trust Over Mortgages
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/merrill-sued-for-309-million-by-trust-over-mortgages.html
A unit of  Bank of America Corp.’s 
Merrill Lynch was sued by a trust seeking more than $309 million
in damages for alleged breaches of representations and
warranties related to the sale of more than 5,000 mortgages.  The trust filed the lawsuit in  New York  State Supreme Court
in Manhattan yesterday, accusing Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending
of failing to buy back loans as required by agreements reached
in 2007, according to a court filing.  The trust also accused Merrill Lynch and  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) ’s
Sand Canyon unit of breaching similar representations and
warranties made about other mortgage loans. Sand Canyon,
formerly known as Option One Mortgage Corp., stopped originating
mortgage loans in December 2007, sold its servicing assets to
American Home Mortgage Servicing, and discontinued remaining
operations in April 2008.  Merrill Lynch in or about 2007 securitized more than 5,900
residential mortgage loans from two separate originators to
serve as the basis for securities sold to investors, the trust
said in the court filing. The loans were eventually sold to
Merrill Lynch Mortgage Investors and then conveyed to the trust,
which were then sold to investors.  Sand Canyon  “Merrill Lynch and Sand Canyon both breached the above-
referenced representations and warranties,” the trust said in
the suit. “For example, information supplied by the trustee
reveals that over 180 mortgage loans were delinquent as of the
applicable cut-off date and/or the date of the closing of the
certificates to the public. These breaches have not been
remedied by Merrill Lynch or Sand Canyon.”  The suit also accuses trustee Citibank N.A. of not taking
enforcement actions with respect to the alleged breaches.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declined to comment on the
lawsuit.  Gene King, a spokesman for Kansas City, Missouri-based H&R
Block, and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  spokeswoman Shannon Bell also declined
to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is MGRID LLC v. Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending
Inc., 651140/2013, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court at 
8969 or  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  