-- Furusawa Will Lead Japan Currency Policy as Weak Yen Draws Fire
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-03-29T01:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/furusawa-will-lead-japan-currency-policy-as-weak-yen-draws-fire.html
Japan  appointed Finance Ministry
official Mitsuhiro Furusawa as the country’s top currency
bureaucrat, Finance Minister Taro Aso said, as the weakening
currency causes problems with Japan’s trading partners.  Furusawa, 57, became vice finance minister for
international affairs today, replacing incoming president of the
Asian Development Bank Takehiko Nakao, Aso said in  Tokyo .  Furusawa will supervise currency policy as trading partners
including  South Korea  express concern over the yen’s fall of
more than 17 percent against the dollar in the last two
quarters. South Korea’s Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok this month
urged the Group of 20 nations to revisit the issue after the
group refrained from criticizing Japanese policies last month.  “A big challenge for the incoming vice finance minister
will be to obtain the understanding of trading partners because
Japan is set to provide more monetary stimulus, which may
accelerate the yen’s decline,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at
BNP Paribas SA in Tokyo. “If Japan intends to favor a weak yen
policy, the government should engage in currency diplomacy to
avoid friction.”  The yen was little changed at 94.15 per dollar as of 10:00
a.m. in Tokyo. The currency is poised for its biggest back-to-
back quarterly slide since 1995 today on Abe’s commitments to
revive the economy. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average was up 0.1
percent from yesterday, bringing its surge since the start of
the fourth quarter of 2012 to 40 percent.  Nakao was today appointed as an adviser to the finance
ministry, Aso said. He will have to resign this position when he
is elected as ADB head, according to the  finance ministry .  Nobumitsu Hayashi, 55, succeeds Furusawa as head of the
finance bureau which manages debt issuance, Aso said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  