-- Gosling, Mendes Hook Up in ‘Pines’; Lush ‘Renoir’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-03-29T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/gosling-mendes-hook-up-in-pines-lush-renoir-movies.html
As schematic as a family tree,
Derek Cianfrance’s “ The Place Beyond the Pines ” is Greek tragedy
by way of Schenectady.  Reuniting with Ryan Gosling, director and cowriter
Cianfrance ponders fathers and sons with the same sobriety he
brought to husbands and wives in “ Blue Valentine .”  But while that film found its emotional devastation in the
note-perfect specifics of a crumbling relationship, “Pines” goes
for epic and feels altogether smaller.  Structured as a triptych, “Pines” tells three related
stories, presented sequentially.  The first stars Gosling (in full-on James Dean mode) as
Luke, a tattooed, love ’em and leave ’em motorcycle stunt
driver.  While traveling with a carnival in the mid-1990s, Luke is
passing through Schenectady when he learns that his fling from a
previous visit has produced an infant son.  Despite the fact that the baby’s mother (Eva Mendes) has
settled down with another man, Luke decides to give up the road,
win back his girl and raise their boy.  But his soft heart and crooked smile can’t undo a violent
streak, and before long this born loser has turned to bank
robbery.  An hour into the film, Luke’s encounter with a cop leads to
the second story. Out Gosling, in Bradley Cooper.  Police Corruption  Hailed as a hero after taking a bullet on the job, Cooper’s
rookie officer Avery Cross is drawn, reluctantly, into a
brotherhood of police corruption (led by a menacing Ray Liotta).
The situation stresses his wife and infant son.  The film’s final section jumps forward 15 years, with the
(implausibly) coincidental meeting of Luke and Avery’s now-
teenage sons (Dane DeHaan and Emory Cohen, both fine). One’s
poor, one’s rich, both are troubled and headed for a disaster
that, the film suggests, was set in motion the moment Gosling
decided to embrace fatherhood.  Even at two-hours-plus, “Pines” holds our interest --
Gosling is watchable as ever, and Cooper nicely underplays.  Yet, as intriguing as the fathers’ sins are, “Pines”
ultimately proves too contrived to come fully alive in the sons.  “The Place Beyond the Pines,” from Focus Features, is
playing in New York and Los Angeles. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  Silent ‘Blancanieves’  “ Blancanieves ,” a Spanish take on “Snow White” done in
silent-movie style (like “ The Artist ”), unfolds in and around
Seville in the 1920s; the heroine’s father is a matador and her
mother dances flamenco.  Despite the potency of the black-and-white imagery and the
fineness of Sofia Oria, who plays Blancanieves as a frowning
little girl, the charm at first is a bit oppressive.  But then writer-director Pablo Berger throws in sequences
from “ What Ever Happened to Baby Jane? ” (with the great and
gorgeous Maribel Verdu, of “ Y Tu Mama Tambien ,” as the crazy
imprisoning stepmother) and “ The Conformist ” (the chase through
the woods).  By the time Blancanieves has grown up and met the dwarves
(who allow Berger to reference Bunuel and Fellini and, a bit
predictably, “ Freaks ”), the film has achieved stratospheric
levels of weirdness.  The acidity of flamenco pairs easily with the sadism of the
Brothers Grimm. Yet the darkness doesn’t have all that much
conviction. Partly because of the silent-movie nostalgia, the
picture is soft around the edges.  In this all-too-enlightened 21st-century telling,
Blancanieves has the choice of becoming a dancer like her mother
or a bullfighter like her father. There’s no Prince Charming,
but one of the dwarves is very handsome.  “Blancanieves,” from Cohen Media Group, is playing in New
York and Los Angeles. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ‘Renoir’ Impressions  Given the lush Cote d’Azur setting and World War I period,
the title “ Renoir ” seems at first to refer to the much-loved
Impressionist painter (Michel Bouquet).  The old man lives in a house on the sea, surrounded by
pretty things and pretty women. Every day they carry him out to
his sunny grounds to work. “The flesh!” he cries; beauty, he
insists, is the only thing in art that matters.  War Wound  But then his middle son, Jean (Vincent Rottiers), returns
wounded from the war, and the film focuses increasingly on his
relationship with the model Andree Heuschling (Christa Theret),
who would continue to pose for the old man until his death in
1919 and would serve as a muse for Jean Renoir’s early films.  Yet if the title is ambiguous, the movie has more in common
with the father’s exquisite canvases than with the son’s often
troubling, all-of-life-embracing films.  It saturates itself in beauty: Not a lot happens, yet its
two hours of lustrous images (aided by the delicate music of the
prolific Alexandre Desplat) are intoxicating.  It also has some of the limitations of those canvases. The
director, Gilles Bourdos, seems content just to gaze upon
luscious flesh; even Jean, sleeping shirtlessly, looks as ripe
as a Renoir model. Implicitly the movie asks: Is beauty truth?
Father and son supplied different answers.  “Renoir,” from Samuel Goldwyn Films, is playing in New York
and Los Angeles. Rating: *** (Seligman)  (Greg Evans and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include Guy Collins on  wine .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 