-- Grillo Says His Party ‘French Revolution Without Guillotine’
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-29T19:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/grillo-says-his-party-is-french-revolution-without-guillotine-.html
Beppe Grillo, the ex-comedian
supported by a quarter of Italian voters, praised his lawmakers
for rejecting compromise with adversaries as the country’s
divided parliament struggles to form a government.  “We’re going to win with our ideas and our strength
because we’re a miracle,” Grillo said in an interview broadcast
today on his website. “We are the French Revolution without the
guillotine.”  Grillo spoke after leaders of his Five Star Movement met
with President Giorgio Napolitano and reiterated their refusal
to back any government led by rival parties. Grillo’s goal
remains to sweep veteran politicians from parliament and
implement a program of economic stimulus to pull  Italy  from its
cycle of chronic recessions, he said.  The French Revolution, which overthrew the monarchy of
Louis XVI in the 18th century, failed in its goal of
implementing a stable democracy and collapsed into the Reign of
Terror, with about 20,000 people beheaded by the guillotine. It
gave way to dictatorship under Napoleon.  Grillo Factor  The upheaval led by Grillo may expand beyond Italy to its
partners in the 17-country euro area as economic stagnation and
the Cyprus crisis weaken popular support for budget rigor
enforced by  Germany  and other northern European countries.
Goldman Sachs Asset Management Chairman  Jim O’Neill  said Five
Star’s ability to win votes in Italy by questioning euro
membership may affect the fight to keep the single currency
intact.  “The most interesting story going on in the whole thing at
the moment in my opinion is the whole Grillo factor,” O’Neill
said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “I
don’t understand why the tough guys in the north aren’t spending
a bit more time thinking about that issue.”  Grillo’s party has more than 150 members in parliament, the
third-biggest force behind the coalition led by Pier Luigi Bersani, leader of the  Democratic Party , and the group headed by
former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi . Five Star has called
for lower taxes on businesses, cuts to the cost of politics and
a referendum on Italy’s membership in the euro.  Grillo, 64, founded Five Star and built a following by
staging rallies across Italy, including a 73-stop tour in the
six-week campaign for the Feb. 24-25 general election. He
himself wasn’t a candidate and isn’t in parliament because he
says he isn’t fit to serve due to a manslaughter conviction in
the 1980s. He was behind the wheel in a one-car accident that
killed two friends and their son.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  