-- GS Yuasa Crisis Deepens With Mitsubishi Car-Battery Fire
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-03-29T13:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/gs-yuasa-crisis-deepens-with-mitsubishi-car-battery-fire-3-.html
The crisis that  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  has
been battling since the overheating of its batteries grounded
 Boeing Co. (BA)  787 jets is deepening.  One lithium-ion battery caught fire while being tested at a
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  factory in Japan last week and another
melted in an electric car. The automaker today said faults were
detected in two more vehicles. The incidents are the latest
involving the Kyoto-based company’s batteries as U.S. and
Japanese authorities probe the cause of overheated units that
grounded Boeing’s Dreamliners in January.  “This is more serious than the airplane incident,”
Shoichi Arisawa, an analyst at Iwai Cosmo Securities Co., said.
“It’s another crunch in GS Yuasa’s expansion plans.”  GS Yuasa fell 2.8 percent to 381 yen at the close in  Tokyo 
trading, after  tumbling  11 percent yesterday, as the car battery
fire added to concerns the company’s products may not be
reliable. The accidents threaten to scupper a goal the company
set in 2009 to make automotive lithium-ion batteries a key
business.  The manufacturer has formed ventures with Mitsubishi Motors
and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  for supplying lithium-ion batteries. Honda’s
Civic HV and Accord PHEV and Mitsubishi’s Outlander PHEV and i-
MiEV are among models powered by the batteries.  Questioning Reliability  “Depending on what the cause is, this could call into
question the company’s reliability,” said Jun Yamaguchi, a
Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse AG who has a neutral  rating 
on GS Yuasa. “It will come down to how hard the company tries
to fix the problem and how consumers view that.”  The batteries that caught fire and melted last week were
made by Lithium Energy  Japan , a venture between GS Yuasa,
Mitsubishi Motors and Mitsubishi Corp., which is separate from
the factory where the Boeing 787 batteries were made, said
Tsutomu Nishijima, a spokesman for GS Yuasa.  Lithium-ion batteries contributed  7.35 percent  of GS
Yuasa’s sales in the year ended March 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The business had an operating loss of
3.26 billion yen ($35 million) in the period, compared with a
1.27 billion yen loss a year earlier, according to its annual
report.  Profit Slump  The company expects net income to drop 32 percent to 8
billion yen in the year ending this month, with sales little
changed at 288 billion yen. The battery maker gets about 43
percent of  sales  from outside Japan, selling lead-acid batteries
for machinery including forklifts in countries such as China and
 Thailand .  If the battery maker can fix the problems and learn from
the incident, that will help the company as future products will
be more thoroughly developed, said Edwin Merner, president of
Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in Tokyo, which manages about
$3 billion in assets.  “Short term it isn’t good,” said Merner, who doesn’t own
GS Yuasa  shares . “You’re going to have learning curves and the
sooner you have them the better.”  U.S. and Japanese authorities are still investigating the
cause of the overheated batteries on Dreamliners, and Japan said
earlier this week that it had found no concrete reason why the
All Nippon Airways Co.’s 787 battery failed.  Boeing earlier this month announced safety upgrades to the
787’s battery systems, including to the lithium-ion unit and
charger, and said that may allow commercial flights to restart
within weeks. The Chicago-based company said the fixes cover all
possible scenarios for the cause and the actual reason may never
be determined.  Motorcycle Batteries  GS Yuasa, founded after a merger between Yuasa Corp. and
Japan Storage Battery Co. in 2004, controls about 27 percent of
the world’s motorcycle battery market, making it the biggest
globally, according to the company’s own estimates.  The production line which made the car battery that caught
fire was altered by Lithium Energy Japan in December and that
may have caused some contamination inside the battery, causing a
short-circuit, Ryugo Nakao, a director at Mitsubishi Motors said
March 27, according to Yuki Murata, a company spokesman.  The automaker yesterday found that a vehicle in Tokyo had
contained a faulty battery, and suspect the problem was similar
to the previous one reported last week, Koji Yokomaku, general
manager for quality at Mitsubishi, told reporters in Tokyo
today. The battery, along with another damaged unit from Gifu
prefecture, are still being probed, Yokomaku said.  Not Enough Information  The company doesn’t yet have enough information on the
glitches and will look into the causes of the faults before
issuing any recalls, he said.  GS Yuasa owns 51 percent of Lithium Energy.  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  owns 44.6 percent in the venture and Mitsubishi Motors
holds the remainder, according to Mitsubishi Motors spokeswoman
Tomoko Kawabe.  Honda and GS Yuasa produce batteries at their own factory,
separate from Mitsubishi Motors, and have verified the safety of
the batteries and the entire battery system, Kumiko Hashimoto, a
spokeswoman for Honda said. The companies haven’t received any
reports of accidents with the batteries, she said.  Mitsubishi Motors on March 27 asked customers not to charge
the plug-in hybrid Outlander vehicle externally until it
identifies the cause of the problem. The carmaker has also
suspended shipments of its Outlander PHEV vehicle until the
cause of the battery incidents has been determined, Murata said.  Mitsubishi Motors aims to restart Outlander production in
one or two weeks, Nakao said.  The lithium-ion car batteries involved in the fire were
made to different specifications than those for the Dreamliner
battery, GS Yuasa’s Nishijima said.  Boeing said the auto battery is “fundamentally different
from the 787 battery,” according to  Marc Birtel , a spokesman
for the plane maker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  