-- IBM Deal Insider-Trading Suspect Martin Denies Charges
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2013-03-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/ibm-deal-insider-trading-suspect-martin-denies-charges.html
Trent Martin, a former analyst
wanted by the U.S. in an insider-trading case over  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s $1.2 billion acquisition of SPSS Inc.,
pleaded not guilty in federal court in Manhattan after spending
three months in a Hong Kong prison.  Martin, an Australian citizen, returned to the U.S. March
28 after voluntarily agreeing to be extradited. A magistrate
judge released him on a $250,000 bond after his court appearance
yesterday in New York.  Martin, who is accused of conspiracy and securities fraud,
was arrested in Hong Kong after his U.S. indictment last year.
Martin, 33, who allegedly made a profit of $7,900 from insider
trading, faces a “relatively” light prison term under U.S.
sentencing guidelines, Assistant U.S. Attorney Assistant U.S.
Attorney David Massey said in court.  Martin was tipped by a corporate lawyer, not identified in
court papers, who was working on the IBM deal and with whom he
was close friends, according to prosecutors. Martin bought SPSS
stock based on the leak in June 2009 and shared the tip with his
 Manhattan  roommate, Thomas Conradt, who worked as a stockbroker,
prosecutors said. Conradt in turn tipped his co-worker and
friend David Weishaus, who passed the information to two other
brokers they worked with, prosecutors said.  Conradt and Weishaus have pleaded not guilty.  RBS, Nomura  Martin worked at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in the
U.S. and an RBS joint venture in  Australia  before joining  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  in September 2011, according to two people
familiar with the situation who asked not to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak about the matter.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority lists a Trent
Martin who left ABN Amro in 2009 to work at the  Stamford  office
of RBS, which participated in ABN Amro’s takeover in 2007.
Martin’s broker registration at RBS ended in November 2010,
Finra documents show.  The case is U.S. v. Martin, 12-cr-00887, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  