-- Italian Political Deadlock Ends ECB-Fueled Bond Gain
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-03-29T10:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/italian-political-deadlock-ends-ecb-fueled-bond-gain-bunds-rise.html
Italy ’s government bonds fell for
the first quarter since June as a political deadlock and concern
financial turmoil in Cyprus will spread sapped demand for the
nation’s securities.  Greek bonds also dropped in the past three months as
European Union attempts to impose a levy on Cypriot bank
deposits as a condition of a bailout ignited speculation similar
rules will be applied elsewhere. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Italy’s 10-year securities instead of German
bunds reached the widest this year this week as lawmakers
struggled to form a government a month after inconclusive
elections. German bonds gained for an eighth quarter.  “Market participants were very disappointed that there was
no clear election result,” said Christian Reicherter, an
analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “There won’t be a stable
government in the next few weeks and is still a lot of
uncertainty. The latest spread widening all across the market
rattled through because of Cyprus. That also drove spreads in
Italian bonds higher.”  Italian President Giorgio Napolitano took over the search
for the next Prime Minister yesterday after Pier Luigi Bersani
failed to assemble a majority in the divided parliament.  Italy’s  10-year yield  climbed 27 basis points, or 0.27
percentage point, this quarter to 4.76 percent after falling to
4.07 percent on Jan. 25, the lowest level since November 2010.
The 5.5 percent bond due November 2022 dropped 2.15, or 21.50
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,281) face amount, to 106.045.  The yield had declined 132 basis points in the previous six
months as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi pledged
in July to do whatever it takes to preserve the single currency.  Bersani Rejected  Italy has been awaiting a new government since elections on
Feb. 24-25 failed to give any single party a majority in both
houses of parliament.  Bersani, head of the Democratic Party that won the most
seats in the lower house, met other lawmakers this week as he
struggled to gain enough support to form a government. His
proposal of an alliance was rejected by Beppe Grillo’s Five Star
Movement on March 27, while talks with Silvio Berlusconi’s
People of Liberty also failed to produce an agreement.  The additional yield investors demand to hold Italian 10-
year bonds over equivalent maturity bunds widened 29 basis
points this quarter to 347 basis points. The spread expanded to
361 basis points yesterday, the most since Dec. 10.  Political Upheaval  Cyprus’s banks opened for the first time in almost two
weeks yesterday with new rules curbing access to cash preventing
an initial panic to withdraw deposits. Lenders had been shut
since March 16 when the EU presented a proposal to force losses
on depositors in exchange for a 10 billion-euro bailout. That
plan touched off political upheaval and sapped demand for bonds
in Italy, Spain and other so-called peripheral nations.  Greek  10-year yields  climbed 54 basis points this quarter
to 12.44 percent after tumbling almost 14 percentage points in
the previous six months.  Spanish bonds rose in the past three months, with 10-year
rates falling 21 basis points to 5.06 percent. The yield dropped
to 4.70 percent on March 12, the lowest since November 2010.  Germany’s 10-year bunds have gained every quarter since
March 2011 as a failure to contain the  European debt crisis  and
record low ECB interest rates underpinned demand for the
region’s safest assets.  Retail Sales  The nation’s 10-year yields declined three basis points in
the past three months to 1.29 percent after dropping to 1.25
percent yesterday, the lowest level since Aug. 3.  Italian industrial orders and retail sales both declined in
January, reports showed this week.  “The Italian economy isn’t performing well at the
moment,” DZ Bank’s Reicherter said. “They have to come up with
several reforms but with no government in position that’s still
an uncertainty for the entire euro zone, so we still see further
demand for bunds.”  Italian government bonds lost 0.3 percent this year through
March 27, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities rose 2.9 percent, and  Germany ’s gained 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  