-- Japan’s Nikkei Extends Second Quarterly Gain; Yuan Rises
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-03-29T15:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/japan-stocks-yen-decline-on-slowing-economy-jgbs-kospi-climb.html
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) 
extended its best back-to-back quarterly gain in four decades
and the nation’s long-term bonds rose amid expectations for
economic stimulus. The yuan and South Korean stocks climbed.  The Nikkei added 0.5 percent even as the broader Topix
Index slid 0.2 percent at the 3 p.m. close in  Tokyo . The  MSCI
Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  increased 0.1 percent with many markets shut
for a holiday. Japan’s 20-year bond yields touched the lowest
since 2003, and the yen is set for a sixth monthly drop on bets
 Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda will heed the
government’s call to boost monetary easing as early as next
week. The yuan touched a 19-year high.  Japan ’s manufacturers predict a rebound in production this
month after the deepest slide since the aftermath of the March
2011 earthquake. Kuroda said this week the BOJ may scrap a rule
limiting the scale of asset buying and scoop up longer-maturity
bonds to reach a 2 percent annual inflation target it adopted at
the urging of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  “Japanese stocks have simply gone through a major
adjustment, catching up with overseas stocks as government
policy and the yen changed direction,” said Isao Kubo, a Tokyo-
based equity strategist at Nissay Asset Management Corp., which
oversees about 5 trillion yen ($53 billion.) “The adjustment
isn’t over yet and stocks may extend gains a bit more as we see
new policy content.”  Financial markets in the U.S. and most of  Europe  were shut
today for Good Friday, while exchanges in Russia and Turkey were
open. Much of  Asia  is also closed, including  Hong Kong ,
 Singapore ,  India ,  Australia ,  Indonesia ,  New Zealand , the
 Philippines  and Sri Lanka.  Kospi, Kuroda  Korea’s  Kospi index  advanced 0.6 percent even as military
tensions with the North intensified. North Korean leader Kim
Jong Un yesterday ordered rockets be placed on standby, the
state-controlled Korean  Central News Agency  said today. The won
strengthened 0.2 percent to 1,111.35 per dollar, posting the
best quarterly run since September 2010.  The yen slipped less than 0.1 percent 94.17 per dollar as
of 3:40 p.m. in  London , set to complete its longest stretch of
monthly declines since 2001. The euro was little changed at
$1.2817 against the greenback.  Japan’s industrial output will rise 1 percent in March
after a 0.1 percent drop in February from the previous month,
according to estimates submitted for a Trade Ministry report
today. Year-on-year data showed production slid 11 percent in
February while consumer prices excluding fresh food fell 0.3
percent, failing to rise for a 10th month.  Kuroda will preside over his first BOJ policy meeting on
April 3-4. He said this week he aimed to achieve the 2 percent
price target within two years.  BOJ Expectations  Japan’s 20-year government bond yield slid as much as 4 1/2
basis points to 1.360 percent, and the 30-year rate sank 6 basis
points to 1.5 percent. Both were the least since July 2003. The
10-year rate jumped five basis points to 0.56 percent.  “The BOJ will announce something big, at least exceeding
market expectations,” said Nissay Asset’s Kubo.  The Nikkei closed 19 percent higher this quarter, extending
the 17 percent increase in the last three months of 2012. That’s
the best two-quarter performance since December 1972, when the
measure rose 37 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.4 percent to a
record yesterday after a report showed the  U.S. economy  grew at
a faster pace than previously estimated in the fourth quarter
and as Cyprus averted panic withdrawals as banks opened for the
first time in almost two weeks. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
climbed 0.5 percent, posting a 5 percent quarterly gain.  Europe Concerns  In Italy, President Giorgio Napolitano took charge of the
search for the next prime minister after Pier Luigi Bersani was
unable to assemble a majority in the divided parliament.  “The worst-case scenario has been avoided in Cyprus, but
we think the risks to the euro remain to the downside, due to
the negative implications for the banking sector, political
uncertainty in Italy and a sluggish growth outlook,” Barclays
Plc strategists led by Yuki Sakasai wrote in an e-mailed note to
clients yesterday.  French data today showed that producer prices increased 1.9
percent in February from a year earlier, compared with the
median estimate of 1 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts and followed a revised 2 percent increase in January.  In the U.S., the Commerce Department reported  consumer
spending  increased 0.7 percent in February, the most in five
months. Other data showed confidence among American consumers
unexpectedly increased in March from the prior month.  Stock Rally  More than two shares fell on the Topix for every one that
gained. The index rallied 43 percent from Nov. 14, when
elections were announced that brought Abe to power on a platform
of increased stimulus and central bank easing.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 4.8 percent this quarter.
The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.4 percent in the past three
months and was little changed today after earlier rising as much
as 0.5 percent.  Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened 0.7 percent this week and
0.2 percent today to 3.0900 per dollar. It was the best five-day
performance since the period ended Jan. 11.  The  yuan  touched a 19-year high, extending its gains for
the quarter after the central bank raised the  reference rate  to
the strongest level in more than 10 months. The People’s Bank of
China increased the daily  fixing  by 0.08 percent to 6.2689 per
dollar, the highest since May 2, 2012.  Turkey Trade  The Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index rose 0.8
percent, extending this quarter’s advance to 9.8 percent, after
a report showed Turkey’s trade deficit was less than economists
estimated. S&P raised the country’s debt rating to BB+, one step
below investment grade, on March 27.  The Micex Index of stocks added 0.3 percent today, leaving
the gauge 2.5 percent lower this year. Shares slumped in the
first quarter on concern Cyprus’s debt crisis may wipe out as
much as $60 billion in Russian deposits and loans.  Gold for immediate delivery was little changed at $1,598.80
an ounce. Prices have lost 4.6 percent this quarter, following a
5.5 percent slump in the three months through December, the
first back-to-back losses since 2001.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift in Tokyo at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  