-- Japan to Start World’s First LNG Futures Within Two Years
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-03-29T08:27:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/japan-plans-world-s-first-lng-futures-contracts-within-two-years.html
Japan , the biggest buyer of
liquefied natural gas, plans to list the world’s first futures
contract for the supercooled fuel on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange within two years.  The futures will be for cash settlement in dollars and
based on an index price for spot LNG cargoes delivered to Japan,
Takashi Ishizaki, the director for the commerce policy division
at the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, said by phone
today. While the contracts won’t be for physical delivery, they
will allow Exchange Futures for Physical, or so-called EFP,
transactions that enable traders to swap their futures positions
for a physical holding.  LNG futures will allow consumers and producers to hedge
against price swings, while challenging the current method of
linking the fuel’s cost to oil. That’s more important after
Japan’s bill for LNG climbed to a record last year, helping push
the nation’s trade deficit to an all-time high, as it switched
to thermal electricity generation after the shutdown of its
nuclear plants. The  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange, or Tocom, will
consider how to implement the contract after a council set up by
the ministry agreed with the proposal today, Ishizaki said after
the meeting in Tokyo.  “We always seek opportunities to list new futures
contracts, although it takes time to develop,” Tadashi Ezaki,
the president of Tocom, the nation’s largest commodity exchange,
said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “We are keen to create
a market that meets the needs of domestic and oversees
investors.”  Record Imports  Japan paid 6 trillion yen ($64 billion) for a record 87.3
million metric tons of LNG last year, customs  data  show. The
gas, which is chilled to a liquid for transport by tanker, cost
an average $16.70 per million British thermal units, or almost
six times as much as the $2.83 average price of U.S. gas traded
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange last year.  All but two of the nation’s 50 atomic reactors are still
shut pending safety checks after the March 2011 earthquake that
caused a meltdown at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima plant.
The country’s trade deficit was 6.9 trillion yen in 2012.  The trade ministry wants a future for cash settlement
rather than physical delivery to attract traders who don’t have
access to infrastructure such as regasification terminals,
according to Ishizaki. It also plans to encourage LNG buyers in
South Korea and  Taiwan  to participate to increase liquidity, he
said. The government will ask  Singapore , which is vying to
become Asia’s LNG trading hub, and the U.S., which is becoming
an exporter of shale-gas-derived LNG to Japan, to list a similar
contract.  Ministry Assessments  The trade ministry, which oversees energy policy and
commodity futures trading, set up the council in November to
consider the possible listing of the contracts. The council
includes officials from  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ,  Mitsui & Co. (8031) , Sumitomo
Corp., Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp,
Tokyo Electric, Tokyo Gas Co. and Inpex Corp.  The ministry may begin publishing its own spot price
assessments that can be used for the LNG futures, Ishizaki said,
without giving a time frame.  Chubu Electric Power Co. has signed a binding agreement to
buy 1 million tons of LNG a year from the Wheatstone project in
Western  Australia  for as much as 20 years, Chevron Corp. said in
a statement e-mailed today. Wheatstone is owned by Chevron,
Apache Energy Ltd., Kuwait Petroleum Corp., Royal Dutch Shell
Plc, Kyushu Electric Power Co. and a unit of  Tokyo Electric. (9501)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  