-- J&J Wins U.S. Approval for First-in-Class Diabetes Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-03-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/jj-wins-u-s-approval-for-first-in-diabetes-drug-class.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
largest seller of health-care products, won approval for the
first in a new family of diabetes drugs, giving them the edge
against rivals developing similar medicines.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the drug,
known as canagliflozin, to treat adults with  Type 2 diabetes ,
the agency said yesterday in a  statement . It may generate $800
million in peak sales,  Tony Butler , an analyst at Barclays Plc
in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  The treatment, to be sold under the name Invokana, expels
sugar in the urine after the kidneys filter it from the blood.
The FDA has required  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J to
conduct five post-market studies to track possible health risks,
including to the heart, bones and pancreas.  “Bringing a new class to market is exciting,” said Kirk
Ways, the drug’s development team leader, in a telephone
interview. “We need to do better as a nation treating diabetes.
Bringing canagliflozin to market will give patients and
physicians another option.”  Invokana is part of a family of medicines known as SGLT2
inhibitors intended to have fewer side effects, such as low
blood sugar and weight gain, than currently approved diabetes
drugs. The company is trying to beat to market similar drugs
being developed by  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)   26 Million People  Diabetes is the seventh-leading cause of death in the U.S.,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The
 disease , defined by high levels of sugar in the blood, affected
almost 26 million people in the U.S. in 2010, or about 8.3
percent of the population, the Atlanta-based CDC said.  While J&J has struggled with recalls and lawsuits over
products such as metal hip implants and over-the-counter
children’s medicines, the company has gained approval the past
two years for new  prescription drugs  such as the tuberculosis
tablet Sirturo, the prostate cancer pill Zytiga and the blood
thinner Xarelto. Zytiga generated $961 million in 2012 sales.  For canagliflozin, J&J must study the medicine’s effect on
patients’ hearts while the drug is on the market. J&J is working
on a cardiovascular study called Canvas that the company plans
to complete in 2017, Ways said.  During the first 30 days of treatment, 13 cardiovascular
events occurred out of 2,886 patients on canagliflozin in the
Canvas trial and one of 1,441 patients taking placebo, according
to a January  report  from FDA staff. The drug raises LDL, or bad
cholesterol, which may lead to the heart risk, despite favorable
changes in HDL, or good, cholesterol, blood pressure and body
weight, staff said.  Second Option  Invokana probably will be used by doctors as an option
after patients fail current therapies, such as  Merck & Co (MRK) ’s $4.1
million best-seller Januvia, and cheaper generics including
metformin, Butler said.  “What we tried to do with our development program was look
across the spectrum,” Ways said. “What we tried to do is arm
physicians with the information to prescribe this drug for
patients they thought would benefit best.”  Butler’s sales estimate is lower than other diabetes drugs
because of the medication’s link to an increased risk of urinary
tract infections, particularly in women. Females also
experienced an increased risk of vaginal infections.  “I worry its use in women will be somewhat minimal,”
Butler said.  Pancreas Stimulation  Most diabetes treatments on the market stimulate the
pancreas to secrete insulin or improve the body’s sensitivity to
insulin, a hormone that helps control blood sugar. As the first
to work on the kidneys, SGLT2 inhibitors, like the one J&J
developed, can be combined with other diabetes medications.  Boehringer, based in Ingelheim,  Germany , and Lilly, based
in Indianapolis, submitted an application for FDA approval of
their SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin, the companies said in a
March 25 statement. Astellas Pharma Inc. is also working on an
SGLT2 inhibitor known as ipragliflozin.  New York-based Bristol-Myers and London-based AstraZeneca
are working to address FDA concerns with their product
dapagliflozin. The FDA sought more data on dapagliflozin after
advisers determined the risks of bladder and breast cancer
outweigh the benefits of the medicine.  J&J’s canagliflozin doesn’t show an increased risk of such
malignancies, FDA staff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  