-- Korean Won Completes Biggest Monthly Drop Since May; Bonds Gain
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-03-29T06:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/korean-won-set-for-biggest-monthly-drop-since-may-bonds-gain.html
South Korea ’s won completed its
biggest monthly drop since May as increased risk of conflict
with  North Korea  and a worsening economic outlook prompted
global funds to cut their holdings of the nation’s shares.  Overseas investors sold $2 billion more Korean stocks than
they bought this month and the government yesterday lowered its
2013 economic growth forecast to 2.3 percent from a December
projection of 3 percent. Tensions have risen on the peninsula
since North  Korea  detonated a nuclear device in February and the
communist state says military drills being conducted by the U.S.
and South Korea have brought the region to the brink of war.
 Government bonds  rose this month as Cyprus became the fifth
euro-area member to seek a bailout.  “Rising concerns stemming from North Korea’s threats and
uncertainty created by a bank bailout in Cyprus kept investors
away from riskier assets,” said Hong Seok Chan, an analyst at
Daishin Economic Research Institute in  Seoul . “Still, dollar
sales by exporters toward the end of the month and the quarter
kept the won from falling further.”  The currency declined 2.6 percent this month against the
greenback, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won was
0.2 percent stronger today at 1,111.35 per dollar in Seoul. One-
month implied volatility in the currency, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, dropped 16
basis points from yesterday to 7.5 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Falling Output  South Korea’s industrial production unexpectedly fell for a
second month in February, declining 0.8 percent from January
when it shrank 1.2 percent, government data showed today. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey was for 0.3 percent
growth. From a year earlier, output slumped 9.3 percent, the
biggest drop since March 2009.  A central bank report today showed an index measuring
manufacturers’ expectations for April climbed to 80, the highest
level since July. The economy expanded 1.5 percent in the final
quarter of 2012, the slowest pace in three years,  Bank of Korea 
figures showed earlier this week.  “The won has been sliding because of the problems in
 Europe  and North Korea and as dollar sales increased,” said Son
Eun Jeong, an analyst at Woori Futures Co. in Seoul. “The
strong dollar trend will continue in April as the high debt of
euro-zone countries still endangers regional stability.”  The yield on the South Korean government’s 2.75 percent
bonds due December 2015 dropped 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, this month to 2.51 percent, according to
prices from Korea Exchange Inc. It rose four basis points today,
rebounding from a record low.  The government said yesterday it will unveil a stimulus
package in April to spur the  property market  and revive the
economy after cutting its growth forecast for the second time in
four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  