-- Kuroda Says No Bubble as 10-Year Yield Nears 0.5%: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-03-29T01:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/kuroda-says-no-bubble-as-10-year-yield-nears-0-5-japan-credit.html
As benchmark yields plunged the
most in two years toward a record low,  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda said not to worry about a bond-market bubble.  “We probably can’t say it’s a bubble,” Kuroda told
lawmakers yesterday as the 10-year  yield  touched 0.51 percent,
the least since June 2003 when the all-time low of 0.43 percent
was set. The yield has dropped 28 1/2 basis points in 2013, set
for the biggest quarterly slide since June 2010, even as the
similar-maturity U.S. rate rose 8 basis points to 1.84 percent.  Kuroda said it’s necessary to lower longer-term yields
further to combat deflation, signaling the BOJ will extend its
debt purchases beyond three-year notes. Japanese  government
bonds  have outperformed all major peers outside of  Europe  this
year despite a public debt burden that’s estimated to rise to
245 percent of economic output this year, the world’s largest.  “There’s a good chance that the 10-year yield will fall to
about 0.3 percent this year,” said Shogo Fujita, the chief
Japanese bond strategist in Tokyo at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at  Japan ’s
debt auctions. “The financial authority can control the yield
curve.”  Kuroda, who leads his first policy meeting on April 3-4,
told lawmakers that he aims to achieve a 2 percent annual
inflation goal in two years. He said the BOJ may scrap a rule
limiting the scale of asset buying and scoop up longer-maturity
bonds to reach the price target, which the central bank adopted
in January at the urging of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  Consumer Prices  Yields on longer-maturity debt also slid this quarter, with
those on 20-year  bonds  dropping 38 basis points, the most since
the three months ended December 2008, Bloomberg data show. A
government  report  today showed consumer prices excluding fresh
food fell 0.3 percent last month from a year earlier. The median
estimate of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg was for a 0.4
percent decline.  Pacific Investment Management Co., operator of the world’s
biggest bond fund, expects the BOJ’s policy to be more
aggressive and experimental.  “The BOJ will need to pursue ‘audacious’ monetary policy”
to achieve the 2 percent inflation target,  Richard Clarida ,
global strategic adviser, and Tomoya Masanao, the head of
 portfolio management  for Japan, wrote in a commentary on Pimco’s
 website . “For global investors, this may mean a modest economic
growth contribution from Japan, at least over a cyclical
horizon, as well as additional central bank liquidity from the
world’s third largest economy pouring into global markets.”  JGB Return  JGBs with a maturity of more than a year have returned 2.2
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
That’s the biggest non-currency adjusted gain after Ireland,
Spain and  Hungary  among the 26 sovereign markets tracked.  About a month after the 10-year yield reached 0.43 percent
on June 11, 2003, it shot up to 1.4 percent and ended the year
at 1.36 percent. It’s the  only year  from 1995 to 2012 that
Japan’s bonds had an annual loss, the EFFAS index shows.  “There is a risk for yields to rise,” said  Akito Fukunaga , the chief rates strategist in Tokyo at RBS Securities
Japan Ltd., a unit of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.
“Investors will be disappointed, and bonds will be sold
heavily” unless the BOJ increases purchases of long-term debt
by a large amount, he said.  Municipal Debt  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, the city of Kawasaki
and Kyoto prefecture hired banks for debt sales.  Kawasaki picked Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial Group Inc. for an offering of 10
billion yen ($106 million) of 20-year bonds next month, while
Kyoto hired Daiwa and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co. for a 20 billion yen issuance of 10- and 15-year debt,
according to separate statements yesterday from Daiwa and
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley.  Japan’s municipal notes have handed investors 0.9 percent
this month, compared with a 1.26 percent return on the nation’s
sovereign bonds, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data. U.S. municipal debt has lost 0.61 percent.  The cost to insure Japan’s sovereign notes rose to 74 basis
points yesterday, the highest since Feb. 4, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. An
increase in credit-default swaps signals improving perceptions
of creditworthiness.  Expanding Debt  Japan’s public debt is estimated to expand to 245 percent
of gross domestic product this year compared with 170 percent in
2003, according to International Monetary Fund figures released
in October.  The yen traded at 94.16 per dollar as of 10:01 a.m. in
 Tokyo  from 94.15 yesterday. The Japanese currency has weakened
7.2 percent in the past three months, the biggest decliner among
the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Indexes, amid expectations the BOJ will
bolster monetary stimulus.  The central bank buys JGBs through two channels: its asset-
buying program set up in October 2010 and outright purchase
operations, also known as rinban. The APP buys sovereign debt
maturing in one to three years, while 90 percent of the rinban
operation targets notes with a maturity of 10 years or less.  Kuroda said this week that it’s worth considering merging
the two operations.  “We have to conclude that the BOJ is likely to combine the
rinban and APP, given remarks from officials,” said Takahiro Sekido, who formerly worked at the BOJ and is now a Japan
strategist in Tokyo at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
“But it’s dubious that just buying more JGBs will boost Japan’s
growth potential or raise the inflation rate to 2 percent.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  