-- Napolitano Considers Options Amid Italy Government Stalemate
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-03-30T09:21:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/napolitano-plans-government-proposal-amid-stalemate-in-italy.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano is considering how to resolve the country’s political
crisis after leaders in the deadlocked parliament failed to
reach a compromise on the formation of the next goverment.  Napolitano, who met with lawmakers yesterday, may make an
announcement today, the president’s spokesman said late
yesterday. Napolitano will continue talks with leaders in
parliament and may consider resigning, daily La Repubblica
reported today, without citing anyone.  The stalemate is the result of the inconclusive Feb. 24-25
election that split the Senate into three blocs. Napolitano, 87,
is facing the final challenge of a seven-year term that ends in
May. While he lacks a clear path to assembling a parliamentary
majority, he received full backing from the biggest political
force, the  Democratic Party .  “We won’t withhold our support from the decisions that he
will make in the coming hours,” Enrico Letta, a top Democratic
Party official, said after meeting with Napolitano yesterday.  Napolitano may step down a month early to give his
successor a speedier entry into the talks, Repubblica reported.
Presidents in the final stages of their mandates aren’t
permitted to dissolve parliament and call new elections, an
option that would be available to Napolitano’s successor.  To reach a compromise, Napolitano would need help from
lawmakers loyal to either former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  or Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement. Berlusconi said
yesterday he would back a government in partnership with the
Democratic Party, while Grillo reiterated he will shun a deal
with other parties.  Common Ground  Napolitano may consider turning to a non-partisan figure
outside the political arena to gain consensus.  The Italian president took charge of negotiations March 28
after Pier Luigi Bersani, the Democratic Party leader, spent a
week in an unsuccessful attempt at convincing adversaries to
back him. Berlusconi and Bersani clashed over policy as they
prepare for a showdown over the choice of the next president,
which will be chosen by parliament.  “We were and still are open to giving life to a
coalition,” Berlusconi, 76, said yesterday after meeting
Napolitano. “We think it’s logical that if we form a government
together, a coalition government, then together we must discuss
about who will be the best president of the republic.”  While Berlusconi finished second to Bersani in the election
last month, his standing has improved since then, according to a
poll distributed yesterday by SWG Institute. Berlusconi’s
coalition led with 32.5 percent support among voters, compared
with 29.6 percent for Bersani’s bloc, 24.8 percent for Grillo
and 8.7 percent for outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Vito Crimi, Five Star’s head in the Senate, and Roberta
Lombardi, the party’s leader in the Chamber of Deputies,
repeated their resistance to compromise after meeting Napolitano
yesterday. That position was praised by Grillo later in an
interview broadcast on his website.  “We’re going to win with our ideas and our strength
because we’re a miracle,” Grillo said. “We are the French
Revolution without the guillotine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  