-- Mayor Bloomberg Says He’ll Veto Bill Mandating Sick Leave
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-03-29T18:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/new-york-city-to-demand-paid-sick-days-for-most-workers.html
Mayor Michael Bloomberg said he’ll
veto a plan to require all  New York  City employers with 20 or
more workers to give employees paid time off when they get sick.  “While this compromise version of the bill is better than
previous iterations, it will still hurt small businesses and
stifle job creation,” Bloomberg said in a statement released by
his office.  City Council members struck a compromise on the measure,
which was supported by both business and labor groups, last
night. The accord would have required all employers in the city
to provide unpaid sick leave starting in 2014.  Speaker Christine Quinn, who is among five Democrats
running for the party’s mayoral nomination, had previously
blocked efforts to bring such a proposal, backed by 38 of the 51
council members, to a vote. A two-thirds majority is enough to
override Bloomberg’s veto.  A similar measure has won approval in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
while others are pending in Massachusetts, Vermont and
 Washington  state.  Supporters are pushing for paid sick time because they say
the 20-year-old federal Family and Medical Leave Act doesn’t go
far enough. The bill granted as much as 12 weeks of job-
protected, unpaid leave to new parents and those who are sick or
have ill dependents. About 40 percent of workers aren’t covered
because it applies only to those working more than 25 hours a
week and employers with 50 or more employees.  44 Million Deprived  Forty-four million Americans don’t get paid time off when
sick, according to Family Values @ Work, a nonprofit group
leading 20 state and local coalitions backing paid-leave laws.  In places where such policies are in place --  Connecticut ,
 Seattle , Washington, San Francisco and Long Beach,  California  --
workers earn a minimum number of days a year, depending on the
size of their employer. They can use the time off to care for
themselves or dependents. The smallest workplaces are sometimes
exempt.  Opponents, including the National Federation of Independent
Businesses, have been busy, too. They’re backing proposed state
laws in Florida, Washington and Michigan that seek to stem the
spread of paid sick leave by cutting off the ability of
municipalities to impose it. Wisconsin,  Mississippi  and
Louisiana already have passed such measures, which backers say
help avoid a hodgepodge of local laws.  The National Restaurant Association, the biggest industry
trade association, is part of a coalition of business groups
opposed to mandatory sick-leave policies.  Bloomberg is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  