-- Obama Touts ‘Rebuild America’ Plan for U.S. Job Creation
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-03-30T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/obama-touts-rebuild-america-plan-for-u-s-job-creation.html
President  Barack Obama  spotlighted
his proposals to create jobs through spurring private spending
on highways, airports and bridges, telling voters at a Miami
port that the U.S. can’t wait to upgrade its essential
infrastructure.  “What are we waiting for? There’s work to be done. There
are workers who are ready to do it,” Obama said yesterday,
surrounded by shipping containers and construction cranes.
“Let’s get started rebuilding America.”  Since his re-election last November, Obama has widened his
focus beyond economic issues to wage high-profile campaigns for
 gun control  and immigration legislation. Yet, the economy
remains the top concern in many states, including in the
politically divided one of  Florida , which has housing
foreclosure rates three times above the national average.  Obama’s two-hour stop in Miami aimed to remind Americans
that the economy remains his priority, even as he pushes forward
with a more expansive second-term agenda.  “There are few more important things we can do to create
jobs right now and strengthen our economy over the long-haul
then rebuilding the infrastructure that powers our businesses,”
Obama said.  Florida’s unemployment rate is 7.7 percent, the same as the
national figure for February.  Stimulus Package  Greater infrastructure investment has been central to
Obama’s economic agenda, starting with programs in the economic
stimulus package that passed weeks after his first term began in
2009. His latest proposals face steep opposition on  Capitol
Hill , where Republican lawmakers vow to block new spending
unless it is offset by cuts elsewhere in the  federal budget .  In Miami, Obama renewed his call for a $10 billion national
infrastructure bank, an idea he unveiled in his first term
that’s been blocked by congressional Republicans. He’s also
proposing $4 billion in new spending on programs that award
transportation grants, and exempting foreign investors from
taxes when selling infrastructure or real estate assets -- a
plan designed to promote investment in such projects. The
benefit is currently granted to U.S. pension funds.  The president released more details of a new debt program,
called America Fast Forward Bonds, which aims to boost state and
local government spending on public works by granting issuers a
28 percent federal subsidy.  Those plans, he said, would help finance projects faster,
cheaper, and give local officials more flexibility.  Covering Costs  Alan Krueger, the president’s chief economist, told
reporters on Air Force One that Obama’s proposals wouldn’t add
to the deficit, though he didn’t specify how the $21 billion in
costs would be covered. Those details, he said, would be part of
the president’s budget, scheduled to be released on April 10.  Investment planned through 2020 on U.S. infrastructure,
including roads, schools and airports, will fall $1.6 trillion
short of what’s needed to maintain existing facilities,
according to a March 19 report by the American Society of Civil
Engineers. U.S. drinking water and sewage infrastructure earned
a barely passing grade of D from the group, which said at least
$1 trillion in improvements are needed.  Administration officials say that increased infrastructure
spending will make the U.S. more economically competitive
internationally and boost the domestic  construction industry ,
which is still recovering from the economic downturn.  “We have a tremendous need, and I think a bipartisan need,
for more infrastructure,” Krueger said.  ‘Fix It First’  Promoting private sector infrastructure investment was a
key part of the economic plans Obama unveiled in his  State of
the Union  address last month. The president proposed $50 billion
in infrastructure spending, including a “Fix It First” program
that would identify projects needing the most urgent upgrades.
His push is meant to lure additional private capital to help
repair aging public works projects.  “This should not be partisan idea,” said Obama yesterday.
“I know that members of Congress are happy to welcome projects
like this to their district. I know because I’ve seen them at
the ribbon cuttings.”  The administration’s focus on private investment
underscores the difficulty his government spending proposals
confront in approval from Republican lawmakers who control the
U.S. House.  Reimbursement Sought  Before Obama arrived in Miami, Florida Governor  Rick Scott ,
a Republican, dismissed the president as “late to the party”
on infrastructure investment. The state spent $77 million to
fund the Miami port’s $180-million “deep dredge” project,
which will allow Miami to accommodate larger cargo ships and
create more than 30,000 new jobs. Scott called on Obama to
reimburse the state.  “We could not wait for the federal government to come to
the table with their share of the project,” Scott said on a
March 28 conference call with reporters.  White House officials said that the federal government
funded a $340 million loan to assist with financing a tunnel
project at the port, and awarded a $23 million grant to restore
freight rail service.  “There’s no reason this should be a Democratic tunnel or a
Republican tunnel,” White House spokesman  Josh Earnest  told
reporters yesterday. “These are projects that are helpful to
the economy and shouldn’t break down on partisan lines.”  According to a fact sheet that accompanied the president’s
State of the Union address on Feb. 12, since he took office more
than 300,000 miles of U.S. roads have been improved; more than
22,000 bridges have been repaired or replaced; and more than
6,000 miles of rail have been built or improved.  Foreclosure rates in Florida in February were 1 in every
282 housing units, compared to 1 in every 849 nationally,
according to RealtyTrac, an  Irvine , California-based data
provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  