-- Tokyo Gas to Buy 25% Texas Shale Project Stake for $485 Million
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-03-29T07:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/tokyo-gas-to-buy-25-texas-shale-project-stake-for-485-million.html
Tokyo Gas Co. (9531) ,  Japan ’s biggest gas
utility, will buy a 25 percent stake in shale gas operations in
 Texas  from  Quicksilver Resources Inc. (KWK) , the first entry into
shale development for the Japanese company in the U.S.  Tokyo Gas, which this week said it intends to use 10.91
million tons of liquefied natural gas in the fiscal year
starting April 1, will pay $485 million for the stake, the
Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.  The move comes as Japan searches for alternative sources
for energy after the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster that led to
the shutdown of 48 of the country’s 50 nuclear reactors.  Tokyo Gas will obtain the stake through TG Barnett
Resources LP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tokyo Gas America
Ltd. The shale gas project in the Barnett basin produces about
275 million cubic feet equivalent per day of shale gas and
natural gas liquids sold in the U.S., the statement said.  Tokyo Gas’s share of gas production, projected to be as
much as 0.5 million tons a year, will be sold in the U.S., the
company said.  “We would like to consider bringing the gas to Japan in
the future but we don’t have a precise timeline,” Tokyo Gas
spokesman Minoru Iwashita said.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe asked U.S. President
 Barack Obama  in February to allow shale gas exports.  Japan’s third-largest utility by generating capacity, Chubu
Electric Power Co., and trading company  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , have
agreements to buy LNG from proposed export plants that have yet
to win government approval. The U.S. has approved only one
export plant for shipments to countries without a free-trade
agreement.  The switch from nuclear to gas-fired generation after the
accident at Fukushima forced Japan to increase LNG imports 11
percent in 2012. Japan is the world’s biggest buyer of LNG, gas
cooled to a liquid for shipment by tankers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  