-- Holmes’s Plea Offer in Theater Shooting Rejected
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2013-03-29T17:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/holmes-s-plea-offer-in-theater-shooting-rejected.html
An offer from James Holmes to plead
guilty and spend his life in prison without any chance of parole
for the July shooting rampage at a  Colorado  movie theater that
left 12 dead was turned down by prosecutors.  Prosecutors don’t have the information they were seeking
from Holmes to evaluate the offer and determine “a just outcome
to this case,” Araphoe County District Attorney George
Brauchler said in a filing yesterday in state court in
Centennial, in suburban Denver.  Holmes’s attorneys “have steadfastly and repeatedly
refused to provide that access and that information for
consideration,” Brauchler wrote, without specifying what
information was sought.  Lawyers for Holmes said the offer, which would spare him
the death penalty, was made before his March 12 arraignment.
Prosecutors are expected to inform the court on April 1 whether
they will seek the death penalty.  Judge William Sylvester entered a not guilty plea at
Holmes’s arraignment because public defender Daniel King said
his client wasn’t ready to plead. Defenders have said they are
considering an insanity plea.  If prosecutors ask for the death penalty, Holmes may become
the first capital defendant to challenge the constitutionality
of the state’s insanity-defense laws.  Death Penalty  “It appears the only impediment to a resolution of this
case would be if the prosecution chooses to seek the death
penalty,” Jeff Middleton, Tamara Brady and King, lawyers with
the Colorado public defender’s office, said in a March 27
filing. “If the prosecution elects not to pursue the death
penalty, then it is Mr. Holmes’ position that this case could be
resolved on April 1.”  The contents of Holmes’s March 27 filing and comments by
his lawyers were improper because his defenders suggested the
trial would last for months; they violated a gag order by
speaking to the media and they mischaracterized whether the
victims needed to be notified of the plea offer, Brauchler wrote
in his filing.  “The information related to the purported defense ‘offer’
was not only improper but grossly improper,” Brauchler wrote.  Sylvester ruled in January that the government established
probable cause that Holmes committed the crimes of which he’s
accused. Holmes, who studied neuroscience at the University of
Colorado, Denver, is charged with 166 counts, including murder
and attempted murder.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kass in Centennial, Colorado, at  kassj@msn.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  