-- Toys ‘R’ Us Withdraws Plan for IPO First Filed in 2010
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-03-30T13:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/toys-r-us-pulls-ipo-first-filed-in-2010-amid-leadership-shift.html
Toys “R” Us Inc. (TOYS) , the toy
retailer owned by Bain Capital LLC, withdrew its plan for an
initial public offering after first filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission almost three years ago.  The 1,500-store toy chain, owned by the private-equity firm
founded by  Mitt Romney  and partners KKR & Co. and Vornado Realty
Trust, cited “unfavorable market conditions and the company’s
recently announced executive leadership transition.”  The withdrawal yesterday came after the Wayne, New Jersey-
based retailer’s Chief Executive Officer Gerald Storch announced
last month he would step down amid competition from online toy
sellers such as Amazon.com Inc.  Toys “R” Us, in a separate filing yesterday, reported
that fourth-quarter revenue fell 2.6 percent to $5.77 billion
from the year-earlier period, with same-store sales declining
4.5% domestically. Profit fell 30 percent to $239 million in the
period and 75 percent to $38 million for the fiscal year ended
Feb. 2, largely due to income-tax expenses and interest costs
from debt refinancing, the company said.  Bain, with KKR and Vornado, bought the toy retailer in a
deal valued at $6.6 billion in 2005. At that time, the chain was
losing market share to the lower prices at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
and  Target Corp. (TGT)  Toys “R” Us has tried a variety of tactics to
remain relevant, with none ending the decline in same-store
sales.  Earlier this month, Gimme Credit LLC analyst Kim Noland
said the toy retailer had enough liquidity to keep operating,
but that an IPO would be off the table, given Storch’s departure
and its lack of growth.  Bain completed four deals valued at $17 billion from 2004
to 2007 and still owns all of the purchases, including
Burlington Coat Factory Warehouse Corp. and Michaels Stores Inc.  ---With assistance from Matt Townsend in  New York . Editors:
Nancy Moran, Vivek Shankar, Sylvia Wier  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nancy Moran at 
 nmoran@bloomberg.net  