-- Patriot Coal Bondholders Seek Trustee for Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-03-29T22:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/patriot-coal-bondholders-seek-trustee-for-bankruptcy.html
Two  Patriot Coal Corp. (PCXCQ)  bondholders,
claiming the majority of its 99 units in bankruptcy don’t have
obligations to unions and retirees, are seeking the appointment
of a trustee to oversee how assets are distributed.  The U.S. mining company’s bankruptcy is being mismanaged
because it assumes all the units have obligations to the
collective bargaining or retiree health care agreements of the
United Mine Workers of America, Aurelius Capital Management LP
and Knighthead Capital Management LLC, said in court papers
filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in St. Louis. Their bid
for a trustee sets up a dispute over how bondholders and unions
are treated in the Chapter 11 case.  Patriot filed for bankruptcy in July, seeking to reorganize
and shed some of the $1.6 billion it estimates is owed to pay
for lifetime health care for 8,100 retirees. The company said in
a statement today that it will oppose the bondholders’ request.  The motion “is a misguided, costly and disruptive
distraction at a time when the company is focused on achieving
the cost savings it needs to reorganize successfully and protect
the interests of all stakeholders,” Michael Freitag, a Patriot
spokesman, said in the statement.  ‘Compounding Problem’  Aurelius and Knighthead own 3.25 percent notes due 2013 and
a majority of the 8.25 percent notes due 2018, the funds said.
They seek an independent Chapter 11 trustee to oversee the case
and said that without one, the company is moving “inexorably
towards liquidation.”  “Compounding the problem, rather than moving expeditiously
to take the non-obligor debtors out of bankruptcy, the debtors-
in-possession have spent nine months negotiating with the UMWA
about these illegal proposals,” the funds wrote.  Patriot has proposed moving retiree health-care benefits to
a trust, known as a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association
or VEBA. The VEBA would be funded by all of the company’s 99
units, including 13 of them that don’t have obligations to
unions and retirees, the funds said.  While the amount Patriot would owe retirees under the new
agreements hasn’t been determined, it’s estimated at $1 billion,
according to court papers.  Patriot has proposed pay cuts and benefit changes for
unionized employees in bankruptcy, and also sued  Peabody Energy
Corp. (BTU)  to force its former parent to keep paying for the health-
care costs of certain retirees who were employed by Peabody
before Patriot’s 2007 spinoff.  Demand Tumbled  The company’s bankruptcy filing came after U.S. coal demand
tumbled amid increased competition from cheaper and natural gas
and as it faced stricter environmental regulations. Patriot said
it was at a disadvantage to competitors because 41 percent of
its workforce is unionized.  Separately, Wilmington Trust Co., a trustee for the
company’s $250 million in 8.25 percent notes, today objected in
court papers to a motion to form an equity committee.  Shareholders who seek to form a committee to represent
their interests in the case can’t prove that there will be any
money left over for equity once bondholders are repaid,
Wilmington Trust said.  The company has said it needs to reduce its labor costs by
at least $150 million, and the company’s bonds trade at a
discount, signs that there will be no money left for
shareholders, Wilmington said.  Patriot’s shares most recently traded at 10 cents on the
dollar March 28. Its 3.25 percent senior convertible notes due
2013 last traded at 12.08 cents on the dollar, and its 8.25
percent notes last traded at 48.25 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The case In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-51502, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of  Missouri  (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  