-- Employment Increased in 42 U.S. States in February, Led by Texas
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-03-29T15:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/payrolls-increased-in-42-u-s-states-in-february-led-by-texas.html
Payrolls grew in 42 U.S. states in
February and the unemployment rate fell in 22, showing the labor
market improved in a broad swath of the world’s largest economy.  Texas led with an 80,600 hiring increase, the biggest in
data going back to 1982, followed by  California  with 41,200,
according to figures from the Labor Department today in
Washington.  Rhode Island , Vermont, California and  New Jersey 
showed the biggest declines in unemployment rates.  Employers hired 236,000 workers in February, almost twice
the 119,000 increase a month earlier, figures from the Labor
Department showed earlier this month. The figures help explain
why  consumer spending , which accounts for about 70 percent of
the economy, has been holding up in the face of a two
percentage-point increase in the  payroll tax .  “Labor market conditions continue to improve,”  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in
Detroit, said before the report. “The consumer has shown a lot
of resilience.” Price is the top forecaster of employment for
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Connecticut and Nevada showed the biggest declines in
employment last month, the report showed.  Even as the jump in employment pushed California’s jobless
rate down to 9.6 percent, it still tied Mississippi and Nevada
as the highest in the nation.  North Dakota’s rate remained the lowest, at 3.3 percent.  Two states, Illinois and Wisconsin, showed statistically
significant increases in the unemployment rate, the report said.  Unemployment Falls  Nationally, the  unemployment rate  fell to 7.7 percent in
February, a four-year low, from 7.9 percent in the prior month,
a Labor Department report showed earlier this month. The
February state data are due on April 19.  State and local employment data are derived independently
from the national statistics, which are typically released on
the first Friday of every month. The state figures are subject
to larger sampling errors because they come from smaller
surveys, making the national figures more reliable, according to
the government’s Bureau of Labor Statistics.  Federal Reserve officials have said they are waiting for
“substantial” gains in the labor market before they put the
brakes on monthly purchases of $85 billion in Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank would alter monthly buying in response to gains in the job
market, underscoring a need for flexibility. He said further
gains would be needed to be sure “this is not a temporary
improvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  