-- Pound Slides Most in 4 Years Versus Dollar on Recession Concern
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-03-29T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/pound-slides-most-in-4-years-versus-dollar-on-recession-concern.html
The pound had its biggest quarterly
drop against the dollar in more than four years as the economy’s
contraction in the three months through December fueled concern
of an unprecedented triple-dip recession.  Sterling declined against all but two of its 16 major
counterparts in the quarter ended yesterday. Gross domestic
product fell 0.3 percent in the final three months of last year,
the Office for National Statistics in London said in January and
confirmed in the week. The currency trimmed declines after
minutes of the Bank of England’s most recent policy meeting
damped speculation for more asset purchases and as Cyprus’s
financial crisis boosted demand for U.K. assets as a haven.  “Sterling has come under a lot of pressure in the first
quarter,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at
Deutsche Bank AG in London. “The pound recently gained some
ground against the euro because of the situation in Cyprus. But
it’s unclear how long this recovery will last given the rather
poor economic fundamentals and outlook of the U.K.”  The pound slipped 6.7 percent in the first quarter to
$1.5172 at 4:56 p.m. London time yesterday, after dropping on
March 12 to $1.4832, the weakest since June 2010. The decline
this quarter was the most since the three months through
December 2008. The British currency slipped 3.9 percent against
the euro in the past three months to 84.50 pence.  Disposable Income  U.K. retail sales stagnated in March, the Confederation of
British Industry said on March 26. Britons’  disposable income 
fell in the fourth quarter, the statistics office said the
following day.  Lenders approved fewer home loans last month compared with
January, a Bank of England report will show on April 2,
according to the median prediction of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. A gauge of manufacturing stayed below the 50 level
that marks expansion, another survey showed before Markit
Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply
release the data on the same day.  Concern that Cyprus’s banking crisis would spread turmoil
across the 17 nations that share the euro boosted demand for
U.K. assets as a refuge this month, sapping declines in the
pound and boosting government bonds.  “Much still depends on what goes on in the euro zone,”
said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London. “As long as the risks are there
gilts will find some support as a less-bad option. That’s
probably a better way of putting it than a safe haven.”  Inflation Target  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said in his
budget on March 20 that he would maintain the central bank’s 2
percent inflation target, easing concern he would permit faster
price increases that would dent payments from fixed-income
assets. Earlier that day, minutes of the central bank’s March
meeting showed that some in the nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee said more quantitative easing “might also lead to an
unwarranted depreciation of sterling.”  The benchmark 10-year gilt yield was at 1.77 percent
yesterday after falling to 1.71 percent, the lowest level since
Nov. 13. The yield has declined from 1.83 percent on Dec. 31.  U.K. government bonds returned 1 percent this quarter
through March 27, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds gained 0.5 percent and Treasuries were little changed.  With assistance from Anchalee Worrachate in  London . Editors: Mark McCord,
Nicholas Reynolds  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  