-- Putin May Cap Golden Parachutes After $100 Million Payout
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2013-03-29T13:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/putin-may-cap-golden-parachutes-after-ally-s-100-million-payout.html
President  Vladimir Putin  proposed
limiting severance payments to Russian executives, after a
former KGB colleague was granted about $100 million when he
stepped down as the head of OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel.  While so-called golden parachutes should “stimulate top-
class managers” to work efficiently, “sensible limits” are
needed, Putin said at a meeting of his People’s Front movement
in Rostov-on-Don today. Capping such payments would comply with
global standards, Putin said.  Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s largest mining company, in
December promised outgoing Chief Executive Officer Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, 58, about $100 million, the most ever in the
country. Strzhalkovsky, who worked with Putin in the KGB in
Leningrad in the 1980s, was replaced by billionaire Norilsk
shareholder  Vladimir Potanin . Strzhalkovsky said he’d give part
of the payout to families of intelligence agents who were killed
in “hot spots.”  “Mostly, it’s an issue with state- or quasi-state
controlled holdings,” Sergey Vorobiev, senior partner at
recruitment service Ward Howell International, said by phone
from Moscow. “There is no general problem of excessively high
payouts in closely held companies in Russia.”  Rostelecom, Xtrata  The board of OAO Rostelecom this month approved about 200
million rubles ($6.4 million) in compensation for former CEO
Alexander Provotorov, who resigned after Putin’s former judo
partner, Arkady Rotenberg, bought a minority stake in the state-
run telecommunications provider.  Alisa Fialko and Kira Kiryukhina, spokeswomen for Norilsk
and Rostelecom, respectively, declined to comment on Putin’s
proposal.  Xtrata Plc investors in November prevented the payment of
144 million pounds ($219 million) by the merged new company
Glencore  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , as incentives for about 70 managers to
remain at what will be the fourth-largest mining group.  Investors of advertising firm  WPP Plc (WPP)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
also rejected proposed compensation for  Martin Sorrell  and
Vikram Pandit, respectively, last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  