-- Raiffeisen Unit CEO Sees Romanian Bank Consolidation This Year
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-03-29T13:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/raiffeisen-unit-ceo-sees-romanian-bank-consolidation-this-year.html
Romania ’s banking industry should
see a period of consolidation this year as lenders focus on
boosting market share amid a stagnating economy, Raiffeisen Bank
Romania’s Chief Executive Officer said.  At least five banks may be for sale in the Balkan nation,
Raiffeisen’s Steven van Groningen, whose bank announced last
week it will buy the retail loan portfolio from  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
Romanian unit, said in an interview in Bucharest yesterday. He
declined to name the banks or their nationality.  “There were always more sellers in the market,” van
Groningen said. “I would certainly expect more transactions
this year” and “it’s a relatively good moment to spend energy
on integrating a portfolio, for example, as there isn’t a lot of
growth in the market.”  Romania’s banking system is struggling with rising bad
loans as economic growth remains sluggish, rising 0.1 percent in
the fourth quarter from the previous three months. The industry
posted the third consecutive year of losses and incurred a total
loss of 2.1 billion lei in 2012 as the ratio of non-performing
loans soared to 18.2 percent, Ziarul Financiar reported Feb. 12.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ’s Romanian unit will focus
on integrating Citi’s Romanian retail portfolio into its
operations this year, while also looking at other potential
purchases on “an opportunistic basis,” van Groningen said. The
Romanian banking industry, dominated by western European banks,
has been struggling to reverse losses for the past three years,
as a stagnating economy makes it difficult for citizens to repay
their loans.  Portfolio Takeover  Raiffeisen’s deal with Citi is expected to take effect in
the third quarter, as the unit takes over a portfolio with more
than 100,000 customers, more than 90 million euros ($115
million) in gross assets and more than 175 million euros in
deposits as of Dec. 31, the two banks said in a joint statement
on March 21. Van Groningen declined to give the value of the
transaction, whose terms aren’t public.  “You cannot do a transaction like this every week, not
even every month. Our focus is now on integrating this, that’s
our priority,” van Groningen said. “I’m willing to look on an
opportunistic basis at whatever appears on the market, but
again, I’m very realistic about what we can absorb in a certain
timeframe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  