-- Ralph Klein, Alberta’s Deficit Fighting Ex-Premier, Dies
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n ,   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-29T21:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/ralph-klein-alberta-s-deficit-fighting-ex-premier-dies-at-70.html
Ralph Klein, the former  Alberta 
premier who led the oil-rich Canadian province to 13 consecutive
budget surpluses and paid down government debt, sparking a
nationwide trend, has died. He was 70.  Klein’s death was confirmed in a statement today by Alison Redford, the current premier of the province. The former leader
had been diagnosed with dementia and a  lung disease  linked to
smoking, according to newspaper reports.  “Ralph Klein’s ability to connect with Albertans from all
walks of life was absolutely remarkable,” Redford said in the
statement. “Ralph was a staunch defender of our province as he
had a deep and abiding love for Alberta and Albertans.”  Klein became the 12th premier of Alberta in 1992 as leader
of the Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta, serving
until he retired in 2006. During his tenure, he reduced the
province’s deficit by cutting health-care spending, firing
nurses and demolishing the Calgary General Hospital. His
policies preceded efforts by the federal government to tackle
 Canada ’s national deficit, which rose to 8.6 percent of gross
domestic product in 1985, according to federal government  data .  “Ralph was determined that the first problem he was going
to deal with was the budget, the deficit and accumulated debt,
which he did,” said  Barry Cooper , a University of Calgary
political science professor who co-wrote the book “Governing in
Post-Deficit Times: Alberta in the Klein Years” in 2000.  “It was a populist restructuring that Ralph Klein
accomplished,” Cooper said in an interview on March 21.  Working Class  Ralph Phillip Klein was born on Nov. 1, 1942, in Calgary,
Alberta’s largest city, and was raised by his grandparents in a
working class neighborhood. He dropped out of high school to
enlist in the Canadian Air Force, according to a government
 biography . After his military service, he completed high school
and studied accounting and business administration at Calgary
Business College.  He remained in Alberta, doing public relations work at the
Red Cross and United Way from 1963 to 1969. Klein spent the next
11 years working as a reporter for CFCN, a television and radio
company, covering municipal politics.  Klein entered politics in 1980, when he was elected mayor
of Calgary, home to Canada’s oil and gas industry. He was re-
elected twice and served until 1989. While he was mayor, he
oversaw Canada’s first Winter Olympic Games, in 1988, and the
construction of Calgary’s modern light-rail commuter system, the
nation’s first.  After being elected to Alberta’s legislature in 1989, Klein
was appointed as the province’s environment minister and became
premier in 1992.  His most notable achievement may have come on July 12,
2004, when he announced that Alberta had retired the last of its
$23 billion debt from a decade earlier, helped by rising oil and
gas prices.  Failed Effort  As part of a deficit reduction policy, Klein’s government
passed a balanced budget law meant to avoid future budget gaps.
The measure didn’t work. Subsequent governments, including that
of Alberta’s current premier, Alison Redford, have posted budget
shortfalls after failing to account for falling prices of
Canadian  crude oil  and the recession that ended in 2009.  Klein achieved “astonishing political success,” Kevin
Taft, a former Alberta Liberal Party leader wrote in his 1997
 book  “Shredding the Public Interest.” The former premier
lowered per-capita spending on health care and other public
programs to levels comparable to the poorest parts of the
country, Taft wrote.  Throughout his political career, Klein was controversial.
As premier, in 2001 he visited a homeless shelter in  Edmonton 
and berated the residents to get jobs, throwing money at them.  Admitting Mistakes  Klein apologized for the episode and Albertans largely
forgave him, according to Cooper. “Almost unique in Canadian
politics, when he made a mistake, he admitted it, and his
popularity went up,” Cooper said.  In 1982, when he was mayor of Calgary, he  blamed  “bums and
creeps” from eastern Canada for aggravating a housing shortage
and increasing the city’s crime rate.  He left politics in 2006, succeeded as premier by Ed Stelmach, after 45 percent of his party’s members voted for a
leadership review, marking Klein’s lowest level of support.  After his departure, he worked as a business adviser at
 Borden Ladner Gervais LLP , a Toronto-based Canadian  law firm 
with offices across the country.  Klein is survived by his wife, Colleen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  