-- Treasuries Drop a Second Quarter Amid Improving Economy
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-03-30T12:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/treasuries-fall-a-second-quarter-amid-improving-economy.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell for a
second quarter, the first back-to-back drop in two years, as
investors sought higher-yielding assets amid improved economic
data and a Federal Reserve pledge to maintain monetary stimulus.  Yields on the benchmark securities reached 11-month highs
as the U.S.  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell in February and
employers added more jobs than forecast. Payrolls also swelled
in March, a report in the coming week may show. The rise in
yields was tempered as the bailout of Cyprus and Italian
political turmoil renewed the haven appeal of  U.S. government
debt .  “The U.S. economic data was stronger in the first quarter
than in the fourth, and it has confirmed the notion that while
we are not into a roaring recovery, the  U.S. economy  seems to be
on somewhat better footing,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The U.S.  10-year yield  increased nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, from January through March to 1.85 percent. It
touched 2.08 percent on March 8, the  highest  since April 5,
2012. The yield climbed 12 basis points from October through
December. Its last two-quarter rise ended in March 2011.  Ten-year yields fell eight basis points  this past week  in
New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  For the benchmark yield to rise to a Bloomberg survey’s
median year-end estimate of 2.25 percent, “we will have to see
the employment market improve, the situation in Europe subside
and the end of the Fed’s quantitative-easing program become
apparent,” Lyngen said.  Cheap Levels  Treasuries due in a decade or more have been trading at
almost the cheapest level in 19 months relative to global peers
with comparable maturities, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch bond indexes. Yields on the Treasuries reached 57 basis
points higher than those in an index of other sovereign debt on
March 25, the most since August 2011, the data showed. The
spread was 54 basis points on March 27.  U.S. government securities underperformed the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index in March as Fed efforts to spur the economy
boosted stocks.  Government bonds  returned 0.2 percent through March 27,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index, versus a
return by the  stock index  of 3.3 percent including reinvested
dividends. The  S&P 500  rose to a record on Thursday, March 28,
wiping out losses from the financial crisis, and the Dow Jones
Industrial Index climbed to its highest ever. U.S. markets were
closed on Friday, March 29, for observance of Good Friday.  Treasuries have lost 0.2 percent this year, after returning
2.2 percent in 2012, the Merrill Lynch index showed.  Fed Buying  Fed policy makers said March 20 after a meeting the central
bank will continue buying bonds under the third round of its
quantitative-easing strategy until there’s a substantial
improvement in the U.S. labor market. It purchases $85 billion a
month of Treasury and mortgage securities to put downward
pressure on borrowing costs.  While the jobs market has showed improvement, the
 unemployment rate  “remains elevated,” they said. They
reiterated that the Fed would keep its key  interest-rate  target
at virtually zero as long as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent and inflation is projected at no more than 2.5 percent.  Treasury yields had climbed March 8 after the Labor
Department reported U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by 236,000
jobs in February, beating a Bloomberg survey forecast of
165,000, and that the unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent,
from 7.9 percent.  ‘Doing Better’  “It’s clear and unambiguous -- the economy’s doing
better,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond
strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ’s RBS Securities
unit in Stamford, Connecticut, said that day. The firm is one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the U.S. central bank. “The
Fed’s policy actions are clearly having some impact.”  The U.S. will report April 5 that employers added 195,000
jobs in March and unemployment stayed at 7.7 percent, economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast.  Treasury 10-year  yields  held at 1.85 percent on March 28
after Commerce Department data showed U.S. gross domestic
product rose at a 0.4 percent annual rate in the fourth quarter,
up from a 0.1 percent prior estimate.  “We’ll dance around these levels, maybe up to 1.90 percent
if Cyprus continues to calm down,” said Steven Ricchiuto, chief
economist in  New York  at the primary dealer Mizuho Securities
USA Inc. “After that it’s really up to payrolls.”  Cyprus Turmoil  Treasuries have gained 0.7 percent since turmoil over a
rescue of Cyprus took center stage two weeks ago, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The yield on the 10-year
note has closed below 2 percent since March 15.  Bonds rose this past week as concern a European Union-led
aid package for Cyprus might be a precedent for future rescues
fueled bets that instability in the region would increase. The
nation is shutting its second-biggest bank, largely wiping out
bondholders, to win a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout.
Uninsured bank depositors also face losses.  Cyprus is the fifth nation in the euro bloc to seek
international aid since  Europe ’s crisis began in  Greece  in 2009.  In  Italy , Pier Luigi Bersani, head of the Democratic party,
failed to assemble a majority in the divided parliament to form
a government following inconclusive elections in February.  “It’s been a pretty bullish week for Treasuries,” said
Michael Lorizio, senior trader at Manulife Asset Management in
 Boston . “The market may be a little bit spooked. Over the last
couple of springs we seem to have headline risk from Europe
sprout up at about the same time.”  The New York-based Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association recommended that Treasuries trading end at 2
p.m. on Thursday, March 28, and stay  closed  yesterday, Friday,
March 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  