-- Rockwell Collins to Pursue Commercial Sales Amid Pentagon Cuts
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-03-29T04:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/rockwell-collins-to-pursue-commercial-sales-amid-pentagon-cuts.html
The chief executive officer of
 Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL)  said his company will shift some of its
business into the commercial sector as Pentagon budget cuts lead
to the dismissal of hundreds of workers.  Clayton Jones, speaking with Bloomberg Television’s  Hans Nichols  in an interview for “Capitol Gains” airing March 31,
said he expects Rockwell Collins to trim about 300 employees
this year because of automatic  federal budget  cuts known as
sequestration, with more firings possible next year.  “I think that could be the tip of the iceberg because I
think most of the effect is going to be felt in” fiscal year
2014, Jones said. “Sequestration is the single worst piece of
public policy I’ve seen in my 33 years in this business, and it
will absolutely affect us.”  Last year, federal agencies accounted for about 38 percent
of sales for the Cedar Rapids, Iowa-based company, according to
its  10-K filing  with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Jones said the company expects to see its commercial work
expand by 7 percent this year.  Rockwell Collins, which produces avionics and information
technology systems for aircraft, won about $1 billion in direct
U.S. government contracts in the year that ended Sept. 30.
That’s a 29 percent drop from about $1.4 billion in 2009 when
President  Barack Obama  took office, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Planning Woes  Uncertainty over government funding means “it’s impossible
to plan,” Jones said. Budget cuts and furloughs, leading to
fewer federal employees at the Defense Department, may slow cash
flow for contractors, he said.  Pentagon furloughs tied to sequestration have been slated
for June.  Department of Defense officials plan to cut the furloughs
of civilian workers to 14 days from 22, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said yesterday.  The Defense Department’s initial plan to cope with
sequestration called for putting civilian workers on furlough
for one day a week over 22 weeks. Additional money provided by
Congress in a  defense spending  bill for the fiscal year that
ends Sept. 30 has allowed the Pentagon to scale back the amount
of unpaid leave.  Retired Air Force General Charles Wald, now a director at
Deloitte Services LP, said he expected the Pentagon would cut
furloughs “to zero.”  Wald, speaking in a separate interview on “Capitol
Gains,” said the Pentagon had been “very frugal” in its
spending since the start of the fiscal year.  “My guess is that they will find a way not to have
furloughs,” Wald said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  