-- S&P Case Should Stay in Connecticut Court, U.S. Says
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-03-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/s-p-case-should-stay-in-connecticut-court-u-s-says.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ’ Standard & Poor’s
unit shouldn’t be allowed to move  Connecticut ’s lawsuit over
ratings of securities to a federal court, the U.S. argued in a
court filing.  McGraw-Hill, based in New York, filed so-called notices of
removal in several courts to put the  cases  by Connecticut and
other states under federal jurisdiction and combine them for
pretrial matters, such as the exchange of evidence and
questioning of witnesses.  “It is tempting to find federal jurisdiction every time a
multibillion-dollar case with national implications arrives at
the doorstep of a federal court,” the U.S. said in its filing
yesterday in federal court in New Haven, Connecticut. “The
jurisdiction of the federal district courts, however, is left to
Congress, not to the discretion of the courts themselves.”  The lawsuits, filed by the attorneys general of 16 states
and the District of Columbia, claim S&P violated state consumer-
protection and unfair-trade-practices statues. The U.S., in a
lawsuit filed in federal court in Los Angeles, accuses S&P of
inflating ratings on  mortgage-backed securities  and
collateralized debt obligations.  McGraw-Hill argued in the Connecticut case that state-court
action on the claims would “disrupt and supplant” regulation
of S&P by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. McGraw-
Hill also argued that the claims test the boundaries of the
free-speech rights of the First Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution, which is a federal defense.  Jason Feuchtwanger, a spokesman for New York-based McGraw-
Hill, didn’t immediately respond to messages yesterday seeking
comment on the U.S. filing. McGraw-Hill previously said in a
statement that the U.S. and state lawsuits are “meritless” and
that its ratings reflected its best judgments.  The Connecticut case is Connecticut v. McGraw-Hill Cos.,
13-00311, U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New
Haven). The U.S. case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-cv-00779,
U.S. District Court, Central District of  California  (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  