-- SAC’s Steinberg Arrested as Probe Gets Closer to Cohen
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-03-29T13:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/sac-s-steinberg-arrested-as-probe-gets-closer-to-cohen.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP  fund
manager  Michael Steinberg was arrested by FBI agents as the U.S.
government’s wide-ranging probe of insider trading at the
$15 billion firm got one step closer to founder  Steven A. Cohen .  Steinberg, 40, worked at SAC’s Sigma Capital Management
unit and is the most senior SAC official to be charged. He was
one of 15 portfolio managers handling technology, media and
telecommunications stocks before being placed on leave in
September, said a person with knowledge of the matter. His
lawyer, Barry Berke, said his client did nothing wrong and will
appear in  New York  federal court later today.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan  in
December ruled that Steinberg was an uncharged co-conspirator in
a $72 million scheme that also involved Level Global Investors
LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson, ex-Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman  and analysts who
obtained and swapped illegal tips about technology companies.  The arrest of Steinberg, who was taken into custody at
6 a.m. at his Manhattan home, FBI spokesman  Peter Donald  said,
is the latest development in a recent acceleration of the
government’s five-year probe. According to internal e-mails and
two people familiar with the matter, Steinberg and SAC fund
manager Gabriel Plotkin both were recipients of inside
information which convicted SAC technology analyst Jon Horvath
passed to them. Plotkin hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  Nonpublic Information  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said this month
that Horvath funneled nonpublic information on technology stocks
to two unidentified portfolio managers at Cohen’s hedge fund.
Both men then traded on the information, reaping more than
$6 million for SAC Capital units. The men were Steinberg and
Plotkin, according to the SAC e-mails.  Steinberg, who worked at SAC Capital since 1997, is one of
nine current or former employees of the hedge fund to be tied by
U.S. authorities to  insider trading . Cohen, who has denied any
wrongdoing, hasn’t been charged or sued by the government.  In November, the U.S. indicted Mathew Martoma, a former
fund manager for SAC’s CR Intrinsic Investors unit, in what
prosecutors called the biggest insider-trading scheme in history.
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said Martoma helped SAC
make $276 million on illegal tips about an Alzheimer’s drug by
trading in shares of Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC. He has pleaded
not guilty to the charges and is awaiting trial.  On Leave  Steinberg has had the longest tenure at SAC of those the
U.S. has tied to its insider-trading probe. Berke, Steinberg’s
lawyer, said today that his client is “caught in the crossfire
of aggressive investigations.”  “Michael Steinberg did absolutely nothing wrong,” the
attorney said in a statement. “His trading decisions were based
on detailed analysis as well as information that he understood
had been properly obtained through the types of channels that
institutional investors rely upon on a daily basis.”  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, declined to immediately comment.  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for Bharara, said in an e-mail the matter is “still
sealed,” declining to comment further.  Yesterday, a Manhattan federal judge expressed skepticism
at a provision of a $602 million settlement by SAC with the
SEC. SAC will have to wait to learn if the proposed insider 
trading accord can go forward, after U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  raised questions over whether the hedge fund should be 
allowed to avoid admitting it did anything wrong as part of the 
deal.  The accord would resolve SEC claims that SAC and CR
Intrinsic profited from alleged illegal tips received by Martoma
about the Alzheimer’s drug. As part of the March 15 agreement,
the SEC sued Sigma, describing Horvath’s passing of inside
information and expanding what the U.S. had previously said
about the insider trading at SAC.  Jon Horvath  Horvath, who worked for Steinberg, pleaded guilty in
September, admitting that he provided illegal tips to his
portfolio manager, who then traded on them.  Horvath said he and his co-conspirators obtained material
nonpublic information on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  in August 2008 and about
 Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  in May 2009 from insiders at the two technology
companies.  While Horvath never named Steinberg in court, prosecutors
alleged during Chiasson and Newman’s trial that Steinberg was
the recipient of Horvath’s tips. The tips earned Horvath’s hedge
fund manager about $1.4 million, prosecutors said. The SEC said
in the March 15 complaint that the analyst’s tips on technology
stocks reaped the fund more than $6 million.  Horvath, who worked at SAC’s Sigma unit from 2006 to 2011,
is cooperating with the insider-trading investigation by
Bharara’s office and the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation in New
York. Steve Peikin, Horvath’s lawyer, declined to comment.  During Plea  Horvath told the judge during his plea that he “agreed to
obtain and share information about public companies.”  “In each instance I provided the information to the
portfolio manager I worked for and we executed trades in the
stocks based on that information,” Horvath told Sullivan.  During Chiasson and Newman’s trial, assistant U.S.
attorneys Antonia Apps, Richard Tarlowe and John Zach provided
evidence including SAC e-mails that they said showed the fund
manager’s state of mind about the information he received from
Horvath.  Two days before Dell was set to report second-quarter 2008
earnings, Horvath e-mailed Steinberg and another portfolio
manager to warn that the computer maker would miss earnings
estimates.  Second Hand  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company,”
Horvath said in the Aug. 26 e-mail, which provided details on
gross margins, expenditures and revenue. “Please keep to
yourself as obviously not well known.”  Steinberg replied, “Yes normally we would never divulge
data like this, so please be discreet. Thanks.”  Judge Sullivan concluded in December that e-mail and
instant messages he reviewed showed that Steinberg could have
known information he used for trades came from insiders.  “The e-mails that were relayed to Steinberg do indicate to
me that he understands the source of the information that he’s
getting and he’s trading on it,” Sullivan wrote. “All of that
indicates this is inside information from the company that’s not
available anywhere else.”  Horvath was one of eight analysts and portfolio managers
charged in January 2012 with being part of what Bharara
described as “a tight-knit circle of greed” whose members
trafficked in confidential information from 2007 to 2009.  Pleaded Guilty  Six of those charged in the case have pleaded guilty and
agreed to cooperate with the U.S.  Horvath pleaded guilty just weeks before he was set to go
on trial with Chiasson and Newman. The two fund managers were
convicted in December by a federal jury in Manhattan and are
scheduled to be sentenced by Sullivan on April 19.  Sullivan ruled during Chiasson and Newman’s trial that
David Ganek, a Level Global co-founder, was also an uncharged
co-conspirator in the case. Both Chiasson and Ganek worked at
SAC Capital before starting Level Global.  Ganek hasn’t been charged with any crime. Ganek’s attorney,
 John Carroll , said in December when asked about Sullivan’s
ruling that “both the U.S. attorney and the SEC have been
investigating this case for two years and neither has found
reason to charge my client.”  Others Charged  Two others who were charged with being part of the scheme
pleaded guilty and testified at the trial as prosecution
witnesses.  Jesse Tortora, a former analyst who worked for Newman, and
Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, who once worked as an analyst for
Chiasson, described for the jury how they swapped nonpublic
information obtained from insiders at technology companies. They
said they then passed on that information to their portfolio
managers who traded on the illegal tips.  At a December hearing outside the jury’s presence during
Chiasson and Newman’s trial, Sullivan read aloud an e-mail from
Horvath to Steinberg that mentions “JT,” which prosecutors
said was a reference to Jesse Tortora.  “P.S. Keep the Dell stuff, especially on the down low,”
Horvath said in the e-mail, “because JT asked me specifically
to be extra sensitive with this information.”  Apps told the judge that Steinberg took a short position in
Dell stock, betting that it would drop, “in a matter of
minutes” after receiving Horvath’s message.  “Why would you need to keep this on the ‘down low’ if this
stuff is from  investor relations ?” Sullivan said, adding:
“That doesn’t look good.”  The case is U.S. v. Steinberg, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  