-- Sanofi to Build $75 Million Vietnam Plant as Demand Rises
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-29T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/sanofi-to-build-75-million-vietnam-plant-as-demand-rises.html
Sanofi (SAN) , France’s biggest drugmaker,
will start building a $75 million plant in  Vietnam  as rising
income and urbanization bolsters demand for health care in Asia.  The company, which has been in the country of nearly 90
million for more than 50 years, will produce at an initial
capacity of 90 million units per year at the new facility when
it starts operations by the end of 2015 and may later extend to
150 million units, according to an e-mailed statement. It
currently runs two plants in Ho Chi Minh City at full capacity,
according to Sanofi Chief Executive Officer Chris Viehbacher.  “Asia continues to grow and it seems to be less affected
by the European economic difficulty” compared with other
regions in the world as there’s “a lot of trading going on
among Asian countries,” Viehbacher said in an interview
yesterday in Hanoi.  Asia is home to fast-growing populations like  Indonesia  and
nations with strong economic growth, including Vietnam and
China, he said. The rise of middle-income families and
urbanization in the region will give people more access to
health care, he said.  Sales from Vietnam are climbing 25 percent annually and is
the fastest-growing in Southeast Asia, according to Cyril
Grandchamp-Desraux, Sanofi’s general manager of Vietnam,
Cambodia and Laos. Annual sales in Vietnam will exceed 100
million euros ($128 million) this year, he said.  Sanofi currently sells about 80 percent of the products
made in Vietnam domestically. The new plant will expand its
manufacturing capacity to “meet the fast growing demand of the
Vietnamese pharmaceutical market and will serve as an export
platform to ASEAN countries,” Sanofi said in the statement,
referring to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  While Sanofi “is always actively looking” for acquisition
opportunities worldwide, the company is focusing more on non-
BRIC countries as “valuations are high everywhere,” said
Viehbacher, referring to  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  