-- Schumer Says Business-Labor Immigration Agreement Close
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-03-30T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/schumer-says-business-labor-immigration-agreement-close.html
Business and labor leaders are
close to resolving a dispute over visas for low-skilled foreign
workers as lawmakers draft a broad revision of U.S. immigration
laws, a Democratic senator involved in the discussions said.  “We are very close, closer than we have ever been, and we
are very optimistic, but there are still a few issues
remaining,”  New York  Senator Charles Schumer said yesterday in
a statement.  The accord would clear a hurdle that has threatened to
thwart the push to rewrite immigration policy that President
 Barack Obama  has made a priority for his second term. The effort
would establish a path to citizenship for the estimated 11
million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business
lobbying group, and the AFL-CIO, the biggest labor federation,
have been at odds over wage levels in a new program to provide
U.S. visas for as many as 200,000 low-skilled foreign workers
each year.  Schumer told reporters earlier in the week, following a
tour of the U.S.- Mexico  border in Arizona, that a bipartisan
group of eight senators working on immigration legislation is
“90 percent” done with its draft, which senators say they are
aiming to unveil the week of April 8.  Discussions on the measure have continued even as Congress
is in a two-week recess. Obama said March 27 that he wants an
immigration bill to pass in the next several months.  Wage Agreement  As of March 28, negotiators had reached a tentative
agreement on how wage rates for most industries affected by the
visa program would be set, according to a congressional aide
with knowledge of the negotiations who requested anonymity when
discussing the private talks.  “We’re feeling very optimistic on immigration,” Jeff
Hauser, an AFL-CIO spokesman, said in a statement yesterday.
“Aspiring Americans will receive the road map to citizenship
they deserve and ‘future flow’ will be modernized without
reducing wages for any local workers, regardless of what papers
they carry.”  “Ultimately the final decisions will be made by the
senators involved,” Randy Johnson, senior vice president of
labor, immigration and employee benefits at the U.S. Chamber,
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Republican Qualms  It remains unclear whether a labor-business compromise on
the visa program would gain support from all of the lawmakers
working on the bill, particularly its Republican members.  Florida Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican, hasn’t yet
signed off on the compromise labor groups and business leaders
are negotiating, his spokesman, Alex Conant, said yesterday in
an e-mail.  The bill in its current form would allow undocumented
immigrants in the U.S. to reach full citizenship in 13 years.
Republican Senators Jeff Flake and John McCain of  Arizona , two
of the senators involved in the talks, are insisting on
“triggers” to verify that the U.S. border with Mexico is
secure as part of a deal.  The measure is also likely to include a better system for
companies to verify the immigration status of job applicants and
new rules that prioritize the family members who can immigrate
to the United States legally.  Industry Exemptions  The AFL-CIO has been seeking to exempt industries with high
unemployment rates such as construction from the new worker-visa
program, Richard Trumka, the group’s president, said in an
interview taped March 27 for C-SPAN’s “Newsmakers” program.  While the labor federation has said it will oppose any new
visa plan that would decrease wages for U.S. workers, business
representatives have countered that the group is demanding wages
that are higher than those paid to domestic workers performing
the same jobs.  More generally, labor unions are pressing for a limited
visa system that guarantees better wages for future immigrant
workers, while businesses seek a broader program more responsive
to their hiring needs.  Republicans want to expand the allotment of visas for
immigrants with the vocational, technical or educational
qualifications to meet the demand of U.S. companies for skilled
workers.  In closed-door talks, labor unions and Democratic
negotiators are proposing to allocate 10,000 such visas
initially and cap the program at 200,000 visas, according to
people close to the negotiations who asked to not be identified
in describing the proposals.  That number would increase or contract through a formula
that factored in U.S. economic and employment data and the
recommendations of a government panel. Businesses would have to
pay immigrant workers hired through the program an established
wage, in some cases much higher than would otherwise be
required.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net 
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Ellis at 
 dellis5@bloomberg.net  