-- Serbia to Reject ‘Humiliating’ Kosovo Compromise, PM Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-03-29T13:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/serbia-to-reject-humiliating-kosovo-compromise-pm-says.html
Serbia  would reject any
“humiliating” compromise with the breakaway province of  Kosovo 
in order to improve its chances of starting European Union
membership talks in April, Premier  Ivica Dacic  said.  Dacic will meet Kosovar Prime Minister Hashim Thaci on
April 2 for a final round of EU-mediated talks on solutions for
Serb-dominated Kosovar municipalities. The EU has demanded the
two sides reach a political settlement as a condition to move
ahead with EU accession, Dacic told Parliament.  “Humiliation is no solution for Kosovo” and any solution
should take into account that “Serbia cannot exercise authority
or apply its Constitution and laws in Kosovo and Pristina can’t
do it either in the north,” Dacic, a former aide to the late
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic , said yesterday. The country’s
leadership meets today to outline a strategy.  Serbia, a candidate for EU membership since March 2012, may
get a date for the start of formal talks by June if it shows
enough progress in mending ties with Kosovo.  The EU-sponsored talks between Serbia and Kosovo need to be
completed before April 16, when EU Foreign Policy chief
 Catherine Ashton  reports to the European Commission before
presenting a report to the  Council of Ministers  six days later.  ‘Serious Consequences’  The country “finds itself in a dramatically difficult
position,” Marko Djuric, a foreign policy adviser to the
Serbian president, said in Belgrade today. “The citizens need
to know that we will face serious consequences, whatever the
decision, because the other side was not ready for compromise.”  Dacic, the head of the Socialist Party, wants to find a
lasting solution during his term for Kosovo, the breakaway
province that declared independence in 2008 and has been
recognized by more than 90 states worldwide, including 22 of 27
EU members.  His nine-month old Cabinet is dominated by former
nationalists of the Serbian Progressive Party, which has
campaigned for early parliamentary elections as the popularity
of their leader, Aleksandar Vucic, soared after an arrest of
Serbia’s richest businessman in December.  Vucic’s party would be backed by 38.6 percent of voters if
snap elections were held this month, according to a March
opinion poll presented by the Belgrade-based pollster Faktor
Plus.  Party Rankings  Dacic’s Socialists would rank third, with 13.6 percent
support, trailing behind the  Democratic Party , the largest
opposition party that lost elections last May and currently
enjoys a 14.8 percent backing, according to the survey which had
a margin of error of 3 percentage points.  The Progressives, who control the central bank and are
fighting against corruption, appointed Dacic the chief
negotiator for talks with Kosovo, which Serbia sees as the
cultural cradle of the nation.  Ashton invited Vucic for talks to Brussels on April 2 and
wants the German and British foreign ministers to participate to
encourage a compromise, according to B92 news portal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  