-- Serbian GDP Shrinks More Than Expected as Austerity Damps Demand
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2013-03-29T14:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/serbian-gdp-shrinks-more-than-expected-as-austerity-damps-demand.html
Serbia’s economy contracted more
than estimated in the last quarter of 2012 as government
austerity measures damped household demand and prompted a
decline in construction.  Gross domestic product shrank 2 percent from the same
period a year earlier, compared with a preliminary estimate of a
1.5 percent decline, the national statistics office in Belgrade
said today. GDP fell 1.7 percent for the full year.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s Cabinet, in office less than
one year, has pledged to narrow the fiscal gap to 3.6 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 6.7 percent in 2012, as
well as curb price increases and restart growth to qualify for
talks with the  International Monetary Fund  on a new
precautionary loan. One out of four Serbs is jobless.  Serbia’s planned fiscal consolidation for 2013-2015 may
“shave off over 1 percent of GDP on average,” ratings assessor
Standard and Poor’s said in a statement yesterday. “As a
result, we believe medium-term growth drivers will be difficult
to identify unless the government is more strenuous in its
reforms to the labor market and public sector.”  The government targets economic growth of 2 percent this
year, fueled by car sales from Fiat’s unit in  Serbia  and
increased exports of crude oil products.  Revised figures released by the statistics office today
showed GDP contracted 2.7 percent in the first quarter, followed
by a 0.3 percent drop in the following three months and a 2.1
percent decline in the July-September period. The office
previously estimated that GDP fell 2.3 percent in the first
three months, followed by a 0.6 percent decline in the next
quarter and 2.5 percent drop in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  