-- Chinese Police Detain Distributor in Hero Milk Powder Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-29T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/shanghai-pulls-swiss-brand-s-milk-in-crackdown-after-apple-vw.html
Chinese police detained a milk
distributor suspected of repackaging and selling milk powder
made by Swiss dairy company  Hero Group  that wasn’t licensed for
sale domestically, the official Xinhua News Agency said.  The suspect was in charge of a Suzhou, eastern China-based
company distributing Hero-branded products, Xinhua said
yesterday. Of the 17 batches of milk powder confiscated from the
distributor, only three were qualified for sale in  China , the
agency said, without being more specific.  Shanghai  had asked 15 supermarkets and 28 stores selling
Hero’s Nutradefense formula to remove the products after the
state television broadcaster reported food quality problems, the
city’s food safety commission said in a  statement  March 28.
Lenzburg, Switzerland-based Hero said in a  statement  on its
website yesterday it hasn’t detected any quality or safety
problems with its products.  Hero’s experience mirrors incidents that affected other
overseas brands as China strengthens scrutiny on foreign
companies ranging from iPhone maker  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  to  Volkswagen AG. (VOW) 
New leadership takes over this month in a once-in-a-decade
change and Premier  Li Keqiang  pledged on March 17 to improve
consumer safety by regulating food quality and environmental
protection with an “iron fist.”  Yum, Audi  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM)  Vice Chairman Sam Su earlier this year
apologized after Shanghai’s food safety commission found
excessive levels of antibiotics in samples from a local chicken
supplier between 2010 and 2011. Inspection processes and
internal communications were lacking, said Su, who’s also
chairman of the Louisville, Kentucky-based restaurant chain’s
China business.  Last year, Volkswagen’s luxury Audi unit asked a Chinese
dealer to remove a banner advocating the murder of Japanese
people after a photograph of the sign spread on the Internet
amid escalating tensions between the two countries over disputed
islands. The message didn’t reflect Audi’s views, Lu Minjie, a
spokeswoman at FAW-Volkswagen Automotive Co. said in September.  The Shanghai  Food and Drug Administration  is conducting a
“through investigation” into Hero’s milk powder, the agency
said in the statement on its website dated March 28. Any
offenders would be “severely dealt with,” it said.  Netherlands Made  Hero said its  infant formula  sold in China is produced
exclusively in the Netherlands and it hasn’t detected quality or
safety violations. CCTV in a March 29 report said samples of
Hero’s Nutradefense branded formula had altered expiration dates
and were adulterated with expired milk.  Hero Nutradefense infant formula is suitable for babies
between 6 months to 3 years old, and it sells other infant
nutrition  brands  such as Hero Baby, Friso, and Semper, globally,
according to the company’s website.  The Swiss dairy company said in the statement a recent
investigation by the Suzhou Institute of Supervision &
Inspection on Product Quality alleged that one of Hero’s sub-
distributors in China had been involved in the illegal
repackaging of Nutradefense. This has been investigated by
Suzhou authorities and dealt with appropriately, it said.  Apple and Volkswagen were featured in government-run  China
Central Television ’s annual consumer rights show in the country
on March 15.  Apple Criticism  Apple has also come under criticism in China since CCTV’s
annual consumer rights telecast two weeks ago found issues
related to its after-sales service. The People’s Daily, a
newspaper published by China’s Communist Party, has run articles
critical of Apple every day this week.  In yesterday’s People’s Daily, the newspaper said the State
Administration for Industry and Commerce urged strengthening
regulation of contracts between consumers and electronics
makers.  Apple policies on returns and repairs in China “fully
comply with the local laws and regulations,” according to a
Chinese-language  statement  that the company posted to consumers
on its website last weekend.  Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest automaker, said March 16 it
plans to recall vehicles in China after drawing scrutiny from
the nation’s quality inspector and state broadcaster over
defective gearbox systems.  Chinese owners of Volkswagen vehicles fitted with its
direct-shift gearbox technology -- a system with two gearboxes
that help enhance gear changes and improve fuel economy -- have
reported abnormal vibrations, loss of power and sudden
acceleration, according to CCTV’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  