-- Some IMF Staff Too Defensive With Internal Auditor, Report Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-03-29T21:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/some-imf-staff-too-defensive-with-internal-auditor-report-says.html
Some employees of the  International
Monetary Fund  are acting too defensively and are sometimes even
“antagonistic” toward recommendations presented by the
lender’s internal auditor, a report found.  Such behavior toward the IMF’s Independent Evaluation
Office is more widespread among senior staff members and more
common than it used to be, according to the report by three
former government and IMF officials, which was commissioned by
the board of directors and published today.  “We believe these attitudes are counter-productive and
need to be constructively addressed,” the authors, who include
former Colombian Finance Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo, wrote.
“This requires significant dialogue and rebuilding mutual trust
between management, staff and the IEO.”  Tensions built between the IEO and the fund’s staff last
year when the internal auditor said the lender had
overemphasized the risks posed by countries such as  China  and
 South Korea  amassing too many reserve assets. In a response to
that audit, the staff said the report “misconstrues the motives
of the fund.”  “Tensions between the fund staff and the IEO are to some
extent inevitable, and disagreements often constructive,” IMF
Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said in a statement released
with the report. “At the same time, the panel is right that the
relationship needs to improve, and the IEO will become even more
effective with greater engagement with and from the fund.”  A majority of employees and board member see the IEO
contribution to IMF ideas as positive, according to today’s
report.  Still, the report also criticized the use made of the
auditor’s recommendations, which “tend to be watered down at
each stage” of their implementation. The IEO has also been too
restricted in the topics it can write about, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  