-- Some U.S. States Can Shift Medicaid Funds to Exchanges
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2013-03-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/some-u-s-states-can-shift-medicaid-funds-to-exchanges.html
Low-income people may get Medicaid
money to buy health insurance from private plans such as
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  or  Humana Inc. (HUM)  in a “limited number”
of states, U.S. officials said.  Arkansas  and  Ohio  have asked President  Barack Obama ’s
administration to allow them to adjust how Medicaid dollars are
used. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services  said
yesterday  it would allow an unspecified number of states to do
this as long as it doesn’t cost the government more than the
traditional Medicaid program.  The plan is a departure from the 2010 Affordable Care Act,
which calls for an expansion of government-run Medicaid, the
health program for the poor. Under the health law, about 12
million people are  expected  to be added to Medicare’s rolls by
2020 as the program grows to cover people earning as much as
about 138 percent of the federal poverty level, or about $32,500
for a family of four.  “We remain committed to working with states and providing
them with the flexibility and resources they need to build new
systems of health coverage,” Cindy Mann, the agency’s Medicaid
director, said in a blog post yesterday. “Premium assistance is
simply one option.”  Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe, a Democrat, received informal
approval on Feb. 18 from  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. Secretary
of Health and Human Services, for a proposal to use money for
the Medicaid expansion to instead buy private coverage for low-
income people in the state’s new insurance exchange.  Awaiting Approval  The state’s Medicaid director, Andy Allison, said in an
interview yesterday that he hopes to receive approval for the
plan from Mann’s agency soon.  Ohio Governor  John Kasich  is negotiating a similar plan for
his state with Mann’s agency. Republican lawmakers in other
states including Florida and Tennessee have expressed interest,
and are waiting on the outcome of the Arkansas and Ohio
negotiations, said Matt Salo, executive director of the National
Association of Medicaid Directors in  Washington .  “Everybody else is sort of saying, ’we’re going to watch
this,”’ Salo said in a phone interview yesterday. “If Arkansas
and Ohio can’t figure this out, they’ll reevaluate.”  Mann’s agency said in the question-and-answer document that
states can include in their proposals savings they may gain by
adding more people to exchanges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  