-- South Korea Tax Shortfall Poses Fiscal Cliff Risk, Adviser Says
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-03-29T07:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/south-korea-tax-shortfall-poses-fiscal-cliff-risk-adviser-says.html
South Korea  may face a 12 trillion
won ($10.8 billion) tax revenue shortfall this year as economic
growth slows, and the government may need to issue bonds to
avoid its own fiscal cliff, a presidential adviser said.  “If the revenue shortfall is left unaddressed, we may see
a Korean version of the fiscal cliff in the second half of this
year,” South  Korea ’s chief presidential economy adviser Cho Won Dong said today in  Seoul . The government must issue bonds to
afford the planned expenditures and avoid the kind of
“mandatory budget cuts that the  U.S. economy  is now suffering
from,” he said. Cho didn’t give the value of bonds to be sold.  The government yesterday lowered its 2013 growth outlook to
2.3 percent from 3 percent and said it will introduce a stimulus
package next month to boost an economy grappling with a strong
won that’s harming exports. Political opposition is mounting
against President Park Geun Hye’s pledge to fund the stimulus
without levying new taxes.  “The government may be overestimating the downside risk by
cutting the growth projection to 2.3 percent while emphasizing
worries of a tax shortfall, which would help justify a
stimulus,” Kwon Young Sun, a Nomura International Ltd.
economist said by phone today.  Slower growth wasn’t reflected in the national tax revenue
projections and the government’s approved budget for 2013, Cho
said. Details on the size of the stimulus plan will be announced
after discussions with the legislature, he said.  The government is pushing for more than 60 percent of this
year’s 342 trillion won budget to be spent in the first half.
That’s not enough to overcome the present fiscal and economic
challenges, Cho said.  Inevitable  Park’s economic growth reduction was a “gimmick” to build
public support around the need for a stimulus, the main
opposition Democratic United Party said today in an e-mailed
statement. While issuing bonds may be inevitable to finance a
stimulus, takes must also be raised on big businesses and high-
income earners to safeguard fiscal soundness, the DUP said.  Park’s planned supplementary budget requires approval from
the 300-seat National Assembly. President Park’s ruling New
Frontier Party holds a majority with 152 seats over the DUP’s
127 lawmakers.  The government’s lower economic forecast and warnings of
revenue shortfall may add pressure on the central bank to lower
the benchmark  interest rate , Nomura’s Kwon said. The  Bank of
Korea  kept the seven-day repurchase rate unchanged at 2.75
percent on March 14. It last lowered rates in October.  “We maintain our call that the BOK will keep rates
unchanged at 2.75 percent through 2013 as it seeks a balance
between the benefits and cost of further monetary easing,” Kwon
said. “Still, there’s possibility of a forced rate cut in this
climate, with the pressure from the government.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  