-- U.S. Explores West African Trade and Investment Agreement
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-03-29T23:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/u-s-explores-west-african-trade-and-investment-agreement.html
The U.S. is exploring a possible
trade and investment agreement with the 15-nation Economic
Community of West  Africa , acting U.S. Trade Representative
Demetrios Marantis said today.  The announcement came after a meeting in  Washington 
yesterday between President  Barack Obama  and the leaders of
three ECOWAS members, Presidents Ernest Bai Koroma of Sierra
Leone and Macky Sall of Senegal and Prime Minister José Maria Pereira Neves of the Cape Verde Islands. The three were joined
by President Joyce Banda of Malawi in southeastern Africa.  After Obama’s meeting, Marantis and other administration
officials proposed that the U.S. and  ECOWAS  explore the
possibility of negotiating a Trade and Investment Framework
Agreement (TIFA), the trade representative’s office said in a
statement.  The U.S. has similar agreements with the East African
Community, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa,
the West African Economic and Monetary Union, and the Southern
African Customs Union. It also has bilateral trade and
investment agreements with eight nations in sub-Saharan Africa -
-  Angola ,  Ghana , Liberia, Mauritius,  Mozambique , Nigeria,
 Rwanda , and South Africa, the trade representative’s office
said.  The ECOWAS agreement “can significantly contribute to
economic growth and increased international competitiveness on
both sides of the Atlantic” and help support American jobs by
improving opportunities for U.S. investment in West Africa,
Marantis said in the statement.  ‘Democratic Gains’  After his meeting yesterday with the four African leaders,
Obama said their countries are consolidating democratic gains,
leading to more stable governments and economic growth.  “They exemplify the progress that we’re seeing in
Africa,” Obama said. “All of them have had to deal with some
extraordinary challenges.”  Meeting in the Cabinet Room of the White House, Obama said
Sierra Leone has had consecutive “free and fair” elections
after civil war a decade ago, Malawi has overcome a
constitutional crisis,  Senegal  has preserved democracy “after
some bumps” in the road from the previous president, and Cape
Verde has boosted per-capita income from about $200 a year to
about $4,000 a year, “a real success story.”  The African leaders also met this week with Defense
Secretary Chuck Hagel for talks on countering terrorism,
combating transnational threats and improving maritime security.
Recent U.S. efforts to those ends have been focused on defeating
Islamic militants in North Africa and fighting piracy along the
east and west African coasts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  