-- Hungary Should Pause Rate Cuts, IMF Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-03-29T14:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/hungary-should-pause-rate-cuts-imf-says.html
Hungary should pause with monetary
easing after the benchmark interest rate dropped to a record low
in a series of “appropriate” cuts, the International Monetary
Fund said.  A further “deep” reduction of borrowing costs raises the
risk of weakening the forint and undermining financial
stability, the Washington-based lender said in its annual report
on Hungary’s economy, dated March 5 and published on its  website 
today. The IMF provided the bulk of a 20 billion-euro bailout
($26 billion) for the country in 2008.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced its  benchmark rate  by a
quarter-point to a record low 5 percent on March 26, trimming it
for an eighth month as it seeks to help the economy exit its
second recession in four years. The  economy  will stagnate this
year as the government’s “interference” in the economy through
“frequent and unpredictable” policy changes have hurt
investments, undercutting recovery prospects, the IMF said.  “While the recent monetary-policy easing was appropriate,
a pause in the easing cycle seems prudent at this point,” the
IMF said in the report. “In fact, with fickle market
confidence, deep policy rate cuts could lead to currency
depreciation and could risk destabilizing the financial
system.”  The forint strengthened 0.1 percent to 304.17 per euro by
2:47 p.m. in Budapest. It has weakened 4 percent against
Europe’s common currency this year, the second-worst performance
among more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg behind the South African rand.  Inflation, Budget  The Hungarian central bank this week tightened its
conditions for monetary easing after new Governor Gyorgy Matolcsy’s first rate decision. Cuts can continue only if market
confidence improves, policy makers said in a statement on March
26.  Inflation will average 3.2 percent this year and 3.4
percent next year, the IMF said. The central bank estimates
price growth below its 3 percent target both years, according to
forecasts published yesterday.  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent last month from a year
earlier, the slowest pace in seven years.  Hungary is set to overshoot its  deficit  targets in the
medium-term, with the shortfall widening to 3.2 percent of
economic output this year and 3.4 percent in 2014, the IMF said.
The MNB yesterday cut its forecast for the gap to below 3
percent both years.  Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who nominated his former
economy minister Matolcsy for the central bank job, deployed
measures including the nationalization of private-pension fund
assets and levied retroactive industry taxes to narrow the
budget shortfall and exit a European Union fiscal oversight. The
Cabinet expects the deficit to remain below the bloc’s limit of
3 percent of economic output this year and next.  The IMF during its review that ended Jan. 26 expressed
“deep concern” about the composition of measures underpinning
the budget and urged a “significant improvement” in policies,
including the gradual elimination of special industry taxes,
according to the report.  The government estimates 0.9 percent expansion this year,
while the central bank forecasts 0.5 percent growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  