-- UPS Pays $40 Million to End Illegal Drug Shipment Probe
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-03-29T22:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/ups-settles-probe-of-illegal-online-drug-shipments-u-s-says.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  agreed
to forfeit $40 million to settle a federal probe into shipments
for illegal online pharmacies, admitting the company had
information it was helping distribute controlled substances.  UPS signed a non-prosecution agreement with the U.S. that
requires it to set up a compliance program to prevent illegal
Internet pharmacies from using its shipping services, according
to a copy of the deal released today by the  Justice Department .
The accord, which requires cooperation with the Drug Enforcement
Administration, will remain in effect for two years.  “DEA is aggressively targeting the diversion of controlled
substances, as well as those who facilitate their unlawful
distribution,” DEA Administrator Michele Leonhart said in a
statement. “This investigation is significant and DEA applauds
UPS for working to strengthen and enhance its practices in order
to prevent future drug diversion.”  From 2003 through 2010, UPS knew from employees that
Internet pharmacies were using its services to distribute
controlled substances and medicines without valid prescriptions
in violation of the law, according to the agreement. UPS didn’t
implement procedures to close the shipping accounts of these
pharmacies, the Justice Department said.  The company’s drivers went so far as to drop off drug
packages with pharmacy customers in parking lots and along
highways, according to a law enforcement letter attached to the
agreement.  Probe Subpoenas  UPS said in a regulatory filing last year that it responded
to subpoenas as far back as 2007 from the U.S. attorney in  San
Francisco  in connection with the DEA investigation.  “UPS cooperated with the DOJ throughout the
investigation,”  Bill Tanner , a spokesman for the Atlanta-based
company, said in a statement. “We believe we have an obligation
and responsibility to help curb the sale and shipment of drugs
sold through illegal Internet pharmacies.”  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  disclosed that it’s facing a similar probe in
documents submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
FedEx, in a Sept. 19  filing , said it responded to grand jury
subpoenas in 2008 and 2009.  “It’s unclear what federal laws UPS may have violated,”
Patrick Fitzgerald, a spokesman for Memphis-based FedEx, said in
a statement today. “We remain confident that we are in
compliance with federal law.”  DEA List  He said the company has asked the DEA for a list of
pharmacies it believes operate illegally “so we can immediately
shut off shipping services.”  A statement of facts referred to in the agreement lays out
the role UPS played in shipping packages for Internet pharmacies
beginning in 1999. UPS admitted that the information in the
statement is accurate, according to the agreement.  In 2003, UPS marketing employees identified Internet
pharmacies as a sector of the health-care industry worth
pursuing because of its high shipping volume and revenue
potential. In an e-mail, they noted the importance of luring
these customers away from other carriers.  In just a few months, UPS employees became concerned after
clients were shut down by state and federal authorities. The
company decided to no longer offer pricing discounts to Internet
pharmacies that don’t require patients to first see a doctor.
UPS still allowed the pharmacies to use its service.  ‘Due Diligence’  “Appropriate due diligence was not conducted on all
accounts UPS employees knew or should have known were being used
to ship pharmaceuticals ordered online to determine whether the
businesses were operating legally,” according to the statement
of facts.  The document offers the example of United Care Pharmacy,
which UPS signed up as a client in September 2005. That same
month, the  Kentucky  Bureau of Investigations Drug Unit sent UPS
a list of illegal pharmacies that were shipping drugs to its
state that included United Care. UPS continued to ship packages
from the pharmacy into Kentucky, according to the statement of
facts.  UPS cut the pharmacy from its client list only after senior
executives of the pharmacy were arrested two years later,
according to the document.  UPS also continued to ship Internet pharmacy orders into
Virginia after receiving a letter in 2005 from state law
enforcement officials claiming that UPS drivers were delivering
drug packages to people in parking lots and beside the highway.
Drivers were also delivering packages to the same person who was
using several different names, according to an excerpt of the
letter published in the statement of facts.  “We are concerned that these drugs, many of which are mind
altering pain medication and nerve medication, are being
misused, and abused by citizens,” the Southwest Drug Task Force
in Big Stone Gap,  Virginia , said in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 