-- Turkish Stocks Advance Seventh Day After Foreign Trade Data
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-03-29T16:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/turkish-stocks-advance-seventh-day-after-foreign-trade-figures.html
The  Istanbul Stock Exchange (XU100)  climbed
for a seventh day, led by industrial companies, after a report
showed the foreign trade deficit in February was smaller than
analysts estimated.  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS (SAHOL) , Turkey’s second-largest
industrial group, advanced 1.4 percent, the most since March 18.
 TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL) , the country’s biggest airport
operator, rose 7.3 percent to the highest level since at least
February 2007. The Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index
added 0.8 percent at the close in Istanbul, extending its
quarterly gain to 9.8 percent. The bourse’s  industrials index 
advanced 0.8 percent to a record.  Turkey’s foreign trade deficit was $6.96 billion in
February, beating all estimates in a Bloomberg survey of six
economists and compared with a median estimate of $8.8 billion.
Exports rose 5.8 percent to $12.4 billion in the month, while
imports climbed 9 percent to $19.4 billion, according to data
released today by the statistics office in Ankara.  “The data has mostly helped industrials, as it reflects a
healthy balance in the economy,” Goksel Tekiner, an analyst at
Yatirim Finansman Securities in Istanbul, said in a phone
interview today. “Plus, we don’t have any bad news from abroad
that could hurt equities, with most markets being closed for
Easter.”  Stocks extended gains after reports showed U.S. consumer
spending increased the most in five months in February and
confidence among American consumers unexpectedly rose in March
from the prior month.  Low Volume  Trading volume for shares in the benchmark gauge was 12
percent less than the 30-day average as markets were closed in
most of Europe and the U.S. for holidays.  This month’s rally comes after Standard & Poor’s raised
Turkey’s credit rating to one level below investment grade on
March 27 after the market closed, citing rebalancing in the
economy, resilience to potential shifts in capital inflows and
movement toward a political settlement to resolve tensions with
Turkey’s Kurdish population.  The benchmark index jumped 1.3 percent yesterday. The gauge
gained 53 percent last year, the best performance worldwide
after Venezuela’s stock index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  