-- Musician Prince Settles Lawsuit Over Perfume Deal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-03-29T20:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/musician-prince-settles-lawsuit-by-vivendi-over-marketing-deal.html
Prince and  Vivendi SA (VIV)  settled a
lawsuit filed by a  Pennsylvania  manufacturer in 2008 accusing
the singer and Universal Music Group of breaking a contract over
the marketing of two perfumes, a lawyer for the plaintiffs said.  Revelations Perfume and Cosmetics, based in Huntingdon
Valley, Pennsylvania, sued the musician, whose full name is
Prince Rogers Nelson, and Universal Music in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan in November 2008, seeking at least
$100,000 in damages. The company accused Prince of reneging on
agreements to help market perfumes using his name and likeness
and the name of his 2006 album “3121.”  A judge in April ordered Prince to pay $3.95 million for
Revelations’ out-of-pocket losses, while denying the company’s
request for punitive and lost-profit damages. The judge found
there was no evidence that Prince and co-defendant Paisley Park
Enterprises acted with malicious intent. Prince appealed the
ruling the following month.  The parties have agreed to withdraw the suit and the
appeal, according to court filings dated March 27. David E.
Landau, an attorney with Duane Morris LLP in Philadelphia
representing Revelations Perfume, confirmed in a phone interview
that the case was settled. He declined to disclose the terms of
the settlement.  David Donahue, an attorney with Fross Zelnick Lehrman &
Zissu Pc in New York representing Universal Music, declined to
comment on the settlement. C. Kawezya Burris, an attorney with
Kaye Scholer LLP in New York representing Prince, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is Revelations Perfume and Cosmetics Inc. v.
Prince Rogers Nelson, 603350/2008, New York State Supreme Court
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  