-- Verizon Liable for $2.85 Billion in Debt, Trustee Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-03-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/verizon-liable-for-2-85-billion-in-debt-trustee-says.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-biggest U.S. telephone company, was sued for $2.85
billion in debt and interest stemming from its relationship with
bankrupt directory company Idearc.  The suit involves the non-payment of debt evidenced by 8
percent senior notes due 2016 that were issued pursuant to an
agreement between Idearc and U.S. Bank N.A. as indenture trustee
dated November 2006, according to court filings. The trustee
filed the suit in  New York  State Supreme Court in  Manhattan 
yesterday.  Verizon spun off Idearc, its directory business, in 2006.
Creditors contend the spinoff, designed to generate $9.5 billion
for Verizon, left Idearc with so much debt it was insolvent and
destined to collapse. It filed for bankruptcy 28 months after
the spinoff.  “Because Verizon never properly incorporated Idearc (for
which it acted as promoter in arranging the indebtedness and was
a direct beneficiary thereof) Verizon is liable for the
indebtedness at this time,” the trustee said in yesterday’s
court filing.  Now known as  SuperMedia Inc. (SPMD) , Idearc completed a bankruptcy
reorganization that created a trust to bring lawsuits on behalf
of creditors with claims of about $6 billion, according to court
papers.  Ray McConville, a spokesman for New York-based Verizon,
said yesterday in a phone interview that the company is
reviewing the lawsuit.  Dallas Ruling  A federal judge in Dallas in January said Verizon would
probably win a lawsuit over the 2006 spinoff of Idearc,
rejecting claims that the business was insolvent at the time of
the deal.  Idearc had a value of at least $12 billion, and the “only
credible evidence” shows the business was solvent when it was
spun off, U.S. District Judge A. Joe Fish in  Dallas  said in the
January decision.  Fish ordered U.S. Bancorp, which sued Verizon on behalf of
Idearc creditors, to explain why its claims were viable
following the ruling on valuation. The judge said it “appears”
creditors will be unable to prove their case “so that all of
the plaintiff’s remaining legal claims will fail.”  The case is  U.S. Bank National Association , solely in its
capacity as indenture trustee v. Coticchio, 651132/2013, New
York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  