-- VimpelCom, MTS Bid for Tele2 Russia Would Shut Out Rival
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-03-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/vimpelcom-mts-bid-for-tele2-russia-would-shut-out-rival.html
Russian cell-phone operators  OAO
Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  and  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  are seeking to topple  VTB
Group (VTBR) ’s agreement to acquire Swedish  Tele2 AB’s (TEL2B)  Russia unit,
which may prevent the creation of a fourth nationwide mobile
operator.  MTS and VimpelCom have jointly offered to acquire Tele2
Russia for as much as $4.25 billion, the companies said in a
statement March 28. VTB Group, Russia’s state-run bank, agreed
on March 27 to acquire Tele2’s Russian unit for $3.55 billion in
cash and debt.  “MTS and VimpelCom are afraid that VTB may resell Tele2
Russia to Rostelecom, which may form a fourth countrywide mobile
operator, boosting competition in the industry,” said Alexander
Vengranovich, analyst at Otkritie Capital. State-run
telecommunications operator OAO Rostelecom has a mobile license
for the Moscow region, a nationwide fourth-generation license
and better access to funding, Vengranovich said.  VTB may have agreed to buy Tele2  Russia  for Rostelecom,
which needs time to complete a merger with its parent company
OAO Svyazinvest, Alexander Kazbegi, analyst at Moscow-based
Renaissance Capital Holdings Ltd. said in a note March 28. “VTB
might keep Tele2 on its balance sheet for six to eight months
before transferring it to Rostelecom,” he wrote.  A representative of Rostelecom declined to comment on the
Tele2 agreement. A VTB official, who asked not to be named
according to company policy, said VTB is open to cooperation
with any market players.  ‘A Perfect Fit’  Tele2 is a “perfect fit” for Rostelecom because their
mobile networks are complementary, allowing the formation of a
fourth nationwide operator, Rostelecom investor Konstantin
Malofeev said in December.  Malofeev’s private equity firm Marshall Capital Partners
sold its 10.7 percent Rostelecom stake to President  Vladimir
Putin ’s judo partner Arkady Rotenberg last month. Former
Rostelecom Chief Executive Officer Alexander Provotorov, backed
by Marshall, was replaced this week by Sergey Kalugin, who
previously worked for another friend of Putin, Yury Kovalchuk.  The deal to acquire Tele2 Russia is “concluded and legally
binding,” Yury Soloviev, VTB’s first deputy president, said
March 28 in an interview. VTB is looking at potential strategic
partners to develop Tele2, he said, without elaborating.  “VTB already struck the deal, and I am not sure if Tele2
minorities can overturn it now,” said Vengranovich from
Otkritie. “These alternative offers may have another aim: to
force VTB into taking Vimpelcom’s and MTS’s interest into
account -- so they could participate in dividing the Tele2
Russia assets.”  No Meeting  VimpelCom Chief Executive Officer Jo Lunder and MTS
President Andrei Dubovskov sent a letter making the joint
counterbid to Tele2 CEO Mats Granryd and Chairman Mike Parton.  “Neither MTS nor VimpelCom were permitted to meet with
Tele2 AB financial advisers or management to discuss the
potential acquisition,” they said in the statement.  Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group , which
controls VimpelCom, may consider buying all of Tele2, which
operates in 10 countries besides Russia, including Sweden,
Norway and  Kazakhstan .  Russia’s largest mobile operator is billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s MTS, with 71.2 million users. Billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s MegaFon and billionaire Mikhail Fridman’s VimpelCom
have 62.6 million and 56.1 million Russian users respectively,
according to researcher AC&M Consulting.  Tele2 has mobile coverage in 41 out of 83 Russian regions
and 22.7 million users, while Rostelecom covers 30 regions and
13.6 million mobile users.  The Stockholm-based company is quitting Russia after
failing in July to win a license for next-generation services
that enable faster data transmission.  MegaFon may consider parts of Tele2 if they are offered,
Director Ivan Streshinskiy said in December, adding such an
acquisition may make sense if carried out jointly with other
operators. OAO MegaFon isn’t in talks with VTB, spokesman Petr
Lidov said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  