-- Yen Slide Won’t Save Japan Shipyards Facing Losses, JMU Says
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2013-03-29T07:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/yen-slide-won-t-save-japan-shipyards-facing-losses-jmu-says-1-.html
Japanese shipbuilders may post
losses next fiscal year as the yen’s weakening fails to mitigate
the impact of a global supply glut pressuring prices, the
president of  Japan  Marine United Corp. said.  “No domestic yard is confident enough to say it will be
able to earn a profit for the fiscal year” starting April 1,
Shinjiro Mishima said March 27 in an interview at the company’s
 Tokyo  headquarters. “Cost reduction is the only way for us to
be profitable as we can’t rely on the yen’s declines” to lift
repatriated earnings.  The outlook reflects the challenge facing Asian
shipbuilders. Global production capacity has expanded to more
than twice the demand for vessels, according to Mishima, whose
company was formed Jan. 1 by the merger of the shipbuilding
units of  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411)  and  IHI Corp. (7013)   The combined company, Japan’s second-biggest shipbuilder,
will curb operating hours by 10 percent to 20 percent from peak
levels in the next year to withstand “tough” times ahead, he
said. The domestic merger, the first in the industry in more
than a decade, was designed to regain ground lost to rivals in
 South Korea  and  China .  Japan, once the world’s biggest shipbuilding nation, had a
global share of 18.3 percent last year by ship completion, third
after China and  Korea , according to the Shipbuilders’
Association of Japan, which cited estimates by researcher IHS.
The three Asian countries together held a share of 92 percent.  More M&A  Japan Marine is open to talks with any other potential
partners to join the merged group, though no specific  deal  is
underway, Mishima said. A bigger company would enhance
purchasing power and boost investment for the designing of fuel-
efficient ships, he said.  The yen’s slide isn’t sufficient and the currency would
need to fall to 110 yen to the dollar for domestic shipbuilders
to earn profits, Mishima said, sharing the same view as domestic
rival  Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012)  　  The Japanese currency, which traded at 94.08 yen to the
 U.S. dollar  as of 4:32 p.m. in Tokyo, fell as low as 96.71 yen
on March 12, a level unseen since August 2009. The weaker yen
boosts repatriated earnings and makes Japan-made ships and other
exports less expensive.  Slower Operations  Kawasaki Heavy, based in the western port city of Kobe,
said last week it will curb operation hours by about 15 percent
at its two domestic yards and relocate some Japanese workers to
 Brazil  where it’s building a plant with local partners.　  Japan Marine United is 45.93 percent held each by JFE
Holdings, Japan’s second-biggest steelmaker, and heavy equipment
maker IHI. The merged group targets annual sales of 500 billion
yen ($5.3 billion) as early as five years after the integration,
Mishima said. It expects to have combined revenue of less than
400 billion yen in the current year, he said.  JFE fell 2.1 percent to 1,767 yen in Tokyo trading, paring
its gain this year to 10 percent. IHI, which makes products
ranging from  jet engines  and boilers to liquefied natural gas
tanks, gained 0.4 percent to 286 yen.  To reap benefits of the merger, Japan Marine United will
negotiate better supply terms on materials that together account
for about 65 percent of the costs associated with building
vessels. Costs will also be cut by constructing similar types of
vessels in the same locations, he said.  Closing any of the company’s inherited seven yards won’t be
considered until after it sees whether the facilities save
enough, Mishima said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  