-- Zuckerberg Deal With Microsoft Wins Antitrust Approval
-- B y   F r e d   S t r a s s e r
-- 2013-03-29T15:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-29/zuckerberg-deal-with-microsoft-wins-antitrust-approval.html
A transaction involving  Mark Zuckerberg , chief executive officer of  Facebook Inc. (FB) , and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s advertising business won approval from U.S.
antitrust authorities  Facebook said on Feb. 28 it would acquire Atlas Advertiser
Suite, adding measurement tools that help it step up competition
with Google Inc. for online-display advertisements. All
transactions of more than $70.9 million by law must be reported
to antitrust regulators for review. The U.S. Federal Trade
Commission today announced the deal was approved without
identifying the nature of the transaction.  Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social-networking
service, is seeking to accelerate revenue, which is projected by
analysts to slow for a fourth straight year in 2013. Atlas will
help in challenging Google, which gained ad-serving technology
in its $3.24 billion purchase of DoubleClick in 2008.  Google (GOOG) 
will have 18 percent of the U.S. display-ad market in 2013,
compared with Facebook’s 15 percent, according to EMarketer Inc.  The team from Atlas will remain in  Seattle , where the
business is based,  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook said
when it announced the deal.  Atlas tools help companies choose and place ads on websites
and monitor their effectiveness.  Ad Campaign  With Atlas, Facebook will be able to gauge how an ad
campaign is performing on its own service and on other sites
around the Web, Brian Boland, director of monetization product
marketing, said in an interview at the time. Using that data,
the company can help advertisers craft better marketing
campaigns, including on its own service.  The deal is part of Microsoft’s effort to unwind the
unsuccessful $6.3 billion 2007 purchase of AQuantive Inc., which
developed Atlas. Microsoft wrote down almost the entire value of
the deal last year.  Microsoft has focused more attention on building search-
based advertising, at the expense of the graphical-display ad
business that includes Atlas and the AQuantive assets. Still,
Microsoft wants to ensure that  Mountain View , California-based
Google has competition. That made Facebook, a Google rival and
Microsoft partner, an attractive choice for a buyer.  As part of the deal, Microsoft will remain a user of Atlas,
said Dave O’Hara, chief financial officer for the Redmond,
Washington-based company’s online services division.  “We thought they had a good vision of where they want to
go,” O’Hara said. “We’re still a very large presence in the
online advertising business and will be for many, many years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Strasser in Washington at 
 fstrasser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  