-- AB InBev Has ‘Agreement in Principle’ With U.S. on Modelo
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/ab-inbev-u-s-seek-more-time-to-finish-modelo-settlement.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV and the U.S.
Justice Department said they have reached an agreement in
principle to resolve an antitrust lawsuit seeking to block the
brewer’s purchase of  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) , maker of Corona beer.  The parties filed a joint motion yesterday in  Washington  to
postpone the suit until April 23 so they can complete the
agreement. They had been scheduled to report to U.S. District
Judge Richard Roberts by April 9 about progress toward a
settlement or to set a litigation schedule. This is the third
extension they have asked for since the Justice Department sued
to block the merger Jan. 31.  “At this time, the parties have reached an agreement in
principle on a resolution of this litigation based on the terms
of the revised transaction,” AB InBev and the U.S. said in
yesterday’s filing. “The parties request this additional stay
so they may finalize the details of a proposed consent judgment
and related papers required by the Antitrust Procedures and
Penalties Act.”  This postponement request, they said, should be the last.  AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , has been negotiating
with the Justice Department for approval of a revised merger
plan that would have Modelo sell control of all its brands in
the U.S., as well as a brewery it built in Piedras Negras,
 Mexico , to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) , a winemaker and drink-
distribution company.  ‘Fully Protect’  “Any settlement would have to fully protect U.S. consumers
by preserving the competition that Grupo Modelo currently
provides, while giving a divestiture buyer the freedom and
capability to compete vigorously going forward,” Gina Talamona,
a Justice Department spokeswoman, said yesterday in a statement.  The revised transaction is still subject to regulatory
approval in Mexico, AB InBev and Constellation said in separate
press releases following yesterday’s filing.  AB InBev made the revised offer on Feb. 14. The U.S. has
been reviewing Constellation’s plan to boost brewing capacity at
the Piedras Negras plant by about 70 percent to ensure that
Modelo-brand products remain viable competitors in the U.S. beer
market, two people familiar with the matter said March 8.  Crown Imports  Under the revised deal, AB InBev also gave up an option to
buy back a stake in Crown Imports LLC, the U.S. distributor of
Corona and the other Modelo brands. As part of the plan, Crown,
owned jointly by Mexico City-based Modelo and Victor,  New York- 
based Constellation, would be entirely owned by Constellation.  Constellation plans to invest about $400 million to expand
the Piedras Negras brewery, which produces Corona, Corona Light
and Modelo Especial, allowing it to supply all of Crown’s needs
for the U.S. market.  AB InBev  fell  1.8 percent to 75.15 euros yesterday in
Brussels. Constellation declined 0.9 percent to $47.84 in New
York, while Modelo dropped 1.1 percent to 110.8 pesos in Mexico
City.  The case is U.S. v.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  