-- Air Canada Seen Rallying Further as Labor Issues Settled
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-04-05T20:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/air-canada-seen-rallying-further-as-stock-stays-cheap.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  is forecast to rally
beyond a 73 percent first-quarter advance as the company remains
the third-cheapest airline stock in the Americas.  Canada’s largest carrier will climb about 22 percent over
the next year, based on the average of 11  analysts’ estimates .
Today’s close of C$3.13 left Air Canada with the third-lowest
price-earnings ratio among 15 carriers based in the two
continents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The airliner has rebounded from a low of 82 cents in 2012,
a year marred by wildcat strikes and the bankruptcy of its sole
engine-repair supplier. A federal arbitrator let the company
impose a cost-cutting contract on pilots in July, and the shares
got another boost last month with the extension of a pension-
funding cap.  “For the first time in the last two years, they are not
facing any major labor issues,” said PI Financial Corp.’s  Chris Murray , who raised his 12-month price estimate to C$4 from
C$3.25 on March 26 and recommends buying Air Canada stock. “A
lot of the major issues around the company have either been
addressed, or there’s a path to dealing with them.”  The stock’s consensus rating is the eighth-highest among
the 15 airlines.  Price Estimates  Air Canada dropped 4 percent in Toronto today amid concern
that the outbreak of bird flu in  China  will curb demand for some
international flights.  The average price target is now C$3.83, reflecting upgrades
as recently as today, when  Walter Spracklin , an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, raised his target price on Air
Canada to C$4 from C$3.50.  National Bank Financial’s Cam Doerksen boosted his
prediction to $3.25 from C$2.80 on April 3, while Kevin Chiang,
an analyst at  CIBC World Markets , raised his estimate to C$4
from C$3 on March 12 after the pension deal.  The stock’s 79 percent climb this year has  outpaced  both
the S&P/TSX and the Bloomberg Americas Airlines Index.  Air Canada has a policy against commenting on stock-price
changes, said John Reber, a spokesman. Formerly a state-owned
company, the airline was taken public in 1988 and emerged from
an 18-month bankruptcy in September 2004. It returned to the
stock market via an initial public offering about two years
later.  WestJet Premium  Even with the past year’s gains, the Montreal-based
carrier’s shares trade at discounts of 54 percent to rival
 WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA)  and 58 percent to the S&P/TSX index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Air Canada is still cheap on most valuation metrics,”
said Daniel Bubis, president of Winnipeg, Manitoba-based Tetrem
Capital Management, which oversees more than C$6 billion ($5.9
billion) in assets, including Air Canada and WestJet shares.  “When the stock got absolutely crushed, a lot of it was
the labor unrest, the media attention,” he said. “There were
flight disruptions, there was negative sentiment. Ultimately,
those issues got resolved so you are getting the valuation
discount shrinking.”  Earnings growth will help propel the stock higher, National
Bank Financial’s Doerksen said in a telephone interview.  Excluding some costs and gains, Air Canada is expected to
earn 65 cents a share in 2013 and 80 cents next year, the
average estimates in Bloomberg surveys. On that basis, profit
last year amounted to 19 cents a share.  Pension Costs  Lower pension costs are helping to fuel improvement. Last
month, Air Canada reached an agreement with the federal
government to stretch a cap on pension funding by seven years, a
move that CIBC’s Chiang said will save the company more than
C$400 million a year in cash outflow.  Air Canada’s pension solvency deficit declined by about 12
percent to C$3.7 billion as of Dec. 31 after the company’s
retirement plans returned 14 percent in 2012, according to a
March 22 filing.  Agreements with Air Canada’s main labor groups will
probably cut the solvency deficit by an additional C$1.1 billion
as of January 2014, pending regulatory approval, the company
said in February.  “With the pension relief they got, their ability to get to
the other side is a lot stronger now,” said Bubis at Tetrem.
“And if  interest rates  ever go up again, that would be a huge
boost to them on the liability side.”  A better economic outlook should also help the stock, he
said.  Corporate Spending  “Business activity is picking up,” Bubis said.
“Potentially, employment is coming back in  North America ,
corporate spending also.”  None of that guarantees higher returns for investors,
though, which is why  Aston Hill Financial Inc. (AHF) , which oversees
C$6.7 billion, pared its stake in Air Canada while maintaining
its debt holdings.  “It’s a little risky being long both sides of the balance
sheet, especially after the equities have run so well,” said
Andrew Hamlin, an Aston Hill fund manager in Toronto. “We’ve
made some good money there, and it’s not necessarily clear that
their stock is going up another 20 percent.”  Cost Efficiency  Air Canada stills trails WestJet and other carriers on
expenses.  Air Canada’s cost for each seat flown a mile, a measure of
airline efficiency, amounted to 18.5 cents in the fourth quarter
of 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was the highest
average among 12 North American airlines tracked by Bloomberg.
WestJet had costs of 14.1 cents, the data show.  “The cost difference between Air Canada and WestJet has
narrowed, but I would say WestJet still has a very significant
cost advantage even with all the changes that Air Canada has
made,” Doerksen said.  Air Canada is working to narrow WestJet’s edge. Its new
pilot contract, approved by a federal mediator, paved the way
for the company’s Rouge low-cost unit, which will begin
operating in July.  WestJet, meanwhile, is stepping up competition for short-
haul Canadian and trans-border flights with its Encore unit.  “It has been our experience as we launch into new markets
that we lower prices for guests traveling on our new routes as
competitors match parts or even all of our relatively compressed
fare structure,” Robert Palmer, a spokesman for WestJet, said
in an e-mail.  Encore’s pricing has already had an impact, he said.  ‘Pricing Pressure’  “Air Canada will have to digest that for the next little
while,” said Bubis. “There is going to be pricing pressure for
Air Canada on some of their profitable routes.”  Even so, Bubis said he plans to hang onto his Air Canada
and WestJet shares because economic “tailwinds” are favorable.
Both airlines have filled their planes to record levels in
recent months.  “Airlines of today are not the airlines that we’ve seen in
the past decades, where it was just lost capital,” Bubis said.
“Now there’s more focus on return on capital, less new
competition, more intelligent pricing. If you believe all that,
then there is substantial room for airline stocks to move up,
Air Canada included.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  