-- Air Towers Slated for Closing to Remain Open Until June
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-05T20:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/air-towers-slated-for-closing-to-remain-open-until-june.html
The 149 U.S. airport control towers
slated for closing as soon as April 7 under mandatory budget
cuts will remain open until June 15, the  Federal Aviation
Administration  said.  The agency extended the deadline for shuttering the towers
because it needs additional time to resolve legal challenges,
the agency said in a statement today. It will also give the
agency more time to adjust flight routes and procedures,
according to the statement.  “This has been a complex process and we need to get this
right,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said in the
statement. “We will use this additional time to make sure
communities and pilots understand the changes at their local
airports.”  The FAA must cut $637 million under automatic cuts known as
sequestration by Sept. 30, according to the statement. The
agency had planned to stop funding more than half of the 251
towers operated for the FAA by contractors. The towers are
located at smaller airports that cater to private flights.  Delaying the closings may force the agency to make
additional cuts elsewhere in its $16 billion budget. The
shutdowns had been expected to yield $30 million to $40 million
in savings by Sept. 30. The agency statement didn’t address
other cuts.  The agency’s decision came after the town of Ormond Beach,
 Florida , sought a court order blocking the closing of the local
airport’s control tower.  Ormond Beach is among at least seven cities or airport
authorities across the U.S. that have sued the FAA over plans to
shut control towers.  ‘Way Forward’  The FAA delay “is not a solution,” Senator Jerry Moran, a
 Kansas  Republican, said in a  statement  posted on his website.  Moran and Democrat  Richard Blumenthal  of  Connecticut  plan
to introduce legislation next week that will prohibit the U.S.
from closing any air-traffic control towers, including those
operated by the FAA.  “Closing control towers is equivalent to removing stop
lights and stop signs from our roads,” Moran said in the
statement.  The  Contract Tower Association , an Alexandria, Virginia-
based trade group representing the towers, applauded the
decision in an e-mailed statement.  “Today’s decision is a welcome development, and we remain
hopeful that DOT and FAA will find a way forward to deal with
budget realities in a way that doesn’t disproportionately target
contract towers,” Spencer Dickerson, executive director of the
group, said in the statement.  Airport Funding  The FAA had a conference call April 2 with airports and the
companies that run the towers and was unable to answer many
questions about the shutdown, Dickerson said in an April 3
interview.  “The level of frustration in getting information and
dealing with the FAA is extremely high,” he said.  The FAA should use the additional time before the closings
to conduct an additional review of the impacts of the tower
closings, Craig Fuller, president of the Frederick, Maryland-
based Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, said in an e-
mailed statement.  About 50 airport authorities have told the FAA that they
would pay for tower operations themselves if the agency stopped
its funding, according to the agency’s statement. The delay will
allow the agency to set up the transition in funding, it said in
the release.  Towerless Airports  Most of the 5,000 U.S. airports operate without towers.
Pilots are responsible for avoiding other planes and notifying
others of their intentions with radio calls.  The FAA had said it would stop funding for 24 towers on
April 7, including Ormond Beach Municipal. The first group
included towers in Fayetteville,  Arkansas ; Olathe, Kansas, and
Kinston,  North Carolina .  The towers to be shuttered were split into three groups. A
second tranche was to have closed April 21 and the third May 5.  That phased approach was abandoned today, the FAA said in
its statement. All 149 towers will close June 15 unless local
airports and other government agencies decide to pay for them,
according to the statement.  The contract tower program began in the early 1980s as the
FAA struggled to staff its air-traffic control system after
President  Ronald Reagan  fired 11,000 striking controllers in
1981, according to a March 26 report by the non-partisan
 Congressional Research Service .  Safety Debated  They are located at small- and mid-sized airports that
typically cater to private flights, with smaller numbers of
charter and military flights. Of those scheduled to close, 13
averaged at least one scheduled airline arrival and departure
per day in 2011, according to FAA data.  While the funding for contract towers has been justified
since 1990 on anticipated safety benefits, a more recent study
by the FAA found no such link.  The study of more than 200 of the airports with contract
towers found almost identical accident totals in the five years
before towers were opened compared with the five-year span
afterward.  The March 26 CRS report concluded there would be a
“relatively small” reduction in safety if towers closed, based
on the 1990 FAA study. Because crash rates have declined since
then, the 1990 report may overstate the risks, the CRS study
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  