-- Airport Seeks Court Order Blocking Control Tower Closing
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-04-05T03:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/airport-seeks-court-order-blocking-control-tower-closing.html
A town near  Daytona Beach ,  Florida ,
sought a court order blocking closure of the local airport’s air
traffic control tower, which is losing funding April 14 as part
of government-wide spending cuts.  Ormond Beach , with about 38,000 residents and a general
aviation airport, is among at least seven cities or airport
authorities across the U.S. that have sued the Federal Aviation
Administration over plans to shut control towers, or ATCTs.  “The presence of an on-site ATCT is the most critical
factor in preventing on-airport and mid-air collisions,” the
town said in its  filing  yesterday in the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in San Francisco. “The elimination of the towers will cause
immediate safety hazards that FAA failed to address.”  Nationwide, 149 small and mid-sized airports with fewer
than 150,000 annual takeoffs or landings, including those
serving  Ohio State University , the headquarters of State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. in Illinois and visitors to
Glacier National Park in Montana, will lose their control towers
starting April 7. The shutdowns were ordered by the  Federal
Aviation Administration  as it grappled with the need to trim
$637 million from its $16 billion budget. All of the towers
slated for closing are operated by contractors while facilities
at larger airports are staffed by FAA employees.  April 12 Ruling  Ormond Beach asked the appeals court to rule on its
emergency request by April 12.  Planes can continue to use airports without working control
towers under FAA procedures. Instead of being guided by
controllers, pilots radio one another to manage takeoffs and
landings.  Six cases filed as direct challenges to an agency ruling in
federal appeals courts in Washington and  California  today were
consolidated by a judicial panel that oversees multi-district
litigation and transferred to the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco for review.  Meanwhile, U.S. lawmakers are trying to keep up the
pressure to keep the towers open. Next week, senators led by
Republican Jerry Moran of  Kansas  and Democrat  Richard Blumenthal 
of  Connecticut  will introduce legislation that will prohibit the
Department of Transportation from closing any air traffic
control towers, said Garrette Silverman, a spokeswoman for
Moran. The measure also would require the DOT to resume
operations at the 24 towers slated to close on April 7.  Last month, 27 senators led by Moran failed to attach
language to a stopgap spending measure that would have blocked
funding cuts to 179 towers operated by FAA contractors that will
be affected by the across-the-board cuts. Senate leaders in both
parties didn’t allow a vote on Moran’s amendment before the
Senate approved the measure, which ended the 2013 budget fight
while locking in $85 billion in automatic cuts throughout the
government.  The Florida case is City of Ormond Beach v. Huerta,
13-71178, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  