-- Allergan Investor Claims Over Botox Penalty Thrown Out
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-04-05T19:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/allergan-investor-claims-over-botox-penalty-thrown-out.html
Allergan Inc. (AGN)  directors won’t have
to face investor lawsuits seeking to hold them responsible for a
$600 million penalty the company paid over illegal marketing of
the wrinkle-smoother Botox, the  Delaware  Supreme Court said.  A judge erred in allowing Allergan shareholders to proceed
with claims that the board failed to oversee executives who
marketed Botox for ailments that hadn’t been approved by
regulators, the state’s high court ruled yesterday. Allergan
argued Delaware Chancery Court Judge Travis Laster was required
to follow a federal judge’s lead and throw out the case.  “The undisputed interest that Delaware has in governing
the internal affairs of its corporations must yield to the
stronger national interest that all state and federal courts
have in respecting each other’s judgments,” the appeals court
said in 12-page ruling posted on its  website  today.  The ruling comes more than a month after Allergan officials
agreed to settle an Oklahoma family’s suit alleging Botox caused
a 6-year-old boy to develop  botulism . The boy was given the drug
to treat spasticity in his legs, which is a so-called off-label
use of the drug.  Allergan, based in  Irvine , California, was pleased with
today’s ruling, spokeswoman Bonnie Jacobs said.  $2 Billion  Earlier this year, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
 approved  Botox for use in adult patients suffering from
overactive bladders. It was the eighth condition for which
Botox, based on a purified form of the  botulinum  toxin, has been
approved. The company is projecting as much as $2 billion in
2013 Botox sales.  Allergan’s marketing efforts came under scrutiny in 2007,
when federal prosecutors began reviewing Botox sales. They
started the probe after  whistle-blowers  claimed the company was
using illegal marketing tactics to turn the medication into a
blockbuster drug.  Allergan officials agreed in September 2010 to plead guilty
to a charge of misbranding Botox by promoting it for unapproved
uses and to pay a total of $600 million in fines and damages.  The drugmaker agreed to pay $375 million in criminal fines
and $225 million to resolve civil claims filed by the U.S.
 Justice Department  over Botox’s marketing campaign.  Prosecutors  alleged  Allergan executives pushed its sales
force to market the anti-wrinkle drug for headaches, pain,
muscle stiffness and juvenile cerebral palsy. At the time of
those sales, the FDA hadn’t approved Botox as a treatment for
those ailments.  Shareholder Suits  Although doctors may prescribe drugs for uses not approved
as safe and effective by government regulators, companies are
forbidden to market them for off-label uses.  In the wake of the company’s guilty plea, two pension funds
who invested in the drugmaker sued in Delaware seeking to hold
directors accountable for the company’s marketing missteps.  The funds’ derivative suit would return any recovery from
insurance covering board members to the company. In such cases,
shareholders are filing suit  on behalf  of the company in which
they’ve invested.  A separate set of Allergan shareholders sued the company’s
board in federal court in  California  over similar claims about
the illegal marketing campaign. A judge later threw that case
out.  ‘Same Force’  Despite the ruling from his federal-court colleague, Laster
allowed the case before him to proceed after finding Allergan
investors in California didn’t have the authority to sue on
behalf of the company.  The Delaware Supreme Court rejected Laster’s reasoning,
saying he should have considered the federal judge’s decision to
throw out a similar derivative case against Allergan as
precluding the Delaware suit.  Legal provisions required Laster to give the California
judge’s ruling the “same force and effect it would be entitled
to in the California federal or state courts,” the appeals
court judges said.  The state’s highest court also rejected Laster’s finding
that California investors weren’t proper derivative plaintiffs
because their lawyers hurried to file a complaint after the
company agreed to settle the government’s Botox marketing
claims.  Laster has said in earlier rulings that so called  “fast
filers,”  lawyers who rush to sue in the wake of a negative
event in hopes of taking the litigation lead in cases, weren’t
bringing substantive claims. He has said that such practices are
designed to the benefit of the lawyers rather than investors or
companies.  “We reject the fast-filer irrebuttable presumption of
inadequacy,” the appeals court said. While some fast filers may
not be adequate derivative plaintiffs, others may be, the court
added.  The case is Pyott v. Louisiana Municipal Police Employees
Retirement System, 380, 2012, Delaware  Supreme Court  (Dover).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  