-- Malta to Cut Taxes in Face of Deficit Risk, Prime Minister Says
-- B y   K a r l   S t a g n o   N a v a r r a
-- 2013-04-05T12:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/malta-to-cut-taxes-in-face-of-deficit-risk-prime-minister-says.html
Malta’s new government will go ahead
with tax cuts, undeterred by a deficit that threatens to top the
European limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product, Prime
Minister Joseph Muscat said.  Muscat, elected last month, blamed the previous government
for overstating the country’s fiscal health and said his aim is
to keep the shortfall under the European limit in 2013.  “The public finances are not as they have been described,
or what was expected,” Muscat said today in Valletta in a
presentation on the budget, which he will take to lawmakers on
Monday. “We will still be able to carry out our electoral
program. We won’t complain.”  In bringing the  Labour Party  back into power after 15 years
in opposition, Muscat pledged to cut income taxes and energy
costs while reducing the  budget deficit .  Muscat said today that without a course correction the
deficit would go as high as 3.5 percent of GDP in 2013. Malta’s
deficit was 2.6 percent last year, according to a February
estimate by the European Commission. Official European data are
due on April 22.  “Political instability in 2012, that was finally resolved
by the election, had an impact on government income with a
corresponding increase,” Muscat said.  Labour won 55 percent of the vote, giving it the largest
parliamentary majority since Malta achieved independence from
Britain in 1964. The election was triggered by an impasse over
the budget, which led  Standard & Poor’s  to cut Malta’s credit
rating one level to BBB+ in January.  Victory by Muscat, 39, ended nine years of rule by the
centre-right’s Lawrence Gonzi, 58. Gonzi’s Nationalist Party had
steered Malta into the European Union in 2004 and to euro
adoption in 2008. Under Gonzi, economic growth outpaced the
euro-region average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Stagno Navarra in Valletta at 
 ksnavarra@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Patrick Henry  at   phenry8@bloomberg.net  