-- Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos Invests in Blodget’s Business Insider
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-04-05T15:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/amazon-s-jeff-bezos-invests-in-blodget-s-business-insider-site.html
Business Insider Inc. , the news site
co-founded by former Internet analyst  Henry Blodget , raised $5
million in  venture capital  from investors led by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos .  Bezos, an avid reader of the site, is making his first
investment in the company through his personal investment arm
Bezos Expeditions and brings the startup’s total funding to
$18.3 million, Business Insider said. RRE Ventures and
Institutional Venture Partners also participated in the funding
round. Earlier investors have included  venture capitalist  Marc Andreessen and Ken Lerer, a co-founder of the  Huffington Post .  “Jeff’s leadership, vision and philosophy at Amazon have
been an inspiration to a whole generation of startups and
entrepreneurs, including me,” Blodget said in an interview.
“It is a privilege and pleasure to have him invest in the
company.”  The New York-based company had about $10 million in sales
last year and a net loss of $3 million, according to a person
with direct knowledge of its finances. Business Insider has
about 100 employees and is expected to bring in more than $15
million in revenue this year, though it may not reach
profitability, said the person, who asked not to be named
because the information is confidential.  ‘Dishonorable Discharge’  The 47-year-old Blodget, the subject of a recent New Yorker
 profile  by author  Ken Auletta , was barred from working on Wall
Street after he settled claims with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in 2003. The year before,  Eliot Spitzer , then the
attorney general of  New York , accused Blodget of publishing
“buy” and “sell” ratings on stocks to help win investment-
banking business.  “Ten years ago, I got what amounted to a dishonorable
discharge from the industry, and I’ve always been ashamed of
that,” he told Auletta. “At some point, if it seems
appropriate, I would like to explore the possibility of being
reinstated.”  In 2007, he  helped start  Business Insider, known for its
slide shows and quick takes on news.  The site draws around 24 million monthly readers and its
coverage ranges from finance to technology to entertainment,
with headlines like “ Facebook Just Destroyed Google’s Android
Strategy ” and “ The 28 Most Beautiful Photos Of Tiger Woods
Playing Golf .” Its staff choses topics based on real-time data
about what readers are clicking on.  Bezos’ Value  Bezos, 49, started Seattle-based Amazon in 1994 and built
it into the world’s largest online retailer. He is the 21st
richest person in the world, with a net worth of $24.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Billionaires.  As an analyst, first at Oppenheimer & Co. and later at
Merrill Lynch & Co., Blodget gained fame for his bullish stance
on Amazon. In December 1998, much of  Wall Street  had a negative
view of the e-commerce company, which was then trading at $240 a
share. Saying that “Amazon’s valuation is clearly more art than
science,” Blodget set a one-year price target of $400. The
figure was laughable to many on Wall Street -- until three weeks
later, when the stock soared past that mark.  To avoid the appearance of favoritism at Business Insider,
the site will regularly disclose Bezos’s investment when writing
about his company, Blodget said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  