-- Apple, Google Win Ruling Blocking Group Antitrust Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-05T17:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/apple-google-win-ruling-blocking-group-antitrust-lawsuit.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and six other companies
won a court order to block potentially thousands of employees,
from engineers to sous chefs, from proceeding in a group lawsuit
that their incomes were held down by the companies’ agreements
not to recruit one another’s workers.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose, California, ruled
today that information-sharing by plaintiffs lawyers and the
companies may permit the case to go forward and the employees
may refile their claims with the newer information.  The case can’t proceed now as a class action, partly
because “plaintiffs examples, though compelling, may not be
sufficient to show that all or nearly all class members were
affected by the anti-solicitation agreements without additional
documentary support or empirical analysis,” Koh wrote.  The lawsuit is a private action on behalf of employees that
mirrors claims the companies settled with the U.S. Justice
Department in 2010.  The companies argued that the employees’ lawyers failed to
show that everyone in the proposed class was hurt by any such
agreements, as is required for the group to be certified as a
class. Plaintiffs’ lawyers claim the anti-competitive behavior
artificially suppressed incomes of more than 160,000 employees
across a range of job categories.  “Plaintiffs appreciate the court’s thorough consideration
of the evidence and are prepared to address the court’s concerns
fully in a renewed motion,” Kelly M. Dermody, a lawyer for the
employees, said today in an e-mail.  Companies Sued  Other companies sued are  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Pixar animation unit,  Intuit
Inc. (INTU)  and Lucasfilm Ltd.  The San Jose case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-cv-02509, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Jose). The previous case is U.S. v. Adobe
Systems, 10-cv-01629, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 