-- Marron-Backed Brokerage to Acquire MetLife Brokerages
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-04-05T18:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/marron-backed-brokerage-to-acquire-metlife-brokerages.html
Cetera Financial Group Inc., the
brokerage backed by private-equity firm Lightyear Capital LLC,
agreed to buy two of  MetLife Inc. (MET) ’s broker-dealer affiliates
with $25 billion under management.  MetLife agreed to sell Tower Square Securities and Walnut
Street Securities, which have about 850 advisers, the New York-
based insurer said today in a statement. After the deal is
completed, El Segundo, California-based Cetera will have more
than $130 billion in client assets, the firm said in a
statement. The companies didn’t disclose the price.  Lightyear Capital, founded by former  Paine Webber  Group
Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Donald Marron , 78, is among firms
building brokerage businesses as they seek stable revenues from
advising individual investors on their portfolios. The New York-
based private-equity firm started Cetera about three years ago
when it bought the ING Advisor Network.  “Cetera is a growth company,” CEO Valerie Brown said in a
phone interview. “With private-equity backing, at some point
there will be a liquidity event, but for now we’re focused on
growing the company prudently.”  After building Paine Webber’s money-management business,
Marron sold it to Zurich-based UBS AG in 2000 for more than $10
billion. He’s now the chairman of Lightyear Capital and Cetera.  Genworth Deal  Last year, Cetera added about $13 billion in assets when it
 bought  Genworth Financial Investment Services Inc. The firm has
been making deals with banks, including Birmingham, Alabama-
based  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , to place its  advisers  in their
branches.  Today’s deal allows MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer,
to focus on its “core distribution relationships, including its
affiliated broker-dealer organization,” Eric Steigerwalt, the
firm’s executive vice president, said in the statement. The
insurer still owns the New England Securities Corp. and MetLife
Securities broker-dealers.  MetLife was advised by investment bank Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP and law firm Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  