-- Martoma, Gibson, Sullivan & Cromwell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-04-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/martoma-gibson-sullivan-cromwell-business-of-law.html
Richard Strassberg, the Goodwin
Procter LLP lawyer who represented Martha Stewart’s broker Peter Bacanovic in his 2004 criminal trial, will head a legal team
defending former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager
Mathew Martoma against insider-trading charges.  Martoma, 38, is charged in what prosecutors have called the
biggest insider-trading scheme in history. Strassberg, chairman
of Goodwin Procter’s white-collar crime and government
investigations practice, will take over Martoma’s case from
Charles Stillman and his New York firm, Stillman & Friedman,
both firms said yesterday.  “We wish Mathew Martoma all the best,” Stillman said in a
statement.  Martoma is charged with conspiracy and securities fraud for
allegedly using inside information about a clinical drug trial
to make $276 million for SAC.  Prosecutors claim Martoma traded on tips from a physician
who was in charge of monitoring tests of bapineuzumab, or bapi,
a drug to treat Alzheimer’s disease. Martoma used the tips to
trade in Elan Corp. and Wyeth LLC, the government said.  When Martoma learned the companies would report negative
data on the drug, he had a 20-minute phone call with SAC’s
founder, Steven A. Cohen, according to the government.  SAC, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , began liquidating its
$700 million position in Elan and Wyeth the day after the call,
the government said. SAC then profited by taking short positions
in the stock, prosecutors said.  Cohen’s fate may hinge on whether Martoma chooses to plead
guilty and cooperate with investigators or go to trial and seek
an acquittal.  Strassberg will lead a team of four Goodwin Procter
partners that also includes Roberto Braceras,  John Farley  and
 Dan Roeser , according to Lee Feldman, a firm spokesman. The firm
will represent Martoma in the criminal case and in related civil
litigation brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, Feldman said.  Strassberg recently represented Swiss bank Wegelin & Co.,
which pleaded guilty to helping American taxpayers hide more
than $1.2 billion from the Internal Revenue Service.  Strassberg and Braceras represented  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  executive Richard Lane, charged in 2005 with fraud and
conspiracy. Prosecutors dropped the case in 2010. The two also
represented Jon Paul Rorech, a Deutsche Bank AG trader, in the
first insider-trading case involving credit default swaps. After
a 2010 trial, the court dismissed the charges against Rorech.  The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Corzine Knew MF Global Systems ‘Fatally Flawed,’ Freeh Says  Former MF Global Holdings Ltd. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Jon S. Corzine’s risky business strategies and
mismanagement helped accelerate the futures brokerage’s demise,
according to a report by bankruptcy trustee Louis Freeh, the
chairman of Pepper Hamilton LLP law firm and president of the
Freeh Group Intl LLC, a risk management firm that is part of
Pepper Hamilton.  The 124-page report blames Corzine and his management team
for bungling an expansion of the company’s traditional business
model while ignoring deficiencies in its risk controls.
Corzine’s “aggressive trading strategy” that invested heavily
in European sovereign debt produced no significant revenue, and
he and Chief Financial Officer Henri Steenkamp knew that the
company’s controls were flawed as early as May 2010, according
to the filing yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  Capital and liquidity assumption “were fatally flawed,
even though Corzine and other members of his management team
knew about their deficiencies many months before they were
stretched to their limits” in October 2011, lawyers for Freeh
said in the report.  The parent company of brokerage MF Global Inc. filed for
bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most-
indebted nations. The company listed assets of $41 billion and
debts of $39.7 billion.  Freeh estimated losses to MF Global and its finance
subsidiary of $1.5 billion to $2.1 billion. The trustee for the
company’s operating brokerage estimated a shortfall of
$1.6 billion in customer funds, and has been distributing
payments to former customers in a wind-down proceeding that is
separate from the Chapter 11 liquidation of the parent company.  Freeh’s findings come five months after U.S. House
Republicans faulted Corzine’s leadership in a report released in
November. That report, reached by majority Republicans on a
Financial Services subcommittee, described a lack of
coordination between the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and Securities and Exchange Commission, primary regulators for
MF Global’s U.S. operations.  Corzine, a Democrat, was previously governor of New Jersey
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s co-chairman.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  For more, click here.  Exide Technologies Tumbles 48% as Debtwire Reports Akin Hiring  Exide Technologies (XIDE)  dropped the most in almost nine years
yesterday after Debtwire reported that the maker of lead-acid
batteries hired Lazard and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP to
advise on a restructuring.  The company hired banker Lazard and law firm Akin Gump
after initially engaging Deutsche Bank AG last year to lead a
global refinancing, Debtwire said. Management is considering
restructuring alternatives amid capital issues and a looming
September maturity on its convertible notes, Debtwire reported,
citing sources it didn’t identify.  Exide  sank  48 percent to $1.37 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading, the biggest one-day decline since April 21,
2004. The Milton, Georgia-based company has tumbled 60 percent
this year.  The company had cash and cash equivalents of $80 million as
of Dec. 31, according to its most recent earnings report.  Susan Jaramillo, a company spokeswoman, didn’t respond to a
voice-mail message requesting comment on the Debtwire report.  Firm News  U.S. Law Firm Mergers Hit Four-Year High in First Quarter  Twenty-one U.S. law firms combined in the first three
months of 2013, the highest number announced in a single quarter
since 2009, with two large  Detroit  firms moving into new
markets, according to  Altman Weil MergerLine .  “U.S. law firms continue to grow, primarily through
targeted acquisitions,” Altman Weil principal Ward Bower said
in a statement yesterday. “Firms are picking up specialty
practices, expanding in strong markets and adding offices in new
cities.”  IN the biggest combination, Clark Hill PLC, a 231-lawyer
firm based in Detroit, merged with Pittsburgh’s 82-laywer Thorp
Reed & Armstrong LLP, according to the report. Detroit-based
Dickinson Wright PPLC, with 282 lawyers, announced the
acquisition of 60-lawyer, Phoenix-based Mariscal Weeks McIntyre
& Friedlander.  The rest of the deals announced in the first quarter were
acquisitions with fewer than 25 lawyers, according to the
report. They included five firm combinations in the South and
seven multiregional combinations.  For more information, see  www.altmanweil.com/MergerLine.   Moves  SEC Regional Director  Marc Fagel  to Join Gibson Dunn  Marc Fagel, most recently the director of the San Francisco
regional office of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
will join Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s San Francisco office as
a partner. Fagel joins the firm’s securities enforcement
practice.  “Securities enforcement investigations and actions, as
well as related white collar and private securities class
actions and derivative litigation, are on the rise,” Ken Doran,
chairman and managing partner of Gibson Dunn, said in a
statement. “Given his experience, visibility and reputation in
this area, Marc will be a tremendous resource for our clients.”  Fagel had been regional director of the SEC’s San Francisco
office since 2008, managing a staff of 100 lawyers and
professionals and overseeing the SEC’s enforcement and
examination programs for Northern  California ,  Washington ,
 Oregon ,  Alaska ,  Montana  and  Idaho . He was the associate regional
director from 2005 to 2008.  “After more than 15 years at the SEC, I am looking forward
to returning to private practice,” Fagel said in a statement.
“With its national reputation in securities litigation and
enforcement and established client base, Gibson Dunn is a
perfect fit for me.”  Gibson Dunn has more than 1,100 lawyers at 18 offices in
the Americas, Europe and Asia.  U.S. Attorney O’Neill Joins Freeh Group International Solutions  Robert E. O’Neill , the U.S. attorney for the Middle
District of  Florida , will join Freeh Group International
Solutions LLC as a managing director and open a Miami office for
the firm.  “We are honored to be joined by a sitting United States
attorney,” James R. Bucknam, chief executive officer of FGIS,
said in a statement, “but especially honored to be joined by
Bobby O’Neill, an outstanding prosecutor of the highest caliber.
He represents a significant addition to our senior ranks.”  O’Neill has spent about 20 years prosecuting crimes in
federal courtrooms in Tampa and Miami, the company said. Before
serving in the Middle District starting in 1993, O’Neill was
assistant U.S. attorney in the Southern District of Florida in
Miami from 1986 to 1990.  The new Miami office will provide a base for FGIS’s growing
Latin American practice, Bucknam said in the statement. The
global risk management firm is a part of law firm Pepper
Hamilton LLP.  “I am thrilled to team up with a group of outstanding
professionals who are doing great work for great clients,”
O’Neill said in a statement. “To work with the likes of Louie
Freeh, Jim Bucknam, and their colleagues, some of whom I have
known for over 25 years, is a bonus.”  Schiff Hardin LLP Adds Ann Arbor State and Local Taxation Team  Schiff Hardin LLP announced the addition of a team of state
and local taxation attorneys to the firm’s Ann Arbor,  Michigan ,
office. Partner  Joanne B. Faycurry , along with three other
lawyers, join Schiff Hardin from Miller Canfield PLC in Detroit.  “We are enthused about the addition of these highly
talented attorneys to our growing Ann Arbor office,” Gregory L. Curtner, coordinating partner of Schiff Hardin’s Ann Arbor
office, said in a statement. “This group brings extensive
knowledge and wide-ranging experience in state and local tax
matters.”  Schiff Hardin has almost 400 attorneys in nine U.S.
offices.  New Hires in California, Florida and in the Middle East  In California, two firms announced partner hires. The Palo
Alto office of K&L Gates LLP hired Linda Zhou as a partner in
the emerging growth and venture capital practice. Zhou joins K&L
Gates from Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin &
Hachigian LLP, the firm said.  Pepper Hamilton LLP announced that  Alan J. Kessel  has
joined the firm’s Orange County, California, office as a partner
in the commercial litigation practice group. Prior to joining
Pepper, Kessel was a partner at Baker & Hostetler LLP, according
to a statement from the firm.  In Florida, Squire Sanders LLP added Gregory E. Young to
the firm’s real estate practice group as a partner in its West
Palm Beach office. He joins from Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP
where he was chairman of the public policy and governmental
relations department, and has been a member of the firm-wide
management team.  Cozen O’Connor announced that  Martin Schrier  has joined its
Miami office as a member. Formerly with K&L Gates, Schrier
focuses his practice on business transactions, including
domestic and international mergers and acquisitions, leveraged
buyouts, restructurings, and venture and growth capital
investments, the firm said.  Outside the U.S., Holland & Knight LLP announced that
Oliver Agha has joined the firm as a partner and will head its
 Islamic finance  and Middle East and North Africa practices. He
founded Dubai-based Agha & Co. in 2010 as a boutique Islamic
finance firm. The four associate attorneys at his firm will also
join Holland & Knight, working out of both Dubai and Abu Dhabi.  Gowlings hired Canadian corporate finance, mergers-and-
acquisitions and private-equity lawyer  Ian Palm  as a partner in
its Toronto office. Palm was previously a partner at McCarthy
Tetrault LLP, where he led the private equity group, the firm
said.  Video  Sullivan & Cromwell’s M&A Hotline is Ringing  Despite the number of global mergers-and-acquisition deals
being down year over year for the first quarter, Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP expects deal work to increase in 2013 because the
phone is ringing more often at its New York office, partner
Frank Aquila told Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia.  “A year ago, very few clients were considering making
larger or even smaller acquisitions,” he said. And most deals
clients consider fall through the cracks. “You have to get 50
phone calls to get 20 deals done.”  Japan ’s moves to push down the value of the yen and the end
of the leadership change in the Chinese government point toward
growth in Asian M&A over the next nine months, he said. Aquila
also said domestic deal work is likely to rebound, while Europe
is expected to remain uncertain.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  