-- Aussie, Kiwi Dollars Touch Four-Year High Versus Yen After BOJ
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-04-05T05:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/aussie-kiwi-dollars-touch-four-year-high-versus-yen-after-boj.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars touched the highest in more than four years against the
yen after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded monetary stimulus, boosting
the allure of higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie and kiwi dollars retreated against the
greenback as  Japan ’s easing measures increased demand for the
U.S. currency.  Australia ’s bonds gained, sending yields to a
one-month low.  “If you’ve got the BOJ pressing the long end of the yield
curve, then Aussie-yen as a carry is going to be pretty
attractive,” said Thomas Averill, managing director in Sydney
at Rochford Capital, a currency and interest-rate risk
management company. “One of the quickest ways to generate
inflation is to weaken the currency and it’s a happy byproduct
of their policy.”  The Australian dollar declined 0.2 percent to 100.36 yen as
of 4:26 p.m. in Sydney after touching 101.13, the highest since
August 2008. The kiwi fell 0.2 percent to 80.99 yen, after
reaching 81.61, the strongest since July 2008.  The Aussie slipped 0.2 percent to $1.0419 and is little
changed this week. The New Zealand dollar slid 0.2 percent to
84.09 U.S. cents and has gained 0.5 percent since March 29.  “What we’re seeing now is very much a different
transmission channel where the strengthening dollar-yen is
leading to some upward pressure on other dollar-Asia crosses,”
said John Horner, a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Sydney. “With Australia trading quite closely with a number of
those Asian currency pairs, it’s translating into pressure on
Aussie as well.”  BOJ Stimulus  The BOJ doubled its monthly bond purchases and lengthened
the maturity of the debt it can buy at its policy meeting
yesterday, as it targets 2 percent annual inflation in two
years. Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said there is no concern of an
asset bubble now, ahead of being confirmed for a full five-year
term today.  “It’s all about Kuroda-san coming through with the
goods,” said  Damien McColough , head of fixed-income research at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “Japanese yields are falling
to record lows and that’s re-emphasized the allure of
Australia’s higher returns.”  Japan’s 10-year government bond yield touched a record low
0.315 percent. Australia’s government bonds gained, with the
yield on the 10-year note sliding nine basis points to 3.31
percent after earlier touching 3.28 percent, the lowest since
March 4.  Circuit Breaker  The yen swayed between gains and losses versus the Aussie
and kiwi after the Tokyo Stock Exchange issued and then lifted
circuit breakers on government bond futures as they plunged from
record-high levels.  “The market was a bit spooked on the back of that,” said
 Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada
in Hong Kong. “It’s just jittery markets overall.”  Benchmark interest rates are  3 percent  in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in Japan
and the U.S.  The Fed’s current policy is to keep ultra-low interest
rates at least as long as the unemployment rate remains more
than 6.5 percent. Fed Vice Chairman Janet Yellen said yesterday
the central bank should focus on lowering unemployment even if
inflation accelerates.  Demand for the Aussie and kiwi was supported before a
monthly U.S. report forecast to show a slowdown in the job
market recovery. Employers probably hired 190,000 workers in
March, down from 236,000 the month before, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
jobless rate is tipped to remain at  7.7 percent .  Payrolls Reports  A private report on payrolls on April 3 showed the fewest
jobs were added in March in five months.  “Expectations for payrolls have come down,” said Horner
at Deutsche Bank in Sydney. “We would expect that weaker
payrolls, should it be seen, would see Aussie climb against the
U.S. dollar.”  The Australian dollar may gain if an Australian employment
report next week validates an unexpected  71,500 rise  in hiring
in February, the most in almost 13 years. Payrolls fell by 7,500
in March according to a Bloomberg economist poll ahead of the
April 11 report.  “The risk in terms of moving the market is that it ends up
being a stronger number, because if it’s a very large negative
then everyone will just say, ‘Well, we knew that last number was
rubbish’,” said  Sean Callow , a Sydney-based senior foreign-
exchange strategist at Westpac.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 23 percent chance the Reserve Bank will cut the benchmark
rate at its next meeting on May 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  