-- Baht Gains Most in Two Weeks as Inflows Seen on Japan Stimulus
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-04-05T02:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/baht-gains-most-in-two-weeks-as-inflows-seen-on-japan-stimulus.html
  Thailand ’s baht gained the most in
two weeks after the  Bank of Japan  announced unprecedented
monetary easing, a move that will increase the amount of cash
able to be invested in  emerging markets . Bonds were steady.  Japan ’s central bank said yesterday it will double the
monetary base by the end of 2014 through buying government debt.
The Bank of Thailand left its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at 2.75 percent this week, keeping its yield advantage over
developed nations. Japan’s target rate is 0.1 percent. Global
investors pumped $9.6 billion into Thai sovereign debt in the
first quarter, official data show, driving a 4.4 percent rally
in the baht, which reached a 16-year high last month.  “With the BOJ’s announcement of further easing,
speculation grew for further fund inflows, supporting the
baht,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a foreign-exchange trader in Bangkok
at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. “The Thai central bank kept
the rate unchanged, helping the fund inflow theme,” he said,
adding that concern was growing policy makers could intervene to
limit gains in the baht if it strengthened further.  The baht appreciated 0.3 percent, the biggest advance since
March 20, to 29.28 per dollar as of 9:04 a.m. in Bangkok,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was unchanged from a
week ago. The currency touched 29.08 on March 20, the strongest
level since a devaluation in 1997 that sparked the Asian
financial crisis.  Exports Suffering  A 5.8 percent  decline  in exports in February from a year
earlier was partly caused by  exchange-rate  strength, Finance
Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said on April 3.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, climbed seven basis
points today and four basis points this week to 5.26 percent.  International investors bought $290 million more sovereign
debt than they sold this month through yesterday, adding to the
first-quarter inflows, Thai Bond Market Association data show.  The yield on Thailand’s 3.625 percent notes due June 2023
fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, from a week
ago to 3.51 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate declined one basis point today to the lowest level
since March 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  