-- Bank of Cyprus Boosted Greek Bond Holdings in 2010, Report Shows
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-04-05T17:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/bank-of-cyprus-boosted-greek-bond-holdings-in-2010-report-shows.html
Bank of Cyprus Plc , the island’s
biggest bank, became reliant on treasury profits as it built up
Greek government bond holdings that sparked losses of 1.9
billion euros ($2.5 billion), a report shows.  Bank of Cyprus  started boosting Greek bond holdings from
December 2009 to 2.4 billion euros by June 2010, according to a
report attributed to financial-industry consulting firm Alvarez
& Marsal posted on the website of the Cyprus Mail newspaper. The
Nicosia-based lender had previously cut  holdings  to 100 million
euros by December 2009 from 1.8 billion euros at the start of
that year, according to the report, which said bank documents
didn’t provide a clear reason behind the accumulation of bonds.  Greece  has received two bailouts from the euro area and the
 International Monetary Fund  and conducted the world’s biggest
sovereign debt restructuring since it triggered the region’s
debt crisis in 2009. Private creditors last year agreed to
forgive 53.5 percent of their principal and exchange their
remaining holdings for new Greek  government bonds .  Bank of Cyprus became dependent on treasury profits and
bond trading activities that reached almost 30 percent of pretax
 profits  in 2009, with the erosion of profitability caused by bad
loans helping explain the decision to accumulate Greek bonds,
the report said. Cyprus last month reached agreement with euro-
area governments to impose losses on uninsured deposits above
100,000 euros at Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank in
return for 10 billion euros of aid.  The Central Bank of Cyprus last year hired New York-based
Alvarez & Marsal to examine its own supervision and procedures
of banks acquiring Greek bonds. Officials at Alvarez & Marsal in
 London  and  New York  didn’t immediately comment. Phone calls to
spokespeople at the Bank of Cyprus weren’t answered.  The Bank of Cyprus was slow to provide documents, which
delayed the investigation, according to the report.  “There is also evidence to demonstrate that during these
delays, people within the bank were able to delete data,”
according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  