-- Banorte Said to Seek $2 Billion in Mexican Share Offering
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-04-05T21:36:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/banorte-said-to-seek-2-billion-in-mexican-share-offering.html
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB (GFNORTEO) ,
 Mexico ’s third-largest lender, plans to raise about $2 billion
through a share offering this year, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the transaction.  The issuance of additional shares by publicly-traded
Banorte is likely to take place in the coming months and will
mostly consist of new equity, said the people, who asked not to
be named because the details are still private. The amount and
timing are subject to change, and the bank could still alter its
plans, they said.  Banorte  borrowed  $800 million this year from a group of
banks including Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Corp. and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help finance the purchase of  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ’s pension-fund unit alongside a
state-owned agency. Banorte and Mexico’s Social Security
Institute, known as IMSS, each agreed last year to pay half of
the $1.6 billion price tag for the Afore Bancomer fund.  A Banorte share sale would lure “very good demand, above
all from foreigners who have shown a lot of interest,” Gerardo Sienra, a trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA, said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City.  Alejandro Vazquez, a spokesman for Mexico City-based
Banorte, said the bank is analyzing different financing options
and it isn’t planning a $2 billion share sale at this time. Any
decision on a share sale depends on market conditions, he said.  Shares Fall  Banorte shares  fell  4.2 percent to 91.40 pesos at the close
of trading in Mexico City. The shares have climbed 61 percent in
the past 12 months. At the current price, the bank has a market
capitalization of 212.6 billion pesos ($17 billion), according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexican stock issuance has surged this year as President
Enrique Pena Nieto’s four month-old government pushes for
economic reforms including reducing the power of dominant
telephone and television companies and opening the nation’s
energy sector to more private investment. Companies have raised
more than $4.4 billion in Mexican share sales this year, six
times the amount in the same period of 2012, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s third-biggest airline, Concesionaria Vuela Cia. de
Aviacion SA, known as Volaris, has hired banks to help it carry
out an initial public offering this year, according to two
people with knowledge of the deal. Grupo Hotelero  Santa Fe , a
Mexican hotel operator part owned by private equity firm Nexxus
Capital SC, is also among companies seeking to go public,
according to people with knowledge of that transaction.  Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB (SANMEXB) , the Mexican unit of
 Spain ’s biggest bank, raised $4.1 billion last year in a record
share offering for the Mexican market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  