-- Bertelsmann’s Random House Wins EU Backing for Penguin Bid
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-04-05T15:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/bertelsmann-s-random-house-wins-eu-backing-for-penguin-takeover.html
Bertelsmann SE’s Random House won
European Union approval to buy  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit to
create the largest  book publisher  in the U.K. and the U.S.  The European Commission said the deal wouldn’t raise
competition concerns because the combination would face strong
rivalry from large and small publishers, regulators said in an
e-mailed statement.  There was “no evidence that the transaction would lead to
risks of coordination among publishers in relation to the
acquisition of authors’ rights and the sale of English language
books to dealers,” the commission said.  The joint venture, named Penguin Random House and to be
based in  New York , will be 53 percent-owned by Bertelsmann, with
Pearson holding the remainder, the companies said in October.
Bertelsmann Chief Executive Officer Thomas Rabe said the venture
will control about 25 percent of the industry.  Bertelsmann said the EU approval adds to previous backing
from the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the Australian and New
Zealand competition authorities earlier this year.  “Several other regulatory authorities in various parts of
the world are currently reviewing the transaction,” the
Guetersloh, Germany-based company said in an e-mailed statement.
“The two companies are confident that the approvals will be
forthcoming during the course of the year.”  Separately, Penguin said last year it is in discussions
with the EU on a possible deal to end an antitrust probe into
pricing agreements for digital books.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s
biggest technology company, and four publishers in December
ended the EU investigation concerning them with an offer to drop
agreements they struck in 2010.  While London-based Pearson was targeted by the EU when it
opened the e-books investigation in 2011, the company didn’t
join the other publishers in proposing a settlement in April
2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  