-- Flu Hits Airlines as S&P Discount Swells: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-07T16:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/bird-flu-sinks-airlines-as-soufun-slides-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks in New York are
trading at the biggest discount to the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index since 2008 on concern a bird flu outbreak and property
market curbs will douse the nation’s economic recovery.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. slumped 3.4 percent last week to a
seven-month low of 89.04. The gauge traded at 13.5 times
estimated earnings, 3.6 percent below the S&P’s valuation, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH)  and
 China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA)  lost more than 6 percent April 5,
while  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN)  tumbled 16 percent in
the week.  As of April 5, six people had died from a new strain of
avian flu that emerged in Shanghai and eastern China, prompting
Hong Kong stocks to slide the most since July. The prospect of
an epidemic is stoking concern the economy’s emergence from its
seven-quarter slowdown will falter as the government orders
cities to tame housing price growth and retail sales slow.  “Bird flu will weaken demand in the economy and adds to
the bearishness in Chinese stocks,” John-Paul Smith, an
emerging-markets strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, said in an
interview from  London  April 5. “The sentiment has turned for
the worse over the past month. Going forward, a lot of
industrial companies will face considerable difficulties.”  American depositary receipts of  Melco Crown Entertainment
Ltd. (MPEL) , which operates casinos in Macau, lost 6.6 percent last
week to $21.81. The slump left the ADRs at a 1.8 percent
 discount  to the company’s shares in Hong Kong, the most since
Feb. 20.  ETF Sinks  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., slid 0.9 percent April 5 to
$35.64 in New York, the lowest level since Oct. 10. The ETF lost
3.5 percent in the week.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong tumbled
4.3 percent last week to 10,429.31, the lowest close since Nov.
28. China’s mainland exchanges were shut for a holiday April 5
and resume today.  Home Inns, which operates a budget hotel chain, posted the
steepest decline among the most-traded Chinese stocks in the
U.S. last week, amid concern the flu deaths may deter people
from traveling. The ADRs sank to $24.95, the lowest level since
Sept. 28.  ADRs of  China  Southern, Asia’s biggest air carrier by
passenger numbers, slid 12.5 percent last week to $25.06 in New
York, the lowest level since Dec. 28. China Eastern, the second-
largest carrier in the country, fell 7.6 percent to $20.03.  Poultry Markets  Shanghai, China’s financial hub, was to close all live
poultry markets beginning April 6, city officials said at a
briefing April 5.  Vietnam ’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development banned all forms of transport, trade and consumption
of poultry via its northern border with China April 2.  Ting Lu, chief economist at Greater China at Bank of
America Corp., said that he may revise his second-quarter
economic growth forecast to 8 percent, from 8.1 percent should
the flu outbreak spread.  “The ongoing bird flu could have sizable impacts on the
economy, so investors are justified to be cautious,” Lu wrote
in a note to clients April 5.  The Bloomberg China-US index has lost 13 percent since
reaching an eight-month high Jan. 10.  Retail Sales  China’s largest cities, including Beijing and  Shanghai ,
restricted multiple home purchases this month after policy
makers asked local governments to step up efforts to cool the
property market. Retail sales growth in the January to February
period was the slowest since 2004, while manufacturing expanded
less than economists forecast in March.  When the valuation for Chinese U.S.-traded stocks fell
below that for the S&P in December 2008, the Bloomberg China-US
measure gained 84 percent in the ensuing seven months through
the start of July 2009, outpacing the 13 percent rally in the
U.S. benchmark.  Edmund Harriss, who oversees $300 million as a fund manager
at Guinness Atkinson Asset Management LLC in London, said that
Chinese stocks are attractive at these depreciated levels.  “With the various knocks we had in the market, quite a lot
of the pessimism has come out of valuations so they are looking
very cheap,” Harriss, who invests in Chinese stocks, said in an
interview by phone April 4. “I am still optimistic on China.
Even in real estate where we’re talking about the policy curbs,
they are not hugely draconian.”  Short Seller  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s biggest real estate website,
fell 2.8 percent to $23.01 April 5, extending its drop in the
week to 12 percent. Short seller Glaucus Research Group rated
the company a “strong sell” in an April 4 report, saying that
SouFun spent millions of dollars buying luxury real estate in
New York and transferred money to charities of “dubious
authenticity.”  The company said in a statement April 5 that the
accusations are “misleading,” adding that a property purchase
referred to in the report was for legitimate business purposes.
All auditing information has been disclosed to U.S. regulators,
SouFun said.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , China’s
largest private educational company, fell 11 percent last week
to a one-month low of $16.07. Oppenheimer & Co. analyst Ella Ji
said April 2 that students may avoid large gatherings because of
the flu, impacting New Oriental.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 1 percent last week to
1,553.28 after a U.S. government report showed employers hired
fewer workers than economists estimated in March. The measure
trades at 14 times estimated earnings, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  