-- Blackstone Talks With Dell Said to Sidestep CEO’s Role
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y
-- 2013-04-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/blackstone-talks-with-dell-said-to-sidestep-ceo-s-role.html
After days of discussions,
Blackstone Group LP and Dell Inc.’s  Michael Dell  have yet to
tackle a critical issue, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter: what role he would play if the private-equity firm
wins the bidding for the computer maker.  Michael Dell, the company’s founder, chief executive
officer and largest shareholder, began talks with Blackstone
after the world’s largest buyout firm submitted a proposal on
March 22 to buy the  Round Rock , Texas-based company. At stake is
Blackstone’s effort to top the $24.4 billion leveraged-buyout
offer led by Michael Dell and backed by  Silver Lake  Management
LLC that a special committee of Dell’s board endorsed on Feb. 5.  Blackstone would prefer to win Michael Dell’s support for a
counterbid in which he would invest some portion of the $4.5
billion he agreed to inject into the Silver Lake buyout, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. To do so, the New York-based firm will have to reach
agreement with Michael Dell on the CEO’s future role and other
fundamental issues such as his ownership stake and Dell’s
strategic direction.  If Michael Dell doesn’t get a deal he likes from a
victorious Blackstone, he will cash out his 15.6 percent stake
and walk away from the company he started 29 years ago while in
college, a second person said.  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for Blackstone, and Dell
spokesman  David Frink  didn’t immediately respond to messages
seeking comment.  Daily Talks  Michael Dell has met several times with Chinh Chu and  David Johnson , the Blackstone executives overseeing the firm’s bid, in
 Texas , and the three speak daily, the two people said. Johnson
joined Blackstone in January from Dell, where he led mergers and
acquisitions for almost four years.  The talks have focused on charting a strategic plan for
Dell that Michael Dell and Blackstone can both embrace, said one
of the people.  Other issues will be decided later, this person said, with
due diligence -- Blackstone’s scrutiny of Dell’s internal
 financial statements  and documents -- expected to take four or
more weeks. Its analysis of Dell’s books will begin April 8.
 Carl Icahn , a billionaire investor who also made a counterbid to
Silver Lake’s offer, plans to proceed with due diligence, a
person familiar with his thinking said.  Potential Roadblocks  Blackstone and Icahn submitted the only proposals under the
go-shop period set up by Dell’s board to solicit competing
offers.  A range of issues potentially stand in the way of Michael
Dell collaborating with Blackstone.  Dell, 48, expects to wield operating control of the company
after a buyout and would insist on remaining CEO, one of the
people said. He also would object to Blackstone making wholesale
changes to the  executive team  that he assembled. He is more
flexible concerning Dell’s business strategy, the person said.  For now  Blackstone (BX)  isn’t contemplating a radical
operational overhaul of Dell and would keep the company largely
intact, said the person familiar with Blackstone’s thinking. It
would aim to keep Dell’s personal computer business because of
its distribution network and strong brand. Blackstone also
believes that Dell’s enterprise software and server business, in
which it sees strong growth potential, would benefit from the
linkage to PCs, the person said.  Blackstone hasn’t made any decision on whether to sell
Dell’s finance arm, the person said. General Electric Co. and
other parties have expressed interest in buying the unit, which
provides financing for less than 20 percent of the computers
Dell sells, the person said.  Control Question  Blackstone doesn’t need to sell the unit to help fund the
 Dell (DELL)  buyout, and there is a chance that it will hang on to it,
the person said.  The Silver Lake bid would make Michael Dell the majority
owner, with the buyout firm having a smaller ownership stake and
giving Michael Dell a freer reign over Dell’s strategy than
Blackstone would probably support, a third person with knowledge
of the discussions said.  Blackstone has offered to pay at least $14.25 a share to
current investors with an option to hold onto some of their
stake through a so-called equity stub. The Dell-Silver Lake deal
would be a straight all-cash buyout of the shares Michael Dell
doesn’t own at $13.65 a share. Dell closed yesterday at $14.26
in  New York .  A Blackstone bid would likely prevent Michael Dell from
being a majority owner and put more restrictions on his ability
to run the company than he would with Silver Lake, according to
this person.  Two Options  Blackstone is weighing two alternate deal structures, said
the person with knowledge of the firm’s plans. One of them would
probably give Michael Dell more than a 50 percent stake if he
rolls over all of his shares, this person said. In the other,
Dell would be a minority holder.  If Dell opts out, Blackstone is confident it can arrange
debt and equity financing to get a deal done without him, the
person said. Banks are indicating there’s more debt available
than would be needed to finance the deal. Existing shareholders
such as Icahn, T. Rowe Price Group Inc. and Southeastern Asset
Management Inc. may stay invested.  If those three shareholders roll in their holdings, it
would largely fill the equity financing gap Dell’s absence would
create, according to the person. Southeastern expressed interest
to Blackstone in participating in its deal, according to the
person.  In its proposal, Blackstone said it was working with
 Francisco Partners  and Insight Venture Partners, two much
smaller private equity firms. They would each invest several
hundred million dollars into the deal, the person said.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Southeastern at Joele Frank
Wilkinson Brimmer & Katcher, declined to comment. Executives at
Insight Venture and Francisco Partners couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Carey in New York at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  