-- BOE Says Investors May Be Taking ‘Too Rosy’ a View of Stress
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-04-05T10:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/boe-says-investors-may-be-taking-too-rosy-a-view-of-stresses.html
The Bank of England said rising
equity markets don’t reflect the underlying economic situation
and warned that investors may be underestimating risks in the
financial system.  Gains by equities since mid-2012 “in part reflected
exceptionally accommodative monetary policies by many central
banks,” the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee said today in
London in the minutes of its March 19 meeting. “It was also
consistent with a perception among some contacts that the most
significant downside risks had attenuated. But market sentiment
may be taking too rosy a view of the underlying stresses.”  At the meeting, the FPC recommended that U.K. lenders raise
25 billion pounds ($38 billion) of additional capital to cover
bigger potential losses, possible fines for mis-selling and
stricter risk models. While banks have strengthened their
resilience in recent years, the FPC said today that not all of
them may be able to withstand unexpected shocks and maintain
lending to companies and households.  The FPC discussed potential threats from the  crisis in
Cyprus , which agreed on an international bailout last month.
While at the time of the March 19 meeting there were “minimal
signs” of spillovers to other financial systems, there was “a
risk that this situation could change,” the committee said.  Market Gains  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has risen about 24 percent since
the start of June 2012, while the S&P 500 has gained about 22
percent in that period, reaching a record close on April 2. The
Stoxx 600 declined for a third day, slipping 0.7 percent as of
10:52 a.m. London time.  The FPC’s comments on the advance in equity markets echo
remarks last month by UBS AG Chairman Axel Weber, who said the
economy hasn’t kept up with investor sentiment.  “I fear the recent rally in financial markets could be a
misleading signal,” Weber, a former European Central Bank
Governing Council member, said at an event in London with BOE
Governor Mervyn King and Federal Reserve President Ben S. Bernanke. “We’re not really out of the woods yet.”  In making its recommendation, the FPC said that “a line
needed to be drawn under doubts about U.K. banks’ capital
adequacy.” It said that in light of the latest decree, further
recommendations on capital shouldn’t be necessary “in the
immediate future.”  Bonus Payments  The panel, which was operating on an interim basis until
the start of this week, recommendated that financial
institutions limit payouts such as bonuses and dividends. They
should “continue to exercise restraint on distributions and
compensation,” it said.  In their discussion, the FPC members noted the potential
threats to the financial system from increased risk appetite
among investors.  “This was evident in the re-emergence of some elements of
behavior in financial markets not seen since before the
financial crisis, including a relaxation in some U.S. credit
markets of non-price terms and increased issuance of synthetic
products,” the committee said. “At this stage, they did not
appear indicative of widespread exuberance in markets. But
developments would need to be monitored closely.”  The FPC also said that banks’ leverage ratios, a measure of
their debt to equity level, would remain “very high” even
after the new recommendations were met. It said there would be
“little margin for error against a backdrop of low growth in
the advanced economies.”  The committee said the Prudential Regulation Authority
should take leverage ratios into account when determining
individual bank capital requirements. The FPC didn’t name any
banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  