-- Boeing’s Final 787 Test Sets Stage for FAA Battery Review
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-04-05T22:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/boeing-says-787-battery-ground-tests-done-as-flight-nears.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s completion of a final
test flight for its 787 Dreamliner sets the stage for a
regulatory review of battery upgrades that will determine
whether the grounded jet can re-enter commercial service.  “The purpose of the flight was to demonstrate that the new
battery system performs as intended during normal and non-normal
flight conditions,” Chicago-based Boeing said in a statement
yesterday. The planemaker said it will analyze flight data and
submit the required materials to the U.S.  Federal Aviation
Administration  “in the coming days.”  The agency must decide whether the redesigned lithium-ion
batteries are safe after electrical failures on a  Japan Airlines
Co. (9201)  plane in  Boston  and during an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  flight
in  Japan . U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood declined to
say yesterday when he will decide whether to end the grounding.  “I know you wanted something more definitive,” LaHood
said after speaking at a conference in  Washington  sponsored by
the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. “So does Boeing.”  Boeing must convince regulators the Dreamliner and its
battery upgrade are safe before flights can resume, LaHood said.
The concept for the fix on which the FAA signed off in March
“was a good plan,” and regulators are now waiting to see the
results, he said.  Yesterday’s Dreamliner flight lasted 1 hour, 49 minutes
after takeoff from Paine Field in Everett, Washington. Two FAA
officials were aboard the 787, a LOT Polish Airlines SA plane
that has made three unrelated check flights with the new system
since March 25, according to Boeing.  Shares Rally  The planemaker’s shares reversed an earlier decline
yesterday, rising 1.4 percent to $86.17 at the close in New
York. That pushed the stock’s gain to 14 percent this year.  Boeing’s ground tests included overheating the system to
evaluate a stainless-steel enclosure designed to eliminate the
possibility of fire and a tube that would vent any liquid or
vapors outside the plane. The design also increases the spacing
and insulation for the power cells to prevent the spread of any
overheating and includes new circuitry for the battery chargers.  The batteries are made by  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674) , based in Kyoto,
Japan. Boeing has sent engineers to the country, home to the
biggest 787 fleets, to get ready to install the upgraded units,
according to  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman. That work takes
four to five days to complete on each plane.  Biggest Fleets  If the FAA approves the changes and returns the 787 to
commercial duty, Boeing has said it will make the battery
upgrades to aircraft in roughly the order that they were
delivered to customers. All Nippon and Japan Airlines were the
first two customers and operate 24 of the 49 jets in service.  The Japan Transport Safety Board will conduct ground tests
on the ANA 787 next week, Masahiro Kudo, an accident
investigator for the agency, told reporters in  Tokyo .  While a cause for the Dreamliner battery malfunctions
hasn’t been determined, Boeing said during a March 15
presentation that the changes to the design will ensure safe
operations.  The 787’s grounding forced airlines to shuffle schedules to
plug gaps from the plane’s sudden absence. Boeing has halted
deliveries until commercial service resumes and may face
financial penalties from customers.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board has scheduled
a two-day investigative hearing beginning April 23 to discuss
the batteries’ design, testing and original certification.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  