-- Bovespa-Futures Drop as Manufacturing Forecasts Are Cut
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-04-08T12:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/bovespa-futures-fall-as-commodities-drop-saps-export-view.html
Bovespa-index futures dropped amid
rekindled concern that  Brazil ’s sluggish economic recovery will
hurt corporate earnings after economists lowered forecasts for
growth in the country’s manufacturing industry.  JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s biggest beef producer, may move after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its recommendation to the equivalent
of buy. Power utility  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais  may be
active after Brazil’s regulator Aneel said the company will
increase electricity rates by 2.99 percent starting today.  Bovespa-index  futures contracts  expiring this month fell
0.1 percent to 55,050 at 9:19 a.m. in Sao Paulo. The real
climbed 0.3 percent to 1.9801 per dollar. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI index of 24 raw materials advanced 0.9 percent after a
report showed  Germany ’s industrial production increased 0.5
percent in February from January, when it contracted 0.6
percent.  Economists covering Brazil lowered their forecasts for
manufacturing growth this year, according to a central bank
survey. Industrial production will grow 3 percent, down from an
estimate of 3.12 percent one week earlier, the survey released
today showed.  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  has retreated 13 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern accelerating inflation may curb Brazil’s
economic recovery and the government’s interventionist policies
will hurt profits in industries including utilities and energy.
The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of shares in Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China
has lost 8.7 percent over the same period.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 11 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 10.3 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of 21
developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.69 billion
reais ($3.87 billion) on April 5, which compares with a daily
average of 7.45 billion reais this year through April 4,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  