-- BP Spill Judge Rejects Request to Halt Some Payments
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-04-05T17:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/bp-judge-rejects-bid-to-halt-some-spill-accord-payouts.html
The judge presiding over the  BP Plc (BP/) 
spill trial aimed at determining liability for the biggest
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history rejected an attempt to halt
some settlement payments tied to the 2010 environmental
catastrophe in a ruling in New Orleans federal court.  BP contends decisions by settlement administrator Patrick
Juneau may cost the company billions of dollars more than
expected. The company sought an injunction to prevent Juneau
from making some payments. BP also filed a separate lawsuit
against Juneau and the Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised
Settlement Program over payments.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans rejected
the injunction request and dismissed the lawsuit at a hearing
today. Prior to the dismissal, Barbier repeatedly interrupted BP
lawyer Richard Godfrey as he argued the company’s cause.  “I’m granting the motion to dismiss” BP’s lawsuit,
Barbier said. “I am denying the motion for preliminary
injunction.”  Barbier ruled one month ago that the settlement agreement
required the interpretation of claims that Juneau has been
using. The judge reminded Godfrey of that ruling before the
lawyer began arguing BP’s cause.  “I am having a real hard time understanding how BP is now
asking me to enjoin Mr. Juneau from following my order,”
Barbier said to Godfrey. “Basically you’re asking me to enjoin
myself, it seems to me,” he said.  ‘Unjustified Windfall’  “We are not asking you to enjoin yourself,” Godfrey said.
BP is asking instead that Barbier halt use of Juneau’s current
interpretation of the settlement agreement, he said.  BP said it would pursue its appeal of Barbier’s earlier
ruling.  “BP continues to believe that the claims administrator’s
interpretation of the settlement agreement as to business
economic loss claims is contrary to the agreement and has
produced unjustified windfall payments to numerous business
claimants for non-existent, artificially calculated losses,”
 Scott Dean , a company spokesman, said in a statement today.  “BP believes that such a result is completely at odds with
the parties’ stated intent in reaching a settlement last year,”
he said.  “The court’s ruling speaks for itself,”  Steve Herman ,
victims’ lawyer, said after the hearing.  2012 Settlement  The blowout of BP’s deep-water Macondo well off the coast
of  Louisiana  sent more than 4 million barrels of oil spewing
into the Gulf of Mexico and killed 11 people. The accident
sparked hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP,  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, and
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cement services.  BP reached a settlement last year resolving most economic
and medical-injury claims by private parties. The company
estimated at the time that the settlement would cost $7.8
billion. BP raised the estimate to $8.5 billion in February,
citing the dispute with Juneau.  Today’s hearing comes exactly one month after Barbier
rejected a similar request from BP to halt payments by the
administrator.  “BP’s interpretation injects a subjective notion of
alternative causation and a degree of complexity that are
contrary to the settlement’s terms,” Barbier said in his March
5 ruling.  ‘False Positives’  BP was aware that the terms of the settlement agreement
could produce “false positives,” Barbier said, citing a letter
from a company executive to Juneau in September.  Such results are an “inevitable concomitant of an
objective, quantitative, data-based test,” BP lawyer Mark
Holstein said in the letter, according to Barbier.  BP has appealed that decision and filed a separate lawsuit
against Juneau and the Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised
Settlement Program over payments. Today’s hearing considered
both the injunction request and the new lawsuit.  BP last night asked Barbier to put a hold on payments until
its appeal of his order is heard.  “Granting a stay pending appeal will inflict little or no
harm on claimants as they are not harmed by forgoing undeserved
payments,” company lawyers said in a filing. Barbier rejected
this request as well after today’s hearing.  State Claims  A nonjury trial over liability for the spill and explosion
began before Barbier Feb. 25 in federal court in  New Orleans .
Barbier will determine responsibility for the disaster and
whether any of the companies acted with willful or wanton
misconduct or reckless indifference -- the legal requirement for
establishing gross negligence.  Last year’s settlement didn’t include damage claims by
financial institutions, casinos and companies claiming harm from
the Obama administration’s deep-water drilling moratorium, which
was imposed after the spill. It also didn’t include claims by
the U.S. government and the states of Louisiana and  Alabama .  Lawyers suing the company claim BP underestimated the cost
of the settlement.  “The uncapped nature of the potential payments was a
seminal feature of the settlement agreement,” victims’ lawyers
said in an April 1 filing. “Simply because the value of the
overall payments in certain industries exceeds what BP estimated
does not make the individual claims ‘fictitious,’” they said.  ‘Non-Existent Losses’  Juneau’s decisions have already exposed BP “to hundreds of
millions of dollars in fictitious ‘losses’ that were never
contemplated by the agreement,” the London-based  oil company 
said in court papers last month.  “Although the ultimate exposure is at this time
inestimable, it grows daily and could cost BP billions,” BP
said in the filing.  Juneau ruled that he would measure  revenue  when it was
received rather than when it was earned, BP complained last
month. This meant that a contractor filing a claim could show a
“fictitious” decline in revenue, “even though it earned the
same amount for the same job performed one year earlier,” the
company said.  BP said Juneau’s “rewriting” stretched the settlement
accord to include claims the oil company never contemplated
paying. The company said the “non-existent losses are most
prevalent” in the agriculture, construction, professional
services, real estate, manufacturing, wholesale trade and retail
industries.  ‘Flawed Data’  BP said two-thirds of all business economic-loss payments
larger than $75,000 have been based on “flawed data.” The
company also contends that more than 1,200 payments have been
made to claimants in the agriculture, construction and
professional services industries that are too remote from the
area impacted by the spill to qualify for compensation.  BP is protesting a structure for payments of economic loss
that it knew about and accepted, victims’ lawyers said in court
papers. Claimants are using comparable months to determine
losses, as per the settlement, and counting revenue when they
receive it, the lawyers contend.  “The injunction BP seeks would itself violate the express
terms of the settlement and trust agreements that BP negotiated,
agreed to, and supported,” the victims’ lawyers said in the
April 1 filing. “BP is effectively asking the court to enjoin
itself.”  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, 10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  