-- Brazil March Inflation Probably Slower Than 0.6%, Mantega Says
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-04-05T16:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/brazil-march-inflation-probably-slower-than-0-6-mantega-says.html
Brazil ’s monthly inflation slowed
for the second month in a row in March, as government officials
work to keep price increases under control, Finance Minister
Guido Mantega told reporters today.  Prices probably rose less than the 0.6 percent increase
recorded in February, Mantega told reporters in Sao Paulo.
Government officials will implement measures to bring inflation
to the central bank’s 4.5 percent target, he said.  Since January, Brazilian policy makers have expanded tax
cuts, held the benchmark interest rate at record lows and
reduced electricity costs to revive economic growth without
fueling inflation. Still, annualized inflation accelerated to
6.31 percent  in February  from 6.15 percent the month prior.
Inflation is proving persistent and poses risks, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini said this week.  “We will not allow inflation to get out of control,”
Mantega said. “We expect food prices, which have been the
villain of inflation, to fall to more reasonable levels in
upcoming months.”  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2014, the most
traded in Sao Paulo today, fell seven basis points to 7.78
percent at 11:26 a.m. local time. The real strengthened 0.6
percent to 2.0037 per U.S. dollar.  Brazil’s government today announced plans to extend in
January payroll tax cuts to 14 new sectors including
transportation and social communications. The cuts will come
into effect next year and will reduce 2014 tax revenue by 5.4
billion reais, Mantega said. Separate payroll tax cuts already
planned for this year will be worth 16 billion reais, he added.  Officials also are studying changes in taxes on profits
earned by Brazilian companies abroad, Mantega said. Ethanol may
be included in additional tax reductions being considered by
Brazil’s government.  Latin America’s largest economy will expand by 3.01 percent
this year, according to the latest central bank survey of about
100 economists. Year-end inflation will reach 5.71 percent,
according to the same study.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 