-- Brent Crude Moves Into Contango for First Time Since June
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-04-05T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/brent-crude-moves-into-contango-for-first-time-since-june.html
Front-month Brent crude settled
lower than the second-month contract for the first time since
June on concern that slower economic growth will reduce near-
term demand.  The European oil benchmark has slumped 6.3 percent this
year as the region’s sovereign debt crisis spread from Greece to
Italy to Cyprus. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
said yesterday that downside risks remain to the region’s
economy. Prices have also declined amid an increase in shipments
of crudes in the North Sea blend.  “The contango is an indication that the economy is in bad
shape and oil demand is really slowing,” said Rich Ilczyszyn,
chief market strategist and founder of commodities trading firm
Iitrader.com in Chicago. “There is probably more downside risk
going forward.”  Brent for May settlement ended the session 3 cents below
June today. The last time the first- and second-month contracts
settled in the so-called contango structure was on June 29.  May Brent declined $2.22, or 2.1 percent, to close at
$104.12 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, the lowest level since July 24. The June contract slid
$2, or 1.9 percent, to $104.15.  Brent’s premium to West Texas Intermediate oil, the U.S.
benchmark, narrowed to $11.42, the least since June.  Credit Suisse lowered its 2013 Brent price forecast to $112
a barrel from $115 in a research note dated April 3, saying that
it’s unlikely commodity demand will be strong enough anytime
soon to pull the entire complex higher.  Economic Outlook  “This economic outlook for the euro area remains subject
to downside risks,” Draghi said at a press conference yesterday
in Frankfurt after the ECB kept its  benchmark interest rate  at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  The European Union accounts for 16 percent of world’s oil
demand, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World
Energy.  “I guess you can call it the Mario Draghi spread,” said
Phil Flynn, senior market analyst at the Price Futures Group in
Chicago. “He believes that in the short term things are bad,
and it means oil demand will be bad.”  Oil demand will be “less than it was before” in the next
few months, Maria van der Hoeven, executive director of the
 International Energy Agency , said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview from Paris.  A contango structure typically can signal either declining
demand or rising supply, or a combination of both.  Loadings Increase  Daily shipments of Brent, Forties, Oseberg and Ekofisk
crudes from the North Sea, which make up the Dated Brent
benchmark, will increase by 1.5 percent in May from this month,
loading programs obtained by Bloomberg show.  Platts, publisher of benchmark energy prices, last month
amended its North Sea Dated Brent crude formula to boost trading
liquidity. The price of Ekofisk and Oseberg grades for loading
from June will be adjusted to take their superior quality into
account, Platts, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos., said in e-mailed
 statement .  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  proposed changes to the contract it
uses to trade North Sea cargoes in February.  “The introduction of quality premiums offers an incentive
for more deliveries of Oseberg and Ekofisk, and thus has the
potential to further gird the supply of oil underpinning the
BFOE complex and the Dated Brent price assessment,” Dave
Ernsberger, Platts global editorial director of oil, said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  