-- BTG Said to Seek Portugal, Spain Assets: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-04-05T16:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/btg-said-to-seek-portugal-spain-assets-corporate-brazil.html
Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , the Brazilian
bank led by billionaire  Andre Esteves , is seeking private-equity
investments in Portugal and Spain as  Europe ’s debt crisis forces
governments there to sell assets, a person with direct knowledge
of the matter said.  BTG,  Brazil ’s fifth-largest bank by market value, wants to
diversify its investments beyond Latin America and is looking in
particular at infrastructure deals in the Iberian peninsula,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
plans aren’t public.  Spain and Portugal are raising money from asset sales after
their economies contracted during Europe’s credit crisis and
they struggled to meet deficit targets. BTG has invested in two
deals in the region totaling about 1.4 billion euros ($1.8
billion) as it seeks out projects that are already operating and
generating cash, the person said.  “BTG is buying very cheap infrastructure assets in Spain
and  Portugal  at the perfect time,” said Alexandre Chaia, a
finance professor at the Insper business school in Sao Paulo.
“The governments there are desperate to obtain investments to
help solve their budget problems and at the same time keep the
companies operating to avoid more unemployment.”  BTG and a group of investors including Acciona SA, a
renewable energy and water provider, won the concession in
November to manage two desalination plants and a water supply
system for the city of Barcelona for 50 years, a project that
totaled more than 1 billion euros. In December, BTG and Abertis
Infraestructuras SA reached a 430-million euro agreement with
the Catalonian government to operate and maintain the
Vallvidrera and Cadi tunnels for 25 years.  Portugal Airport  BTG Pactual also bid jointly with Flughafen Zurich AG,
Global Infrastructure Management LLC and CCR SA for the
Portuguese airport manager ANA - Aeroportos de Portugal. The
French group Vinci SA offered 3.1 billion euros and won the
concession in December.  “The big risk for BTG would be if Portugal and Spain
perform worse than they planned and the demand for water or the
Barcelona tunnels is lower than planned,” Chaia at the Insper
school said.  A BTG official declined to comment on the bank’s strategy
in Portugal and Spain.  BTG’s success in diversifying its geographic risks helped
it “deliver one of the highest annual ROEs in history despite a
weak Brazilian economy,”  Mario Pierry , an analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG, said in a report, referring to the bank’s almost 30
percent 2012  return on equity , a gauge of profitability.  BTG Shares  BTG’s net profit rose to 3.26 billion reais in 2012, a 69
percent increase from a year earlier. Total revenue climbed to
6.82 billion reais in 2012 from 3.2 billion in 2011. The bank’s
 shares  gained 6.4 percent this year through yesterday, compared
with a 10 percent drop for the benchmark Bovespa index. They
fell 3.7 percent at 12:59 p.m. in Sao Paulo, to 31.77 reais.  Money managers including Carlyle Group LP and KKR & Co. are
also pursuing infrastructure investments in Europe. Carlyle, the
second-biggest private-equity firm, raised $1.38 billion in
November for energy credit investments, while KKR, run by buyout
pioneers Henry Kravis and  George Roberts , got more than $1
billion in June for its first infrastructure fund.  KKR is seeking annual returns of 10 percent to 15 percent,
the company said in December. A Carlyle official said European
banks have been unable to meet the financing needs of small
energy and power companies.  BlackRock Unit  BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest fund manager with $3.67
trillion in assets, hired a team from Blackstone Group LP in
November to start its first European investment advisory unit
for the industry. Philippe Benaroya, a BlackRock managing
director, said infrastructure lending has become a “mainstream
asset class.”  BTG and other private-equity firms are entering the market
as banks cut lending to prepare for new rules that require them
to boost their capital. Loans to projects in Europe, the Middle
East and Africa fell to $38 billion in 2012 from $82 billion in
2011 and $156 billion in 2007, according to Infrastructure
Journal data. That compares with a drop in global lending to
$111 billion, from $205 billion a year ago and $264 billion in
2007, the data show.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. also invested in
the region, agreeing in November to pay 600 million euros to
reinsure a book of individual life policies at CaixaBank SA,
Spain’s third-biggest lender, the bank said in November.  For Related News and Information:
Spain’s Bankia-Led Bailout Won’t Spell End of Bank Troubles
Portuguese Banks Stay Hooked on ECB Feeding Cash: Euro Credit
Acciona to Manage Two Barcelona Desalination Plants With BTG  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  