-- Cameron Defends Osborne’s Comments Over Killer on Welfare
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-04-05T14:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/cameron-defends-osborne-s-comments-over-killer-on-welfare.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
defended Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne for
questioning whether the welfare system should support people
like a man convicted this week for killing six of his children.  Mick Philpott, 56, was sentenced to life imprisonment
yesterday for manslaughter after starting a fire at his house in
Derby, central  England , to frame a former mistress who was
trying to gain custody of some of his 17 children. The court
heard that one of the reasons he wanted the children to live
with him in the three-bedroom, state-owned home was to convince
the local authority he should be entitled to a bigger house and
to claim the welfare payments for them.  On a visit to Derby yesterday, Osborne said that “it’s
right we ask questions as a government, a society and as
taxpayers, why we are subsidizing lifestyles like these.”  “I think what  George Osborne  said was absolutely right,”
Cameron told Sky News television today. “He said Mr. Philpott
was the one to blame for his crimes, that he should be held
responsible; but what the chancellor went on to say was that we
should ask some wider questions about our welfare system, how
much it costs and the signals that it sends.”  The opposition  Labour Party ’s Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls ,
attacked Osborne for his comments yesterday.  “George Osborne’s calculated decision to use the shocking
and vile crimes of Mick Philpott to advance a political argument
is the cynical act of a desperate chancellor,” Balls  wrote on
his blog .  Spending Cuts  Cameron’s government curbed welfare payments this week,
amid a broader public debate on the rights of benefits claimants
over workers as Britain teeters on the  brink of a triple-dip
recession . Osborne said last month that government spending cuts
will continue for five more years.  The chancellor told supermarket workers in a speech three
days ago that the welfare overhaul, which caps annual increases
in benefits at 1 percent a year for three years and introduces
curbs on housing subsidies, is intended “to make the system
fair on people like you, who get up, go to work, and expect your
taxes to be spent wisely.”  The Daily Mail newspaper called Philpott a “drug-taking
layabout, who embodies everything that is wrong with the welfare
state.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  