-- Canadian Heavy Crude Jumps to Six-Month High on Spring Breakup
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-04-05T18:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/canadian-heavy-crude-jumps-to-six-month-high-on-spring-breakup.html
Canadian heavy oil prices reached a
six-month high on the spot market amid a seasonal decline in
production from  Alberta .  Canadian  oil rig  counts dropped by 30 to 117 this week,
down from this year’s high of 509 during the week ended March 1,
Houston oil field-services company Baker Hughes Inc. said today.
Canadian energy activity typically dips in April during the so-
called spring breakup, when warmer weather turns roads and
drilling sites in remote areas to mud, slowing production.  Western Canada Select, a heavy blend of diluted oil-sands
bitumen, strengthened by $1.40 to a $12.10-per-barrel discount
to U.S. West Texas Intermediate oil, according to Calgary oil
broker Net Energy Inc. It was the smallest gap since Oct. 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. WCS prices also surged
last spring, narrowing their discount to $12.75 on May 1.  “April sees the steepest decline in rig counts in Canada
due to spring breakup, so there’s a seasonality factor,” David Bouckhout, senior commodity strategist with TD Securities in
Calgary said in a phone interview. “You are also seeing some
oil-sands production coming off because of maintenance, so you
are therefore going to see a stronger bid for other blends.”  Some Alberta oil-sands producers are shutting downs their
upgrader plants in Alberta, which produce synthetic light, sweet
oil from heavy bitumen.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  said it will perform
a seven-week turnaround at its 350,000-barrel-a-day Fort
McMurray, Alberta, upgrader in April and May.  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ)  said in November it plans to shut down its
110,000-barrel-a-day Horizon upgrader for 18 days in May.  Syncrude Declines  The price of Syncrude, a light oil produced from oil-sands
upgraders, lost 55 cents against WTI to a $9.35 premium, Net
Energy said.  Much of the strengthening in the Western Canada Select
price was in barrels for May delivery. The price curve for
future months widens sharply again versus U.S. prices, with June
barrels trading at a $15.25 discount and July at an $18.25
discount, according to Net Energy data.  “The narrowing of the WCS differential is based on short-
term factors,” Bouckhout said. “A longer-term price average in
the mid-to-upper teens is more realistic, and the forward curve
suggests that’s going to be the case.”  Western  Canada  Select prices dropped steeply in December
and January, then reached a record discount of $42.50 a barrel
on Dec. 14, as rising production filled up export pipeline
capacity to the U.S.  Alberta Premier Alison Redford said Jan. 24 the “bitumen
bubble” in Alberta would cut C$6 billion ($5.89 billion) from
the province’s budget this year, forcing it to make cuts to
public services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  