-- Canadian Dollar Tumbles After Unexpected March Employment Loss
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-04-05T21:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/canadian-dollar-extends-loss-after-unexpected-march-jobs-decline.html
The Canadian dollar fell in its
biggest decline in nine months against its U.S. peer after the
nation unexpectedly lost jobs last month by the most since the
last recession four years ago.  The currency declined against 13 of its 16 major peers as
 Canada  had 54,500 fewer jobs in March, compared with the 6,500
gain predicted in the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of
24 economists. The nation’s jobless rate increased to 7.2
percent from 7 percent. The U.S. added 88,000 jobs in March,
versus estimates of a 190,000 gain. The Bank of Canada’s March 6
policy statement called for the economy to “pick up through
2013” on its way to 2 percent annual growth.  “Huge miss on both numbers, but particularly the Canadian
number after many months of surprisingly strong employment data,
we’ve finally seen some give back, so pretty swift reaction for
the Canadian dollar,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director
of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto.
“There’s a lot more room for this to run, I think this is just
the beginning of what could be a series of weaker employment
numbers in Canada.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the C$1 coin, fell 0.5 percent to C$1.0176 at 5 p.m. in
Toronto. Earlier, it fell 1.1 percent to C$1.0236 per U.S.
dollar, the largest drop since June 28. One loonie buys 98.27
U.S. cents.  Bonds Gain  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  rose, with
yields falling four basis points or 0.04 percentage point to
1.75 percent, touching the lowest level since Dec. 11. The 1.5
percent security maturing in June 2023 rose 36 cents to C$97.68.  Crude oil, the country’s biggest export, fell 0.3 percent
to $93.02 per barrel in New York, after touching its lowest
point since March 7. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S.
stocks fell 0.4 percent.  Canada’s jobs figures brings the labor market more in line
with other parts of the economy, where  output growth  slowed to a
0.6 percent annualized pace in the fourth quarter and inflation
has lagged the central bank’s 2 percent target since May. Last
month’s figures mean Canada posted a  net loss  of 25,700 jobs in
the first three months of the year.  ’Ugly Across’  “It was ugly across the board, there wasn’t one redeeming
feature for the Canadian employment report,” said Mark Frey,
chief market strategist at Cambridge Mercantile Group, a
corporate currency broker, by phone from Victoria British
Columbia. “When you look at the overall employment figures for
Q1 in Canada, you’re seeing a pretty bleak outlook that has
turned almost on a dime from the last five months of 2012.”  A separate report showed Canada recorded its 11th straight
 merchandise trade  deficit in February, the longest streak in at
least 25 years, with the shortfall unexpectedly widening as
exports of metals declined.  The deficit of C$1.02 billion ($1 billion) followed a
January figure that was revised to C$746 million from C$237
million, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the string would end with a C$100
million surplus, based on the median of 21 forecasts.  “Obviously disappointment on both sides of the border,”
said  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit by phone from Toronto. “The labor
market is sort of catching up to the wider economic backdrop
that we’ve always argued is still quite subdued, so this helps a
little bit.”  U.S. Jobs  In the U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner, the absence
of sustained and bigger gains in employment and earnings
underscores the Federal Reserve’s view that more progress is
needed before record monetary policy stimulus that has devalued
the currency can be scaled back.  Fed officials are waiting for sustained signs of job-market
resilience before winding down their $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases. Central bank policy makers reiterated in a March 20
statement that they would continue to buy securities until the
labor market outlook improves “substantially.”  Automatic budget cuts that will take $109.3 billion from
the U.S. government this year went into effect March 1.  “Today’s data just confirms some of those fears that
sparked the selloff in equities recently and have been
supporting fixed-income,” said Emanuella Enenajor, an economist
at CIBC World Markets by phone from Toronto. “It’s the concern
that the U.S. is starting see the impact of fiscal tightening,
and that’s contributing to some of the weakness in the Canadian
dollar.”  The Canadian dollar has lost 0.4 percent this year against
nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has added 2.4
percent and the euro is up 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  