-- CEZ to Focus on Poland After Romania Cuts Renewables Support
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-04-05T14:43:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/cez-to-focus-on-poland-after-romania-curtails-renewables-support.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , central  Europe ’s biggest
power utility, will concentrate on expanding in Poland after
Romania said it will cut subsidies for clean energy.  “Further expansion in Romania was still at the
hypothetical stage, and now we’ve decided to focus on the Polish
market instead,” Ladislav Kriz, a spokesman for the Prague-
based company, said in an e-mail.  The Romanian government said yesterday it will reduce
subsidies for new wind and solar projects from 2014, adding to
plans announced this week to freeze some support for plants
already operating. The measures, designed to stem an increase in
electricity prices for consumers as they shoulder the cost of
the support, threatens to drive foreign investors elsewhere.  “ Romania ’s credibility has been reduced to zero,” said
Markus Vrieling, chief executive officer of RESbroker
International, a wind and solar project broker. Several clients
have already withdrawn or put on hold investments of hundreds of
millions of euros, he said, without identifying any.  CEZ shares closed down 0.4 percent at 566 koruna in  Prague ,
rebounding from an earlier drop of as much as 2.1 percent. The
stock has lost 17 percent of its value since the beginning of
the year, extending last year’s drop of 13 percent.  CEZ said in October it was in talks to acquire projects in
Romania, adding to the 600-megawatt wind park it operates in
Dobrudja province. It intended to build 1,000 megawatts of wind
in the nation by 2016, a plan it cut back to 300 megawatts in
February, citing uncertainty over the future of state support
and funding needs at home. CEZ will now focus on  Poland , where
it plans 760 megawatts of wind farms, February data show.  Poland Support  Poland, which like Romania has a green-certificates system,
offers greater potential to build new projects because wind-
energy density is among the lowest in Europe, according to the
 Polish Wind Energy Association . The country, which generates 90
percent of its power from coal, is debating a draft Renewable
Energy Act as it seeks to meet demand without adding emissions.  Romania said yesterday it will grant 1.5 green certificates
per megawatt-hour of wind power generated, down from two now,
and three for photovoltaic plants, down from six. Power
distributors are obliged to buy the tradable certificates, which
each pay out 27 euros ($35) to 55 euros, plus inflation, over 15
years.  Investors are being “overcompensated” under the current
system, which must be scaled back given the rapid growth of
renewable-energy capacity, Maria Manicuta, a director at the
regulator, said in Bucharest. Wind capacity grew to 2,117
megawatts and solar to 85 megawatts by mid-March from 1 megawatt
in 2005, according to data from the  Economy Ministry  and the
regulator.  Europe Cutbacks  The plan to rein in support for renewables follows similar
moves in  Spain ,  France ,  Italy  and the U.K., where debt-strapped
governments have reduced aid to avoid overcompensating companies
and to curb power-price increases for households and businesses.  Romania has also curtailed support for existing projects.
The government said April 2 it would temporarily cut subsidies
in half by holding back one in every two certificates awarded to
wind-power producers until 2018, and two out of every six for
solar generators until 2017, starting July. Power distributors
must buy the certificates before passing on the cost to users.  Rough Ride  The move will “certainly have an impact on the market, and
probably will filter the boys from the men, and the serious
investors from the speculators,” said Nicolai Canetti,
executive manager of the Romanian unit of Gigawatt Global, a
renewable-energy developer. “But even the most seasoned sailors
can get seasick from a rough ride.”  Gigawatt Global has developed an 8-megawatt solar plant in
Ialomita County and is working on a larger project in same area,
he said. CEZ’s 600-megawatt wind park, which started operating
at the end of last year, is Europe’s biggest land-based wind
farm, generating enough power for as many as 1 million homes.  Romania has a target to get 24 percent of its energy from
renewable sources by 2020 as part of a European Union program to
lower  carbon emissions . It still intends to reach that goal,
according to the regulator, which cited an expected increase in
solar capacity this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  