-- Chile Port Strikes Spread as Minister Warns of Product Shortages
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-04-05T18:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/chile-port-strikes-spread-as-minister-warns-of-product-shortages.html
Chile ’s port strike is expanding and
costs are mounting, prompting the government to warn it
threatens to trigger shortages of basic goods and drive up
prices.  State-owned copper miner Codelco, fruit growers and the
nation’s second-largest pulp exporter  Empresas CMPC SA (CMPC)  all say
protesters are blocking their shipments. Supplies of coal, which
powers about 20 percent of Chilean power plants, will be at risk
if strikes continue, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said today.  Labor Minister Evelyn Matthei is scheduled to meet port
operators and unions today to negotiate an end to stoppages that
started March 16 in the northern port of Angamos. Workers at San
Antonio, the country’s largest port, joined the strike later
that month in solidarity with Angamos, while the nearby port of
Valparaiso began protests yesterday.  “Time is running out to find a solution,” Larrain told
reporters in Santiago today. “We are concerned about the
economic impact of the port stoppage. If this continues we will
start to see shortages and price increases.”  Chile is the world’s leading  producer of copper , shipping
$42 billion last year. The stoppages are restricting exports of
the metal by 60 percent and come as workers threaten to protest
for greater job security at mines belonging to  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) 
and  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)  Copper for delivery in May fell 0.2
percent at 1:48 p.m. in Santiago to $3.345 a pound.  Fruit Growers  CMPC is unable to load ships with 6,400 cubic meters
(226,000 cubic feet) of wood, 42,000 metric tons of pulp and
12,000 tons of cardboard, CMPC Secretary General Gonzalo Garcia
said in an e-mailed statement on April 3. The backlog of
shipments may slow port activity for two months after strikes
end, he said.  Fruit producers today filed legal action to force San
Antonio to restart exports as growers suffer an estimated $60
million in losses, industry association Fedefruta said in a
statement posted on its website. Three million boxes of grapes,
apples and plums destined mainly for the U.S., South Korea and
 Mexico  are trapped in the port, it said.  Angamos port operator Ultraport said in its last statement,
published April 3, it was open to negotiations and would meet
union demands that include a half-hour lunch break. Protesters
indicated they would meet with Minister Matthei in a statement
e-mailed today by Angamos union representative Richard Orellana.  “She better come with solutions,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  