-- Chile Peso Heads for Weekly Gain on Fading Intervention Concerns
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-04-05T12:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/chile-peso-heads-for-weekly-gain-on-fading-intervention-concerns.html
Chile’s peso headed for its biggest
weekly gain in three months amid fading concern the central bank
will intervene to weaken the currency.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 469.22 per  U.S. dollar  as of
9:41 a.m. in Santiago, extending its weekly advance to 0.6
percent, the most since the first week of January. Copper, the
country’s biggest export fell 0.4 percent in  New York  today.  Volatility in the peso had declined to a 15-year low amid
speculation that the central bank would act to limit gains. The
prospect faded after the monetary authority said this week that
the Chilean  real exchange rate  is consistent with economic
drivers. The peso yesterday burst through a range of 470 to 475
per dollar it had held for a month and closed higher than 470
per dollar for the first time since September 2011.  “It moved at last yesterday and it may yet continue,”said
Eugenio Cortes, the head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica
Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “We had lower activity,
currencies and copper keep deteriorating and yet the
appreciative pressure still remain.”  Selling of dollars yesterday by one bank suggests an
investor allowed a forwards contract to mature without renewing
it, forcing the counter-party bank to buy pesos, Cortes said.  Data released today showed the economy grew less than
forecast. Economic activity in  Chile  contracted 0.1 percent in
February from a month earlier on a seasonally adjusted basis,
the central bank said today.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
trimmed their net bets against the currency by $553 million in a
week to $2.9 billion on April 3. At the same time, local
investors, a category that excludes banks and is dominated by
pension funds, reduced their net bets on the peso by $1.1
billion. to $12.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  