-- China Vanke Expanding to U.S. After Customer Emigration
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-04-05T21:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/china-vanke-expanding-to-u-s-after-customer-emigration.html
China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest
developer listed on Chinese exchanges, is expanding outside its
home country because of rising housing demand in the U.S. and
Canada and a wave of emigration, Chairman Wang Shi said.  “There are still opportunities in  North America ,” Wang
said today at the China Business Conference at  Columbia
University  in New York. Also, “we follow Vanke’s customers.
Many of Vanke’s customers have emigrated abroad. About 30
percent of them have chosen America as the destination.”  Vanke and Tishman Speyer Properties LP, the owner of New
York’s Rockefeller Center, signed a deal in February to develop
two residential towers in San Francisco that will cost $620
million and have 655 units.  Chinese developers are starting to take advantage of demand
for real estate around the world from Chinese nationals as the
government imposes property curbs at home.  Xinyuan Real Estate
Co. (XIN)  in September took control of a lot slated for more than 200
units of housing near New York’s Brooklyn waterfront for $54.2
million, a deal the Beijing-based company said was the first of
its kind by a Chinese firm in the U.S.  Vanke, based in Shenzhen, is expanding overseas as
residential prices soar in China. The country’s new-home prices
posted the largest gain in more than two years in March,
according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real
estate website owner.  About 35 cities issued property curbs by an April 1
deadline. Beijing banned single-person households from buying
more than one residence, while Shanghai prohibited banks from
giving credit to third-home buyers, the local governments said
over the weekend.  Purchase Limits  The measures come a month after former Premier  Wen Jiabao 
ordered the central bank during his last days in office to raise
down-payment requirements for second mortgages in cities with
excessive property gains and told local governments with the
biggest price pressures to tighten home-purchase limits.  “The new policy not only confused foreign investors, but
also confused me,” Wang said today. “They can not only use
temporary controls on prices,” but also should limit increases
“through the market.”  Wang today reiterated his view that there’s a bubble in the
Chinese property market, which he had said last month in an
interview on CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes” news program.  The developer’s net income rose 30 percent to 12.55 billion
 yuan  ($2 billion) in the 12 months through Dec. 31 as it sold
more small and medium-sized homes that are less affected by
government curbs, Vanke said in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  