-- Chinese Airlines Slump Amid Bird Flu Concern: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-04-05T09:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/chinese-airline-shares-fall-on-bird-flu-concern-hong-kong-mover.html
China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  plunged
the most in more than a year in Hong Kong trading, leading a
slump in shares of the nation’s carriers on concern an outbreak
of bird flu may hurt  travel demand .  China  Southern, the country’s biggest domestic carrier,
fell 8.5 percent, the most since Jan. 16, 2012, to HK$3.87,
while  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  dropped the most in almost
eight months. Shares in  Air China Ltd. (601111) ,  China Eastern Airlines
Corp. (670) ,  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  also
declined, causing the Bloomberg Asia Pacific Airlines Index to
drop the most since May.  The death toll in China from a new strain of bird flu rose
to six people as Shanghai began slaughtering birds at a local
market and concerns of an outbreak sparked the biggest drop in
 Hong Kong  stocks in more than eight months. Previous outbreaks
of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and bird flu had
emptied planes and caused some Asian airlines to post losses.  “People are worried the new bird flu would develop into a
disaster like SARS,” Davin Wu, a transportation analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said by phone. “At least leisure
travelers will be cutting back their trips to China.”  Shanghai, China’s financial hub, has reported six of the 14
human cases of the H7N9 strain of avian influenza confirmed by
local authorities since the country’s health ministry reported
the first cases last month, China’s official Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday.  Chicken Feed  Concerns about more widespread infections fueled as much as
a 2.8 percent slide in Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index and
led to declines in the price of soybean, a key ingredient in
chicken feed. There’s been no evidence of human-to-human
transmission of the virus, the WHO  said  yesterday.  The extent of the outbreak, the source of infection and the
mode of transmission are being investigated, and it’s too early
to tell if the cases may signal a pandemic, the agency said.  China Southern, based in Guangzhou, had earlier today
fallen as much as 15 percent, the most since September 2001.
 China Eastern , based in Shanghai, dropped 8.3 percent to HK$3.10
and Air China declined 9.8 percent to HK$6.05. The Shanghai
stock exchange is closed today because of a public holiday.  Airlines in China carried 319 million people last year, up
9 percent from a year earlier, according to regulator Civil
Aviation Administration of China.  SARS infected 1,755 people in Hong Kong, killing 300, and
caused economic losses totaling HK$3.8 billion ($490 million) in
two months alone a decade ago as tourist arrivals dwindled and
business from restaurants to taxi cab slumped. China Southern
and China Eastern posted annual losses in 2003 while Cathay and
Air China saw profits decline.  Cathay Pacific fell 4.1 in Hong Kong trading, the most
since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  