-- CME Group Cut in Grain Hours Increases ‘Excitement’ for Traders
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-04-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/cme-group-cut-in-grain-hours-increases-excitement-for-traders.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , owner of the world’s
largest grain market, is set to cut trading hours next week as
the exchange backs off expanded access that customers complained
was too long and eroded market liquidity.  Electronic trading now open for 21 hours from 5 p.m. to 2
p.m. Sunday through Friday on the Chicago Board of Trade will be
reduced to 17.5 hours, opening at 7 p.m. before taking a 45-
minute break starting at 7:45 a.m., according to the CME, owner
of the world’s largest futures market. Both electronic trading
and open outcry will restart at 8:30 a.m. and close at 1:15
p.m., the company said.  CME expanded trading to 21 hours from 17 in May to compete
with new contracts offered by  Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) 
that trade 22 hours a day. Some market participants said the
longer day reduced liquidity and weakened enthusiasm from those
who watched prices throughout trading hours. The shorter day
will improve the market’s ability to set fair prices, analysts
said.  “It certainly creates a little more excitement for the
markets,”  Mark Schultz , the chief market analyst at Northstar
Commodity Investment Co., said by telephone from  Minneapolis .
“Farmers have mentioned they have a hard time getting motivated
to trade when it’s continuously moving.”  The CBOT, where grain has been exchanged since 1877,
remains the dominant location for trading. The exchange handled
73.2 million corn futures contracts in 2012, down from 79
million in 2011, according to the CME. Soybean trading rose 15
percent to 52 million contracts last year, while wheat volume
rose 13 percent to 27.4 million. Electronic trading in the first
three months of 2013 accounted for 97 percent of volume.  Daily Volume  The average daily  volume  for grain and oilseed contracts on
the CBOT from June 2012 to February 2013 rose 4.2 percent versus
the same period a year earlier, data from CME show. In June, the
first full month 21-hour trading was allowed, traders exchanged
an average of 997,757 grain and oilseed contracts, CME data
show. Corn prices jumped 14 percent that month, partly as the
worst drought since the 1930s started to curb production.  Because trading was spread throughput the day, some brokers
would “sit for three, four or five hours” without making a
trade, Schultz said. Without a break before the opening of pit
trading in  Chicago , many market participants were put off by the
lack of a build-up before the open, he said.  Risk Management  The reduced hours may hurt farmers and elevator operators
who buy and sell grain in the early mornings or during the day,
said Scott Stoller, a grain merchandiser at Ag Perspective Inc.
in Dixon,  Illinois . Without the ability to manage their risk
against major price shifts, commercial users may be left
unhedged for large parts of the afternoon, he said.  “I understand the need for shorter hours for the
speculators, however it does a huge disservice for country
elevators,” Stoller said in a telephone interview. “Whenever
the amount of time you can mitigate risk is lessened, you create
more risk. I’m unimpressed with the new hours.”  The  National Grain & Feed Association , a Washington group
that represents more than 1,050 companies that store, export and
process about 70 percent of all U.S. grains and oilseeds, said
in a release that a “significant segment” of its members would
prefer the CME maintain the 5 p.m. start time for the electronic
exchange because they can trade for two more hours.  “Those customers make the point that the proposed change
expands the period of time during which they cannot lay off
price risk in  futures markets ,” the NGFA said. “In addition,
the 7:45 to 8:30 a.m. central time pause exposes cash grain
purchases and sales to added risk during that break.”  ‘More Liquid’  The decision to retract the hours was based on more than
4,000 comments from industry participants and its own analysis,
the CME said in release on March 5. Company spokesman Damon Leavell said on April 4 that the company has self-certified the
change with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Fewer hours will mean more liquidity because the volume of
trades will be concentrated into a shorter amount of time,
 Richard Feltes , the vice president of research at RJ O’Brien &
Associates LLC in Chicago, said in a telephone interview. The
45-minute break starting at 7:45 a.m. will give traders time to
make buying and selling decisions before the pits open, he said.  “When the markets are open they’re going to be deeper and
more liquid than they were under extended trading,” Feltes
said. “The break in the morning will allow traders to review
overnight news and reassess and reload for the trading day. It
will help with liquidity by putting it into a more concentrated
period. That’s a plus for the users of the exchange and a plus
for the exchange.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  