-- Cole Credit Completes Purchase After Spurning Rival Offer
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-05T22:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/cole-credit-completes-purchase-after-spurning-rival-offer.html
Cole Credit Property Trust III, an
owner of more than 900 U.S. properties, completed the purchase
of the company that sponsored it after rejecting a $6.7 billion
buyout offer from  American Realty Capital Properties Inc. (ARCP)   Cole Credit plans to list its shares on the New York Stock
Exchange in June, the Phoenix-based company said today in a
statement. Cole Holdings manages more than $12 billion of real
estate assets for about 160,000 individual investors.  “We are pleased to complete the acquisition of Cole
Holdings, which provides our stockholders with additional growth
potential and increased access to capital,” Leonard Wood,
chairman of the special committee of Cole Credit’s board, said
in the statement.  American Realty, based in New York, had called its takeover
offer better for shareholders of the real estate investment
trust. Cole Credit, in rejecting the rival bid earlier today,
said its transaction would provide investors better dividend
growth through the added cash flow of new properties, while the
public offering would give them flexibility to sell their
shares. American Realty on March 27 proposed a modified deal
that included Cole Holdings in its purchase offer.  “This is not a great shock to us,” American Realty
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Schorsch said in a
telephone interview. The company said earlier today that it’s
weighing options including taking its offer directly to Cole
Credit shareholders.  “We’re going to evaluate everything,” Schorsch said.  Cole Holdings’ sole stockholder is Christopher Cole, who is
also chairman and chief executive officer of Cole Credit.  ‘Without Merit’  Shareholders of Cole Credit last week asked a Maryland
judge to block the transaction with Cole Holdings. The lawsuit
claimed that a vote by Cole Credit’s shareholders was required
for completion of the deal. Cole Credit said in an e-mailed
statement last week that the lawsuit was “without merit.”  American Realty had 146 properties that were 100 percent
leased as of Dec. 31, according to the company’s annual report
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  American Realty was little changed in  New York  today,
closing at $14.79 a share. The stock has gained 34 percent in
the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  