-- Cole Credit Rejects American Realty’s $6.7 Billion Bid
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-05T16:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/cole-credit-rejects-american-realty-s-6-7-billion-bid.html
Cole Credit Property Trust III
rejected a $6.7 billion buyout offer from American Realty
Capital Properties Inc., saying the bid undervalues the company
and requires “unsustainable” levels of debt.  “The result for stockholders would be a highly levered
company with an unstable  capital structure ,” Cole, a Phoenix-
based nontraded real estate investment trust, said in a
statement today.  Cole Credit, owner of more than 900 mostly single-tenant
office, retail and industrial properties, is trying to fend off
American Realty while it plans to purchase its sponsor, Cole
Holdings Corp., and go public. The acquisition would provide
shareholders better dividend growth through the added cash flow
of new properties, while the public offering would give them
flexibility to sell their shares, Cole said today.  American Realty on March 27 bid $12.50 a share in cash or
0.80 a share of its common stock for each share of Cole Credit,
raising an earlier offer. Three days ago, the New York-based
firm said the cash payout would be capped at 60 percent, an
increase from the previous 20 percent limit. Under the stock-
payment plan,  American Realty (ARCP)  guaranteed to pay at least $13.59
for each Cole Credit share. The proposal is valued at about $9.7
billion, including the assumption of debt.  ‘Powerful Transaction’  “The deal that we’ve proposed, and taking all the politics
and distractions out of the conversation, is a very powerful
transaction,” Nicholas Schorsch, chairman and chief executive
officer of American Realty Capital Properties, said today in an
interview before Cole issued its statement. “The combined
company will be the largest net-lease REIT in the market.”  Schorsch said “it doesn’t make any sense” for Cole Credit
to buy Cole Holdings, a securities company.  A Cole investment committee that studied American Realty’s
proposal concluded that the cash bid of $12.50 a share reflected
a 21 percent discount to Cole’s implied share value. The
guarantee of 60 percent cash also would add about $8 billion of
debt to American Realty’s balance sheet, according to Cole.  On top of that, “substantial additional cash would be
required” for American Realty to meet its guarantee, Cole said.
“How can ARCP bid to acquire a company with funding it does not
have?”  American Realty also would have difficulty fulfilling its
$13.59-a-share stock offer without selling additional shares and
diluting its existing investors’ holdings, Cole said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  