-- Colombia Cites Weak Consumer Demand in March Rate Cut Decision
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-05T19:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/colombia-cites-weak-consumer-demand-in-march-rate-cut-decision.html
Colombian policy makers cited weak
demand for the country’s exports, low inflation expectations and
signs that household demand is cooling for last month’s surprise
half point interest rate cut.  “In the first quarter of 2013, the deterioration in trade
expectations, as well as the fall in the  consumer confidence 
index and sales of automobiles suggest a lower performance in
private consumption,” the central bank said today in the
 minutes  to its March policy meeting.  Business confidence indicates that industrial activity will
continue to shrink, suggesting that “current economic growth is
below its potential and, therefore, the constraints on the use
of productive capacity are increasing,” the bank said.  Colombia  has cut  interest rates  seven times since June to
the lowest among major Latin American economies, as growth
cooled and the inflation rate fell to a six-decade low. The
minutes leave the door open to further cuts if the central bank
judge them to be necessary, said Alejandro Reyes, head analyst
at Ultrabursatiles SA brokerage.  “The bank will wait to see the impact of these measures,
and the effect on  interest rates  and on the economy,” Reyes
said in a phone interview.  The bank will probably hold the rate at 3.25 percent until
the end of the year, Reyes said, adding that, “if inflation
remains low, and growth remains mediocre, nothing has changed,
and they could continue to cut interest rates without a
problem.”  Inflation-Growth Dynamic  The central bank unexpectedly accelerated the pace of
interest rate cuts at its March 22 policy meeting with the first
half-point cut in almost three years, saying that monetary
stimulus is reaching the economy at a slower pace than is
desirable.  Inflation accelerated to 1.99 percent last month, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 24 analysts,
from a six decade-low of 1.83 percent in February. The
statistics agency reports March inflation later today.  The economy expanded 3.1 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace in the Andean region. Gross
domestic product will increase 2.5 percent to 4.5 percent in
2013, according to the central bank’s forecast.  The peso appreciated 0.5 percent to 1819.73 per  U.S. dollar 
in Bogota today. The currency has weakened 2.9 percent this
year, the biggest fall among major Latin American economies
after Venezuela and  Argentina .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  