-- Consumer Borrowing in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast in February
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-05T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/consumer-borrowing-in-u-s-rose-more-than-forecast-in-february.html
Consumer credit  in the U.S. climbed
more than forecast in February as Americans took out more loans
for motor vehicle purchases and education.  The $18.1 billion increase was the biggest in six months
and followed a revised $12.7 billion advance in January, the
 Federal Reserve  said today in  Washington . The median  forecast  in
a Bloomberg survey called for a $15 billion gain. Non-revolving
debt, which includes financing for autos and college tuition,
surged by $17.6 billion, the most since at least 2006.  Higher stock prices this year and increasing home values
have helped households mend their balance sheets, making them
more amenable to borrowing. At the same time, another report
today showed the share of younger Americans in the labor force
is declining amid limited job opportunities, which may explain
the sustained increases in loans for secondary education.  “The drop in the participation rate has been centered in
younger workers, many of whom have given up hope of finding a
decent job and are instead continuing in school and racking up
enormous amounts of student debt,”  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S.
economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York , said in an
e-mail to clients. That “has contributed to the recent surge in
consumer credit outstanding.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey for consumer credit
ranged from gains of $8.9 billion to $17.6 billion after a
previously reported $16.2 billion advance in January.  Earlier, figures from the Labor Department showed employers
hired fewer workers than forecast in March and unemployment
dropped as people left the labor force. The jobless rate
declined to a four-year low of 7.6 percent.  Payroll Gain  Payrolls grew by 88,000 workers, the smallest increase in
nine months and less than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, after a revised 268,000 February advance. The
median forecast of 87 economists called for a 190,000 gain.  The Fed’s consumer credit report on borrowing doesn’t track
debt secured by real estate, such as home mortgages and home
equity lines of credit.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, rose by $532.8
million after a $1.65 billion increase in January.  The February gain in non-revolving credit followed an $11.1
billion increase in the prior month.  Lending by the federal government, which is mainly for
educational loans, rose $4.2 billion in February before seasonal
adjustment, today’s report showed. The increase may reflect more
Americans returning to school because of limited job
opportunities.  Participation Rate  The Labor Department’s report today showed the share of the
working-age population in the  labor force , known as the
 participation rate , fell to 63.3 percent, the lowest since May
1979. The average number of hours worked for all employees
increased in March, while earnings stagnated. The participation
rate among those 20 years old to 24 years old fell to a seven-
month low.  At the same time, lower  interest rates  are helping spark
sales of motor vehicles. Cars and light trucks sold at a 15.3
million annual rate in February after 15.2 million pace a month
earlier, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Purchases ran at a 15.2 million rate in March.  General
Motors Co. (GM)  reported its best March in five years after selling
245,950 vehicles, and announced a third consecutive month of
higher retail and total market share.  “The only negative real headwinds we see are higher taxes
and potentially lower  government spending ,” Kurt McNeil, vice
president of U.S. sales operations for GM, said on an April 2
conference call. “Everything else seems to be pretty positive;
jobs, housing which we have been talking about for a while,
availability of consumer credit, autos, stock market performance
obviously is helping and then fuel  price stability  is also a
positive.”  Fuel Costs  Gas prices  have declined since reaching a high this year in
February. The average cost of a gallon was $3.63 yesterday
compared with $3.79 on Feb. 26, according to AAA, the nation’s
largest motoring group.  Homeowners are also enjoying stability in the values of
their properties.  Home prices  rose 10.2 percent in the 12 months
through February, and 1.7 million homeowners returned to
positive equity in 2012, according to  Irvine , California-based
CoreLogic Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  