-- Copper Swings on Chile Export Curbs and Signs Economies Struggle
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-04-05T08:58:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/copper-swings-on-chile-export-curbs-and-signs-economies-struggle.html
Copper, set for a third weekly drop
in  London , swung between gains and declines as investors weighed
limited exports from leading global producer Chile against signs
economies are struggling to maintain growth.  A port strike begun March 16 is curbing Chilean copper
exports by 60 percent, Mining Minister Hernan de Solminihac said
yesterday. Figures today may show U.S. employers hired fewer
workers for a third month in four in March, economists surveyed
by Bloomberg said. An official gauge of Chinese manufacturing
for March came in lower this week than analysts forecast.  “It’s difficult to be positive,” said  David Wilson , an
analyst at Citigroup Inc. in London. “We’ve had macro data
which is not supportive. Chinese data hasn’t been glowing.”  Copper for delivery in three months added 0.2 percent to
$7,455 a metric ton by 9:55 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange
after falling as much as 0.4 percent. Prices are down 1.1
percent this week and yesterday touched the lowest since Aug. 3.
Copper for delivery in May rose 0.3 percent to $3.3615 a pound
on the Comex in  New York .  Markets in  China , the world’s biggest copper consumer, are
closed today for a national holiday.  Workers at Chilean copper mines owned by BHP Billiton Ltd.
and Anglo American Plc are preparing protests to push for
greater  job security , echoing measures announced last month by a
union representing workers at state-owned producer Codelco.
Still, yesterday’s news will have only a “short-lived” effect
as copper stockpiles expand, Citigroup’s Wilson said.  Inventories tracked by the LME, at the highest since
October 2003, rose for a 35th session to 579,600 tons, daily
exchange figures showed. Orders to take metal from warehouses
climbed for a fifth session to 147,025 tons, the highest since
at least 1997, on bookings in  South Korea  and  Singapore .  Global copper stocks are unlikely to rise substantially
higher than six to seven weeks of demand until 2014, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report e-mailed today. Prices won’t
fall “sustainably” below $7,000 a ton until next year,
according to the bank.  Aluminum, lead, and tin rose in London. Nickel and zinc
fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  