-- Cyprus Deposit Seizure Hurts Trust in Europe’s Banks, Putin Says
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-04-05T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/cyprus-deposit-seizure-hurts-trust-in-europe-s-banks-putin-says.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
accused European Union and Cypriot authorities of undermining
trust in the continent’s banking system by taxing deposits as
part of the cash-strapped Mediterranean island’s bailout.  “Forfeiture of investors’ funds -- including of Russian
origin -- wherever it happens, in Cyprus or in other places,
undermines credibility of the banking system of the entire  euro
zone ,” Putin said in an interview with  Germany ’s state-owned
ARD television before an April 7 visit to the European nation.  Putin said he wasn’t angry that the EU didn’t ask  Russia 
for assistance in Cyprus’s rescue package because its banks’
difficulties “have shown how risky and insecure investments in
Western financial institutions can be.”  Russia rejected Cypriot requests for additional financial
aid last month after criticizing plans to force losses on
insured deposits. After a European-led rescue agreement was
reached that only punished uninsured depositors, Putin ordered
the government to resume talks with the island on restructuring
a 2.5 billion-euro ($3.3 billion) loan granted in 2011.  Russian companies and individuals have $31 billion of
deposits in Cyprus, according to Moody’s Investors Services and
Monument Securities. The bailout will probably provoke an
outflow of Russian money back home, Putin said.  “The more you ‘pinch’ foreign investors in the financial
institutions of your countries, the better for us because the
affected, offended and frightened -- not all of them but many --
should, so we hope, come to our financial institutions and keep
their money in our banks,” he said.  At the same time, Putin signaled support for  Europe ’s
financial system and reaffirmed trust in the euro and the
continent’s major economies. Russia’s central bank keeps more
than 40 percent of its about $500 billion of reserves in euros.  Russia made “the right choice” to keep “such a large
share of our gold and currency reserves, of our reserves in
general, in the European currency,” Putin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  