-- David Stockman: the Next Ron Paul
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-04-05T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/david-stockman-the-next-ron-paul.html
David Stockman first came to
prominence as Ronald Reagan’s publicity-prone director of the
Office of Management and Budget in the early 1980s. In the
decades since he was fired from that job, his career in the
leveraged-buyout business has been of no great distinction
except that it included an indictment for fraud. (The charges
were dropped and he  paid  $7.2 million to settle a civil case
brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission.) Now here we
are discussing his new book on the corruption of American
capitalism,  “The Great Deformation.”   The interest in his book and in the long  column  promoting
it in the  New York  Times on March 30 are a tribute to something,
I suppose. I’m not quite sure what.  Let’s see. Stockman has a reputation, acquired during that
spell at the OMB, for speaking truth to power. That’s rare
enough in Washington to leave a lasting impression. He’s
unusually smart. His judgments of people he disagrees with, a
group which includes almost everybody, range from memorably
blunt to gratuitously offensive. That works, too. The main
thing, though, might be the trait that has defined him all along
and which is stamped all through “The Great Deformation”:
Stockman is a man who loves a theory.  Universal Theory  Not just any theory. It has to be a theory of everything.
William Greider saw this propensity in a famous  article  for The
Atlantic back in 1981, “The Education of David Stockman.” That
piece caused a sensation: The new OMB director was startlingly
frank about the Reagan administration’s shortcomings as a fiscal
manager -- “None of us really understands what’s going on with
all these numbers.”  Stockman told Greider about his evolution from far-left
radical to moderate Republican to supply-side revolutionary to
pre-modern fiscal conservative. (A lot of evolving for somebody
who was still only 35.) “I guess I always had a strong
intellectual bent, so I needed a strong theory of how the world
worked.”  The new book is as full a statement as you could wish of
where that strong theory now stands. It turns out to be  Ron Paul 
libertarianism, give or take. Stockman is both impressive and
infuriating in just the same way as Paul. He makes valid
criticisms of many policies, but his ideas form a sealed
intellectual system. Everything depends on everything else.
Things can’t be improved here and there. Suggesting palliatives
is missing the point -- the entire body politic is sick and has
to go.  The fundamental problem, says Stockman, is easy money. Alan Greenspan’s low interest rates caused the bubble, hence the
crash. Ben Bernanke’s low rates and quantitative easing are
reinflating the bubble, hence the next crash (which will be
worse). Cheap money obliterates the signals on which capitalism
depends. Everything that’s bad in public affairs, from political
corruption to explosive growth in public and private debt and
the depredations of private-equity firms (like the one Stockman
ran), follows from the Federal Reserve’s monetary indiscipline.  It’s a grave indictment of modern central banking and no
laughing matter -- even when you’re asked to read sentences like
this: “During 2009-2012 the vultures feasted gluttonously in the
Fed’s killing fields.”  The book describes an 80-year arc of fiscal and monetary
recklessness. Dwight Eisenhower wins praise for fiscal solidity,
but every other president was a knave. Stockman is nominally a
Republican, but his party disgusts him as much as the Democratic
Party. There’s no partisan rancor in the book: It’s sustained
and intense, but entirely nonpartisan.  Utopian Prescriptions  The book closes with Stockman’s prescription. Put the
dollar back on the gold standard. Move to a form of “narrow
banking.” Amend the Constitution to provide for single six-year
terms for all members of Congress and the president; outlaw most
private political spending; forbid former holders of federal
office from lobbying; and balance the  federal budget  on a two-
year cycle.  Oh, and no more macroeconomic management. Abolish
subsidies. Abolish Medicare and Medicaid. Abolish the income
tax, replacing it with a tax on spending. Eliminate “much of the
federal government.” Slash the defense budget and stop policing
the world. Impose -- get this -- a one-time wealth tax of 30
percent to pay down the national debt once and for all. It
really doesn’t do this view justice to call it utopian. It’s so
flamboyantly impossible, it’s unhinged. Like Paul, Stockman is
self-sufficient in his pessimism. Yes, he smiles, we’re doomed -
- and if you should ever doubt it, here’s what it would take to
save us.  The scope of the critique, while crazy, is undeniably
impressive. It has a kind of logical integrity. Everything is
worked out and all the connections explained. Stockman has been
reading his economic history and his Austrian economics.
Crucially, a lot of what he says really does make sense. In
understanding the crash, for instance, the Austrian school’s
emphasis on the role of the credit cycle looks right. Most of
Stockman’s observations about  Washington ’s self-replicating
morbidity are accurate.  Frustration arises mainly from the way this mode of
analysis resists reform at the margin -- the only kind of reform
that can actually happen. This relieves Stockman, just as it
relieves Paul, of the need to engage in government as we know
it. Instead, they can contentedly contemplate our destruction
from a great height.  And in another way, of course, their utopian alternative
isn’t really thought through at all. Credit cycles as well as
booms and busts also happened under the classical gold standard.
Just how well this system would work in modern conditions is
never examined. One sign of this gap nags constantly at the
reader -- the tactical ambivalence about crashes and their
consequences. Are economic slumps good or bad, avoidable or
unavoidable? Apparently, a crash caused by government inaction
is cleansing and good for you, but one caused (or delayed) by
anything the government actually does leads vultures to feast on
you gluttonously.  I find the moralizing off-putting, too. Personally, I don’t
feel I deserve a conflagration to cleanse me of all the over-
borrowing you have done. The punitive dimension found in many
all-encompassing social theories is much to the fore in
Stockman’s worldview. At this point, a lesser reviewer would
refer to the author’s time at Harvard’s divinity school --
another stage in his intellectual evolution. It’s tempting, but
I’m honor-bound to mention that he says he was just hiding from
the draft.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net  