-- Draghi’s Depositor Preference Call Risks Stoking Borrowing Costs
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-04-05T15:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/draghi-s-depositor-preference-call-risks-stoking-borrowing-costs.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s call to make deposits safer than bank bonds risks
pushing up lenders’ borrowing costs.  Draghi yesterday pointed out the “explicit distinction”
in the U.S. between uninsured depositors, who tend not to suffer
losses in a banking collapse, and bondholders. Speaking at the
ECB’s monthly press conference in Frankfurt, he said “the same
distinction should be present” in new rules on bank bailouts
being drawn up by the European Commission.  European policy makers are debating legislation on how  bank
failures  should be handled, including inflicting losses on
creditors. Bondholders are now in the firing line after Cyprus’s
failed attempt to raid bank accounts below 100,000 euros
($130,000) to help fund its bailout caused a backlash.  The agenda of regulators “could soon be all about making
sure that banks have a  capital structure  that would allow them
to save all the depositors,” said  John Raymond , an analyst at
CreditSights Inc. in London. “This is a big deal for senior
bondholders.”  So-called depositor preference is important for bondholders
because of the impact on recovery rates after a collapse,
according to Raymond. If the authorities exclude a given group
from taking losses, remaining creditors have to lose more.  “After Cyprus, it’s becoming increasingly evident that
bondholders are less senior than depositors,” said Robert Kendrick, a London-based analyst at Legal & General Investment
Management, which oversees about $585 billion. “Clarifying that
and making it explicit might not actually be a bad thing because
then we’d know for certain we’re less senior and could charge a
bit more to lend.”  Bondholders are more important in funding European banks
than those in the U.S. The median loan-to-deposit ratio for
 Europe ’s 22 biggest banks is 118.6 percent, compared with 69.6
percent for the U.S., according to CreditSights.  Senior debt investors are formally on the same level as
depositors in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  