-- HeartWare Device Malfunction Led to Death, FDA Reports
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-04-05T16:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/heartware-device-malfunction-led-to-death-fda-reports.html
A malfunction in a device from
 HeartWare International Inc. (HTWR)  used to take over the heart’s
beating action led to a patient death, U.S. regulators said. The
company’s shares declined.  After the patient changed the battery in the left
ventricular assist device, power dropped and blood flow fell,
setting off a controller fault alarm, the  report  posted on the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s website said. A family
member found the woman unresponsive at her house, with the alarm
blaring. The problem had persisted for at least three hours
before it was addressed, according to a preliminary analysis.  The patient, who was unidentified in the FDA report, was
taken to a local hospital, where she died. She had had the
device for nearly three years before the malfunction, which
occurred on Feb. 25, the FDA said.  The death may increase safety concerns if the problem is
shown to be a malfunction related to the actual device,
Bloomberg Industries analyst Jason McGorman said in an
interview. It’s not clear from the FDA report what caused the
device to stop working correctly.  HeartWare  fell  2.5 percent to $84.15 at 12:34 p.m. in New
York, after decreasing as much as 5.8 percent for the biggest
intraday drop since Nov. 27. Christopher Taylor, a HeartWare
spokesman, didn’t return a phone call or e-mail seeking comment.  The device was returned to HeartWare, based in Framingham,
 Massachusetts , the agency said. An autopsy was done, though the
results haven’t been provided.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Larkin in Indianapolis at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  