-- EasyJet Earnings Saved by Easter Gain After Pinch From Pound
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-04-05T16:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/easyjet-slashes-first-half-losses-as-easter-bookings-spur-sales.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
discount airline, narrowed its first-half loss as icy weather in
Western Europe spurred late bookings for the Easter holiday that
offset the negative impact of a weaker pound.  The pretax loss for the six months ended March 31 was in
the range of 60 million pounds to 65 million pounds ($91 million
to $99 million), Luton, England-based EasyJet said today in a
statement. The year-earlier loss was 112 million pounds.  EasyJet earnings are improving as Chief Executive Officer
Carolyn McCall boosts frequencies on key routes while using
allocated seats, flexible tickets and corporate agents to grab a
bigger slice of business flying. The weaker pound had an adverse
impact of as much as 35 million pounds in the half, with a 5
million-pound hit from fuel, and those factors may together have
a negative effect of 15 million pounds in the second half.  “We continue to see the second half carrying a more
competitive edge,” Damian Brewer, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in  London , said in a note to investors today. “Summer
2013 faces greater competitor capacity expansion at Gatwick,
which we think may dampen achievable yield upside.”  Stock Tumbles  EasyJet fell 6.4 percent to 1,027 pence in London, the most
since March 5 last year. The stock has gained 34 percent so far
in 2013, valuing the company at 4.07 billion pounds. Aviation
shares declined globally on concern that bird-flu deaths in
 China  will hurt demand for travel.  EasyJet flew 4.87 million people in March, 5.3 percent more
than a year earlier, and began flights between Moscow and London
as well as from Milan to  Rome ’s Fiumicino airport.  “First-half losses have been halved year-on-year through
our disciplined approach to capacity deployment and a focus on
cost management,” McCall said in the statement. “We have also
benefited from rival airlines taking winter capacity out of the
market, the earlier timing of Easter and poor weather across the
U.K. and northern Europe which stimulated strong bookings.”  The carrier said it’s placing orders for three Airbus SAS
A320 aircraft as it mulls options for a larger purchase. EasyJet
has previously placed orders for 242 Airbus single-aisle
airplanes, of which 210 had been delivered through the end of
March, according to the Toulouse, France-based manufacturer.  The pound has declined 5.8 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
this year, and is the second-worst performer after the Japanese
yen in the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Index.  EasyJet said it has 75 percent of its jet-fuel requirement
hedged for the six months ending Sept. 30 at $985 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  