-- Telecom Italia Considers Combination With Hutchison Unit
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-04-05T16:15:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/telecom-italia-considers-merger-with-hutchison-unit.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , Italy’s biggest
phone company, said it’s examining a possible merger with
 Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s H3G unit, a combination that would
eliminate a competitor offering the cheapest wireless services
in the country.  Telecom Italia’s board plans to discuss the topic at a
meeting scheduled for April 11, the Milan-based company said in
a statement, confirming a  Bloomberg News  report yesterday. Hong
Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Hutchison said in a separate
statement it’s looking at “possible business combinations”
with Telecom Italia. The companies described their contacts as
“preliminary.”  H3G is the smallest of Italy’s four network carriers, with
9.5 million customers using the “3” brand at the end of last
year. Based on its  reported  earnings and multiples of publicly-
traded European carriers compiled by Bloomberg, the unit could
be valued at about 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) without a
premium.  “Consolidation in the Italian market would have strong
industrial logic and going from four to three operators via in-
market consolidation would create value for all remaining
operators,” said Luigi Minerva, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc
in London, who rates Telecom Italia’s stock neutral.  Dilution Concern  While Telecom Italia could be interested in taking out a
rival, it doesn’t want to spend cash, and offering stock would
dilute investors’ interest, a person familiar with the matter
said yesterday, asking not to be named because the deliberations
are private.  Telecom Italia rose 1.1 percent to close at 58.5 cents in
Milan. Yesterday, the stock jumped 7.8 percent after Bloomberg
News reported the planned board meeting and discussions over a
potential H3G deal.  Chief Executive Officer Franco  Bernabe (BNBC)  has repeatedly
called for consolidation in Italy’s 40 billion-euro
telecommunications industry. The former monopoly holds the
largest share of the country’s wireless market, followed by
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ’s Wind unit and H3G.  Hutchison held discussions in 2010 over a sale of the
business to Telecom Italia, and the talks didn’t result in a
deal because of differences in valuation, people with knowledge
of the matter said at the time. A bid last year by Hutchison for
Eircom Group, Ireland’s biggest phone company, was rejected.  Sales Shrink  As Asia’s biggest investor in mobile-phone networks in
Europe, Hutchison’s Three division also sells services in the
U.K., Sweden, Denmark and Austria.  In January, Hutchison completed the 1.3 billion-euro
takeover of Orange  Austria  to become the country’s third-biggest
wireless carrier.  H3G’s revenue rose 10 percent last year to 1.97 billion
euros, while earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization climbed about 3 percent to 264 million euros,
according to Hutchison’s  annual results .  “The mobile product offers of 3 are among the most
aggressive in the Italian market,” said Filippo Renga,
coordinator of wireless market research at Milan’s Polytechnic
School of Management. As an example, 3 currently is offering a
so-called bundled offer that includes a flat monthly fee of 30
euros for voice and data with a smartphone such as the Samsung
Galaxy SIII or iPhone 5.  Western European phone companies trade at an average
enterprise value, which includes debt, of about 5.8 times
Ebitda,  data  compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Antitrust Scrutiny  A combination of Telecom Italia with HG3 would create an
operator with about 45 percent of  Italy ’s wireless subscribers,
based on  data  compiled by communications regulator Agcom for the
third-quarter of 2012. Antitrust scrutiny would have the
potential to stop a deal or impose significant remedies, UBS AG
analysts wrote.  “While the pay-off is potentially large, the actual odds
of this deal are low in our view because of antitrust and fiscal
issues,” Andrea De Vita, an analyst at Banca Akros SpA, said by
phone.  A spokesman for Italy’s competition regulator in  Rome 
declined to comment on the matter.  Telecom Italia is selling assets and cutting jobs as it
looks for ways to reduce debt and raise money for investments.
The company is considering spinning off its fixed-line network,
an asset estimated by Findim Group SA, the carrier’s second-
largest shareholder, at about 13 billion euros to 15 billion
euros.  Telecom Italia is controlled by Telco SpA, an investment
group that includes  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  and  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   Franco Lombardi, the head of Asati, a group of Telecom
Italia small investors, said his association backed Bernabe and
an eventual “industrial” accord with a foreign partner. Any
attempt by Telecom Italia’s controlling shareholders to block a
deal would be opposed by the group, he said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  