-- Telekom Slovenije Rating Cut to Junk by Moody’s on Weak Banks
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-04-05T13:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/telekom-slovenije-rating-cut-to-junk-by-moody-s-on-weak-banks.html
Moody’s Investors Service cut the
credit rating of  Telekom Slovenije (TLSG)  d.d. to junk because of
state-owned phone company’s weaker liquidity due to
deteriorating credit quality of Slovenia’s largest banks.  Telekom senior unsecured rating was cut on level to Ba1
from Baa3 with a negative outlook, the ratings company said in a
report today. Most of the Ljubljana-based company cash and
deposits of 100 million euros ($130 million) are placed with
domestic banks and it relies on them for another 70 million
euros in back-up liquidity, Ivan Palacios, Moody’s senior credit
officer in  Madrid  said, according to the report.  “This increases the company’s vulnerability to stress in
the Slovenian banking sector, and we view its liquidity profile
as no longer being consistent with an investment-grade rating,”
Palacios said. Telekom Slovenije has no capital market  debt
redemptions  until December 2016, when its 300 million-euro bond
matures, Palacios said.  Slovenian state-owned banks like Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor (KBMR)  d.d. are struggling with a
a surging bad loans because of rising bankruptcies in the euro
region nation that is fighting its second recession since 2009.
Banks are also at the center of investors’ concern Slovenia may
be forced to seek an international bailout.  In Moody’s view, the risks for depositors in some large
Slovenian banks has increased, as highlighted in the recent
downgrades of  Abanka Vipa (ABKN) ’s long-term local and foreign-currency
deposit ratings to Caa3 from Caa1 on February 22, Nova
Ljubljanska’s long-term rating to Caa2 from B2 on March 12 and
Nova Kreditna’s long-term deposit rating to Caa2 from B3 on 25
March 2013 with all ratings having a negative outlook.  Capital Aid  “These downgrades primarily reflect the high likelihood
that these banks will require further external capital
assistance in order for their  capital ratios  to remain above
minimum regulatory guidelines,” Palacios said.  Telekom Slovenije dropped 1 euro, or 1.25 percent, to close
at 79 euros at the Ljubljana stock exchange today, giving the
company a market value of 516 million euros, data compiled by
Bloomberg shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  