-- Emerging Stocks Fall on China Bird Flu; BRICs Slip 10% Fr
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-04-06T02:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/emerging-stocks-fall-as-bric-index-slumps-10-percent-from-peak.html
Emerging stocks declined to a four-
month low as U.S. jobs data missed forecasts and the threat of a
bird flu epidemic sent Chinese airlines tumbling. The MSCI BRIC
Index dropped 10 percent from this year’s peak.  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  sank 8.5 percent in Hong Kong,
while  Hyundai Motor (005380)  Co. led losses in Seoul as the risk of
conflict with North Korea spurred capital outflows. Russian
shares dropped a third week as OAO Mobile TeleSystems slumped on
concern the country’s largest mobile provider will lose market
share. Brazil’s Bovespa index erased an earlier decline as
utility Cia. Paranaense de Energia jumped 8.3 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 0.9 percent to
1,008.13 in New York, extending its weekly slump to 2.6 percent.
Stocks fell on data showing U.S. employers hired fewer workers
than forecast in March, while international investors sold the
most South Korean equities since May. Six people have died from
a new strain of bird flu in China.  “Markets hate uncertainty,” Martin Schulz, head of
international equities at PNC Capital Advisors LLC in Cleveland,
said by phone. His firm manages about $35 billion. “The big
concern is that the payroll number just highlights that the U.S.
is still in a deflationary post-crisis scenario.”  The  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC)  of stocks in the biggest  emerging
markets  posted a drop that would classify as a correction to
some investors. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index
exchange-traded fund fell 0.2 percent to $41.61. The Chicago
Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, lost 0.3 percent to 19.15.  Biggest Loss  All 10  industry groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
dropped, led by a gauge of consumer discretionary companies. The
broader index has lost 4.5 percent this year, compared with a 6
percent gain in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country stocks.
The developing-nations measure trades at 10.5 times  estimated 
12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.7, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brazil’s Bovespa rose 0.7 percent. Copel, as the electrical
utility is known, had the biggest gain since 2008.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped 0.7 percent to the lowest level
since Dec. 4. Mobile TeleSystems, also known as MTS, tumbled 3.4
percent. VTB Group, Russia’s second-biggest lender, said March 4
it had completed a $3.55 billion acquisition of Swedish Tele2’s
wireless business in Russia, fuelling speculation the unit will
be sold to state-run OAO Rostelecom.  Benchmark stock gauges in Turkey, Hungary and South Africa
also retreated yesterday.  Chinese Stocks  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong tumbled 3.1 percent, the  steepest loss  since
July 23 after a holiday on March 4.  China Southern plunged the most in more than a year in Hong
Kong trading, leading a slump in shares of the nation’s carriers
on concern an outbreak of bird flu may hurt travel demand. Air
China Ltd. and China Eastern Airlines Corp. also declined,
causing the Bloomberg Asia Pacific Airlines Index to drop the
most since May.  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  gauge fell 1.6 percent, capping the
biggest weekly loss since May. Hyundai Motor and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270) , the biggest South Korean automakers, retreated at least
4.4 percent, extending March 4 slides after plans to recall
vehicles in the U.S. The won dropped 0.7 percent to a seventh-
month low.  Foreign funds unloaded a net 2.6 trillion won ($2.3 billion)
of Kospi index shares last month, the most since May, Korea
Exchange Inc. data show.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 298 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  