-- ECB's Mersch Says Bank Oversight to Threaten Independence
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-05T11:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/mersch-says-bank-oversight-deal-may-threaten-ecb-independence.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Yves Mersch said parts of a deal by lawmakers and
national governments on banking supervision may endanger the
ECB’s independence, setting up a potential clash with the
European Parliament.  The parliament’s right to veto the appointment of the
deputy head of the new banking supervisor, who will be chosen
from the ranks of the ECB’s Executive Board, “may be beyond the
red line of the ECB’s statutory independence,” Mersch said
today in a speech in Berlin.  European Union lawmakers and national governments clinched
a provisional deal in March to turn the ECB into a banking
supervisor in 2014, a move that would pave the way for the euro
area’s firewall fund to provide direct bailouts to banks. The
agreement hands lawmakers a role in appointing the chair and the
vice-chair of the ECB bank supervision board. The European
Parliament could theoretically veto the nominations.  “The foreseen de facto veto right of the European
Parliament to a nomination proposal of an ECB Executive Board
member seems inappropriate,” Mersch said. “It might be legally
challenged and create a reputational risk should the Single
Supervisory Mechanism become subject to litigation.”  Democratic Accountability  EU leaders called for the new supervisor as they sought to
tame a fiscal crisis that has forced  Greece ,  Portugal , Ireland
and most recently Cyprus to seek international aid. The ECB’s
role in the Cypriot bailout was criticized by  Sharon Bowles ,
chairwoman of the parliament’s economic and monetary committee,
who asked for more democratic accountability at the Frankfurt-
based central bank.  “Central banks have to be tough sometimes, but what hope
is there for accountability when they seemingly force decisions
like this at gunpoint with no regard for financial
legislation,” Bowles said on March 19. “We must question ECB
independence on supervision. If anything this strengthens the
case for more democratic accountability.”  Under the supervision plans, the ECB will directly oversee
around 140 banks, accounting for more than 80 percent of the
euro-area banking system in terms of assets.  “There is already an institutional balance in the
appointment procedure for Executive Board members, in which the
European Parliament opines on nominated candidates,” Mersch
said today. “Such an institutional balance could be disturbed
by the new veto right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  