-- EU Carbon Data Signals Airlines May Need to Buy Permits
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-04-05T07:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/eu-carbon-data-signals-airlines-may-need-to-buy-permits.html
Airlines in  Europe  may need to buy
carbon permits or pay fines after data showed the carriers’
emissions in 2012 exceeded their allocation of free allowances
by about 30 percent, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Ryanair Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest low-cost airline,
emitted 7.46 million tons of carbon dioxide in 2012, or 34
percent more than than its free permits,  preliminary data  from
the European Union shows. EasyJet Plc’s U.K. account indicates
it needs 25 percent more allowances, while Aer Lingus Group Plc
has a shortfall of 24 percent, the information shows.  Airlines are investing in more efficient technology even as
the cost of carbon permits in the EU’s emissions trading system,
or ETS, fell 25 percent in the past year. Dublin-based Ryanair
said it bought new fuel-efficient aircraft that cut greenhouse-
gas emissions by 50 percent, while EasyJet is reducing the
weight of its seats and service carts.  “The scheme is designed to create a shortfall to
incentivize airlines to operate more efficiently and top up”
allowances,  Paul Moore , a spokesman for EasyJet in Luton,
 England , said in an e-mailed response to questions. “EasyJet
has long been a supporter of the emissions trading system and
will fully comply with its obligations.”  Under Europe’s carbon program, emitters must match
emissions with EU allowances or  United Nations  offset credits by
the end of April each year or pay a fine of 100 euros a ton.
Polluters can top up their free allocation with allowances
bought in the market.  External Flights  Ryanair’s shortfall of 1.9 million tons would cost it 8.4
million euros ($10.8 million) based on the closing price of 4.44
euros a metric ton for December EU airline allowances yesterday
on ICE Futures Europe in  London . EasyJet’s shortage last year
would amount to about 910,000 tons, following emissions of 4.6
million tons, the EU data show.  The EU has proposed excluding from its carbon program
flights that took off or landed outside the bloc’s borders in
2012, said Itamar Orlandi, an analyst in London for New Energy
Finance. Ryanair, EasyJet and Aer Lingus usually fly within the
EU so their data supports the estimate for a permit shortage of
about 30 percent, he said.  While airlines with external flights are also granted free
allowances for those journeys, they may have only reported
emissions for intra-EU trips, Orlandi said. Carriers must hand
back the free permits for outside flights unless they choose to
include those journeys in the EU program.  No Oversupply  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  was allocated 14.6 million tons of
free allowances in 2012 and reported emissions of 6.1 million
tons, according to the EU data published April 2.  Peter Schneckenleitner , a spokesman for the airline in
Cologne,  Germany , declined to specify what portion of the
company’s free permits apply to flights outside the EU.  “The Lufthansa Group doesn’t see any oversupply of
allowances,” Schneckenleitner said yesterday in an e-mailed
reply to questions. The airline’s yearly carbon market costs
will be in the “double-digit millions” of euros, he said.  Lufthansa had historic-low fuel consumption in 2012, he
said, without providing details.  “The money we are losing because of ETS would be better
invested into new, fuel-efficient technology,” he said.  Ryanair has an average fleet age of less than four years
and will comply with all EU laws, Robin Kiely, a spokesman for
the company in Dublin, said yesterday by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Verdonck at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net  