-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Decline in 2013
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-04-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-decline-in-2013.html
European stocks  posted their biggest
weekly decline since November as reports signaled that the
economic rebound in the U.S. has slowed, while the  European
Central Bank  said risks remain to the euro area’s recovery.  Vodafone Group Plc lost 2.1 percent after Verizon
Communications Inc. denied that it has considered buying the
mobile-phone operator. Kazakhmys Plc and Evraz Plc slumped more
than 7 percent this week, leading a gauge of mining stocks to
its longest streak of losses in 13 years. Alcatel-Lucent SA
advanced 3.9 percent as Deutsche Bank AG recommended that
investors buy shares in the telecommunications equipment maker.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 2.3 percent in the four-day
week following the Easter holiday, completing its longest
stretch of losses in more than 10 months. The slump pared the
gauge’s advance so far this year to 2.7 percent. The Stoxx 600
had gained as much as 6.7 percent amid speculation that central
banks would continue to provide monetary stimulus.  “Markets are going to be vulnerable to bad news from the
States,” Philip Saunders, who helps oversee about $105 billion
at Investec Asset Management Ltd. in London, told Francine
Lacqua on Bloomberg Television. “Growth, or the lack of it in
 Europe , is the big issue. We’re in a depression and that’s not
going to go away. The Japanese authorities have finally gotten
round to dealing with it after 20 years; let’s hope it doesn’t
take that long in Europe.”  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda increased the
lender’s monthly bond purchases to 7 trillion yen ($72 billion)
on April 4. The central bank will double its monetary base
within two years, according to a statement issued after Kuroda’s
first meeting in charge of the institution.  Equities Slide  National benchmark indexes still fell in all 18 western-
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 2.5
percent, while  France ’s CAC 40 and  Germany ’s DAX retreated 1.8
percent. The stock market in Cyprus declined 2.5 percent after
opening for the first time since March 15.  European stocks  extended losses yesterday as a Labor
Department report showed the  U.S. economy  created fewer jobs
last month than economists’ had forecast. Payrolls grew by
88,000 workers in March, their smallest increase in nine months.
The median economist estimate in a Bloomberg survey had called
for net hiring to climb by 190,000.  A release on April 3 showed that services industries in the
U.S. expanded at a slower pace than forecast. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s  index of non-manufacturing activity , which
comprises almost 90 percent of the world’s largest economy, fell
more than economists had predicted for March.  European Recovery  In Europe, central bank president  Mario Draghi  said that
risks remain to the economic recovery in the second half of this
year. The European Central Bank left its benchmark  interest rate 
at a record low of 0.75 percent on April 4, matching  most 
economist estimates.  In  Asia ,  North Korea  intensified its rhetoric against  South
Korea  and the U.S., threatening to wage nuclear war against its
enemies. The regime also moved a missile to a launch site on the
country’s east coast.  Vodafone slid 2.1 percent, the stock’s biggest retreat in
six weeks. Verizon denied a Financial Times report that said it
had discussed a plan with AT&T Inc. to make a joint offer for
the U.K. telecommunications operator.  An  index  of commodity producers fell for a seventh week,
its longest streak of losses since March 2000. Evraz tumbled 13
percent for the biggest weekly retreat since  Russia ’s biggest
steelmaker first started trading on the  London  Stock Exchange in
November 2011. Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan’s largest copper producer,
slumped 7 percent this week.  European Banks  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  slumped 7.2 percent,
dropping for a fourth week. The world’s oldest lender reported a
bigger-than-estimated quarterly loss on April 2 as bad-loan
provisions soared.  The Euro Stoxx Banks Index of lenders operating in the 17-
nation single currency dropped for a fourth week. The gauge has
 retreated 21 percent  from its peak on Jan. 28. Portuguese
lenders Banco Comercial Portugues SA and Banco Espirito Santo SA
slipped more than 8 percent, while BNP Paribas SA, France’s
biggest bank, sank to a 4 1/2-month low.  European aviation companies declined on concern a new
strain of the bird-flu virus in  China  will reduce demand for
flights in the region. Air France-KLM Group, Deutsche Lufthansa
AG and British Airways’ parent International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA each tumbled more than 7 percent. The world’s
airlines suffered a $10 billion loss a decade ago after a
previous outbreak killed 774 people in 2002 and 2003.  Alcatel-Lucent advanced 3.9 percent as Deutsche Bank raised
its recommendation on the stock to buy from neutral, citing the
increased likelihood that profit margins will recover through to
next year.  Jeronimo Martins SGPS SA jumped 4.1 percent this week.
Portugal’s largest retailer posted its biggest rally in six
weeks even as European  retailers  slumped the most in 4 1/2
months as data showed  sales  in the euro-area slowed in February.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  