-- Euro-Area Retail Sales Decline, Led by Weakness in France
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2013-04-05T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/euro-area-retail-sales-decline-led-by-weakness-in-france.html
Euro-area  retail sales  fell in
February as a decline in  France  offset gains in Germany and
 Spain .  Sales in the 17-nation currency bloc decreased 0.3 percent
from January, when they rose a revised 0.9 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had forecast a decline of 0.4 percent, according to the median
of 20 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . From a year earlier,
 February sales  fell 1.4 percent.  With Europe struggling to shake off the sovereign-debt
crisis and pull out of a recession, European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday that the ECB is “ready to
act” if the economy deteriorates further. The euro-area
 services industry  contracted the most in five months in March,
data showed yesterday.  “Weak economic activity has extended into the early part
of the year and a gradual recovery is projected for the second
half,” Draghi told a press conference in Frankfurt yesterday
after the central bank kept its key  interest rate  at a record
low of 0.75 percent. The outlook “remains subject to  downside
risks , including even weaker-than-expected domestic demand,” he
said.  The ECB last month cut its economic outlook and now
projects a contraction of 0.5 percent in euro-area gross
domestic product this year. That would mark the first back-to-
back annual GDP declines since the euro’s debut in 1999.  Four-Month Low  The euro weakened to a four-month low against the  U.S.
dollar  last week amid concerns about the international bailout
for Cyprus. The European currency, which dropped as low as
$1.2751 on March 27, the weakest since Nov. 21, was at $1.2922
at 10:40 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.1 percent on the day.  Retail sales in France, the second-biggest euro-area
economy, dropped 2.2 percent in February from the prior month
after a 0.2 percent gain in January, today’s report showed.
Sales in  Finland  declined 0.8 percent after a 0.3 percent gain
in the previous month.  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy, February sales rose
0.4 percent after a 3 percent jump in January, according to
today’s data. Spain reported a 0.6 percent increase for the
latest month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  