-- European Airlines Decline as Bird Flu Concerns Spread From Asia
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-04-05T08:21:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/european-airlines-decline-as-bird-flu-concerns-spread-from-asia.html
European aviation stocks declined,
following a drop among Asian carriers, on concern an outbreak of
the bird-flu virus in China will clip travel and hurt demand
already unsettled by rising military tensions with North Korea.  Air France-KLM (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, fell as much as
4.9 percent in Paris trading, while  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) 
declined as much as 5.8 percent in Frankfurt and  British Airways (IAG) 
parent IAG lost 5.2 percent in London. The drop spilled over to
European low-cost carriers that don’t serve global routes, with
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  falling 3.4 percent in Dublin and  Easyjet
Plc (EZJ)  retreating 5.1 percent, the most in a year.  “The airline weakness is down to bird flu and more general
concerns over issues such North Korea,” James Hollins, a
London-based analyst at Investec said today. “There is a fear
these potential crises could curtail travel.”  European airlines followed a retreat among Chinese stocks
after at least six people died from the new strain of bird flu
that emerged in eastern China. Previous bird flu outbreaks and
the occurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS,
had emptied planes and caused industry-wide losses.  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  plunged the most since
September 2001 in Hong Kong trading, leading a slump in shares
of the nation’s carriers.  China Southern, the country’s biggest domestic carrier,
slumped as much as 15 percent, while  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) 
dropped the most in almost 11 months. Shares in  Air China Ltd. (601111) ,
 China Eastern Airlines (670)  Corp.,  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and Qantas
Airways Ltd. also declined, causing the Bloomberg Asia Pacific
Airlines Index to drop the most since May.  “There have been more casualties associated with bird flu,
and that’s led to speculation that we’re going to have another
large outbreak,” said Penny Butcher, an analyst at  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  in London.  The world’s airlines suffered a $10 billion loss a decade
ago on the SARS outbreak that killed 774 people in 2002 and
2003. At the peak of the outbreak, carriers including including
Singapore Airlines and Hong Kong’s Cathay Pacific, cut more than
1,150 weekly flights.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  