-- Lew to Push Growth Amid Contagion Concerns in Europe Visit
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-04-05T16:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/lew-to-push-growth-amid-contagion-concerns-in-first-europe-visit.html
Jacob J. Lew pivots to Europe, a
region fraught with risks to the world economy, after making
China his first overseas destination as Treasury secretary last
month in a nod to the strongest engine of global growth.  Lew arrives April 8 for a two-day visit to meet with
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  in Frankfurt,
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  in Berlin, French
Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  in Paris and European Union
officials in Brussels. He returns to Washington the evening
before President  Barack Obama  sends his overdue fiscal 2014
budget to Congress on April 10.  As the American economy accelerates and Europe’s recession
drags on, Lew may prod officials in the region to boost growth
and limit financial-market contagion, said  Eswar Prasad , a
professor at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York. He may also
press them to unify Europe’s banking system and fiscal policies
to safeguard the economy and the common currency and express
U.S. objections to a proposed financial-transactions tax.  “Lew’s trip to Europe comes at a critical juncture for the
 U.S. economy ,” said Prasad, a former International Monetary
Fund official. “A flare-up of the euro zone debt crisis could
create turmoil in global financial markets and set back the
fragile U.S. recovery.”  Instability Risk  Financial instability in Europe remains a risk to the U.S.
economy, a Treasury official said today during a telephone
briefing with reporters. The official, who asked not to be
identified as a condition of the briefing, said Lew will want to
hear from European officials about their plans to increase
growth.  Euro-area leaders are struggling to stabilize the region
after a month in which they fumbled a bailout of Cyprus and the
euro fell to its lowest level of the year against the dollar.
The IMF said April 3 it will contribute about 1 billion euros
($1.29 billion) as part of a 10 billion-euro rescue package for
Cyprus.  The first attempt to bail out Cyprus last month sent bank
shares tumbling across the euro area and rattled confidence in
policy makers’ ability to tame the sovereign-debt crisis. Europe
is entering its second year of recession, and fragmented
financial markets are preventing the ECB’s record-low borrowing
costs from reaching companies in countries including Spain and
Italy.  ‘Shaky’ Union  “The priority for U.S. policy makers is that the  euro zone 
becomes much more integrated and this shaky monetary union is
shored up through a real economic and political one,” said
 Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy
Ltd. in London.  Lew, in response to questions from senators for his
confirmation in February, said the U.S. recovery from the worst
recession since the Great Depression has been “affected by
headwinds from the euro area.” The currency bloc accounted for
18 percent of U.S. exports last year.   3M Co. (MMM) , the St. Paul, Minnesota-based maker of products
ranging from Scotch tape to dental braces, is among companies
forecasting weakness in Europe.  “We’re operating pretty steady in the U.S. and  Latin
America ,” David Meline, chief financial officer, said at a
March 21 conference. In Asia prospects are “more mixed” while
Western Europe “continues to have a number of challenges,” he
said.  EU Meetings  In Brussels, Lew, 57, will meet with EU President  Herman Van Rompuy , European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso ,
EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , and EU
financial services chief  Michel Barnier .  Erik Jones, director of European studies at Johns Hopkins
University’s School of Advanced International Studies in
Washington, said Lew will “no doubt” talk with Barnier about
plans by Germany, France and nine other EU nations to impose a
tax on financial transactions.  The Obama administration has opposed the EU proposal. Lael Brainard, the Treasury’s undersecretary for international
affairs, met with EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta in
February and raised concerns over whether the tax would harm
American investors at home and overseas.  The proposal calls for a 0.1 percent levy on stock and bond
trades and 0.01 percent on derivatives trades with ties to
participating countries. The measure exempts primary offerings
of government bonds. The EU estimates the move could raise as
much as 35 billion euros a year.  Trade Partnership  Lew will discuss expanding trade with the EU as part of the
Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, which Obama
highlighted in his State of the Union address in February, the
U.S. Treasury official said.  Lew, Obama’s former chief of staff and budget director,
also is trying to forge relationships with European leaders.
Most of them had known Lew’s predecessor,  Timothy F. Geithner ,
from his previous jobs as Treasury’s top international official,
at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the IMF.  “He seems perceived, rightly or wrongly, as a budget
expert, and I think it’s important for him to get out and show
U.S. leadership and show U.S. engagement,” said  Tim Adams , who
held Brainard’s position during the George W. Bush
administration and is now managing director of the Washington-
based Institute of International Finance, which represents the
world’s largest financial companies.  IMF Gathering  Lew’s trip will also allow him to meet his European
counterparts less than two weeks before IMF and World Bank
meetings starting April 19 in Washington.  U.S. Treasury officials at a meeting the Group of 20
finance ministers in Moscow in February emphasized the need for
stronger demand growth to help Europe emerge from its crisis.  “The big worry is: How does Europe get out of this, how
does Europe generate growth?” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief
economist at  IHS Inc. (IHS)  in Lexington, Massachusetts.  Yesterday Draghi tried to quell such concerns, saying the
ECB stands ready to cut interest rates if the economy
deteriorates further, and officials are considering additional
measures to boost growth.  France’s 10-year yield dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point today, to 1.76 percent at 4:51 p.m. London time
after falling to 1.716 percent, the lowest level since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 1990. Spain’s 10-year yield dropped
16 basis points to 4.75 percent, extending their decline this
week to 31 basis points. Rates on similar-maturity Italian
securities fell as much as 19 basis points to 4.37 percent, the
lowest level since Feb. 25.  The crisis-containment approach to Europe contrasts with
Lew’s visit to China last month, when Lew pressed the country’s
new leaders on cybersecurity, North Korea and the value of the
 yuan . He told reporters that the “dominant economic theme was
what can be done to generate more domestic demand and more
growth.”  “Europe is where the downside lies for the U.S,” said
Domenico Lombardi, a senior fellow specializing in global
economics at the Brookings Institution in Washington. “China is
where the upside is.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  