-- Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Chief Pleads Not Guilty in Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/ex-credit-suisse-cdo-chief-pleads-not-guilty-in-fraud.html
Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global
head of  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s structured credit trading
business, pleaded not guilty to charges he led a 2007 scheme to
mark up the value of debt securities to meet targets and boost
year-end bonuses for his $5.35 billion trading book.  Serageldin, a U.S. citizen who lives in  England , was taken
into custody by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  yesterday
after he was extradited from the U.K., Assistant U.S. Attorney
Eugene Ingoglia told U.S. Magistrate Judge Kevin Fox at
Serageldin’s arraignment Friday in Manhattan.  Fox ordered Serageldin released on $1.5 million bond, to be
co-signed by his brother and guaranteed with $750,000 in cash, a
bail package agreed between Serageldin and prosecutors before
the court proceeding. Serageldin is scheduled to return to court
April 12.  Last year, two of his former subordinates,  David Higgs  and
Salmaan Siddiqui, pleaded guilty to overstating the value of
mortgage-backed assets in a Credit Suisse trading book known as
ABN1 after the collapse of the U.S. housing market. Both said
they acted at Serageldin’s direction and agreed to cooperate
with prosecutors.  Credit Suisse fired all three employees in 2008 and
cooperated with the government’s investigation. Serageldin was
charged with conspiracy, falsification of books and records and
wire fraud. He was arrested outside the U.S. consulate in  London 
in September.  Sean Casey, a lawyer for Serageldin, declined to comment on
the case after the arraignment. Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman
for Zurich-based Credit Suisse, declined to comment.  The U.S. criminal cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and
U.S. v. Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 