-- Ex-Cerberus Managing Director Settles Termination Suit
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-05-24T18:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/ex-cerberus-managing-director-sues-over-termination-claim.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP
settled a suit filed by a former managing director who claimed
she was wrongfully fired after trying to correct misleading
marketing materials.  Lisa Marie Vioni sued Cerberus in  Manhattan  federal court
in April, claiming the  New York  private-equity firm provided
investors in a residential mortgage-backed securities fund with
letters and other documents “which materially misrepresented
the fund’s performance.”  Vioni said she was hired in January 2012 and led marketing
efforts for the fund. She claimed she reported misleading fee
and incentive allocations in documents provided to investors.
She also alleged that Cerberus failed to tell investors that a
client of the firm held most of the assets in the fund, raising
potential liquidity concerns.  The settlement became public today in a court filing to
discontinue the suit. Terms of the settlement are confidential.  Vioni claimed she discovered that one institutional client
of Cerberus held a total of 72 percent of the fund, which
appeared to have been concealed from other investors.  After reporting the allegedly misleading materials, Vioni
was subject to “harassment and disparate treatment,” including
exclusion from investor meetings and lengthy deferrals of
discretionary bonuses, which made up much of her income, Vioni
said. Vioni was also demoted and assigned secretarial duties,
she said in the lawsuit.  Lower Pay  She claimed she was paid less than similarly situated male
employees and was subject to a burdensome noncompetition
agreement.  The firm terminated Vioni in February without notice or
cause, she said.  Vioni’s lawyer,  Corey Stark , declined to comment on the
settlement.  Peter Duda , a Cerberus spokesman with the firm  Weber
Shandwick , didn’t immediately return a phone message.  Cerberus, founded by Steve Feinberg, oversees more than
$20 billion.  The case is Vioni v. Cerberus Capital Management LP, 13-cv-02276, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 