-- Ex-Deutsche Bank Employee’s Suit Should be Tossed: Police
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-04-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/ex-deutsche-bank-employee-s-suit-should-be-tossed-police.html
Former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  media banker
Brian Mulligan’s civil rights lawsuit alleging that Los Angeles
Police Department officers beat and illegally detained him
should be dismissed, one of the officers said.  Police reasonably detained Mulligan when he matched a call
describing attempted car and home break-ins, and after he
“openly admitted that he was under the influence of drugs,”
officer James Nichols, one of the defendants in the case, said
in a filing yesterday in federal court in Los Angeles.  The lawsuit seeks at least $20 million in damages from the
May 2012 confrontation in the city’s Highland Park neighborhood.
Mulligan claimed he was falsely imprisoned in a motel and
brutally beaten.  “The story is so far fetched that it boggles the mind,”
lawyers for Nichols said in yesterday’s filing.  Besides Nichols, Mulligan sued a second officer, John
Miller, the city of Los Angeles and the Los Angeles Police
Protective League.  The complaint is “confusing and contradictory and it is
impossible to discern what claims, if any, are being made and
against which defendants those claims are being made,” lawyers
for Nichols wrote.  ‘No Merit’  The motion to dismiss has “no merit” and is “not well
taken,” Skip Miller, a lawyer for Mulligan, said in a phone
interview. “In this country, the police can’t beat up a guy and
then claim they did nothing wrong,” he said.  The attempt to dismiss the case is “another ploy to get
publicity,” Miller said.  Police said Mulligan, 53, was subdued after he took a
fighting stance and charged officers who saw him attempting to
enter moving vehicles late on May 15, 2012, or early the next
day.  Local television reports at the time said Mulligan told
officers he had used bath salts, which the Drug Enforcement
Agency website said is the street name for synthetic, paranoia-
inducing stimulants.  The case is Mulligan v. Nichols, 13-cv-00836, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  