-- MF Global Lawyers’ Fee Requests Criticized by U.S.
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-04-11T21:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/mf-global-holdings-wins-approval-of-final-wind-down-plan.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s lawyers
and advisers shouldn’t get all of the $13.7 million in fees
they’ve requested, as their billing was vague, repetitive, or
improper, the U.S. said.  The U.S. Trustee, a bankruptcy watchdog for the  Justice
Department , objected to fees and expenses submitted by eight
parties in the bankruptcy of the failed broker-dealer in papers
filed today in Manhattan bankruptcy court. Together, the eight
parties seek $13.7 million in fees and $387,922.13 in expenses
for Oct. 1, 2012, through Jan. 31, 2013.  Morrison & Foerster LLP , the company’s main bankruptcy
counsel, Proskauer Rose LLP, counsel to creditors, and Freeh
Group International Solutions, LLC, an accountant for the
company’s bankruptcy trustee  Louis Freeh , were included in the
objection.  Morrison Foerster charged the estate from $342.00 to
$400.00 an hour for the services provided by “Trainee
Solicitors,” who should have had lower billing rates
commensurate with the company’s non-attorney employees, said
lawyers for Tracy Hope Davis, the acting U.S. Trustee.  Davis also objected to $52,278.50 billed by Proskauer,
saying that time records showed the work was revising billing
statements and reviewing time entries -- services that are
“part of Proskauer’s overhead, and thus are not compensable.”  Freeh Bill  Davis also said expenses including Freeh Group’s bill for
$4,163.29 in reimbursement for airfare for an American Airlines
flight from an unknown departure in the U.S. to  London  and an
overnight stay at the Chancery Hotel in London costing $632.74
need to be more detailed to show if they are reasonable.  Covington & Burling LLP, insurance counsel to Freeh, FTI
Consulting Inc., a restructuring adviser, Garden City Group,
Inc., an administrative agent, Pepper Hamilton LLP, special
counsel to Freeh and Capstone Advisory Group, financial adviser
to the creditors’ committee were the other parties whose fee
requests should be reduced or more fully documented, the U.S.
Trustee said.  MF Global Holdings won final approval of its plan to repay
creditors on April 5, paving the way for the eighth-largest
bankruptcy in U.S. history to wind down under court protection.  The parent company of brokerage MF Global Inc. filed for
bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations. The company, once run by former New Jersey
Governor and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Co-ChairmanCorzine,
listed assets of $41 billion and debts of $39.7 billion.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  