-- Fed’s Yellen Backs Plan to Adjust QE Pace as Warranted
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-05T12:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/fed-s-yellen-backs-plan-to-adjust-qe-pace-as-warranted.html
Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  threw her support behind a proposal to vary the pace of
the central bank’s bond buying based on changes in prospects for
the world’s largest economy.  “Adjusting the pace of asset purchases in response to the
evolution of the outlook for the  labor market  will provide the
public with information regarding the committee’s intentions and
should reduce the risk of misunderstanding and market disruption
as the conclusion of the program draws closer,” Yellen said in
a speech yesterday in Washington.  Yellen is the latest Fed official to endorse a proposal by
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  to reduce the pace of
purchases as the economy improves or expand it in response to
signs of weakness. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press
conference last month the FOMC is considering this strategy to
“appropriately calibrate” its policy.  The central bank every month is purchasing $85 billion in
mortgage-backed securities and Treasury debt, a program known as
QE for quantitative easing. Fed officials spoke before the Labor
Department reported that employers added 88,000 jobs in March,
fewer than the lowest forecast in a Bloomberg survey. The
unemployment rate fell to 7.6 percent, the lowest in four years.  Consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in February from a year
earlier, according to the Fed’s preferred gauge of inflation,
less than the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  Dual Mandate  “Both legs of the dual mandate call for a highly
accommodative monetary policy,” Yellen said to the Society of
American Business Editors and Writers, referring to the central
bank’s objectives from Congress for stable prices and maximum
employment.  “With unemployment so far from its longer-run normal
level, I believe progress on reducing unemployment should take
center stage for the FOMC, even if maintaining that progress
might result in inflation slightly and temporarily exceeding 2
percent,” Yellen said.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley is among policy
makers who say more progress is needed in putting Americans back
to work. While the  unemployment rate  is “modestly lower” and
payroll growth is “a bit higher,” the employment-to-population
ratio and the rates of job finding are “essentially
unchanged,” he said in a March 25 speech.  Evolving Outlook  Dudley has also lent his support to the idea of altering
the pace of purchases as the economic outlook evolves.  “At some point, I expect that I will see sufficient
evidence of economic momentum to cause me to favor gradually
dialing back the pace of asset purchases,” Dudley said. “Of
course, any subsequent bad news could lead me to favor dialing
them back up again.”  Five central bank officials -- including Governor  Daniel Tarullo , Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  and St. Louis’s
Bullard -- voiced support this week for the FOMC pledge to press
on with asset purchases until the job market improves
“substantially.”  Fed easing has helped push U.S. stocks to records. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.4 percent to close at
1,559.98 yesterday after central banks in  Japan  and  Europe 
reassured investors they will keep economies awash in cash. The
yield on the 10-year Treasury fell 0.05 percentage point to 1.76
percent.  Job Creation  Several months of  job creation  exceeding 180,000 and
declining unemployment would mean “in the second half of the
year or in early 2014 it would be appropriate to consider the
tapering off,” Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said
yesterday during a panel discussion in Dayton, Ohio moderated by
 Kathleen Hays  of  Bloomberg Radio . Chicago’s Evans, speaking on
the same panel, said he’d like to see payrolls at “200,000-a-
month increases for like six months.”  The presidents’ numerical objectives help clarify the
pledge to bring about substantial gains in the labor market.
Evans is an FOMC voter this year, while Lockhart is not.  Bernanke said in December that policy makers haven’t
specified a numerical goal that would prompt the end of asset
purchases because “we have a number of different things that we
need to look at as we go forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  