-- U.S. FTC Said to Probe Macquarie’s Operation of Advantage
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-04-05T21:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/ftc-said-to-probe-macquarie-s-operation-of-advantage.html
U.S. antitrust regulators are
investigating whether  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ’s private-equity arm
violated a consent decree allowing it to buy the Advantage
rental car brand from  Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , two people
familiar with the matter said.  Macquarie, in a joint venture with  Franchise Services of
North America Inc. (FCHAF) , bought Advantage from Hertz under a Nov. 15
agreement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission that let Hertz
buy Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc.  The deal bolstered Hertz’s position as the second-largest
U.S. rental-car service, behind Enterprise Holdings Inc.  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  is third. The FTC, concerned about the major
chains shrinking to three from four, demanded that Hertz sell
locations, recreating a fourth competitor after Dollar Thrifty
was absorbed and moderating the prices people pay to rent cars
at airports.  The agency is now concerned that Macquarie isn’t following
through on commitments it made to expand and strengthen
Advantage, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the probe is confidential. FTC officials, who haven’t given a
final sign-off on the transaction, were troubled by Macquarie’s
Dec. 7 ouster of Sanford Miller, an industry veteran who was to
run Advantage under the agreement, the people said.  ‘Near Future’  “We have been responding to FTC questions and working with
commission staff, and we believe the FTC will sign the consent
decree in the near future,” said Richard Broome, a spokesman
for Park Ridge, New Jersey-based Hertz.  Peter Kaplan, a spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment
on the matter. Paula Chirhart, a spokeswoman for Sydney-based
Macquarie, also declined to comment.  People in the FTC’s compliance office are deciding whether
the Advantage transaction needs to be scrapped or restructured
to ensure the new company can compete with its larger rivals,
said the people, who asked not to be named because a final
decision hasn’t yet been made. The larger Hertz- Dollar Thrifty 
transaction probably won’t be challenged by the agency, the
people said.  Possibilities include bringing in another buyer and
ordering Hertz to divest more locations, said the people.
Evidence that investments in the new company were scaled back
and that rental car prices are rising is fueling the FTC’s
concerns, the people said.  More Scale  The FTC could go back to Hertz and ask them to divest more
locations to give some more scale to the Advantage brand, said
Fred Lowrance, senior research analyst with Avondale Partners
LLC in Nashville,  Tennessee . Still, an investigation of
Macquarie shouldn’t worry Hertz investors, he said.  “If you run all the reasonably plausible scenarios, there
is no material impact to Hertz  earnings ,” said Lowrance.
“Maybe Hertz would need to help them find another buyer, or add
a few locations to the divestiture package, but nothing that’s
likely to have any impact on the Dollar Thrifty merger itself.”  Hertz rose 13 cents to $22.56 in  New York  Stock Exchange
composite  trading . The shares have climbed 39 percent this year.  Almost five months after the FTC announced a consent decree
with Hertz to allow the merger, the agency hasn’t issued a final
order. Under normal FTC timelines, the consent decree would have
gotten final approval in December 2012 after allowing 30 days
for public comments.  ‘Serious Concerns’  “The fact that the FTC hasn’t approved the transaction
after such a significant time frame means there are probably
serious concerns being raised,” said David Balto, a Washington-
based antitrust attorney who represents consumer groups and
isn’t involved in the transaction. “They can reject the consent
order if they want to or force them to restructure it.”  Miller, who was supposed to run Advantage, was forced out
five days before the acquisition closed and replaced by his co-
chief executive officer at Calgary-based Franchise Services,
Thomas McDonnell. No reason was given, other than what Franchise
Services in a Dec. 7 statement called a desire to “streamline
the company’s executive management.”  Miller, the former CEO of Budget Group Inc., declined to
comment on the FTC matter.  While agency staff members raised concerns about the
strength of the buyer and its ability to become a viable
competitor at the time, those questions weren’t deal-breakers
with regulators, people familiar with the matter said at the
time.  Consumer Protection  The FTC said it ordered Hertz to divest 29 Dollar Thrifty
rental-car counters in addition to the Advantage business to
protect consumers, citing the $11 billion spent to rent 50
million vehicles at U.S. airports each year. Without the
divestitures, the merger would have hurt competition at 72
airports around the U.S., the FTC said at the time.  “This is a real pocketbook issue for everyday people,”
then-FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz said in a  statement  announcing
the November agreement. “Today’s bipartisan action by the FTC
will ensure that consumers are not forced to pay higher prices
for rental cars when they travel.”  Only three months later, Hertz was reporting that daily
rental revenue at airports had climbed 1.6 percent in December
and 6 percent in January. Its newly acquired Dollar Thrifty unit
also saw “positive year-over-year pricing in recent months,”
Hertz CEO Mark Frissora said on a Feb. 25  earnings  conference
call.  Hertz began its pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in April 2007 and
made a formal bid in 2010 of about $1.2 billion that  Dollar
Thrifty shareholders  rejected. Hertz made another offer last
year that it later withdrew, citing market conditions.  Together, Hertz, Dollar Thrifty, Enterprise Rent-A-Car and
Avis Budget control about 98 percent of total airport car
rentals in the U.S., the FTC said in the November statement
announcing the consent decree.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  