-- German Manufacturing Orders Increase More Than Forecast:
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-05T11:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/german-manufacturing-orders-increase-more-than-forecast-economy.html
German factory orders rose more than
twice as much as economists forecast in February, adding to
signs that  Europe ’s largest economy returned to growth in the
first quarter.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 2.3 percent from January, when they dropped a revised
1.6 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a 1.1 percent gain, according to the median
of 33 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . In the year,
workday-adjusted orders were unchanged.  While the euro area remains mired in recession, the German
economy probably found its way back to growth in the first
quarter after a 0.6 percent contraction in the last three months
of 2012. Retail sales unexpectedly rose in February and the
jobless rate remained close to a two-decade low. At the same
time, business confidence dropped for the first time in five
months in March amid renewed concerns about Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis.  Today’s data “provide further evidence of the strength of
German domestic demand,” said Christian Schulz, an economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London . “However, the latest setbacks in
sentiment caused by Italy and Cyprus may delay the return to
strong growth by a few months.”  The euro rose a quarter of a cent after the report before
dropping back to $1.2919 at 1:20 p.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.1
percent today. Europe’s benchmark  Stoxx 600 index  fell 1.5
percent to 287.27.  Investment Goods  In Asia, Japanese shares jumped to a 4 1/2-year high, the
yen dropped and bond yields fell to a record low after the
central bank expanded bond purchases. Increased stimulus from
central banks may bolster a global economy forecast by the World
Bank in January to expand 2.4 percent this year.  Export orders in  Germany  climbed 2.3 percent in February,
with those from the euro area gaining 1.6 percent, today’s
report shows. Domestic sales rose 2.2 percent. Orders for
investment goods increased 3.5 percent.  “With orders picking up, the weak phase in industrial
production appears more and more to be dissipating,” the
ministry said. “The main driver of this positive development is
increased orders at producers of investment goods.”  Elsewhere in Europe, U.K. house prices rose 0.2 percent in
March from February, according to Halifax, which said values may
continue on a “modest” upward trend this year.  Euro Area  Euro-area retail sales fell 0.3 percent in February as a
drop in  France  offset gains in Germany and Spain, The European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.  In the U.S., non-farm payrolls probably increased in March
and the jobless rate held at a four-year low of 7.7 percent as
demand improved at the start of the year, according to Bloomberg
surveys of economists. The Labor Department will release the
figures at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  While there are signs of recovery in Germany, the sovereign
debt crisis in the 17-nation euro area is also taking its toll.  Germany exports about 40 percent of its products to the
euro-area economy, which the European Central Bank predicts will
shrink 0.5 percent this year before growing 1 percent in 2014.  “Weak economic activity has extended into the early part
of the year and a gradual recovery is projected for the second
half of this year, subject to downside risks,” ECB President
Mario Draghi said yesterday after the Frankfurt-based central
bank held its benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.75
percent.  German ‘Decoupling’  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company, is
preparing to eliminate as many as 1,400 jobs at its energy and
infrastructure businesses to bolster profitability, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Some German companies are compensating for weaker demand in
Europe with shipments to faster-growing regions.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s truck division plans to increase vehicle
sales, profit and market share this year on its expansion in
 emerging markets  and demand in  Brazil , Andreas Renschler, head
of the carmaker’s truck unit, said on March 13.  “The German economy benefits from the gradual recovery of
the global economy,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at
ING Group in Brussels. “In this context, today’s new order data
add to the evidence that the German economy’s decoupling from
the rest of the euro area is continuing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  