-- French Bonds Rise on Draghi as Austria’s Yield Drops to Record
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-04-05T15:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/german-bunds-little-changed-before-euro-area-retail-sales-data.html
French, Austrian and Belgian bonds
rose, pushing 10-year yields to record lows, amid speculation
the  European Central Bank  will keep monetary policy
accommodative, boosting demand for alternatives to German bunds.  Ten-year German bunds advanced after data showed U.S.
employers hired fewer workers than economists forecast in March.
Spanish and Italian securities also gained after ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said yesterday policy makers “stand ready to
act.” Most euro-denominated government bonds climbed for a
second day amid bets the  Bank of Japan (8301) ’s 7.5 trillion yen ($77.9
billion) of monthly bond purchases will increase investor
appetite for higher returns.  “Draghi sounded more dovish than expected and hinted at a
rate cut soon, maybe even at the next meeting,” said Mathias Van Der Jeugt, a fixed-income strategist at KBC Bank NV in
Brussels. “Core bonds are rallying.”  France’s 10-year yield dropped 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 4:51 p.m.  London  time after
falling to 1.716 percent, the lowest level since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 1990. The 2.25 percent security maturing
in October 2022 rose 1, or 10 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,302) face
amount, to 104.29.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold French 10-year
securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds narrowed
nine basis points to 54 basis points. Austria’s 10-year yield
fell as much as 11 basis points to 1.474 percent and the rate on
similar-maturity Belgian bonds dropped to 1.925 percent, both
records.  ECB Decision  The Frankfurt-based central bank left its key  refinancing
rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent yesterday, with Draghi saying
at a press conference after the decision that monetary policy
“will remain accommodative for as long as needed.”  Japan ’s central bank said yesterday it will double the
monetary base by the end of 2014 by buying government bonds.  Volatility on French bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of Austria and Belgium,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  “There is better value in the German and other core curves
relative to Japan,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed-
market debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. “Sitting in
Europe, Germany doesn’t look like good value, but sitting in
Japan, it might.”  German Yields  German 10-year bunds gained, pushing the yield down three
basis points to 1.21 percent, after falling to 1.20 percent, the
lowest level since July 24.  U.S. payrolls grew by 88,000 workers last month, the
smallest since June, after a revised 268,000 gain in February
that was higher than first estimated, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg projected an advance of 190,000.  Spain’s 10-year yield dropped 16 basis points to 4.75
percent, extending their  decline  this week to 31 basis points.
Rates on similar-maturity Italian securities fell as much as 19
basis points to 4.37 percent, the lowest level since Feb. 25.  Portuguese notes fell as Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho 
faced a ruling on the legality of parts of this year’s budget
and the nation’s Expresso newspaper reported that the outcome
may be announced as soon as today.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva and different political
groups asked the nation’s  Constitutional Court  in January to
review some points of the budget, including taxes on pensions.
No date is set for the ruling, and no-one was immediately
available at the court’s press office to comment on the reports.  ‘New Worries’  “A rejection would be an embarrassment for the center-
right coalition government and could cause instability in the
otherwise very stable coalition,” said  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “New worries about
 Portugal  would come at an inconvenient time for the eurozone.”  Portugal’s two-year note yield advanced two basis points to
2.97 percent, after adding two basis points yesterday.  French  government bonds  returned 0.6 percent this year
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bunds gained 0.7 percent and Spanish bonds earned 4
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  