-- German Manufacturing Orders Rose More Than Forecast in February
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-04-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/german-manufacturing-orders-rose-more-than-forecast-in-february.html
German factory orders rose more than
twice as much as economists forecast in February, adding to
signs that  Europe ’s largest economy returned to growth in the
first quarter.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 2.3 percent from January, when they dropped a revised
1.6 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast a 1.1 percent gain, according to the median
of 33 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . In the year,
workday-adjusted orders were unchanged.  While the euro area remains mired in recession, the German
economy probably found its way back to growth in the first
quarter after a 0.6 percent contraction in the last three months
of 2012. Retail sales unexpectedly rose in February and the
jobless rate remained close to a two-decade low. At the same
time, business confidence dropped for the first time in five
months in March amid renewed concerns about Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis.  “Recent indicators are quite conflicting,” said Heinrich Bayer, an economist at  Deutsche Postbank AG (DPB)  in Bonn. “The
German economy probably recovered in the first quarter but there
is still a lot of uncertainty. We’ll have to wait and see if the
recovery is sustainable over a longer period of time.”  Export orders climbed 2.3 percent in February, with those
from the euro area gaining 1.6 percent, today’s report shows.
Domestic sales rose 2.2 percent. Orders for investment goods
increased 3.5 percent.  Investment Goods  “With orders picking up, the weak phase in industrial
production appears more and more to be dissipating,” the
ministry said. “The main driver of this positive development is
increased orders at producers of investment goods.”  While there are signs of recovery in Germany, the sovereign
debt crisis in the 17-nation euro area is also taking its toll.  Germany exports about 40 percent of its products to the
euro-area economy, which the  European Central Bank  predicts will
shrink 0.5 percent this year before growing 1 percent in 2014.  “Weak economic activity has extended into the early part
of the year and a gradual recovery is projected for the second
half of this year, subject to downside risks,” ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said yesterday after the Frankfurt-based central
bank held its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.75
percent.  Second Quarter  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest engineering company, is
preparing to eliminate as many as 1,400 jobs at its energy and
infrastructure businesses to bolster profitability, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  Some German companies are compensating for weaker demand in
Europe with shipments to faster-growing regions.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s truck division plans to increase vehicle
sales, profit and market share this year on its expansion in
 emerging markets  and demand in Brazil,  Andreas Renschler , head
of the carmaker’s truck unit, said on March 13.  “The German economy is still quite strong but signs that
Germany is being dragged into the weakness from southern Europe
have increased,” said Anatoli Annenkov, senior economist at
 Societe Generale  in London. “We are heading for a weaker second
quarter with very low growth rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  