-- Google Seeks Probe of Patent Privateers Defended by Nokia
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-04-05T15:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/google-seeks-probe-of-patent-privateers-defended-by-nokia.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , joined by BlackBerry,
today urged U.S. regulators to investigate whether some
competitors violate antitrust laws by hiring companies to file
patent-infringement suits for them.  There’s been a rise of so-called privateers, which obtain
patents from technology companies and then file infringement
lawsuits against the sellers’ competitors, Google and BlackBerry
said in a filing with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and
Department of Justice. Internet service provider  EarthLink Inc. (ELNK) 
and  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) , the largest seller of Linux operating-system
software, also joined the submission.  The filing was part of broader  comments  by the companies on
so-called patent assertion entities, which obtain patents for
the sole purpose of extracting royalties. Such companies
“impose an ever-rising tax on innovative industries,” Google,
owner of the most widely used search engine, said in the filing.  “We are also concerned with, and suggest that the agencies
should seriously examine, the outsourcing of patent enforcement
by operating companies - companies that develop technology and
sell products - to PAEs and the competitive implications of such
activities,” Google and  BlackBerry (BBRY)  wrote. “So-called
‘privateering’ amplifies the threat to innovation and
competition already posed by PAEs.”  Nokia Oyj (NOK) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  BT Group Plc (BT/A) ’s British Telecom
and Alcatel-Lucent are among companies connected with these
licensing firms. Companies that would, in the past, assert their
patents in lawsuits to protect their property now say they work
with privateers to make money from past research.  Privateer Arrangements  In a typical lawsuit, competing companies accuse each other
of infringing patents and then reach a cross-licensing
agreement, which lowers the amount of money that has to change
hands. That type of resolution isn’t possible when one side
doesn’t make any products, and therefore doesn’t have to fear a
retaliatory lawsuit.  By transferring patents to such a firm, for a cut of any
revenue from a settlement or fees, a manufacturer can get a
financial reward while insulating itself and its products from
infringement claims and limiting its legal costs, Google and
BlackBerry said.  Google said assertion entities can increase the cost of
licensing because a portfolio can be split among multiple
privateers, each demanding a royalty. That’s especially true
when the larger company has patents that relate to technology
used across the industry.  “These arrangements (and others) between operating
companies and PAEs can, depending on the facts, transgress the
antitrust laws,” Google and BlackBerry wrote.  Google, FTC  Mountain View, California-based Google has been the target
of an FTC investigation over the patent-licensing practices of
its Motorola Mobility unit, which was accused of demanding
unfairly high royalties for patents on industry standards.
Google reached a settlement with the FTC on the issue in
January.  In the filing, Google and BlackBerry singled out a pledge
Nokia made to license all of its patents for mobile-phone
standards at a 2 percent royalty. Were a company like Nokia to
split some of its standard patents among three different
entities, it would increase the total cost to 8 percent, Google
said.  An investigation into the privateering model “would
provide a foundation for the antitrust agencies to assess
whether the solutions to the competitive concerns patent
outsourcing arrangements pose lie in antitrust enforcement, in
changes in the patent laws (where the antitrust enforcement
agencies might play an important advocacy role), or elsewhere.”  ‘Important Channel’  In a Dec. 10 hearing held by the FTC and DOJ, Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia defended the practice.  “Often we do not have the resources or otherwise are not
best positioned ourselves to exploit those inventions, either
through our own products or through our own licensing
activities,” Paul Melin, Nokia’s chief intellectual property
officer, said on a panel. “Divestments of patents have become a
very important channel for us to monetize and realize the value
of our research and development.”  Waterloo, Ontario-based BlackBerry and Nokia signed a
patent-licensing deal in December to resolve disputes between
the two companies. That agreement didn’t end a suit against
BlackBerry by MobileMedia Ideas LLC, a licensing company that
holds former Nokia and Sony Corp. patents. MobileMedia also won
a December trial against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which has a patent
agreement with Nokia, too.  It can be difficult to identify who is profiting from a
patent suit. One lawsuit against Google is by Suffolk
Technologies, whose owners include Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
General Atlantic Partners LP and Boston Consulting Group Inc.,
according to a Dec. 7 court ruling on the ownership question.  The patents originated with BT’s British Telecom, which
transferred them with an agreement it would get at least half
the proceeds from the patent, the judge said.  Google retaliated by suing British Telecom in February,
accusing it of infringing four patents. Google had bought three
of the patents from International Business Machines Corp. and
the fourth from Fujitsu Ltd. It marked the first time Google had
sued any company for patent-infringement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  