-- High Demand for Skilled-Worker Visas Triggers Lottery
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-04-05T22:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/high-demand-for-skilled-worker-visas-triggers-lottery.html
Demand for temporary U.S. visas for
high-skilled workers resulted in a cap being reached within five
days after the filing period opened April 1 and will trigger a
lottery for the permits, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services said today.  The employer-sponsored visa allows 65,000 professionals
with a college degree or equivalent experience to work in the
U.S. for three years with extensions to six years and beyond.  It took 10 weeks to reach the quota last year and until
Nov. 22 in 2011. An additional 20,000 slots are available for
the first petitions for employees with a master’s degree or
higher from a U.S. university, and the agency said that limit
was also reached.  USCIS will stop accepting employers’ petitions, the agency
said in a release in  Washington  today.  The agency will use a computer-generated random selection
process for all filings received through April 5. That means
companies will have to wait, possibly for months, to learn if
employees have gained credentials.  This year’s competition for visas takes place against the
backdrop of a national immigration debate. A bipartisan group of
eight senators is drafting a package on immigration policy which
lawmakers hope to unveil next week.  “The implication is that with immigration reform happening
now, and Congress coming back on Monday, it shows the problem of
the H-1B immigration program,” said Neil Ruiz, a senior policy
analyst at Washington-based Brookings Institution who studies
issues involving the visas. “It shows it’s a catch-all visa.
The challenge for immigration reform right now is to deal with
each piece in legislation.”  Dominate Applications  Companies in computer, math and science fields dominate
H-1B visa applications and have spent years pushing for a higher
quota. For the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2011, 48.9 percent of
approved petitions for initial employment were in computer-
related occupations, and 11.3 percent went to architecture,
engineering and surveying professionals.  Advanced degree petitions that did not make it into the
20,000 exemption will be part of the lottery, the release said.
USCIS is not yet able to announce the exact day of the random
selection process due to the high application volume, according
to the release. The agency is not yet saying how many total
petitions it has received.  More detailed information will be provided next week, USCIS
said.  Petitions that are exempt from the cap -- which include
those for governmental research organizations and universities -
- will still be accepted, according to the agency.  Previous Lotteries  The 65,000 cap for H-1B workers has been in place since
2003 with the masters exemption added in 2005. The program went
to a lottery for fiscal years starting October 1, 2007 and 2008.  USCIS said in a  press release  last month that it
anticipated that the cap could be reached within five days this
year, spurring a lottery.  “There’s an underlying demand, and everyone has an
incentive to jump in as quickly as possible,” said Bruce A.
Morrison, chairman of Morrison Public Affairs Group.  Morrison is a former U.S. representative from  Connecticut 
who chaired the House immigration subcommittee and was House
author of the Immigration Act of 1990. He now works on behalf of
IEEE-USA, a professional organization for electrical and
electronic engineers, which opposes expanding H-1B.  “Once people believe that they’re all going to be used up,
you’ve got to get your petitions in,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  