-- Hilco to Acquire 141 HMV Stores in Bid to Revive Retail Chain
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-04-05T10:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/hilco-said-poised-to-acquire-141-stores-from-collapsed-hmv-group.html
Hilco U.K. Ltd., a firm that
specializes in rescuing failed retailers, acquired 141 stores
belonging to collapsed U.K. CD and DVD retailer  HMV Group Plc (HMV) 
and said it will seek to restore the business to health.  The outlets being acquired include 25 that were slated for
closure, Hilco said today in a  statement on its web site . The
buyer will reverse earlier decisions to sell tablets and other
devices in the stores, providing more space for “an enhanced
music and visual range,” according to the statement.  Hilco, which also operates HMV Canada, bought the
retailer’s debt in January and has been helping to run HMV as
part of the administration handled by Deloitte LLP. Deloitte has
closed some HMV stores and sold others after sales were hurt by
competition from online retailers and supermarkets.  “Generally, people think rescue from liquidation is a good
thing,” said Jon Copestake, a retail analyst at the Economist
Intelligence Unit. “I imagine the news will be fairly well
greeted. Hilco did actually turn around HMV  Canada .”  Today’s deal is valued at about 50 million pounds ($76
million), according to two people familiar with the matter.  Ian Topping, a former chief executive officer of Steinhoff
Group in the U.K., and Henry Foster, an investment director at
Hilco, will lead a Hilco team working alongside HMV management.  Hilco also said it is in talks with landlords with a view
to re-establishing an HMV business in the Republic of Ireland.  HMV had  net debt  of 176.1 million pounds as of Oct. 27 and
made a net loss of 36.2 million pounds in the six months through
that date. Prior to appointing Deloitte, the company had said it
probably wouldn’t comply with agreements on its borrowings.  “The real pull to keep HMV alive is that music firms
really want to keep some competition and not just fall over to
Apple and Amazon,” Copestake said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  