-- India’s Nifty Stock Futures Drop as Foreign Funds Extend Sales
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-04-05T01:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/india-s-nifty-stock-futures-drop-as-foreign-funds-extend-sales.html
Indian stock-index futures dropped,
signaling benchmark gauges may extend a two-day slump, as
overseas funds sold the nation’s shares on consecutive days for
the first time since October.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for April delivery fell 0.3
percent to 5,567.5 at 9:41 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index slumped 1.7 percent to 5,574.75 yesterday, its
lowest close since Nov. 20. The S&P BSE Sensex index slid 1.6
percent to 18,509.70. The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares lost 1.5 percent.  Foreign funds sold a net $62.8 million of Indian shares on
April 3, a second day of net outflows, according to data from
the market regulator. Overseas investors are paring this year’s
record equity purchases as sales of goods from cars to cement
drop amid the slowest annual economic growth in a decade, a
record current-account deficit and the fastest inflation among
major emerging nations.  “Foreign institutional investor flows have turned negative
in the last couple of days,” Gautam Sinha Roy, vice president
of equity strategy and product at Motilal Oswal Securities Ltd.,
wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday. “The Nifty has fallen
below its long-term support level of 5,650.”  The Sensex has dropped 4.7 percent this year. The gauge is
valued at 12.5 times  projected 12-month profits , compared with
this year’s peak of 13.8 times in January. The MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index trades at 10.3 times, the lowest level since
November.  Record Deficit  India’s economy grew 4.5 percent from a year ago in the
final three months of 2012, the weakest quarterly  pace  in almost
four years. The statistics bureau predicts an annual expansion
of 5 percent in the year ended March, the lowest in a decade.  The country’s current-account deficit widened to a record
$32.6 billion in the three months ended Dec. 31, data showed on
March 29. Meanwhile, an inflation rate that has stayed above the
central bank’s 5 percent “comfort level” has limited  Reserve
Bank of India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao’s scope to reduce
borrowing costs to revive economic growth.  Overseas investors have still bought a net $10.38 billion
of  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks this year, a record for the period, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-largest software exporter,
will report earnings on April 12, marking the start of the
reporting season for the March quarter. Net income at about 43
percent of the 30 Sensex firms trailed forecasts in the three
months ended Dec. 31, compared with 40 percent in the previous
two quarters.  “Global equity markets are witnessing a period of
consolidation but we don’t expect this weakness to extend,”
Robert Aspin, a Singapore-based investment strategist at
Standard Chartered Bank, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV
India yesterday. “We are overweight on equities in the longer
term 12-month view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  