-- Irish Central Bank Says Euro-Area Recession Eased Last Quarter
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-04-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/irish-central-bank-says-euro-area-recession-eased-last-quarter.html
The Irish central bank said the
recession in the 17-nation euro area eased in the first quarter
and a recovery is likely to be led by  Germany , the region’s
largest economy.  While  gross domestic product  in the euro area probably
declined further in the first quarter, the contraction will be
“milder” than at the end of last year, when the economy shrank
0.6 percent, the Dublin-based central bank said in its quarterly
bulletin published today. “Output may begin to stabilize in the
second half of the year, as improvements in the net trade
position outweigh weak domestic demand.”  The euro economy “is likely to be supported by positive
developments in Germany, where growth is expected to resume in
late 2013,” it said.  The Bundesbank predicts that the German economy returned to
growth in the first quarter, even as data fall short of
expectations. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday that risks to the economic outlook in the region are
on the downside and policy makers “stand ready to act” to
bolster growth.  The ECB last month cut its economic forecasts. It now
predicts a contraction of 0.5 percent this year and growth of 1
percent in 2014.  “Renewed uncertainty within the euro area, in particular
relating to any re-escalation of the sovereign debt crisis, may
further undermine the potential for domestic demand to regain
some ground toward the end of 2013,” the Irish central bank
said. “A return to the soft global trade conditions of 2012
would jeopardize the role of net trade in providing support to
the stabilizing of GDP.”  Inflation will “remain contained” this year and next, it
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  