-- Istanbul Opens New Bourse as Erdogan Seeks to Build Finance Hub
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-04-05T12:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/istanbul-opens-new-bourse-as-erdogan-seeks-to-build-finance-hub.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan 
took a step toward making Turkey’s financial capital a regional
hub, relegating the Istanbul Stock Exchange to history as he
rang the opening bell at the new Borsa Istanbul.  The ceremony marked the first trading day at the bourse,
which incorporates the 28-year-old Istanbul Stock Exchange with
the Istanbul Gold Exchange and the Izmir-based derivatives
exchange.  “In the U.S., the political center is  Washington , D.C.,
while  New York  is the center of finance,” Erdogan said after
ringing the bell with officials including Deputy Prime Minister
Ali Babacan and Borsa Istanbul Chairman Ibrahim Turhan. “In
Turkey, Ankara is the political center and Istanbul deserves to
be the financial center.”  The exchange plans to encompass commodities and electricity
trading in the near future, as a part of Erdogan’s plan to make
Istanbul a regional financial center and  Turkey ’s economy one of
the world’s 10 biggest by 2023.  “This will become an exchange in which capital market
products of Turkey and the region will be traded,” Huseyin Erkan, chief executive of the World Federation of Exchanges and
a former head of the Istanbul exchange, said in an interview at
the ceremony. “Foreign funds that pass through Turkey through
this bourse will leave a beneficial residue behind.”  Borsa IPO  Turkish equities were the second best performers worldwide
last year, with the benchmark  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  surging
more than 60 percent in dollar terms. It has  added  almost 5
percent this year.  Still, the value of listed companies is lower than some
competitors, with many Turkish companies preferring to stay
private. The  Istanbul Stock Exchange ’s market capitalization was
$270 billion as of January, according to the Paris-based  World
Federation of Exchanges . In  South Africa , an economy about half
the size of Turkey’s, the equivalent figure was $895.5 billion.  Ten companies started trading in Istanbul last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest IPO was
technology retailer  Teknosa Ic & Dis Ticaret AS (TKNSA) , at 98 million
liras ($54 million).  It may take a few more years for Borsa Istanbul to hold its
own initial public offering, and it may eventually consider
merging with other exchanges, Erkan said. Turkey’s new capital
markets law, which came into effect on Dec. 30, has turned the
bourse into a joint stock company with capital of 423.2 million
liras ($235 million).  ‘Daily Game’  At the ceremony, Turkish officials pledged to encourage
more firms to go public.  “Our companies still do business through loans as they
carry more debt to their balance sheets,” deputy premier
Babacan said. “We have to spread the culture of partnership and
develop  capital markets  in the sake of healthy balance sheets.”  The full integration of the Turkish Derivatives Exchange
into Borsa Istanbul will be completed within a month, Babacan
said.  Mehmet Buyukeksi, chairman of the Turkish Exporters’
Assembly, said not all Turkish businesses have understood the
function and potential of the bourse.  “It has been perceived as something similar to a daily
game,” he said in an interview. “This will hopefully change.”  Buyukeksi said his association is planning joint training
sessions with Borsa Istanbul for Turkey’s top 1,000 exporters,
encouraging them to hold public offerings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  