-- Lithuania’s Credit Rating Raised by Fitch on Growth, Budget
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-04-05T17:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/lithuania-s-credit-rating-raised-by-fitch-on-growth-budget-1-.html
Lithuania ’s credit rating was raised
one step by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the Baltic nation’s
economic recovery and narrowing budget deficit.  Fitch raised Lithuania to BBB+, the third-lowest investment
grade, on par with Malta, Ireland and Kazakhstan, according to a
statement today from London. Moody’s Investors Service also
rates the country at its third-lowest investment grade, Baa1,
while  Standard & Poor’s  has it one level lower at BBB.  “Lithuania’s turnaround in its public finances has
increased confidence in its sovereign creditworthiness with the
country benefiting from record low yields in recent bond
auctions,” the ratings company said. “Growth surprised on the
upside in 2012, while euro-zone downside risks have not
materialized.  The Baltic nation, the second-fastest growing in the
European Union last year, is seeking to adopt the euro in 2015.
This year’s budget envisages narrowing the fiscal shortfall to
2.5 percent of gross domestic product from 3 percent in 2012,
the maximum allowed by the EU for countries within the euro
region, as the economy grows an estimated 3.5 percent.  The yield on Lithuania’s bonds due 2018 fell 9 basis points
to 2.418 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 25, as of 7:15
p.m. in Vilnius, the capital.  ‘‘The upgrade is well deserved,” Viktor Szabo, who helps
oversee $11.8 billion at Aberdeen Investment Management Ltd. in
London, said by phone. “They did a good job. They did what most
European countries should do: good  crisis management , acceptable
debt metrics and outstanding growth. I think if not for the
 European debt crisis , they would have been upgraded earlier.”  Constraints on Lithuania’s rating include  “shallow
domestic  capital markets , high and structural unemployment and
adverse emigration trends,” Fitch said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  