-- J.C. Penney Should Be Prudent With Revamp, Says Ex-CEO Questrom
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   S h e i l a   D h a r m a r a j a n
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/j-c-penney-should-be-prudent-with-revamp-says-ex-ceo-questrom.html
Former  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Chief
Executive Officer Allen Questrom said the retailer should be
prudent as CEO  Ron Johnson  implements a plan to turn most of the
chain’s locations into collections of boutiques.  “In high risk situations, one needs to be prudent,”
Questrom said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Decisions
can’t be Powerball chances. You’re responsible for employees and
managing shareholders’ money.”  Questrom, who was called in to turn around the retailer
more than a decade ago, spoke after touring a prototype store in
 Dallas  at the invitation of Johnson. Last year, Johnson
announced a plan to revamp the retailer and move to everyday low
pricing instead of frequent sales. In February, the company said
its 2012 sales plunged 25 percent, and it has backed off its
pricing strategy.  Questrom said he spent about 45 minutes with Johnson, whom
he called “very nice, very energetic, very enthusiastic.”  While he told Johnson he thought the shops were
interesting, “the question wasn’t whether I liked them but
whether the customer liked them.” Retailers need to constantly
test and observe, he said, along with talking to their customers
and salespeople.  “As a merchant, you’re not a designer,” he said. “The
job is to find things your customer likes and test it with her
or him.”  J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas ,  rose  2.5 percent to
$15.45 yesterday in  New York . The shares have declined 22
percent this year, compared with an 8.9 percent gain in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Turnaround Questioned  Questrom said in an interview with Bloomberg last month
that he didn’t think Johnson’s turnaround plan would work, “and
the longer the board waits, the worse it’s going to get.”  Questrom knows something about turnarounds. The longtime
retail executive came in to revive an ailing J.C. Penney in
2000. Profit rose 31 percent in 2004, the year of his departure.
During his time there, he centralized buying and revamped
stores.  Hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman  brought Johnson to J.C.
Penney in 2011 from Apple Inc. after he disclosed a 16.5 percent
stake in October 2010, becoming the retailer’s largest
shareholder. Johnson made changes much too quickly, and the
turnaround’s execution “has been something very close to a
disaster,” Ackman said yesterday at a conference, Reuters
reported.  Daphne Avila, a J.C. Penney spokeswoman, declined to
comment on Questrom’s and Ackman’s comments.  Questrom’s store tour was earlier reported by Women’s Wear
Daily.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Sheila Dharmarajan in New York at 
 sdharmarajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  