-- J&J, Samsung, General Motors: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-04-05T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/j-j-samsung-general-motors-intellectual-property.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
largest seller of health-care products, didn’t infringe a
doctor’s patent on heart devices, a U.S. appeals court ruled in
throwing out a $482 million jury verdict the man won.  The trial court erred in its interpretation of the patent
owned by Bruce Saffran and, under the correct definition of key
terms, J&J’s Cordis unit wasn’t using his invention, the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said
yesterday in an opinion posted on its website.  Saffran’s patent deals with ways to treat injured tissue
with the use of a permeable barrier. While Saffran’s invention
focused on broken bones, he argued the invention also was used
in stents, the tiny mesh tubes that prop open heart arteries
after they are cleared of fat. The Cordis stents, sold under the
name Cypher, were a metallic mesh with a coating of the drug
sirolimus that slows the regrowth of plaque.  The appeal focused in part on whether Saffran’s invention
was limited to a continuous sheet that contains the bone
fragments and can be configured to deliver a drug to the
treatment site. J&J said that its drug-coated stents weren’t
made that way.  The drug layer “is akin to paint on a chain-link fence,
not a continuous sheet wrapped around the mesh, and open holes
remain between the struts of the accused devices,” the three-
judge panel ruled.  J&J, the New Brunswick, New Jersey-based company that
pioneered the market for heart stents, exited the business in
2011 after losing ground to  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and Abbott
Laboratories and amid falling prices for the devices.  Saffran had won a $431 million verdict against Boston
Scientific over the same patent, which later increased to $501
million with interest. That case was later settled for about $50
million. Abbott, which had also been sued by Saffran, filed
court papers urging the federal circuit court to overturn the
J&J verdict. In its filing, Abbott said that if the appeals
court adopted the patent interpretations requested by Cordis,
“Saffran’s infringement case cannot proceed against Abbott.”  The case is Saffran v. Johnson & Johnson, 12-1043, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower
court case is Saffran v. Johnson & Johnson, 07-cv-00451, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Texas  (Marshall).  Samsung Presses Apple Rivalry With Best Buy Mini Stores  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , stepping up a battle with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , will staff mini-stores at  Best Buy Co. (BBY) ’s U.S. locations to
showcase how its tablets, smartphones and televisions work
together.  Starting April 8, the Suwon, South Korea-based electronics
maker will open 500 Samsung Experience Shops inside Best Buy,
taking up about 460 square feet of prime space near the front of
the retailer’s largest stores, Samsung said in a statement
yesterday. Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Samsung, stung by Apple lawsuits accusing the company of
“slavishly” copying products, is spending hundreds of millions
of dollars this year to prove to consumers it can innovate as
effectively as its U.S. competitor. Samsung will hire its own
staff to demonstrate new features on the upcoming Galaxy S4
phone, and show how content can be transferred to its smart TVs,
laptops and tablets, said Ketrina Dunagan, vice president of
retail marketing for Samsung Mobile’s U.S. unit.  “This effort is the last of a three-legged stool, from
products to marketing and now retail,” Dunagan said in an
interview.  Best Buy’s largest U.S. stores typically measure about
40,000 square feet. The companies plan to add smaller Samsung
spaces by June at about 1,000 other Best Buy and Best Buy Mobile
locations, Dunagan said.  The Samsung Experience Shops are a direct challenge to
Apple, maker of the iPhone, which leads smartphones sales in the
U.S. with 38 percent of the market versus 21 percent for
Samsung, according to a March 6 research report from ComScore.
Samsung leads worldwide with 40 percent of the 545.2 million
smartphones shipped in 2012, according to researcher IDC.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  General Motors Again Seeks to Register ‘Chevelle’ Trademark  General Motors Co. (GM)  filed applications at the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office for a brand that it last used in the 1970s.  From 1964 through 1977, GM’s Chevrolet division used the
name “ Chevelle ” for its mid-sized cars. The automaker
submitted an application in October 1963 to register the mark
for use with automobiles. That mark, which was registered in
July 1964, is now defunct.  The new GM applications are for the use of the mark with
badges for automobiles, clothing, floor mats and toy cars.  GM previously submitted an application to register
“Chevelle” for automotive purposes in 2003 and later abandoned
that application, according to patent office data.  The “Chevelle” mark was also registered in 2003 by a
 band .  BasicNet’s ‘Jesus Jeans’ Mark Attacked by Jesus Surfed  BasicNet Spa (BAN) ’s U.S. “Jesus Jeans” trademark should be
canceled, a company that makes and sells religiously themed surf
wear argued.  Jesus Surfed Apparel Co., based in Ormand Beach,  Florida ,
filed an application to register “Jesus Surfed” as a trademark
in May. BasicNet’s Jesus Jeans unit opposed the registration,
saying that the public would be confused by the name similarity.  On April 1, Jesus Surfed submitted its response, saying the
opposition is dubious, noting that when BasicNet filed its
trademark applications, it said the name “Jesus” was already
“highly diluted” when it came to marks for clothing.  Jesus Surfed said BasicNet, based in Turin,  Italy , told the
patent office that consumers could readily distinguish between
its marks and other registered “Jesus” marks for clothing.  Jesus Surfed is calling for the patent office to cancel
trademark registrations for Jesus Jeans, saying the use of the
brand is sacrilegious when used in the Italian company’s  ads 
that feature “sexually suggestive images adorned with parodied
text from the Old and New Testaments.”  Jesus Jeans’ ads have been condemned by the Catholic
Church, Jesus Surfed said in its filing. The “Jesus Jeans”
trademark also makes a “‘false connection with a person,’’
which is barred under U.S. trademark law, the Florida company
said.  Music Copyright Society’s Royalty Collection Legal, Court Rules  Nigeria’s Federal High Court ruled that  the Music Copyright
Society Nigeria  is a lawful collector of copyright royalties,
 according to  Nigeria’s Guardian newspaper.  The court also said that a police raid on the society’s
office and the arrest and detention of its officials was
unconstitutional and illegal, the Guardian reported.  The  Nigerian Copyright Commission  had been feuding with
MCSN over royalty collections, according to the Guardian.  MCSN’s status is related to both Nigeria’s constitution,
and to deeds of assignments, contracts and powers of attorney
the original copyright owners have given to the society, the
court ruled and the Guardian reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google, SACEM, Universal Music Reach YouTube Distribution Accord  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  YouTube  video-sharing service reached an
agreement with Universal Music Publishing Group and  France ’s
France’s  Society of Authors, Composers and Publishers of Music ,
MusicWeek  reported .  The accord covers the use of Music in SACEM’s and Universal
Music Publishing’s repertoire in videos to be distributed via
YouTube in 127 countries, according to MusicWeek.  SACEM is the first authors’ society to make an agreement on
such a large scale with YouTube, MusicWeek reported.  Universal Music Chairman Zach Horowitz said the agreement
will bring ‘‘proper remuneration” to the artists it represents,
according to MusicWeek.  Zookal’s Textbook Rental Model Infringes, Publishers Claim  An Australian company that rents textbooks to college
students is facing copyright-infringement claims from
publishers, the Sydney Morning Herald  reported .  Zookal , founded in 2011 by students from the University of
Technology, Sydney, rents textbooks on a semester basis for less
than half their retail price, according to the newspaper.  The Australian Publishers Association alerted its lawyers
to its claims that Zookal is infringing copyrights, according to
the Herald.  Zookal Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Haider told the Herald
that he wasn’t aware of any infringement and his company would
be “happy” to rectify any problem, the newspaper reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  U.K. Agricultural Handbook No Longer Protected as Trade Secret  A U.K. seed handbook previously protected as a repository
of trade secrets is now being made available to growers and
industry, according to a  statement  from that country’s National
Institute of Agricultural Botany.  The handbook was previously limited to a number of members
of NIAB and the Arable Group, the organization said.  It contains seed standards, seed certification areas and
crop areas, historic meteorological data and other useful
information for cereals, oilseeds, pulses, grasses, maize,
potatoes and sugar beets.  The handbook’s content was classified as a trade secret
because it covered a wide range of information on seeds,
agronomy and markets, according to the NIAB statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 