-- Japan, U.S. Agree on Return of Some Okinawa Base Lands
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-04-05T09:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/japan-u-s-agree-on-return-of-some-okinawa-base-lands.html
The U.S. and Japan agreed on the
return of some land used by the American military on Okinawa in
a bid to ease local opposition over the planned relocation of a
Marine base to another part of the island.  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and U.S. Ambassador John Roos signed the agreement today in Tokyo, which which also seeks
to move the controversial Marine Corps Air Station Futenma to a
less crowded area by 2022. A 1996 accord to relocate the base
has been blocked by local residents who want it moved off of
Okinawa, citing noise, pollution and crime.  Under today’s agreement, the U.S. will return four
facilities totaling 65 hectares (161 acres) as early as the
current Japanese fiscal year ending March 31, 2014, according to
a joint statement released today in Tokyo. The site of the
Futenma base can be returned as soon as fiscal 2022, provided
the replacement facilities are completed.  While the U.S. and Japan last year agreed to move about
9,000 Marines from Okinawa to reduce friction, Abe has stepped
up efforts to relocate the base, drawing praise from the U.S.
Last month his government applied for a permit to reclaim land
off the coast at the proposed Henoko site that must be approved
by Okinawa Governor Hirokazu Nakaima, who opposes the plan.  Since taking office in December, Abe has made strengthening
ties with the U.S. his top diplomatic priority in response to
threats from North Korea and a territorial spat with China. With
the role of its own military limited by its pacifist
constitution, Japan relies heavily on the 38,000 U.S. troops it
hosts for security.  The signing comes less than two weeks ahead of the first
visit to Japan by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  