-- Europe Stocks Fall With U.S. Futures Before Jobs Report
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-04-05T12:27:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/japan-stocks-jump-as-yen-weakens-on-boj-stimulus-won-declines.html
European stocks fell for a third day
and U.S. equity-index futures dropped as analysts cut estimates
for growth in America’s monthly payrolls. Commodities declined
as bond yields from  France  to Austria slid to records.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index extended declines, losing 1.5
percent at 7:25 a.m. in New York as airline shares tumbled on
concern an outbreak of bird flu in  China  will hurt  travel
demand .  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SXXP)  futures retreated 0.6
percent. The euro weakened 0.1 percent to $1.2921. France’s 10-
year bond yield dropped to 1.747 percent, the lowest level since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in 1990. The won sank 0.7
percent. The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 0.3 percent.  Analysts cut estimates for payrolls growth last month after
reports this week showed companies added fewer workers than
forecast and jobless claims rose more than estimated. Retail
sales in the euro area fell 0.3 percent in February from the
previous month, a report showed today, after European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday officials “stand
ready to act” to bolster the flagging economy.  “Markets are going to be vulnerable to bad news from the
States,” Philip Saunders, head of global  asset allocation  at
Investec Asset Management Ltd., which oversees more than $100
billion, told Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television in London.
“Obviously, there will be doubts and concerns from month to
month. Having a modest growth environment in the U.S. on an
improving track is important.”  Airline Stocks  The Stoxx 600’s decline extended this week’s retreat to 2.1
percent. The gauge is on course for a third weekly drop, the
longest stretch of losses in more than 10 months. Deutsche
Lufthansa AG, Air France-KLM Group and International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA fell more than 5 percent as the
death toll from a new strain of bird flu in China, known as
H7N9, rose to six people.  Portugal’s  PSI-20 Index (PSI20)  climbed 0.8 percent, trimming this
week’s slide to 1.7 percent. Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho 
faces a pending Constitutional Court ruling on the legality of
some elements in this year’s budget that may challenge the
Portuguese government’s ability to meet deficit targets.  The cost of insuring against losses on Portuguese sovereign
debt rose amid speculation a court is about to rule today on
whether elements of the government’s budget breach the
constitution. Credit-default swaps insuring the nation’s bonds
increased as much as 15 basis points to 412.  The decline in S&P 500 futures indicated the U.S. gauge
will extend this week’s 0.6 percent retreat. A government report
at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington  will show a gain of 190,000 jobs in
U.S. payrolls last month, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That’s down from a projection of 200,000 at the end
of March and after a 236,000 advance in February. The jobless
rate probably stayed at 7.7 percent last month.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc. is due to unofficially kick off the first-
quarter earnings-reporting season in the U.S. on Monday. Profits
at companies in the  S&P 500  will fall 1.9 percent in the period
from a year earlier, the first decline since 2009, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slid 1 percent for a fifth
day, the longest losing streak since March 19, with the MSCI
BRIC Index sliding 10 percent from this year’s peak. The Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in
 Hong Kong  lost 3.1 percent, the most since July. South Korea’s
Kospi sank 1.6 percent, capping the worst week since May, and
the won slid to a seven-month low as the risk of conflict with
 North Korea  spurred capital outflows. Benchmark gauges in Russia
and India slipped at least 0.5 percent.  Austria ’s 10-year yields fell seven basis points to 1.51
percent, while Belgium’s also dropped 12 basis points to 1.95
percent.  The S&P GSCI dropped for a sixth day, the longest losing
streak since May 14. West Texas Intermediate oil fell 0.4
percent to $92.85 a barrel, and is heading for the biggest
weekly decline since September. Soybeans declined as much as 0.9
percent to the lowest price since Jan. 11 on prospects the bird
flu in China will curb demand for the oilseed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 Swallace6@bloomberg.net ; 