-- KGHM, PZU Rally as Poland Seeks Higher Dividends: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2013-04-05T10:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/kghm-pzu-rally-as-poland-seeks-higher-dividends-warsaw-mover.html
KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , Poland’s sole
copper and silver producer, led gains among state-controlled
companies on speculation a widening budget deficit will prompt
the government to seek higher dividends.  KGHM, the most profitable state-controlled company last
year, climbed to a two-week high. Insurer PZU SA jumped as much
as 2 percent and PKO Bank Polski SA, the biggest Polish lender,
rose 1 percent after PAP reported today, citing Treasury
Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski, the government will seek “the
highest possible dividends” from the financial institutions.  The ministry will seek dividends from all companies in
which it has stakes to meet its 2013 budget revenue goal of 5
billion zloty ($1.55 billion), Budzanowski told reporters
yesterday. The budget gap reached about 25 billion zloty in the
first quarter, or 70 percent of the government’s full-year plan
after the economic slowdown cut  tax revenue , Deputy Finance
Minister Hanna Majszczyk said yesterday.  “KGHM could be forced to take on at least 1 billion zloty
of leverage this year and will then be able to finance its
capital expenditure plans plus dividends,” Robert Maj, an
analyst at KBC Securities in Warsaw, said in a note today.  KGHM rose 1.4 percent to 162.2 zloty at 12:02 p.m. in
Warsaw, extending its 2.6 percent gain yesterday, while PZU
gained 0.6 percent to 400 zloty. State-controlled refiner  PKN
Orlen SA (PKN)  increased 0.9 percent to 50.25 zloty and  Grupa Lotos
SA (LTS) , its local competitor, was up as much as 1.2 percent.  The government “takes into account a dividend higher than
30 percent” of KGHM profit, Deputy Treasury Minister Pawel
Tamborski told reporters yesterday. KGHM should pay out at least
30 percent of its 4.87 billion-zloty profit, Parkiet reported on
Feb. 18, citing Minister Budzanowski.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  