-- Kospi Drops Most in 5 Months on North Korea Threats
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-04-05T06:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/kospi-drops-most-in-4-months-on-north-korea-threats.html
South  Korea ’s benchmark  stock  index
had the biggest weekly decline since May and the won slid to a
seven-month low as the risk of conflict with  North Korea  spurred
capital outflows.  The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index of shares tumbled today by the most since
October as global funds sold more stocks than they bought, as
they have on all but two days in the past three weeks. North
Korea said yesterday it passed a law authorizing “counter-
actions” against U.S. aggression including a nuclear strike,
having announced on March 30 that a “state of war” exists with
the South. The yen sank to its weakest level since August 2009,
helping Japanese exporters compete with Korean rivals, after
monetary easing by the  Bank of Japan  stepped.  “Geopolitical risks have been significantly magnified this
week, triggering sell-offs of South Korean assets as investors
were unsure how the situation would develop under the new leader
of the communist state,” said Han Sang Soo, a  money manager  at
Samsung Asset Management Co., which oversees about $114 billion.
“Some investors also thought Japanese names may be a good place
to invest given the country’s currency policies.”  The Kospi index closed 1.6 percent lower in  Seoul ,
contributing to a 3.9 percent loss for the week. The won slide
0.7 percent today and 1.8 percent from a week ago to 1,131.69
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency touched 1,131.73, the weakest level since Sept. 6.  Volatility Surges  One-month implied volatility in the won, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, rose
47 basis points, or 0.47 percentage point, to 9.23 percent. It
surged 179 basis points this week.  Government bonds  gained
today, with the yield on the 2.75 percent notes due March 2018
dropping two basis points from yesterday to 2.54 percent,
according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. The  five-year yield 
reached 2.51 percent last week, the lowest it has been in
Bloomberg data going back to 2000.  “Geopolitical risk from the North Korean threat is likely
to weigh on the South Korean won for an extended period of
time,” said Suh Dae Il, an analyst at KDB Daewoo Securities Co.
in Seoul. “Investors will also eye the yen movement while
exporters’ dollar sales may limit won declines.”  South Korea  will deploy a 24-hour monitoring system of
financial markets and prepare “strong and swift” responses to
stabilize prices if needed as tensions with the North escalate,
Vice Finance Minister Choo Kyung Ho said at an emergency meeting
with counterparts from the Bank of Korea and financial
regulators today. The impact of the North’s threats so far has
been limited, Choo said.  Foreign Funds  The Kospi 200  Volatility Index , a measure of the cost to
protect against equity losses, has surged 29 percent this week.
Foreign funds have unloaded a net 1.38 trillion won ($1.2
billion) of Kospi index shares this week, Korea Exchange Inc.
data show.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , the biggest South
Korean automakers, retreated at least 4.4 percent today,
extending yesterday’s slide that was triggered by plans to
recall vehicles in the U.S. for electronic defects. The shares
also fell today as the yen slumped. A weaker yen boosts the
competitiveness of Japanese automakers that compete with Korean
companies in key markets.  The yen slid against all its 16 most-traded peers this week
after BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda yesterday exceeded analysts’
estimates in announcing stimulus measures that aim to spur
annual inflation to 2 percent in two years. The central bank
said it will buy 7 trillion yen ($72 billion) of bonds a month
to help achieve its goal.  A rapid weakening of the yen is expected to hurt the price
competitiveness of South Korean exports,  Bank of Korea  said in a
biannual report yesterday. The won strengthened 20 percent
against the yen in the past six months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  