-- Natural Gas May Drop as Milder U.S. Weather Cuts Fuel Demand
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-04-05T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/natural-gas-may-drop-as-milder-u-s-weather-cuts-fuel-demand.html
Natural gas may fall next week as a
cold weather gives way to higher temperatures, reducing fuel
consumption, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Eight of 15 analysts, or 53 percent, forecast that futures
will decline on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  through April
12. Four, or 27 percent, said gas will stay the same and three
predicted prices will rise. Last week, 50 percent of
participants said gas would decline.  Temperatures will be above normal along the East Coast next
week, spreading into the Midwest and  Texas  from April 14 through
April 18, said MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .
An unusually cold start to spring sent gas to an 18-month
intraday high last week of $4.121 per million British thermal
units. The futures have since receded as forecasts signaled the
end of the heating season.  “The weather has indeed moderated, but I think that the
market is looking beyond the forecasts and seeing demand
weakness ahead,” said Teri Viswanath, director of commodities
strategy at BNP Paribas SA in  New York . “Failure to sustain a
$4 handle in the front of the curve, despite the strong weekly
withdrawals in March, suggests weakness ahead.”  Natural gas futures for May delivery fell 7.7 cents, or 1.9
percent, to $3.947 per million Btu during the first four days of
this week in New York, heading for the first decline in seven
weeks. Prices have risen 18 percent this year.  Stockpile Deficit  Gas stockpiles  fell by 94 billion cubic feet to 1.687
trillion cubic feet in the week ended March 29, bucking the
five-year average trend that showed a gain of 4 billion for the
same seven days, the EIA reported yesterday.  Analyst estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg showed an expected drop of 91 billion.  Supplies were 32 percent below year-earlier levels, the
widest  deficit  based on EIA data going back to 2005. Stockpiles
dropped to 2.1 percent below the five-year average, dropping to
a deficit for the first time in 18 months.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  3      8      4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  