-- N.Y. Nanny Child Murder Suspect Deemed Fit to Face Trial
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-04-05T16:10:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/new-york-nanny-child-murder-suspect-deemed-fit-to-face-trial.html
A New York woman who worked as a
nanny for a Manhattan couple was deemed fit to face trial on
charges she stabbed two of their children to death in their
Upper West Side home last year.  Two psychiatrists who interviewed the suspect, Yoselyn
Ortega, 50, and reviewed her “voluminous” medical record found
her mentally able to defend herself in the case, Justice Gregory Carro said today in New York state court in Manhattan.  “Both have found she can participate in a meaningful way
to assist in her defense,” Carro said at a hearing that lasted
less than five minutes and was attended mostly by photographers
and reporters.  Ortega’s lawyer, Valerie Van Leer-Greenberg, said she will
contest the finding at a hearing scheduled for May 6.  Ortega pleaded not guilty on Nov. 28 to charges she
murdered 2-year-old Leo Krim and his 6-year-old sister Lucia on
Oct. 25. She entered the plea from a hospital bed, where she was
recovering from what police called self-inflicted stab wounds
sustained on the day of the murders.  Accompanied by an interpreter, Ortega appeared today in a
gray prison jumpsuit with her hands cuffed behind her back and
her hair arranged tightly in three braids.  First-Degree Murder  Ortega, a naturalized U.S. citizen from the Dominican
Republic, was charged with two counts of first-degree murder and
two counts of second-degree murder, Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus R. Vance Jr. said in November.  She faces life in prison if she is convicted of killing the
Krim children, who were found in the bathroom of their family’s
apartment on West 75th Street, according to the New York City
Police Department.  Ortega had been in the U.S. for 10 years and worked for the
Krims for two years at the time of the murders, Police
Commissioner Raymond Kelly said. She lived in Upper Manhattan
with her son, her sister and her sister’s daughter.  Her not-guilty plea in November was made while she was
handcuffed to her hospital bed. She didn’t speak at the time and
her lawyer entered the plea on her behalf.  On the day of the killings, the children’s mother, Marina
Krim, had gone to a neighborhood Jewish Community Center for
swimming lessons with her 3-year-old daughter, police said. She
was supposed to meet the nanny and the two other children at a
dance studio later in the evening, according to Kelly.  Stabbed Herself  When the nanny didn’t show up, the mother went to the
apartment and found the children in the bathroom with stab
wounds, said Paul Browne, a police department spokesman. When
the mother entered the bathroom, the nanny started to stab
herself. Police said they found Ortega on the bathroom floor
with a knife next to her.  The two children were taken to St. Luke’s Hospital, where
they were pronounced dead. The nanny was taken to New York
Presbyterian, where she was intubated and unable to speak until
Nov. 3, when she agreed to discuss the matter with detectives
and was subsequently charged with murder, police said.  The children’s father, Kevin Krim, served as global head of
Web properties for Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg
News, until 2011. He joined CNBC as general manager for digital
in March last year.  The case is New York v. Ortega, 05112/2012, New York state
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at
   elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  