-- New Bird Flu Seen Having Some Markers of Airborne Killer
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-04-06T12:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/new-bird-flu-seen-having-some-markers-of-airborne-killer.html
The new bird influenza that’s killed
six people in eastern  China  has some of the genetic hallmarks of
an easily transmissible virus, according to the scientist who
showed how H5N1 avian flu could become airborne.  The H7N9 strain, which is a new virus formed as a result of
two others merging their genetic material, has features of
viruses that are known to jump easily from birds to mammals, and
a mutation that may help it attach to cells in the respiratory
tract, said  Ron Fouchier , a professor of molecular virology at
Erasmus Medical Center in the Netherlands, in a telephone
interview yesterday.  “That’s certainly not good news,” said Fouchier, who
reviewed a gene sequencing of H7N9 published by Chinese health
authorities. “This virus really doesn’t look like a bird virus
anymore; it looks like a mammalian virus.”  To curb the spread of H7N9,  Shanghai , Hangzhou and Nanjing,
cities with confirmed human cases of the virus, have halted
trading in live poultry, closed bird markets and slaughtered
more than 20,000 fowl. Shanghai today reported two new
infections, taking China’s tally to 18, according to data
compiled by  Bloomberg News  from reports released by the national
and provincial governments.  The outbreak caused soybean futures and airline stocks to
fall yesterday on concern the virus may spark a pandemic.  While there’s no evidence yet of human-to-human
transmission, scientists are scrutinizing the virus’s genetic
makeup for clues to the threat it may pose.  ‘More Concern’  Fouchier authored a study last year that showed five
genetic tweaks to the deadly H5N1 virus, which has killed more
than 600 people since 2003, made it airborne in ferrets, the
mammals whose response to flu most closely resembles that of
humans.  One of the mutations he made is in an enzyme called
polymerase; another was in a protein called  hemagglutinin  on the
surface of the virus. H7N9 has both mutations, he said.  “This virus is certainly of more concern than the vast
majority of bird flu viruses,” Fouchier said. “Most bird flu
viruses that we know do not have these mutations.”  Whether those mutations alone are enough to make the virus
easily transmissible isn’t clear, and should be “high on the
research agenda,” Fouchier said. Still, there’s no evidence yet
that the virus is more likely to become more dangerous than H5N1,
he said.  “Even if we see relatively high numbers of human cases, it
doesn’t mean a pandemic is imminent,” he said. “H5N1 has
circulated for 16 years and not become mammal-to-mammal
transmissible.”  Heightened Vigilance  As part of its surveillance effort, China needs to conduct
blood serum testing among all people who have been in contact
with confirmed cases to look for antibodies that form in
response to an infection, said Roy Anderson, a professor of
infectious disease epidemiology at  Imperial College London . That
will indicate how many people have been infected with the virus,
including those who aren’t showing symptoms, he said.  “Heightened vigilance needs to be in place at the
moment,” said Anderson. While no human-to-human transmission
has yet occurred, once an epidemic gets established, the
doubling time can be very fast. “That’s why much needs to be
done very thoroughly at the beginning to ascertain whether this
is a risk or not.”  Unlike H5N1, which is highly lethal for birds, H7N9 is a
so-called low-pathogenic virus in birds, meaning it may be
widespread without causing severe sickness, Fouchier said. That
would make it difficult to eradicate, he said. It doesn’t
necessarily follow that the virus will be mild in humans, he
said.  Spanish Flu  The Spanish flu of 1918, which killed about 50 million
people worldwide, wasn’t highly pathogenic in birds, he said. He
and colleagues plan to test the new virus in ferrets to see how
deadly and how easily transmissible it is, and to test vaccines
and antiviral drugs against it.  H7N9 also is more difficult to track because it’s not
highly lethal to birds, said Alex Thiermann, technical adviser
to the director general of the World Organisation for  Animal
Health  in Paris.  “That indicates we need to take very careful surveillance
measures because it will not be as obvious as in 2001,”
Thiermann said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Symptoms
are not going to help us. The Chinese are doing an intensive
surveillance on poultry, pigs and wildlife. We need to continue
to do that intensively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  