-- Mighty River May Deliver $1.4 Billion in Biggest New Zealand IPO
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-04-05T02:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/new-zealand-may-raise-nz-1-6-billion-from-mighty-river-power-ipo.html
New Zealand may raise NZ$1.6 billion
($1.4 billion) from the sale of as much as 49 percent in Mighty
River Power Ltd. in the nation’s biggest initial public
offering.  The offer of up to 686 million shares is likely to open on
April 15, and the shares will probably begin trading on May 10,
Finance Minister  Bill English  and State-Owned Enterprises
Minister Tony Ryall said in a statement. The offer price will be
set via a sale to institutional buyers on May 8 within a range
of NZ$2.35 to NZ$2.80 a share, the ministers said.  The sale begins a program that Prime Minister John Key has
forecast will raise NZ$5 billion to NZ$7 billion, helping to
speed up a return to a budget surplus. The government will also
offload as much as 49 percent of Genesis Power Ltd. and Meridian
Energy Ltd., as well as reducing its 74 percent stake in Air New
Zealand Ltd.  “The share offer program is expected to raise capital that
the government can spend on new investments that we would
otherwise have to do without or we would have to borrow overseas
to pay for,” English said. “The companies themselves will
benefit from the mixed ownership model.”  Mighty River operates nine hydro plants, five geothermal
stations and the natural gas-fired Southdown plant near
Auckland. It sells power to about 20 percent of the nation’s
homes, mainly through its retail unit Mercury Energy.  Fourth Biggest  Based on the top price in the indicative range, Mighty
River would be valued at NZ$3.92 billion, making it the fourth-
or fifth-largest stock on the  New Zealand stock exchange ,
English said. The company projects a dividend of 12 cents a
share in the current year, which equates to a yield of 4.3
percent should the shares sell for NZ$2.80. That compares with a
yield of 2.9 percent at Contact Energy Ltd., the largest
publicly traded  New Zealand  power company.  About 440,000 New Zealand citizens pre-registered their
interest in the share offer and will each receive a 260-page
offer document, the government said. Key has pledged that at
least 85 percent of the company will be owned by residents,
including the government and fund managers who invest in local
pension funds.  The sale will be the largest ever New Zealand IPO,
exceeding the NZ$1.1 billion raised when it sold 60 percent of
Contact Energy in 1999.  The divestment program is New Zealand’s biggest since the
government raised about NZ$10 billion between 1988 and 1990,
including the sale of Telecom Corp. of New Zealand Ltd. to U.S.
phone companies, government figures show.  Surplus Target  New Zealand is targeting a return to  budget surplus  by
2015. It forecasts a deficit of NZ$7.34 billion in the year
ending June 30. The country lost its top  credit rating  at
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in 2011.  Key had planned to sell Mighty River shares in the fourth
quarter last year, before delaying to consult with indigenous
Maori groups.  In February, the nation’s highest court rejected a bid from
the Maori Council to delay the sale, claiming it violated the
173-year-old Treaty of Waitangi, New Zealand’s founding
document, which gives indigenous people rights to land and
resources.  Mighty River forecasts operating earnings will fall to
NZ$382.6 million in the year ending June 30 from NZ$461.5
million a year earlier,  offer documents  published today show.
Earnings will increase to NZ$497.9m in 2014, it said.
Electricity demand in New Zealand has been flat for the past
five years, according to the documents.  Retail Incentives  The government will offer residents who hold their shares
for two years a 1-for-25 loyalty bonus that will be capped at
200 shares. It will hold back shares from the initial sale to
issue under the bonus plan, ensuring it retains a 51 percent
stake.  The government intends to offer shares in Meridian and
Genesis in late 2013 and early 2014, Key said last year. Plans
to also offer shares in coal miner Solid Energy New Zealand Ltd.
are on hold after the company said in February it was seeking
support from bankers as its debt rises and income shrinks. The
company closed mines and fired workers, and more restructuring
may be required, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  