-- Obama Apologizes to California Official for Remarks
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-04-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/obama-regrets-remarks-on-california-official-s-appearance.html
President  Barack Obama  apologized to
California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  “for the distraction
created” when he remarked on her appearance at a San Francisco-
area fundraiser, his spokesman said.  Obama called Harris following his return to Washington and
after his remarks generated criticism on social media and from
political opponents.  “He did not want in any way to diminish the attorney
general’s professional accomplishments and her capabilities,”
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said at a White House
briefing yesterday.  At the last stop of a fundraising swing in California on
April 4, Obama singled out Harris at the home of Levi Strauss
heir John Goldman, praising her brilliance and dedication.  “She also happens to be by far the best-looking attorney
general in the country,” the president said, prompting laughter
from the crowd. “It’s true, come on.”  In his call to Harris, Obama “apologized for creating this
distraction,” Carney said, adding that the president “believes
very strongly that Attorney General Harris is an excellent
attorney general and that she’s done great work, and she’s
dedicated and tough and brilliant.”  Harris’s spokesman,  Gil Duran , said Obama and the attorney
general “have been friends for many years.”  “They had a great conversation yesterday and she strongly
supports him,” Duran said.  Obama Backers  Obama, who was re-elected with a majority of support from
female voters, has been criticized by some women’s groups after
selecting men to lead the State, Treasury and Defense
departments at the start of his second term in January. Those
choices have been balanced more recently by the nominations of
women for three Cabinet-level positions.  Last month, he nominated Sylvia Mathews Burwell of the Wal-
Mart Foundation as director of the Office of Management and
Budget, and Gina McCarthy to lead the Environmental Protection
Agency, where she’s been an assistant administrator. In
February, he announced his pick of Sally Jewell, chief executive
officer at outdoor retailer Recreation Equipment Inc., as the
next interior secretary.  He also has appointed Julia Pierson to lead the Secret
Service, the first woman to hold that job.  Campaign Supporter  Harris, 48, campaigned for Obama’s re-election and has been
mentioned by Democratic Party officials as a possible nominee to
the  Supreme Court  should a vacancy occur. She’s been attorney
general of the most populous U.S. state since 2011. Before that,
she was elected to two terms as the  district attorney  in  San
Francisco .  Harris is the first woman to hold the job in California and
is among eight female attorneys general in the nation.  Obama’s opponent in the 2012 presidential election,
Republican  Mitt Romney , drew ridicule from Democrats last year
when he said during a debate that his staff brought him
“binders full of women” when he was looking to fill top state
jobs as governor of Massachusetts.  Republicans suggested that Obama benefits from a double
standard. A message on the Twitter account of the  Republican
National Committee  said, “Not awkward and perfectly fine for
him to say, right?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  