-- Obama Tobacco-Tax for Pre-Kindergarten Draws Opposition
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-04-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/obama-tobacco-tax-for-pre-kindergarten-draws-opposition.html
Even before President Barack Obama
officially proposed a federal cigarette tax increase to fund
preschool programs,  tobacco companies  and sellers lined up
against it while anti-smoking groups praised the plan.  Obama’s 2014 budget proposal, to be released April 10,
would finance a pre-kindergarten program for 4-year-olds with
higher taxes on cigarettes and other tobacco products. The
president outlined the program in his annual  State of the Union 
speech to Congress. He’s seeking to increase spending in areas
such as education while Republican lawmakers are pushing for
additional budget cuts as a way to reduce the federal deficit.  White House spokesman  Jay Carney  declined to elaborate on
the proposed tobacco-tax increase. “Wait for specifics,” he
told reporters at a briefing yesterday.  The tobacco industry didn’t wait.  “The idea of increasing taxes on low- to middle-income
Americans at this time is ludicrous,” said Bryan Hatchell, a
spokesman for Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based  Reynolds
American Inc. (RAI)  “As middle-income Americans struggle to make ends
meet in a very slow economic recovery period, this is not the
time to hit them with higher taxes.”  “It is unfair to single out adult tobacco consumers with
another federal tobacco-tax increase to pay for a broad, new
government-spending program,” said David Sutton, a spokesman
for Richmond, Virginia-based tobacco-maker  Altria Group Inc. (MO)   Convenience Stores  Convenience stores would be hurt as higher taxes curb
consumer spending, including on tobacco purchases that account
for 40 percent of their non-gasoline sales, said Jeff Lenard, a
spokesman for NACS, formerly the National Association of
Convenience Stores.  “It is not just the loss of sales, but also the loss of
customers,” said Lenard, whose Alexandria, Virginia-based group
represents such companies as Sheetz Inc., 7-Eleven Inc. and
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)   Robert Bannon, director of investor relations for
Greensboro, North Carolina-based  Lorillard Inc., (LO)  declined to
comment.  Tobacco-industry workers and their families contributed $4
million to 2012 election campaigns, with almost 80 percent of
that going to Republicans, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics, a research group in Washington that tracks
political finance. The industry spent $26.7 million last year to
lobby Congress and the executive branch, center figures show.  ‘Political Win’  Anti-smoking organizations praised Obama’s proposal.  “A significant tobacco-tax increase is a win-win-win for
the country -- a health win that will reduce tobacco use and
save lives, a financial win that will raise revenue to fund an
important initiative and reduce tobacco-related health-care
costs, and a political win that is popular with voters,” said
 Matthew Myers , president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids
in Washington.  The federal government currently taxes cigarettes at about
$1 a pack. The levy was increased by 61 cents in 2009.  “Raising the price of tobacco products is one of the most
effective approaches to encouraging people to quit and
preventing kids from picking up the deadly habit in the first
place,” said John Seffrin, chief executive officer of the
 American Cancer Society , based in Atlanta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Burritt  in Greensboro, North Carolina, at   cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net .
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 