-- Obama Should End Political Fight Over Morning-After Pill
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-05T17:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/obama-should-end-political-fight-over-morning-after-pill.html
Putting an age restriction on buying
the most common emergency contraception over the counter was
never sound from a medical point of view. Now a federal judge
 has upset  the political calculus behind the restriction, as
well.  By the time the U.S. Food and Drug Administration decided,
in late 2011, to lift the rule that girls under age 17 need a
prescription for Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.’s Plan B,
the pill’s safety was well-established. What’s more, research
had shown that the drug, which had been characterized as an
abortion pill, was nothing of the sort. It works by interfering
with fertilization. There’s no evidence that it blocks the
development of an already fertilized egg.  Yet Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius 
overruled the FDA’s decision, and President  Barack Obama 
endorsed her unprecedented action, arguing that, without an age
limit, a 10- or 11-year-old could go to a drugstore and --
“alongside bubble gum or batteries -- be able to buy a
medication that potentially, if not used properly, could end up
having an adverse effect.”  However, as federal Judge Edward R. Korman  pointed out 
today in overruling Sebelius’s action, when it comes to safety,
“the standards are the same for aspirin and for contraceptives.”  If anything, age restrictions on the morning-after pill are
a bigger problem than they would be for pain relievers. Many
 doctors  have explained why. The pill is most effective if taken
within 24 hours of unprotected sex; there often isn’t time for
users to see a doctor before going to the pharmacy. Last
November, the  American Academy  of Pediatrics recommended that
its members work around the age restriction by prescribing the
drug to teens in advance. (The American Medical Association and
the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists also
support making the morning-after pill available with no
restrictions.)  Korman denounced Sebelius’s interference in FDA decision-
making just as he had earlier denounced efforts by President
 George W. Bush ’s White House to delay FDA action on the morning-
after pill. The reasons Sebelius gave for her move -- including
“cognitive and behavioral” differences in the youngest
reproductive-age girls -- were “so unpersuasive as to call into
question her good faith,” the judge said.  Korman instructed the FDA to make emergency contraceptives
available with no prescription or age restrictions within 30
days.  Now Sebelius must decide whether to appeal the ruling. With
the presidential election that loomed over the secretary’s 2011
action well past, she should let the judge’s order stand.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 