-- Obama Budget to Include Social Security Debt-Cutting Plan
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-04-05T15:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/obama-budget-to-include-earlier-debt-reduction-offer.html
President  Barack Obama  will propose
cutting spending on Social Security and Medicare in the budget
he sends to Congress next week, reviving a deficit-cutting deal
first proposed to congressional Republicans in December.  The core of the plan, set for release April 10, would
change the inflation calculation for Social Security cost-of-
living increases, slowing benefit increases. It also would limit
inflation adjustments to tax brackets, resulting in a larger  tax
bill  for many Americans, according to an outline released by the
White House. For Medicare, Obama has proposed reducing payments
to drug companies and care providers and imposing higher costs
on high-income beneficiaries.  It tracks the offer on spending cuts and revenue increases
that Obama made to House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  as part of
an end-of-the-year deal on expiring tax cuts.  “That means that the things like CPI that Republican
leaders have pushed hard for will only be accepted if
congressional Republicans are willing to do more on revenues,”
the e-mailed outline said. “This isn’t about political horse
trading; it’s about reducing the deficit in a balanced way.”  While Obama’s fifth budget proposal stands little chance of
becoming law because of opposition from Republicans who control
the House, it emphasizes the president’s priorities and will set
the stage for talks with Republicans on a broader debt-reduction
package.  Political Risks  For the first time, Obama is adding specific entitlement
benefit cuts in his official budget, an attempt to signal to
Republicans that he still wants to reach a deal on reducing the
 deficit . Trimming  Social Security , the government retirement
insurance program, carries political risks and may generate
opposition from Obama’s allies.  Republicans have resisted raising revenue through higher
taxes, and House Speaker John Boehner said he rejected the
president’s offer last year because it relied too much on
raising taxes and not enough on cutting spending.  “At some point we need to solve our spending problem, and
what the president has offered would leave us with a budget that
never balances,” the  Ohio Republican  said in a statement. “If
the president believes these modest entitlement savings are
needed to help shore up these programs, there’s no reason they
should be held hostage for more tax hikes.”  Obama Allies  Groups that supported Obama in the past took aim at the
Social Security proposal and the president.  “Under this plan, a typical 80-year-old woman would lose
the equivalent of three months worth of food every year. That’s
unconscionable,” Anna Galland, executive director of
Democratic-leaning advocacy group MoveOn.org, said in a
statement.  “It’s even more outrageous,” she said, that “the drive
to cut Social Security is being led by President Obama and
Democrats.”  The White House said in its statement that by offering to
reduce Social Security and other entitlement benefits, Obama is
making it clear that Republicans must be willing “to do more on
revenues.”  The White House outline calculated that the proposal would
cut the deficit by $1.8 trillion over 10 years.  Deficit Plan  Including $2.5 trillion in  deficit  reduction from the year-
end budget deal, the administration said that the total deficit-
reduction package would reach more than $4.3 trillion over 10
years.  In turn, that would trim the deficit to 2.8 percent of
Gross Domestic Product by 2016 and 1.7 percent by 2023, putting
the U.S. on a fiscally sustainable path with debt declining as a
share of the economy, accordng to the White House statement.  Obama also is proposing more spending on some programs,
such as education, that the administration argues is important
to ensure future economic growth.  In his  State of the Union  message in February, the
president called for a new pre-kindergarten program for four-
year-olds nationwide under a federal aid to states arrangement.  This would be paid for by raising taxes on cigarettes and
other tobacco products, according to the White House. The amount
of the new taxes wasn’t specified.  Retirement Accounts  The budget will call for raising about $9 billion over a
decade by prohibiting individuals from accumulating more than $3
million in Individual Retirement Accounts and other tax-
retirement instruments. A $3 million limit would be about equal
to an annuity of as much as $205,000 a year, according to the
White House.  The proposal would make the so-called chained  Consumer
Price Index  the benchmark for Social Security increases and
adjusting tax brackets.  Switching to the alternative inflation yardstick for Social
Security would save $130 billion by making annual benefit
increases smaller, according to the plan Obama offered last
year.  It also would result in more income being subject to higher
income tax rates. The administration in its earlier proposal
estimated that would bring in additional tax revenue of about
$100 billion over 10 years.  Higher Taxes  In 2020, the change would raise taxes for 78.3 percent of
households by an average of $124, according to the nonpartisan
 Tax Policy Center  in  Washington . Taxes would increase for 98
percent of households making between $75,000 and $100,000 a
year.  While lawmakers wrangle over the budget, investors have
focused on an improving economy. The benchmark  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  has risen about 8 percent so far this year. The S&P
retreated 1.1 percent to 1,543.01 at 10:45 a.m. in  New York 
after a government report showed U.S. employers hired less than
half the workers economists forecast in March.  Even though the president’s budget is more than two months
late, because of tax-and-spending-legislation at year’s end
known as the “fiscal cliff,”  Pat Griffin , former President
 Bill Clinton ’s lobbyist in Congress, said the timing “may be
just right.”  “If there’s one more chance this year to ignite this
conversation, this would be it,” Griffin said.  That’s because  House Republicans  and  Senate Democrats  have
passed non-binding budget resolutions that are far apart, and
there’s little likelihood they will be reconciled. Obama plans
to dine with Senate Republicans the evening of April 10, just
hours after his budget plan is released.  Failed Negotiations  The chained CPI was a centerpiece of failed negotiations
between Obama and Boehner over a “grand bargain” budget deal
in the summer of 2011, and it was also the key tradeoff Obama
was willing to make as part of the so-called fiscal cliff
negotiations in December in the context of a broad debt-
reduction package.  Unlike the consumer  price index , chained CPI adjusts for
consumers’ tendency to switch products when prices rise. In that
way, economists say it is a more accurate measure of the cost of
living for purposes of setting  tax policy  and Social Security
benefits. The regular CPI tends to overstate inflation because
it doesn’t adjust for consumer behavior, economists say.  A concern for Democrats is whether a change can be made in
a way that would protect low-income and other vulnerable groups
of senior citizens. Obama’s 2010 debt commission recommended
instituting a flat-dollar benefit “bump-up” for Social
Security recipients who have been receiving benefits for 20
years, and a minimum benefit for lower-income beneficiaries.  Another major concern for Democrats and Republicans will be
protecting disabled veterans. That could be addressed by
enhancing Social Security disability benefits or increasing
certain credits for low-income taxpayers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  