-- Occidental Chairman Irani Should Retire, Shareholder Says
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2013-04-05T23:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/occidental-chairman-irani-should-retire-shareholder-says-1-.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  Chairman
Ray Irani should retire and Chief Executive Officer Stephen I. Chazen should be allowed to continue as CEO, shareholder First
Pacific Advisors LLC said in a letter to the company today.  Chazen has the “confidence of Wall Street” and
shareholders are “troubled by the infighting in the corporate
suite” at Los Angeles-based Occidental, First Pacific Managing
Partner Steven Romick said today in a  letter  to the company.
First Pacific  held  more than 2 million Occidental shares as of
Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Occidental said in February it was beginning a search for a
new CEO to succeed Chazen, without saying when Chazen was
expected to leave. The CEO’s contract expires in January 2015,
the company said.  Romick called on the company to cancel the search.  “This is the wrong time to transition to a new CEO,”
Romick said in the letter. “We believe that Oxy has in place an
effective and respected CEO who should be empowered to manage an
orderly transition in the future.” A CEO search should resume
“when this transition is more appropriate,” he wrote.  Melissa Schoeb, a spokeswoman for Occidental, didn’t
immediately return a call and an e-mail seeking comment on the
letter.  Raising Questions  Shareholders have begun to question the board’s
independence and oversight after the surprise announcement that
they were seeking a replacement for Chazen. The move “raised
questions of whether there’s a split between Chazen and the
board,” said Brian Youngberg, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co.
in St. Louis, in an interview today.  Occidental’s shares have fallen 5.8 percent since the Feb.
14 announcement even as peers including  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  have risen modestly, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Any time you have questions about the future of the
company and leadership strategy, it’s going to weigh on
shares,” Youngberg said.  Irani stepped down as CEO in 2011 and agreed to retire from
his role as chairman in 2014 amid shareholder unrest over his
compensation, which was more than $200 million in the past four
years, including in 2011 and 2012 after he was no longer chief
executive, according to proxy filings.  Share Performance  After Irani handed Chazen the reins, Occidental shares
declined in both 2011 and 2012, the first time shares have
fallen in back-to-back years since 1992, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Romick defended Chazen’s record, saying as second-in-
command to Irani he contributed to shares rising at an average
annual rate of 20% from 1999 to 2012.  “We want Irani to leave now,” Romick said in a telephone
interview today. “We don’t feel that it’s time yet for Chazen
to leave the company.”  Occidental’s 11-member board, all but one of whom will be
up for re-election at the company’s annual meeting May 3, has
consistently been the highest-paid in the energy industry and
among the highest of all companies on the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to the 2012  Spencer Stuart Board Index Report .
Occidental directors made an average of $754,000 in 2011, more
than at Amazon.com Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Exxon
Mobil Corp., the report says.  Rosemary Tomich, who has served on the board since 1980, is
not standing for re-election.  Adviser Recommendations  Proxy advisers Institutional Shareholder Services, or ISS,
Glass, Lewis & Co. and Egan-Jones Proxy Services may issue
recommendations to shareholders as soon as next week on whether
to keep the board intact.  “The board’s too insular, they’re too old, they’re not
necessarily well equipped for the industry as it’s structured
today,” said  Ted Harper , a fund manager at Frost Investment
Advisors LLC, whose firm manages more than $8 billion and owns
Occidental shares. “There needs to be some new blood.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  