-- Olam Drops Defamation Lawsuit Against Carson Block
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-04-05T14:34:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/olam-drops-defamation-lawsuit-against-carson-block.html
Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity trader targeted by  Carson Block , dropped its
defamation lawsuit against the short seller and his research
firm Muddy Waters LLC, bowing to advice from shareholders to
focus on its business.  “After considering feedback received from several of its
shareholders, Olam has decided it should now move forward and
focus resources and management attention to deliver value for
its continuing shareholders and stakeholders,” the world’s
second-largest rice trader said in a statement to the  Singapore 
stock exchange today.  Olam said it hasn’t been able to serve the lawsuit filed in
the Singapore High Court on Block. The company had sought
unspecified damages, costs and an injunction against
republication of Block’s comments made at a hedge-fund
conference in  London  in November.  “ Muddy Waters  always expected a favorable outcome from
this suit, whether at this stage or through a verdict,” Block
said today in an e-mail.  The public war of words between Olam and Block began on
Nov. 19 when the Muddy Waters research director questioned the
Singapore-based company’s finances and accounting practices.
Olam Chief Executive Officer Sunny Verghese said the statements
were designed to panic shareholders of the company and the stock
slumped about 20 percent by mid-December.  ‘Paper Judgment’  On March 20, it topped the price it last traded at in
Singapore before Block’s attack, hitting S$1.765.  The shares 
fell 0.3 percent to close at S$1.665 today.  “There’s no point pursuing a company or person with no
assets here,” said David Gerald, president of the Securities
Investors Association of Singapore, which represents retail
shareholders. “Even if Olam eventually wins, it’s just a paper
judgment. It’s better to focus on what they do best instead of
spending time and effort on the lawsuit.”  Since Block and Muddy Waters first questioned Olam’s
finances, the company has raised $712.5 million in new bonds,
scrapped an investment in a sugar mill and said it may ratchet
back spending as part of an annual review of its  businesses , to
be completed this month. It’s also won increased backing from
Temasek Holdings Pte., Singapore’s state investment firm and now
Olam’s biggest  shareholder .  Stephen Forshaw , a Temasek spokesman, declined to comment.  The case is Olam International Ltd. v Muddy Waters LLC,
Carson Block. S987/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  