-- Hollande Hosts Merkel Challenger in Election-Year Snub
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-04-05T11:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/hollande-hosts-merkel-challenger-in-election-year-snub.html
French President Francois Hollande
hosted Angela Merkel’s opposition challenger for talks in Paris,
sending the German chancellor a public signal that she won’t get
his support in federal elections in less than six months.  Peer Steinbrueck, a Social Democrat who served as finance
minister in Merkel’s first-term coalition until 2009, met
Hollande at the president’s Elysee Palace today. The discussions
were due to focus on Europe, Cyprus and crisis management,
Steinbrueck told reporters in Berlin before he left for the
French capital.  The reception for Steinbrueck underscores the friction
between the French Socialist president and Merkel as they spar
over Europe’s economic direction, a year after she supported
Hollande’s political rival, Nicolas Sarkozy, in his bid for a
second term.  “As you know, Mrs. Merkel and I do not always share the
same views,” Hollande said March 28 in an interview with France
2 television. While governments need to be “rigorous” in
controlling budget deficits, further austerity will hurt
economic growth and feed populist political parties across
Europe, the president said. The chancellor is “conscious” of
the risk, he said.  Steinbrueck shares Hollande’s focus on the need to do more
to spur growth in a Europe scarred by three years of the
sovereign debt crisis that emerged in Greece and raged through
Portugal, Ireland, Spain and now Cyprus. Unemployment in the 17-
nation euro area is at a record 12 percent, while the region’s
economy has contracted for five straight quarters and is
forecast to shrink again in the first three months of this year.  Redemption Fund  Steinbrueck’s Social Democrats, who are due to hold a
special party convention on April 14 to vote on their campaign
platform, want euro-area debt to be pooled in a “redemption
fund,” having shifted away from earlier support for joint euro
bonds. Merkel rejects euro bonds and has failed to support the
redemption fund. Steinbrueck has also called on the European
Commission to show flexibility toward France on meeting its
deficit targets.  Polls show that German voters support Merkel’s crisis
management to date. Sixty-five percent of respondents said
Merkel has handled the euro-area crisis “correctly and
decisively,” with 29 percent saying they disagreed, according
to an  Infratest Dimap poll  for ARD television released today.
That’s the highest level of approval since the question was
first asked in July 2011 and six percentage points more than
last month’s survey, before the Cyprus rescue was sealed.  Chancellor Candidates  Merkel, who remains Germany’s most popular politician,
extended her lead over Steinbrueck in terms of voter preference
for chancellor, with 60 percent favoring the incumbent to 25
percent backing her challenger. Ninety-six percent of supporters
of Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc want to see her
chancellor, while only 34 percent of Social Democrats say they
want Steinbrueck in the post. Fifty-seven percent of Social
Democrat voters say they don’t want their party’s candidate to
become chancellor.  The poll of 1,502 voters was conducted on April 2 and April
3 and the results carry a margin of error of as much as 3.1
percentage points, Infratest said.  Merkel’s personal popular rating held steady in the poll,
with 68 percent saying they were content or very content with
her performance, placing her top of a list of 14 politicians.
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, a fellow member of Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union, placed second with 63 percent,
followed in third place by Hannelore Kraft, the Social Democrat
prime minister of North Rhine-Westphalia state, who had 54
percent.  Lowest Rating  Steinbrueck placed 11th on the list, with 32 percent of
respondents saying they were happy with his work, a decline of 4
points since March. That’s his lowest rating since 2005 when he
moved from North Rhine-Westphalia, where he too was premier, to
join Merkel’s grand coalition of their two parties, ARD said.  Steinbrueck’s plummeting popularity is something else he
has in common with Hollande, whose approval rating dropped below
30 percent in a CSA poll published in the newspaper Les Echos
yesterday. That makes Hollande the least popular French
president since the establishment of the Fifth Republic in 1958,
Les Echos said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  