-- Mongolia Cuts Interest Rates Second Time This Year to Aid Growth
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-04-05T11:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/mongolia-cuts-interest-rates-second-time-this-year-to-aid-growth.html
Mongolia’s central bank cut  interest
rates  for a second time this year to bolster economic growth as
inflation eases and foreign investment falls.  The Bank of Mongolia reduced its policy rate to 11.5
percent from the previous 12.5 percent effective April 8,
according to a  statement  posted to its website today. The cut is
aimed at increasing domestic credit and investments and
stimulating business activities, it said.  Mongolia in January cut interest rates for the first time
since 2009 after economic expansion moderated to 12.3 percent
last year from a record 17.3 percent in 2011 and foreign
investment fell 17 percent. Growth slowed as the price of coal,
Mongolia’s biggest export, declined and the government
introduced more controls on foreign ownership of mining assets.  A deceleration in the pace of inflation over the last four
months and the monetary authority’s estimate for further slowing
was the main reason for the cut, Sandagdorj Bold, the central
bank’s chief economist, said in an interview in Ulaanbaatar
today. Mongolian trade and foreign investment were also factors
in the decision, he said. “We are concerned about the FDI and
foreign trade environment.”  Foreign investors have criticized steps by Mongolia’s
government to increase controls over the  mining industry . The
Business Council of Mongolia, which counts  Rio Tinto  Group,
Peabody Energy and General Electric Co. among its members,
issued a letter in January criticizing amendments to mining laws
proposed by President Tsakhia Elbegdorj, saying the changes
would deter investment.  The president’s proposal followed the passage of a law last
year that made it more difficult for foreign companies to
control strategic assets in Mongolia.  Rio Tinto  The Mongolian government and Rio Tinto, the nation’s
biggest foreign investor, have also been at loggerheads over how
to develop the $6.6 billion Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold mine. The
two sides have spent much of this year sparring over cost
overruns and management control.  Inflation eased to 11.3 percent at the end of February from
14 percent at the end of December, Bold said. The central bank
expects the pace to fall further this month, he said.  “In upcoming months we think we will see downward
inflation,” Bold said. “So it’s consistent with our target of
eight percent inflation by the end of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  