-- Top Baltic Online Retailer Pigu Selling Stake to Fund Expansion
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-04-05T11:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/top-baltic-online-retailer-pigu-selling-stake-to-fund-expansion.html
Owners of Pigu Group, the biggest
Baltic online retailer by revenue, seek to sell as much as a 75
percent stake to investors to support further expansion.  Pigu, which forecasts 2013 revenue will increase by about
50 percent to about 130 million litai ($49 million), began
contacting potential strategic and financial investors this
week, board member Mykolas Majauskas said by phone today in
Vilnius, where Pigu is based. KPMG  Lithuania  is advising.  The online retail market in Lithuania, Latvia and  Estonia 
is growing at about 30 percent a year due to the fastest
economic-growth rates in the European Union, investments in IT
infrastructure that have yielded rapid broadband connections and
the public’s quick adoption of new technologies, according to
Majauskas.  “The goal is to find a partner that could allow the
company to solidify leadership in the Baltic markets and  Finland 
over the next three to five years,” Majauskas said from the
Lithuanian capital. “Further development after that could
plausibly include an initial public offering of shares.”  Founding brothers Tadas Karosas and Donatas Karosas
indirectly own 90 percent of Pigu, with 10 percent held by Chief
Executive Officer Dainius Liulys, according to Majauskas.  Created in 2007, the company now has 19 million visits per
year to online stores, including Lithuania’s  pigu.lt  and  220.lv 
in  Latvia , which it acquired in 2011, according to an e-mailed
company profile for potential investors. Pigu said it recently
bought a controlling stake in Estonia’s Dlb Trading Ou, which
runs web stores  dlb.ee  in Estonia and  dlb.fi  in Finland.  Warehouses with modern management systems in Lithuania and
Latvia put Pigu ahead of other online Baltic retailers,
Majauskas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  