-- Morgan Stanley’s Investa Plans A$500 Million of Office Purchases
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-04-05T00:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/morgan-stanley-s-investa-plans-a-500-million-of-office-purchases.html
Morgan Stanley-owned Investa
Property Group said it plans to spend as much as $500 million
($523 million) on office buildings over the next year amid
growing foreign interest in Australian property.  Investa , Australia’s biggest owner and manager of office
properties, expects the value of office buildings to rise in
Australia as Asian and European investment increases and
domestic pension funds follow, Chief Executive Officer Scott
MacDonald said.  “We’re being inundated with inquiries, mostly from
offshore,” MacDonald said in an interview yesterday. “Over the
next 12 months, we’ll buy about A$250 million to A$500 million
of properties.”  Investa’s unlisted Investa Commercial Property Fund in
March received A$87 million from Swedish state pension fund
Forsta AP-Fonden and A$50 million from  AvSuper , an Australian
aviation industry pension fund, in February, Campbell Hanan,
head of Investa Office, said during the interview.  “We’re constantly talking to people about opportunities to
buy buildings that are not listed on the market” to deploy the
capital the funds raise, MacDonald said.  About A$3.5 billion of commercial properties changed hands
in  Australia  in the first quarter of 2013, a 15 percent increase
from a year earlier, property broker CBRE Group Inc., which
examined transactions valued at more than A$5 million each, said
in an e-mailed release this week.  REITs Buying  Offshore investors usually lead a rise in buying, MacDonald
said. They are followed by domestic real estate investment
trusts, then local pension funds and “mom and dad” investors,
whose entry shows the market has peaked, he said.  For REITs, “a year ago, the best use of capital was
probably to sell an asset and buy back stock,” Hanan said.
“Now the best use of capital is to buy real estate.”  The  S&P/ASX 200 REIT Index (AS51PROP)  has surged 25 percent in the
past 12 months, compared with a 13 percent gain in the benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200 Index. (AS51)   Purchases by domestic buyers were 33 percent higher in the
first quarter of 2013 compared with a year earlier, CBRE said in
its release.  REITs can comfortably raise their average gearing -- the
proportion of debt to equity capital -- to about 32 percent from
the current 26 percent, giving them funding capacity of about
A$6 billion, CBRE’s national director for capital markets Josh
Cullen, said in the release.  Acquisition Plans  Australian capitalization rates, a measure of investment
yield that declines as prices rise, haven’t fallen to the same
extent as other developed markets since 2008 due to relatively
high interest rates and uncertainty about the Australian dollar
exchange rate, MacDonald said.  The cost of debt has fallen after the central bank cut the
cash rate by 1.75 percentage points since November 2011, so
there should be “significant valuation increases going
forward,” he said.  Sydney-based Investa manages more than $7 billion of office
buildings, more than half of it through two funds.  Investa Office Fund (IOF) , the company’s listed property trust,
manages about A$2.5 billion and is “aggressive” in its pursuit
of acquisitions, MacDonald said.  Unlisted Investa Commercial Property Fund, which manages
about A$1.8 billion on behalf of institutional investors, is
“opportunistic” and seeks investments as it raises capital, he
said.  Investa also has about A$3 billion of properties on its own
balance sheet and isn’t planning any new purchases or sales,
MacDonald said.  The two funds last month jointly agreed to buy an office
development by Leighton Properties, a unit of Australia’s
largest builder,  Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , in  Melbourne ’s city
center for about A$462 million. The project is expected to be
completed in mid-2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  