-- Morgans Hotel Investor Seeks to Join Suit Over Yucaipa
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2013-04-05T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/morgans-hotel-investor-seeks-to-join-suit-over-yucaipa.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  today agreed
to postpone a $6-a-share rights offering until at least May 16,
while dissident investors seek to block a recapitalization plan
with billionaire  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos., court papers show.  OTK Associates LLC, Morgans’s largest shareholder,
yesterday asked a Delaware Chancery Court judge for permission
to join a lawsuit challenging the board’s approval of the plan.  OTK, owner of  13.9 percent  of Morgans’s outstanding common
shares, said the vote was designed to dilute its stake and
disrupt a proxy contest the firm was pursuing.  Jason Taubman Kalisman, a Morgans director and co-founder
of OTK, alleged in a complaint unsealed this week that the vote
was invalid because inadequate notice was given of a March 30
directors’ committee meeting.  “OTK seeks to protect its interests, and the interests of
all Morgans’ stockholders in meaningful exercise of its  voting
rights , and to prosecute certain board members for their
breaches of fiduciary duty,” OTK said in a filing yesterday in
Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  OTK said in March that it planned to nominate seven
directors to the boutique-hotel operator’s board. OTK accused
the current board of engaging in self-serving deals.  Swap Interests  Morgans, based in  New York , said April 1 that Los Angeles-
based Yucaipa will swap interests in the company’s convertible
notes and preferred stock for its ownership in the Delano South
Beach hotel in  Miami Beach ,  Florida , and the Light Group.  Yucaipa will also backstop the $100 million, $6-a-share
rights offering available to shareholders with no fees if the
rights aren’t fully exercised, Morgans said.  OTK and Kalisman accused Morgans’s directors of rushing to
complete the deal before a stockholders meeting initially
scheduled for May 15 and now scheduled for July 10.  In a filing today, Morgan lawyer Raymond DiCamillo asked
Chancery Judge J. Travis Laster to schedule a hearing on a
preliminary injunction before May 15.  The case is Kalisman v. Friedman, 8447, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  