-- Morning After Pill Access Expanded as Judge Blasts Delay
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/morning-after-pill-available-to-all-ages-no-prescription.html
The “morning after” pill can be
made available nationwide to women of all ages and without a
prescription, a federal judge ruled, dealing a blow to U.S.
restrictions on access to the contraceptive.  U.S. District Judge Edward Korman in Brooklyn,  New York ,
excoriated the Food and Drug Administration yesterday for what
he called a 12-year delay in making the emergency contraceptive,
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Plan B, available over the
counter. The case isn’t about “the potential misuse of Plan B
by 11-year-olds,” the judge said, while acknowledging that
easier access to contraception may encourage sexual conduct by
minors.  “These emergency contraceptives would be among the safest
drugs sold over the counter,”  Korman wrote , and “the number of
11-year-olds using these drugs is likely to be minuscule.”  “The invocation of the adverse effect of Plan B on 11-
year-olds is an excuse to deprive the overwhelming majority of
women of their right to obtain contraceptives without
unjustified and burdensome restrictions,” the judge wrote.  Korman ordered the FDA to make the drug available
nationwide without limits in 30 days. His ruling followed a
reproductive-rights group’s request to reopen a lawsuit over
access to the contraceptive, claiming the FDA acted in bad faith
when it placed restrictions on the drug.  ‘Delay, Obstruction’  “The plaintiffs should not be forced to endure, nor should
the agency’s misconduct be rewarded by, an exercise that permits
the FDA to engage in further delay and obstruction,” said
Korman, 70, a former federal prosecutor appointed to the bench
in 1985 by President  Ronald Reagan , a Republican.  Erica Jefferson, a spokeswoman for the FDA, declined to
comment on the ruling or the possibility of an appeal to the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York.  Korman’s ruling expands on a 2009 decision in which he
ordered the pill made available without a prescription to women
as young as 17. The judge said then that the age restrictions
were arbitrary and based more on political pressure than safety.  The  pill  and generic versions of it are now kept behind
pharmacy counters and sold without prescription only to women 17
and older. The contraceptives, which contain a larger dose of
the hormone levonorgestrel than found in other birth control
pills, prevents pregnancy by inhibiting fertilization. The drugs
are most effective when taken within 24 hours of intercourse.  Positive Reaction  Advocacy groups heralded Korman’s decision, calling it a
step forward for women’s health.  “Today science has finally prevailed over politics,”
Nancy Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive Rights,
which represented plaintiffs, said in a statement. “This
landmark court decision has struck a huge blow to the deep-
seated discrimination that has for too long denied women access
to a full range of safe and effective birth control methods.”  The ruling is “good policy, good science and good sense,”
 Planned Parenthood  said in a statement.  Women no longer will face the “disrespect” of having to
produce ID or talk to a pharmacist to get access to the drug,
 Terry O’Neill , president of the National Organization for Women,
which has Florida affiliates as plaintiffs in the case.  “Now that goes away,” she said. “It’s right there next
to the condoms. You don’t have to deal with anyone’s
disapproval.”  Reopened Case  The 2005 case was reopened after Northup’s group petitioned
Korman in February 2012, claiming it was the most efficient way
for the organization to overturn the FDA’s age restraints on the
drug.  Lawyers for the group accused the FDA of treating emergency
contraception differently from other medicines.  The group previously supported Teva, based in Petach Tikva,
 Israel , in a failed bid to make the emergency contraceptive,
Plan B One-Step, available in stores to all ages.  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. secretary of health and human
services, ordered the FDA to reject Teva’s application in
December 2011 because of the “cognitive and behavioral”
differences in girls of the youngest reproductive age. The
reproductive-rights group asked to add Sebelius as a defendant
in the case.  Korman denied a request by Teva to join the case, ruling
the company’s inclusion would be pointless. Teva sought to
intervene to defend its right to exclusively market Plan B One-
Step.  Denise Bradley, a U.S. spokeswoman for Teva, didn’t
immediately respond to a call seeking comment.  Teva Shares  Teva’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, fell 15 cents to $39.22 at 4:21 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange trading.  FDA rules for approving drugs for over-the-counter sale are
the same for aspirin as they are for contraceptives, Korman
said. The standard for determining whether any drug should be
made available over the counter turns solely on the buyer’s
ability to understand how to use it safely and effectively, the
judge said.  He rejected the FDA’s request that he send the case to the
agency for further rulemaking. The agency has engaged in
“intolerable” delays since a citizen petition was first filed
more than 12 years ago, Korman said.  ‘Vocal Minority’  The government may appeal the judge’s decision or try to
limit it in other states, Marcia Greenberger, co-president of
the National Women’s Law Center in  Washington , said in an
interview. Its impact on the rest of the country depends to some
degree on what the government does, she said.  “It’s a decision that can and does effect the whole
country,” Greenberger said. “It’s a sad commentary that
there’s so much controversy over contraception. A vocal minority
can’t be allowed to stand in the way of women’s health.”  Allison Price, a spokeswoman for the  Justice Department ,
said in an e-mailed statement that the agency “is reviewing the
appellate options and expects to act promptly.”  Anti-abortion groups, which have alleged that the pill can
kill embryos by preventing implantation, criticized the decision
and said that widespread access to Plan B could be harmful for
young girls.  Donna Harrison of the  American Association  of Pro-Life
Obstetricians & Gynecologists said in a statement that girls may
forgo counseling or other treatment for abuse or sexually-
transmitted diseases if they are able to obtain emergency
contraception without a prescription.  Medical Care  “You’re taking girls at highest risk of STD and isolating
them from medical care,” Harrison said.  Charmaine Yoest of Americans United for Life called the
pill “a potent and potentially life-ending drug” that young
girls should need medical supervision to take.  “This decision allows the abortion industry to gamble with
young girls’ health in distributing a life-ending drug, with no
real understanding of the long-term implications on their
bodies,” she said in a statement.  In his ruling today, Korman said the pill has “not been
shown to cause a post-fertilization event -- a change in the
uterus that could interfere with implantation of a fertilized
egg.” He described suggestions otherwise as “scientifically
unsupported speculation.”  The case is Tummino v. von Eschenbach, 05-cv-366, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York ( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington
at   sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 