-- Most Czech Policy Makers Say Risks Point to Policy Easing
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-04-05T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/most-czech-policy-makers-say-risks-point-to-policy-easing.html
Most Czech central bank board
members see risks pointing to a need of “slightly” looser
monetary policy by the middle of next year, minutes from their
March 28 rate-setting meeting showed.  The domestic economy is more subdued than the central bank
had forecast and weaker household demand signals deferred
consumption caused by declining prices aside from food and
fuels, the central bank, which targets inflation, said in the
minutes posted on its website today.  After cutting  borrowing costs  three times last year to
effectively zero, the Ceska Narodni Banka is in uncharted
territory as policy makers debate whether to engage in currency
interventions amid a record-long recession. The $217 billion
 economy  is contracting as households and businesses spend less
due to  Europe ’s debt crisis and government austerity measures
that trimmed the fiscal deficit more than planned last year.  “A majority of the board members agreed that the risks to
the forecast were tilted to a need for slightly easier monetary
conditions at the forecast horizon,” according to the minutes.
“It was said repeatedly that directly influencing the  exchange
rate  is an effective monetary policy instrument in a small open
economy in a situation where monetary policy rates are at
technically zero.”  At least one board member said that further discussion of
monetary policy options available for responding to current and
future shocks was “absolutely vital in the present
macroeconomic situation,” according to the minutes, which don’t
disclose opinions of individual policy makers expressed in the
debate.  Rate Vote  All seven policy makers voted to leave the two-week
 repurchase rate  at 0.05 percent for a third meeting on March 28,
almost three-quarters of a percentage point less than the euro-
area benchmark.  The inflation rate dropped to 1.7 percent in February from
1.9 percent in January, below the central bank’s 2 percent
target. Fourth-quarter gross domestic product shrank 0.2 percent
from the previous three months, the fourth consecutive quarterly
contraction. Household spending fell 3.5 percent in the full
year of 2012, the first decline since 1998, the statistics
office has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  