-- How Mr. Selfridge Created the Modern Economy
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-04-05T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/how-mr-selfridge-created-the-modern-economy.html
When the British drama “Mr.
Selfridge” debuted on PBS this week, American viewers saw two
things rarely on display in contemporary popular culture: a
businessman hero and, more remarkably, a version of commercial
history that includes not just manufacturing but shopping.  The show, which is also  streamed on PBS.org , stars Jeremy Piven as Harry Gordon Selfridge, the American-born founder of
the  London  department store. In the first episode, he arrives in
1909, determined to shake up U.K. retailing with the
techniques that made him a success as a partner at  Chicago ’s
Marshall Field’s: showmanship, tons of advertising, and displays
that let customers easily handle the merchandise. In the second,
he puts perfumes and powder on display right by the store’s
front door and introduces an affordable house fragrance
concocted with new chemical processes.  Ambitions that an American drama might treat as self-
centered greed become, in a British context, a bold strike
against class privilege. “You show great potential,” Selfridge
tells the talented shop girl Agnes Towler (played by Aisling
Loftus), the show’s working-class heroine. “You remind me of
myself when I started out -- grasping for every chance, keen as
mustard to learn. You love it, don’t you? The customers, the
selling, the feeling of the merchandise under your hands …”  Merchandising Genius  A  hit for ITV  in the U.K., which has ordered a second season
set on the eve of World War I, “Mr. Selfridge” isn’t the only
department-store period drama hitting small screens. Its BBC
competitor, “The Paradise,” transplants Émile Zola’s 1883
novel “The Ladies’ Paradise” from a Parisian grand magasin to
a midsized English city. It, too, features a self-made hero and
an upwardly mobile heroine with a genius for merchandising.
Better written than “Mr. Selfridge,” which also suffers from
Piven’s bombastic delivery, “The Paradise” benefits from a
more-intriguing historical setting -- the 1870s, when the idea
of a department store itself was still novel. The Paradise’s
abundant merchandise, alluring atmosphere and low prices offer
customers seductive new pleasures while threatening to bankrupt
the town’s traditional shops. Compared with that gale of creative
destruction, Selfridge’s latter-day innovations are mere tweaks.
“The Paradise” will run on PBS beginning in October.  If these shows’ entrepreneurial heroes are unusual, it’s
their focus on retailing that fills the real cultural lacuna.
Not even Ayn Rand deigned to celebrate shopping. None of her
heroes were department store magnates.  Yet like railroads and telegraphs, the department stores of
the late 19th and early 20th century were socially and
economically transformative institutions. They pioneered
innovations ranging from inventory control and installment
credit to ventilation systems, electric lighting and steel
construction, along with new merchandising and advertising
techniques. They brought together goods from all over the world
and lit up city streets with their window displays. They
significantly changed the role of women, giving them new career
opportunities and respectable places to meet in public. They
popularized bicycles, cosmetics, ready-to-wear clothing and
electrical appliances. They even invented the ladies’ room.  Liberating Women  In their day, the stores were also the settings for popular
theater. “In the 19th and early 20th century, there were dozens
of plays and movies that were set in department stores and
explored them,” says  Erika Rappaport , a historian at the
University of  California , Santa Barbara, who studies consumer
culture in 19th-century Britain. “Society was thinking about
them.”  When department stores were new, people understood that
they were significant institutions -- liberating in the eyes of
some, threatening or corrupting to others, but obviously
important. Nowadays, we treat shopping as silly stuff. “When I
tell people I’ve written on shopping, I still get giggles,”
says Rappaport, whose 2000 book “Shopping for Pleasure”
describes the development of retailing in London’s West End,
focusing particularly on women shoppers. “People are
uncomfortable: ‘that’s not real history.’”  But ignoring consumer culture produces a bizarre mental
picture of the Industrial Revolution that features textile
factories but includes no one buying or selling clothes. By
downplaying the pleasures of newly inexpensive goods and the
shops that sold them, the production-only version of history
also misses the everyday meaning of a rising standard of living
-- the satisfaction, for instance, of having multiple outfits,
or even a variety of hat trimmings, that allow you to express
your mood or personality.  “The appeal just of the stuff is a really major part of
all of this, and that of course is only made possible by
manufacturing,” says  Linda M. Scott , a professor at Oxford’s
Said Business School and the author of “Fresh Lipstick,” a
history of the relationship between feminism and the American
beauty and fashion economy. In researching the book, Scott says
she was surprised to discover just how important the desire for
cash to spend on consumer goods was in drawing young women out
of domestic service and into factories. “Even middle-class
girls who weren’t supposed to work would talk, in interviews and
letters, about envying the working-class girls,” she says.
“Because if you couldn’t work you could only get the stuff you
wanted by manipulating a man.”  Feminist Undertone  With the advent of new shopping venues and new forms of
transit, middle-class women did achieve greater independence, if
not to earn their own way then at least to be out and about.
“One of the things we don’t realize is how much more freedom
Victorian women had than we thought,” says Rappaport. “If you
see photographs from that period, there are always these single
bourgeois women crossing really busy streets like Piccadilly
Circus. They’re going somewhere, on their own. I think that the
image of the chaperoned Victorian woman in the late 19th century
is just not really right. You did not have to be a ‘new woman’
to be going to charities or shopping.” Men shopped too, of
course, but, Rappaport notes, “it didn’t have the cultural
significance for them, because they had so many other ways of
being in public.”  Along with their self-made heroes, both “Mr. Selfridge”
and “The Paradise” feature talented, ambitious female
protagonists, giving the shows a feminist undertone that, while
it undoubtedly panders to contemporary audiences, befits the
subject matter. For the early women’s movement, department
stores were “flash points, places where it mattered,” says
Scott. “Mr. Selfridge” hints at the connection when Lady Mae,
the hero’s fictional patron, demands a reciprocal favor: a
weekly luncheon for suffragettes in the store’s Palm Court
tearoom and the sale of suffragette merchandise in the store.  The real Selfridge’s did carry such goods, including
Suffrage Christmas Crackers, and department stores on both sides
of the Atlantic furnished meeting spaces for women’s groups.
The U.K's most radical suffragettes ran fashion articles and ads
in their journals, and they broke store windows not to protest
fashionable images of women but, on the contrary, because they
knew stores cared about their business. “They understood,”
says Rappaport, “that women had power in that sphere.”  Shopping Matters  Despite these connections, today’s respectable academics
still have trouble acknowledging that consumption can have
meaning. “Feminists are the worst,” says Rappaport. “They
won’t admit that it’s an important part of their lives.” After
academic lectures, she often finds herself approached by
feminist scholars who want to talk about their love of shopping.
“They don’t feel they can say that publicly,” she says. “It’s
never a public question. It’s always after.”  A couple of TV shows won’t by themselves change that. But
they do serve as reminders that in a full understanding of
commercial culture, shopping is more than an embarrassment or an
afterthought.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies,” “The Substance of
Style” and the forthcoming “The Power of Glamour.” Follow her
on Twitter @vpostrel. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  