-- Pajamas Go From Between Sheets to Streets as Sales Jump 15%
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-04-05T13:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/pajamas-go-from-between-sheets-to-streets-as-sales-jump-15-.html
A jump in sales of men’s pajamas has
put the spotlight on a new trend: PJs are moving from the
bedroom to the street.  Flannel and silk pajama bottoms are replacing sweatpants as
daywear,  Marshal Cohen , chief industry analyst with  NPD Group
Inc. , wrote in a  blog post . Men of a wide range of ages are
adopting the look, even those in their mid-40s, he said.  “This gives casual wear a whole new meaning,” Cohen said,
calling the look “the ultimate level of relaxed.”  The trend began with female celebrities a few years ago,
according to Cohen. Men are now snapping up  Burberry check 
pajama pants for $110 from  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  or  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) 
polo player print bottoms from Bloomingdale’s for $42.  Sales of men’s pajama bottoms in the U.S. rose 15 percent
to $452.8 million in the 12 months ended February, according to
NPD, a  Port Washington , New York-based researcher. That compared
with a 2.4 percent increase in total men’s apparel sales in the
same period. Only 18 percent of men surveyed in a poll by
CivicScience Inc. said they wear pajamas to bed.  “Men are tired of jeans and khakis,” Marie Driscoll,
founder of retail consultancy Driscoll Associates in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “They are the men’s equivalent
of the sexy Lululemon yoga pant or the sexy Juicy Couture
sweatpants for women.”  Stirring Controversy  Celebrities including  Jessica Alba  and Miley Cyrus have
been photographed wearing pajama pants in public. Mary-Kate and
Ashley Olsen have also embraced the pajama pant at their fashion
label, The Row.  Wearing jammies in public has stirred controversy in some
cities, including Shreveport,  Louisiana , where a local newspaper
 reported  that a lawmaker has called for it to be banned.  “I’m definitely seeing this lounge bottom that the
gentlemen have been wearing,” said Tim Bess, men’s fashion
trend analyst at  Doneger Group  in New York. “They are fun, they
are novelty. It is trying to stand out in the crowd.”  Plaid sells well, and “camo” -- camouflage -- is a
popular look, Bess said. Some men also like to wear thematic
pants, like St. Patrick’s Day styles, he said in a telephone
interview.  Men wear the pants with T-shirts, biker jackets, and
sneakers or untied boots, for a retro feel, Bess said.  “We always say if you are wearing one outrageous, cool,
flashy item, you should pair it with something simple, so the
focus is on one item,” Bess said.  What are the guys wearing underneath?  “I would hope underwear,’” Bess said. “Boxer shorts,
we’re hoping. You never know.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in  Washington  at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  