-- Payrolls in U.S. Probably Increased in March as Demand Picked Up
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-04-05T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/payrolls-in-u-s-probably-increased-in-march-as-demand-picked-up.html
Payrolls probably increased in March
and the U.S. jobless rate held at a four-year low as demand
improved at the start of the year, economists said before a
report today.  Employers hired a net 190,000 workers last month after
taking on 236,000 in February, according to the median forecast
of 87 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The  jobless rate  held at
7.7 percent, the lowest since December 2008, the survey
indicated. Separate data may show the trade deficit was little
changed in February.  Gains in hiring on the heels of a stronger housing market,
a pickup in consumer spending and more corporate investment will
help bolster the economy as  federal budget  cuts take hold.
Federal Reserve policy makers, while acknowledging the labor
market has improved, have said they want to see more progress
before tapering record accommodative monetary stimulus.  “What you see is remarkable stability in job growth,”
said John Ryding, chief economist and co-founder of RDQ
Economics in New York. “We are in an OK place in terms of the
pace at which we’re growing.”  The Labor Department will release the figures at 8:30 a.m.
in Washington. Estimates for payrolls ranged from gains of
100,000 to 366,000 in the Bloomberg survey.  Projections for the unemployment rate ranged from 7.6
percent to 7.8 percent.  February Report  Five minutes after the agency’s March 8 report showed
February payrolls exceeded the 166,000 average forecast, the
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring in June
increased 0.03 percent. The dollar rose 0.15 percent against the
euro. The difference between the actual figure and the average
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 3 times larger
the poll’s standard deviation, or the average divergence between
what each economist forecast and the mean.  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies from
the count, expanded by 200,000 workers in March after a 246,000
increase in the prior month, the survey showed.  A report earlier this week prompted some economists to mark
down estimates for March job growth. Headcounts at private
employers grew by 158,000 last month after a 237,000 gain in
February, according to April 3 figures from the ADP Research
Institute.  Budget Cuts  Payroll growth in today’s Labor Department report is
projected to show the job market kept making progress even as
$85 billion in automatic government budget cuts, known as
sequestration, started March 1, threatening to slow the U.S.
economy. The reductions in planned spending, which began because
Congress couldn’t compromise on a debt-reduction strategy, trim
5 percent from domestic agencies and 8 percent for the Defense
Department this fiscal year.  Even so, consumer and corporate demand has given companies
reason to keep expanding. Americans have coped with a 2
percentage-point increase in payroll taxes and a jump in
gasoline prices earlier this year. In February, household
purchases climbed the most in five months.  Additionally, a healthier real-estate market has created
the need for more  construction jobs . In the nine months ended
February, employment in that industry climbed by 169,000. The
48,000 gain in February was the biggest in almost six years.  Housing’s rebound has prompted businesses like  Winnebago
Industries Inc. (WGO)  to boost output. The Forest City, Iowa-based
maker of motor homes increased daily production 24 percent
during its fiscal second quarter compared with the prior three
months, partly by adding staff, according to Chief Financial
Officer Sarah Nielsen.  Adding Workers  “The lines are completely filled and running, and we’ve
been hiring,” Nielsen said during a March 28 earnings call.
“Our headcount at this juncture is a little bit under where we
need to, but we’ve been keeping up for the most part.” The
company has been adding about 20 people a week on a consistent
basis, she said.  Paul Dales , senior U.S. economist at Capital Economics Ltd
in  London , said in a March 28 note that the effect of
sequestration in the March employment figures may be difficult
to gauge because, instead of firing employees, most government
agencies have asked workers to take unpaid leave.  The Labor Department counts someone as employed if they
worked for any amount of time in the pay period, regardless of
number of hours worked. Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
wrote in an April 3 note that the budget cuts could reduce
payrolls by 10,000.  Market Reaction  Investors have looked beyond the risks to the economy from
fiscal tightening. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed to a
record this week.  Fed officials are waiting for sustained signs of job-market
resilience before winding down their $85 billion of monthly bond
purchases. Central bank policy makers reiterated in a March 20
statement that they would continue to buy securities until the
labor market outlook improves “substantially.” Each month the
Fed is purchasing Treasuries and mortgage bonds to keep interest
rates low, spur economic growth and reduce unemployment.  Also today, the trade deficit was probably  little changed 
at $44.6 billion in February compared with $44.4 billion the
prior month, Commerce Department data are projected to show at
8:30 a.m.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  