-- Pescanova Said to Have Debt of EU2.7 Billion After Review
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-04-05T12:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/pescanova-said-to-have-debt-of-2-7-billion-euros-after-review.html
Pescanova SA (PVA) , the Spanish fish
processor that sought protection from creditors yesterday, may
say debt widened to about 2.7 billion euros ($3.5 billion) at
the end of December following an internal review of its
finances, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Pescanova may announce the figure today, the person said,
asking not to be identified because the details aren’t public.
 Europe ’s second-biggest fish processor reported having
consolidated financial debt of 967.8 million euros as of June
30, 2012. The person didn’t give a reason for the difference.  The company, which is being investigated by Spain’s market
regulator for possible improper trading, said March 12 that it
saw discrepancies between its accounting and debt figures that
could be “significant.” Pescanova said late yesterday it
sought court protection from creditors after refinancing talks
with lenders failed.  Pescanova expects  Spain ’s stock market regulator, or CNMV,
to publish its results for the second half of 2012 as soon as
today after the company’s board approved them last night at its
Pontevedra headquarters in northern Spain, the person said.  Business Plan  The company aims to provide a business plan to creditors
that protects them, workers and shareholders, Pescanova said
yesterday. The board has also asked court for permission to
revoke BDO Auditores SL as its auditor, and it plans to hire a
forensic auditor to review its 2012 accounts.  The shares have been suspended since March 12 and dropped
74 percent in the 12 months to that date. Pescanova’s 160
million euros of 8.75 percent convertible bonds due 2019, which
were quoted at 109.2 cents on the euro on March 1, were at 29.2
cents today, up from 27.9 cents yesterday, Bloomberg generic
prices show.  Joaquin Vina Tamargo, head of  investor relations , couldn’t
be reached immediately for comment.  “The restructuring process will be long and complicated,”
Jesus Dominguez, a Madrid-based analyst at Banesto Bolsa, wrote
in a note sent to investors today. “The debt level remains the
biggest question mark.”  The best solution for the company would be to sell assets
and reach an accord with banks and bondholders, Dominguez said.  Pescanova spokesman Juan Antonio Tarjuelo said yesterday
the company is in talks about selling its Chilean assets,
declining to comment on who the discussions are with.  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the biggest salmon farmer, is seeking
to buy assets in  Chile , as industry consolidation gathers pace
and prices recover, Chief Financial Officer Ivan Vindheim also
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  