-- Petronas Raises MISC Buyout Bid to $3 Billion After Protests
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-04-05T11:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/petronas-raises-misc-buyout-bid-to-3-billion-after-complaints.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s
state oil and gas company, raised its buyout offer for shipping
group  MISC Bhd. (MISC)  by 3.8 percent to $3 billion after minority
shareholders complained its initial bid was too low.  Petronas, as the energy group is known, increased its offer
for the world’s second-largest liquefied natural gas shipping
company to 5.50 ringgit per share from 5.30 ringgit, according
to a stock exchange filing by Kuala Lumpur-based MISC today. The
offer values the stake Petronas doesn’t already own at 9.16
billion ringgit ($3 billion), up from 8.8 billion ringgit
previously, according to Bloomberg calculations.  The state energy company, which already owns  62.7 percent 
of MISC, had acceptances from 7.6 percent of shareholders at the
lower price after extending its deadline to today from March 19,
according to a separate exchange filing today. The new offer is
open till April 19 with the higher price available to those who
bid earlier, the shipping company said.  Azlan Zainol, chief executive officer of Malaysia’s
Employees Provident Fund, called on Petronas to raise its offer
in a March 7 interview. EPF, the country’s biggest pension fund,
is MISC’s second-biggest shareholder with a 9.6 percent stake.
Minority stakeholders Penang Development Corp. and Pacific
Mutual Fund Bhd. earlier also told Bloomberg News that the
original offer undervalued the company.  MISC  fell  0.7 percent to close at 5.46 ringgit before
today’s announcements.  Indicative Valuation  Independent adviser AmInvestment Bank Bhd. described that
bid as “not fair but reasonable” in a March 8 report, urging
minority shareholders to either accept the offer or sell in the
open market if they could secure a higher price. Indicative
valuations for the shipper range from 5.69 ringgit per share to
6.10 ringgit, it said.  MISC shut its container-ship business last year to focus on
LNG tankers after the cargo-box unit made losses of $789 million
over three years due to global overcapacity and falling rates.
It reported fourth-quarter net income of $231.9 million,
recovering from a $571.6 million loss during the same period a
year earlier.  The group operates the world’s biggest fleet of LNG ships
after Qatar Gas Transport Co., according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the
world’s largest shipbroker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  