-- Philadelphia Can’t Explain Its Swaps Yet Fights Ban: Muni Credit
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-04-05T00:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/philadelphia-can-t-explain-its-swaps-yet-fights-ban-muni-credit.html
Philadelphia may see costs from
interest-rate swap contracts climb to as much as $186 million.
Yet it’s lobbying to exempt itself from a proposed  Pennsylvania 
ban on the derivatives that would be the first in the U.S.  State Senator Mike Folmer, a Republican, in February
introduced a bill that would bar publicly funded entities from
engaging in the derivatives, which can be used to protect
against swings in interest rates. The ban would deny
Philadelphia, which had entered into $3.5 billion of swaps,
access to a useful tool, said Rob Dubow, finance director of the
fifth-most populous U.S. city.  “We have financial professionals; We know how to do them
and know how to structure them appropriately,” Dubow said of
the contracts in an interview. “There have been places where
there have been real problems with swaps, and I think people
have reacted to that.”  The stance of Philadelphia, which is rated three steps
above junk by  Standard & Poor’s , is at odds with moves by other
cities. Next week, Oakland,  California ’s city council will hold
a hearing on steps toward ending business with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. after the bank denied its request to exit a swap
without paying a $14.8 million termination fee.  $4 Billion  Localities from California to  Massachusetts  have paid at
least $4 billion to banks to end such contracts after they
failed to provide the intended protection. In 2009, Jack Wagner,
Pennsylvania’s former auditor general, urged lawmakers to
prohibit swaps, saying they risk taxpayer money.  In swaps, two parties agree to exchange interest-rate
payments over a period of time. Typically, one agrees to pay a
fixed rate and the other a variable rate that changes with a
benchmark index or formula defined in the contract.  While Dubow said Kinser Group, a local lobbying firm, is
working on the issue for the city, Philadelphia’s position is
drawing fire from some lawmakers. The city council yesterday
approved a resolution urging the state legislature to pass a
swaps ban.  “If you want to do imaginative kinds of investments, you
should do it with your own money, not the taxpayers’,” said
Councilman James Kenney, a Democrat. “What’s upsetting about it
and what’s obnoxious about it is that the city taxpayer is
paying a lobbyist to put them in a position to further lose
money.”  Holly Kinser, president of the Kinser Group, said by
telephone that she wouldn’t discuss the matter. Dubow declined
to elaborate on the lobbying efforts.  Documentation Gap  In Philadelphia, where more than a quarter of the
population of 1.5 million  lives  in poverty, there’s
“insufficient documentation” to determine the reasons for
entering into its $3.5 billion of swaps, Treasurer Nancy Winkler
 told  the City Council in October.  Almost all the swaps from 2001 to 2007, which predated the
current administration of Democratic Mayor Michael Nutter, were
transactions in which the city received a floating rate from
banks on a notional amount of debt and paid fixed, she said.
Some of the contracts were tied to variable-rate debt, according
to her presentation.  The deals initially performed well, and “tens of millions
of dollars” in upfront payments flowed into municipal coffers -
- until the credit crisis that began in 2007, she said. As some
types of variable rates sank, Philadelphia’s borrowing costs
exceeded the payments it received. Letters of credit also became
more expensive as banks were less willing to offer them. In
cases where the backstops were unavailable, officials terminated
swaps and issued debt at higher  interest rates , she said.  Relative Cost  As a result, Philadelphia’s borrowing cost may swell by as
much as $186 million compared with what it would’ve paid to
issue fixed-rate debt, she estimated. That’s more than triple
the $60 million that school officials have asked the city to
help fill a budget hole, after voting to close about 9 percent
of their schools.  The swaps projection doesn’t account for any savings in
future restructurings, and the city has yet to incur overall
losses, Winkler said in an interview.  There are currently no plans to enter into new derivatives,
Dubow said. In 2009, the city adopted guidelines that swaps
transactions must save at least 5 percent on financings compared
with conventional fixed-rate bonds. Swaps shouldn’t exceed 35
percent of total debt and must have several providers to reduce
counterparty risk, the  policy  said.  Philadelphia Terminations  From October 2003 to June 2009, Pennsylvania local
governments, authorities and schools entered into 626 swaps
transactions on $14.9 billion in debt, and Bethlehem’s school
district lost at least $10.2 million on such agreements,
according to a  report  from Wagner, the former auditor general.
In 2010, Philadelphia’s school district sold debt to help pay
termination fees totaling $63 million.  “The financial community is a very powerful force,” said
Wagner, a Democrat running for Pittsburgh mayor after his term
ended last year.  Folmer introduced his bill as part of a package of measures
sparked by the fiscal crisis in the capital, Harrisburg, which
is under state receivership. A financial audit released last
year flagged Harrisburg’s use of swaps, calling them
unnecessarily complex transactions that resulted in excessive
fees and higher risks.  U.S. First  A state ban on municipal swaps would be a first in the
U.S., said  Peter Shapiro , managing director of Swap Financial
Group LLC, which advises Philadelphia and other municipal and
corporate clients.  It makes sense for some borrowers to use derivatives to
lock in interest rates now, he said.  Investors are speculating that yields will rise amid signs
of a strengthening housing market. Ten-year Treasury yields will
climb about 0.7 percentage point to 2.5 percent in a year,
according to the median forecast of 68 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Philadelphia is “more sophisticated than many
corporations” and shouldn’t be “deprived of financial tools
which can help them reduce risk, save taxpayer dollars and
manage their financial affairs more prudently,” he said.  Ban Backers  That view isn’t echoed by some municipal organizations in
the state. The  Pennsylvania State Association of Boroughs 
supports a ban on swaps, said Christopher Cap, executive vice
president. Elam Herr, assistant executive director of
 Pennsylvania State Association of Township Supervisors , said it
may back Folmer’s bill.  The  Pennsylvania School Boards Association , however,
opposes a prohibition and would like to see more oversight and
disclosure instead, said Beth Winters, chief lobbyist. A ban
would be inefficient and costly, and the group will lobby
legislators as the bill advances, she said.  Meantime in the $3.7 trillion municipal market, tax-exempt
debt is rallying to the strongest in three weeks amid the
slowest non-holiday issuance period since February.  At  1.94 percent , yields on 10-year muni benchmarks are the
lowest since March 12. Yet they still exceed the 1.76 percent
interest rate on similar-maturity Treasuries. The  ratio  of the
two is 110 percent, the highest since September, signaling munis
have become relatively cheaper than Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  