-- Gross Says U.S. Growth Won’t Beat 2% in 2013: Tom Keene
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2013-04-05T15:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/pimco-s-gross-says-u-s-growth-won-t-beat-2-in-2013-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund, said the
 U.S. economy  won’t expand more than 2 percent this year even
with one or two quarters of faster growth.  “A 2 percent ‘new normal’ economy is the best we can
expect,” Gross said in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  after a
report showed employers hired fewer workers than forecast in
March and a decline in the size of the  labor force  pushed the
jobless rate down to a four-year low. “The sun isn’t going
down, but there’s certainly an element of dusk to it.”  The U.S. economy may benefit from improved prospects for
energy and housing, pushing growth to as much as 3 percent for a
brief period this year, although the impact of those industries
will be limited to one or two quarters at best, Gross said
today. Mohamed El-Erian, Pimco’s chief executive officer who
shares the role of chief investment officer with Gross, said
today that job seekers are getting discouraged and that it’s
getting much harder to get growth out of the economy.  Pimco, based in Newport Beach, California, in 2009 coined
the term “new normal” to describe an era of lower returns,
heightened  government regulation  and shrinking U.S. clout in the
world economy following the 2007-2009 financial crisis.  U.S. growth may accelerate to a 3 percent level at the end
of the year as the recovery in housing strengthens, while
staying at 1.5 percent to 2 percent for 2013 because of slower
expansion in the first half triggered by fiscal policy
tightening, Pimco said last month.  ‘Worrisome’ Data  “It is really worrisome that we have the lowest monthly
 job creation  since last June and the lowest participation rate
since 1979,” El-Erian said in a Bloomberg Television interview
with  Betty Liu  today. “That makes escape velocity less
likely,” referring to a pace of expansion that would lead to a
sustainable economic rebound.  Job creation won’t reach more than 125,000 in the second
quarter as structural influences including technology,
demographics and the transfer of jobs to Mexico and China are
difficult to counter with monetary policy, Gross said.  Payrolls grew by 88,000 workers, the smallest gain in nine
months and less than the most-pessimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg survey, after a revised 268,000 February increase,
Labor Department data showed today in Washington. The median
forecast of 87 economists called for a 190,000 gain. The jobless
rate fell to 7.6 percent from 7.7 percent.  ECB Actions  The U.S. will benefit from improving conditions in Europe
and Japan, Gross said.  Mario Draghi , president of the  European
Central Bank , signaled yesterday that the ECB stands ready to
act, which could mean a “policy rate cut” in May, according to
Gross. Draghi’s revelation about extensive discussions around
standard and non-standard measures may mean going around the
banks to lend directly to weak small businesses, which could
happen in the next six months, Gross said.  “I suspect at some point the ECB will go all in as well,”
said Gross.  In contrast to counterparts in the U.S. and Japan, the ECB
hasn’t introduced any new stimulus since announcing an as-yet-
untapped bond-purchase program last year. With the 17-nation
economy entering a second year of recession and last month’s
bungled Cyprus bailout renewing investor anxiety about the
region’s debt crisis, the central bank is under increasing
pressure to foster growth.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) , managed
$2 trillion in assets as of Dec. 31. Gross runs the $289 billion
 Pimco Total Return Fund. (PTTRX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  