-- Polish Bond Yields Set for Record Low on Asia Inflows, Rate Bets
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-04-05T10:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/polish-bond-yields-set-for-record-low-on-asia-inflows-rate-bets.html
Polish two-year bond yields headed
for a record low, helped by inflows from Asia and speculation
the central bank will continue cutting interest rates to revive
the slowing economy.  The  yield  fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 3.10 percent at 12:22 p.m. in Warsaw, down from as much as
3.56 percent on March 5, according to generic prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The zloty strengthened for the second day, gaining
0.2 percent to 4.1795 against the euro.  There are “very large inflows from Asian investors” to
the Polish bond market after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  eased monetary
policy yesterday, deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk was
cited as saying by Reuters today. Pressure is piling on the
central bank to resume rate reductions after  Poland ’s economy
grew at the slowest pace in four years in the fourth quarter of
2012 and inflation was the slowest since 2006.  “The short-end of the curve prices in the continuation of
the Monetary Policy Council’s loosening cycle,”  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) 
economists, led by Marcin Mrowiec in Warsaw, wrote in a note
today.  Yields on the two-year notes dipped below a previous low of
3.11 percent from Dec. 21, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Policy makers cut borrowing costs by a total 150 basis
points since November to a record low of 3.25 percent and
Governor Marek Belka said after last month’s reduction that the
rate panel adopted a “wait-and-see” approach. All 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect interest rates to stay
unchanged next week.  Nine-months forward rate agreements, derivatives used to
bet on interest rates, traded 45 basis points below the Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate, signaling bets for almost two more
quarter-point rate reductions this year.  The BOJ announced plans to double its monthly bond
purchases to about 7.5 trillion yen ($77.8 billion) as it seeks
to achieve 2 percent annual inflation in 2 years, helping spark
a global bond rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  