-- Portugal Court Strikes Down Cuts for State Workers, Pensioners
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-04-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/portugal-court-strikes-down-cuts-for-state-workers-pensioners.html
Portugal ’s Constitutional Court
blocked some of the government’s planned cuts in payments to
state workers and pensioners for a second time.  The ruling by Portugal’s highest court that the measures
are unconstitutional means the government may need to find
alternative savings to comply with the country’s 78 billion-euro
($101 billion) aid plan from the European Union and the
International Monetary Fund.  The court last year stopped the government from withholding
the equivalent of two monthly salary payments to state workers
this year and in 2014. In response, the government withheld only
one of the two payments it had planned to cut this year, and in
October it announced additional measures including 3.7 billion
euros of tax increases to meet the 2013 deficit target.  The plan to withhold the payments “included a violation of
the principle of equality and the principle of fair distribution
of the public burden,” Constitutional Court President Joaquim
Sousa Ribeiro told reporters last night in Lisbon.  The court also deemed unconstitutional cuts to unemployment
and illness subsidies. It upheld a tax of 3.5 percent to 10
percent on pension income exceeding 1,350 euros a month, as well
as other tax increases. In all, the judges approved five of the
nine measures they were asked to review by the country’s
president, Anibal Cavaco Silva, and various political parties.  Possible ‘Trouble’  The head of the IMF’s mission to Portugal, Abebe Aemro Selassie, said in a Jan. 18 conference call he didn’t think the
court’s review for this year’s budget could bring the whole
program “off course.” The court was asked to review a
“relatively small part” of the budget’s measures, he said.  Even so, larger adjustments to the budget could “cause
trouble” with the so-called troika of the IMF, the EU and the
European Central Bank, Christian Schulz, an economist at
Berenberg Bank, said in a note to clients before the decision
was announced. That might “undermine the hard-earned trust of
financial markets in the government,” he wrote.  Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  called a
special Cabinet meeting for 3 p.m. today, an official at his
office said before the court’s announcement.  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year bond slipped 4 basis points
to 6.359 percent yesterday in  London . Portugal’s two-year note
yield rose 2 basis points to 2.968 percent.  Rising Unemployment  Passos Coelho is battling rising joblessness and lower
demand from European trading partners as he raises taxes to meet
the terms of the bailout. The troika gave its blessing March 15
to less ambitious targets for the country’s budget deficit as
the economy slumped.  Portugal’s government now forecasts the economy will shrink
2.3 percent this year, twice as much as previously estimated,
before growing 0.6 percent next year. It says the jobless  rate 
will climb to 18.2 percent in 2013 and 18.5 percent in 2014 from
16.9 percent in last year’s fourth quarter.  The government targets a  deficit  equivalent to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below
the European Union’s 3 percent limit in 2015, when it aims for a
2.5 percent gap, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said March 15.  Last year the court allowed salary cuts with projected
savings of 2 billion euros, more than 1 percent of the country’s
GDP. Sousa Ribeiro said last night the 2012 decision was taken
later in the year, and that the “identical reasons were not
felt with the intensity of those that last year led to the
decision that was taken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  