-- Portugal Faces Constitutional Court Ruling on Coelho Budget
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-04-05T17:08:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/portugal-faces-constitutional-court-ruling-on-coelho-budget.html
Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  faces a Constitutional Court ruling on the
legality of some elements in this year’s budget that may
challenge the government’s ability to meet deficit targets.  The judges will announce their decision this afternoon, the
court said in an e-mailed statement today.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva and various political groups
asked the court in January to review some points of the budget,
including taxes on pensions. On Oct. 3, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar announced an “enormous” increase in taxes on wages and
other income for 2013. He also plans to cut spending by about 4
billion euros ($5.2 billion) in the three years through 2015.  Abebe Aemro Selassie, head of the International Monetary
Fund’s mission to  Portugal , said in a Jan. 18 conference call
that the court had been asked to review a “relatively small
part” of the budget’s measures and that he didn’t think the
review could bring the whole program “off course.”  Even so, the decision may have a significant effect on
Portugal’s budget as there is limited room for the government to
increase taxes or cut spending if the budgetary gap is large,
BNP Paribas economist  Ricardo Santos  said in an April 3 note.  ‘Cause Trouble’  “Some adjustments to the budget may be possible, but
larger ones could cause trouble” with the so-called troika of
the IMF, the European Union and the  European Central Bank ,
 Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank, said in a
note. That might “undermine the hard-earned trust of financial
markets in the government,” he said.  The yield on Portugal’s  10-year bond  slipped 4 basis points
today to 6.359 percent at 4:59 p.m. in  London . Portugal’s two-
year note yield rose 2 basis point to 2.968 percent.  Rejection would be an embarrassment for Coelho’s government
and “could cause instability in the otherwise very stable
coalition,” Schulz said. Even so, Portugal and the euro region
should be able to deal with any problems that may arise from
political instability, with risks being contained by the
“safety net” of the ECB’s bond-buying pledge, he said.  Coelho told parliament today that the government isn’t
preparing a second bailout. The government forecasts debt will
peak at 123.7 percent of gross domestic product in 2014.  Deficit Targets  Coelho, battling rising joblessness and lower demand from
European trading partners, raised taxes to meet the terms of a
78 billion-euro aid plan from the EU and the IMF. The government
announced wider deficit targets on March 15 as it forecast the
 economy  will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year.  The  Constitutional Court  last year blocked planned
reductions in state workers’ pay for 2013 and 2014 and allowed
those cuts in 2012, with projected savings of 2 billion euros,
or more than 1 percent of the country’s output.  In response, the government decided to only withhold one of
the two public-sector salary payments it had planned to cut in
2013 and in October announced alternative measures including tax
increases to meet its  deficit  target this year.  One of the measures being reviewed by the court this year
is a plan to tax pension income of more than 1,350 euros a month
at between 3.5 percent and 10 percent. The government estimated
in its budget proposal that this measure would raise 420.7
million euros.  The government targets a deficit equivalent to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below
the European Union’s 3 percent limit in 2015, when it aims for a
2.5 percent gap.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  