-- Punch Taverns Chairman Continues to Support Debt Proposal
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-04-05T11:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/punch-taverns-chairman-continues-to-support-debt-proposal-1-.html
Stephen Billingham, chairman of
 Punch Taverns Plc (PUB) , the U.K. pub owner that had its proposal to
restructure 2.4 billion pounds ($3.7 billion) of debt rejected
by bondholders last month, said the debt plan works.  “We think the proposal is the best one, it is the one that
works,” Billingham said in a telephone interview today. “It is
very difficult to work out what a counter proposal would look
like. It’s not a straightforward normal restructuring, avenues
available are relatively small.”  A committee formed in December 2010 and largely
representing senior bondholders rejected the offer in March. The
Association of British Insurers committee said it didn’t address
the business’s operational issues or provide a way for the debt
to be refinanced or repaid.  Punch has two unsustainable debt structures, called Punch A
and Punch B, which need cash injected to avoid a breach of
covenants. Under the plan proposed on Feb. 7, Punch would cut
the debt in one of its vehicles by 229 million pounds through a
deal with junior bondholders. Punch proposed paying them 93
million pounds in cash and issuing new debt worth 56 million
pounds.  The deal would reduce annual interest payments by about 10
million pounds and had the support of holders of more than 50
percent of shares, said the Staffordshire, England-based
company.  Shares Gain  “If the debt restructuring proceeds, we estimate that
Punch’s share price would be 26 pence,” more than double the
current price Douglas Jack, an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd.
in  London  who advises buying the stock, wrote in a note today.  The shares rose as much as 13 percent in London to 12
pence, its biggest intra-day gain since Feb. 18. More than
490,000 shares were traded, 36 percent of the three month daily
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock has
gained 47 percent this year, giving the company a market value
of 78 million pounds.  Punch’s proposal recognizes “the structures that have been
set up in the securitisation,” Billingham said today. “It
recognizes the contractual relationship. We think it can be
delivered.”  Punch, which today announced a 21 percent decline in first
half pretax profit, said the cost of supporting its
securitizations in the second half of the year would probably be
“significantly higher” than in the first half.  Outstanding Debt  “Failure to effect a restructuring solution for either
securitisation in the near-term may result in the Group cease to
provide financial support to one or both of the securitisations,
which in turn would result in a covenant default in the relevant
securitisation,” Punch said in today’s statement.  Billingham said the company reviews the situation on a
“month by month basis.”  Punch has 2.4 billion pounds of debt outstanding, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Greene King Plc (GNK)  has 1.5 billion
pounds,  Marston’s Plc (MARS)  1.2 billion pounds and  Enterprise Inns Plc (ETI) 
2.8 billion pounds. The company’s debt, mortgage-like borrowings
secured against its pub estate, was built up through
acquisitions in the last decade.  Since then, the industry has suffered from a decline in
beer consumption, a smoking ban in pubs, discount alcohol from
supermarkets and the onset of a prolonged recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  