-- Putin, Allies Threatened With Jail as Navalny to Seek Presidency
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-04-05T09:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/putin-allies-threatened-with-jail-as-navalny-to-seek-presidency.html
Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny, who faces three criminal cases, pledged to compete for
the presidency and threatened to “do everything” to imprison
 Vladimir Putin  and his billionaire allies if he seizes power.  “I want to become president,” Navalny said in an
 interview  late yesterday on Rain Television, an independent
Russian channel that broadcasts via the Internet and satellite
networks. “I want to change life in the country, change the
system of the country’s governance.”  Putin and his associates including businessman Arkady Rotenberg and Gunvor co-founder  Gennady Timchenko  would face
time in jail if the Kremlin comes under the control of the
opposition, Navalny said. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitry Peskov
declined to comment when reached by phone, as did Anton Kurevin
and Andrei Borodin, spokesmen for Timchenko and Rotenberg,
respectively. Navalny didn’t respond to a text message.  Navalny, 36, is raising the stakes in his campaign against
Putin less than two weeks before he is slated to go on trial on
charges of embezzlement. Catapulted to prominence by leading the
biggest protests against Putin since the Russian leader came to
power in 2000, his name recognition has grown to 37 percent last
month, up from 6 percent in April 2011, according to a poll
published by the Moscow-based Levada Center yesterday.  Among respondents familiar with Navalny, 14 percent would
“definitely” or “probably” support his presidential run,
according to the Levada report. The poll was conducted March
22-25 among 1,601 people and has a margin of error of 3.4
percentage points.  ‘Abominable, Thievish’  Putin, Timchenko and Rotenberg are all “links in the
abominable, thievish” system of power that enriches itself at
the expense of ordinary citizens, Navalny said.  Navalny and another person are accused of defrauding state
timber company Kirovles of 16 million rubles ($506,000), the
General Prosecutor’s office said last month. Two other criminal
cases have been opened against Navalny, a lawyer who campaigns
to expose fraud and waste at state companies and corruption by
officials.  The activist faces as much as 10 years in prison in the
three cases, according to the criminal code. He denies any
wrongdoing and denounces his prosecution as politically
motivated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  