-- Ray Lane’s Bad Week Worsens on Fisker Job Cuts After HP
-- B y   A r i   L e v y   a n d   A s h l e e   V a n c e
-- 2013-04-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/ray-lane-s-bad-week-worsens-as-fisker-job-cuts-follow-hp-shakeup.html
Ray Lane’s having a bad week.  First there was the board shakeup with Lane stepping down
as  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s chairman. Then came news that Fisker
Automotive Inc., the luxury plug-in automaker, where he’s a
board member and major investor, is eliminating as much as 75
percent of its staff.  The back-to-back bombshells reflect a fall from grace for a
technology industry veteran, who spent eight years near the top
of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  before turning to venture capital and helping
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers start its alternative energy
practice. Lane’s star dimmed during a tenure at Hewlett-Packard
that was marked by strategy shifts, management turmoil, a
plunging stock price and acquisitions gone wrong. As a director
at Fisker, he was unable to duplicate the success of Elon Musk’s
 Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)   “It’s been a bad week, no question,” said Sam Hamadeh,
chief executive officer of PrivCo, a New York-based firm that
tracks private companies and venture firms.  Lane, 66, resigned as chairman of Hewlett-Packard April 4,
although he will remain on the board. Two other directors, G. Kennedy Thompson and John Hammergren, resigned, two weeks after
investors re-elected them in a narrow majority of votes. During
his 2 1/2 years, he presided over the firing of Leo Apotheker as
CEO and the acquisition and $8.8 billion writedown of software
maker Autonomy Corp.  Troubled Tenure  When Lane came to Hewlett-Packard, he was seen as the voice
of experience necessary to bring stability after the resignation
of Mark Hurd. The board had pushed Hurd out, saying the former
CEO violated the company’s standards of business conduct.  Instead, Hurd’s exit and Lane’s arrival kicked off a period
of management upheaval and strategy shifts that included the
troubled 11-month tenure of Apotheker, who was handpicked by
Lane.  Lane’s public gaffes included being photographed using an
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  computer and telling Hewlett-Packard employees that
he was ready to “take Meg’s training wheels off” after she
became CEO, according to an  article  in Fortune.  Hewlett-Packard’s share price declined 50 percent during
Lane’s tenure. Lane didn’t respond to requests via telephone and
e-mail for comment.  Fisker Woes  At Kleiner Perkins, the Menlo Park, California-based
venture firm that made fortunes from Amazon.com Inc. and Google
Inc., Lane was a central part of the team that started betting
heavily on clean technology during the last decade. Lane joined
the firm in 2000 after leaving Oracle.  Hailed as one of the pioneer’s of the nascent electric-car
industry, Fisker raised at least $1.2 billion, with Kleiner
Perkins among its principal investors.  Fisker, based in Anaheim, California, said yesterday that
it’s firing three-quarters of its 200 employees after failing to
secure a deal with an automotive partner. Fisker has struggled
since halting assembly of rechargeable Karma sedans last year
when the supplier of the car’s lithium-ion batteries, the former
A123 Systems Inc., filed for bankruptcy.  Fisker is just the latest clean-tech blowup for Kleiner.
The firm was a major backer of solar-panel maker Miasole Inc.,
which was sold to a Chinese company last year. Lane is not among
the 10 managing members of the latest $525 million fund, raised
last year, and is listed on Kleiner Perkins’ website as a
partner emeritus.  “Kleiner as a firm has badly underperformed a lot of other
VC firms,” Hamadeh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;
Ashlee Vance in San Francisco at 
 avance3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  