-- Three Colombia Central Bankers Warn on Financial Stability Risks
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-04-05T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/three-colombia-central-bankers-warn-on-financial-stability-risks.html
Colombian policy makers are
monitoring credit indicators to ensure that the lowest interest
rate in  Latin America  doesn’t lead to excess risk-taking that
could jeopardize the stability of the financial system, central
bank board members said yesterday.  The central bank will study the quality of household
credit, and the amount of debt that consumers are taking on,
when it decides on the future direction of interest rates, bank
co-director Cesar Vallejo said in an interview in Medellin.  “Credit risk would be generated if interest rates are
excessively low, or if low interest rates induce debtors to take
on more debt than they can handle, or creditors in the financial
system fall into the temptation of offering more credit,”
Vallejo said, on the sidelines of a conference of the country’s
banking association Asobancaria.  In a separate interview at the same event, central bank
board member Carlos Gustavo Cano said that leaving borrowing
costs low for a prolonged period when inflation accelerates to
its target and growth rises to its full potential rate, could
generate financial risks.  The central bank has cut its policy rate two percentage
points since June, to 3.25 percent, the lowest among major
economies in the region, as growth cooled and the inflation rate
fell to a six-decade low. Even as the economy has slowed,  home
prices  have risen to record highs and credit growth has begun to
pick up after slowing for more than a year.  ‘First Tool’  Vallejo’s and Cano’s remarks came after central bank
Governor Jose Dario Uribe told the banking association that
policy makers could set interest rates higher than would be
necessary to hit the inflation target, in order to prevent
“financial imbalances”.  Speaking to reporters after his presentation, Uribe said
the “first tool at hand” if there were excessive risk-taking
would be regulatory measures such as higher  capital requirements 
for banks.  Home prices rose 71 percent in the third quarter from a
decade earlier, according to the bank’s inflation-adjusted
housing price index, while the delinquent payment rate fell to a
record low 2.3 percent last year. Home prices are rising faster
than nominal gross domestic product, Uribe said.  The central bank repeatedly expressed concern with the pace
of credit growth when it raised interest rates nine times
between February 2011 and February 2012. Annual credit growth
accelerated for a second straight month in January, to 15.4
percent, from 14.6 percent in November.  ‘No Guarantee’  The central bank wants annual inflation back at the 3
percent midpoint of its target range, and doesn’t want it to
remain at its current levels, Cano said. Vallejo forecast that
inflation will return to 3 percent in the first half of 2014.  Inflation accelerated to 1.99 percent last month, according
to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 19 analysts,
from a six decade-low of 1.83 percent in February. The
statistics agency is scheduled to report March inflation today.  The central bank unexpectedly stepped up the pace of rate
cuts in March, with the first half-point reduction in three
years. The move was intended to speed up the elimination of the
economy’s excess capacity, Vallejo said.  “We hope and expect that with this  interest rate  we can
close the output gap, though there’s no guarantee that this is
the interest rate that will do it,” Vallejo said.  Both Vallejo and Cano said that the level of the real, or
inflation-adjusted, interest rate played a key role in the
decision to cut rates by half a percentage point last month.  “One of the main reasons the bank decided to cut 50 basis
points was that inflation has been falling faster than nominal
rates, which means that instead of real interest rates falling,
they were stable or went up,” Cano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  