-- ResCap Investigation Cost Expected to Rise to $83 Million
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2013-04-05T22:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/rescap-examiner-report-expected-to-cost-82-75-million.html
A court-ordered investigation in
Residential Capital LLC’s bankruptcy case is estimated to cost
$82.75 million, more than double an earlier calculation by the
former judge leading the probe.  Arthur Gonzalez, the former bankruptcy judge who was
appointed as examiner last year to perform the investigation,
estimated the fees for advisers in a filing today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  “The investigation has proven to be an enormous
undertaking,” lawyers for Gonzalez said.  Gonzalez was appointed in July in the New York-based
mortgage company’s bankruptcy case to investigate transactions
between ResCap and parent  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  as well as
Cerberus Capital Management LP, claims ResCap proposes to
release, and claims against officers and directors.  Cerberus led a group of investors that acquired a 51
percent stake in Ally, then known as GMAC, in 2006. The stake
was diluted in bailouts that began in 2008 by the U.S.
government, which is now majority owner.  Gonzalez estimated in August that the report would cost $29
million to $36 million.  In today’s filing, Gonzalez said his lawyers at Chadbourne
& Parke LLP and Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP will
cost $44 million. Financial adviser Mesirow Financial Consulting
is estimated to earn $38.2 million in fees, and Gonzalez’s own
fee would be $550,000, according to the filing. He said the
report should be completed in early May.  Norman Rosenbaum, an attorney for ResCap, didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment about the cost of the examiner’s
investigation.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-bk-12020,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  