-- Retail Employment Slumps Most in Year as Stores Cut Back
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n
-- 2013-04-05T20:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/retail-employment-slumps-most-in-year-as-stores-cut-back.html
Employment by retailers slumped the
most in more than a year last month, hurting growth in the U.S.
job market, as higher payroll taxes and concern fiscal policies
will reduce consumer spending prompt companies to trim costs.  Retail employment declined by 24,000 in March, the most
since February 2012, Labor Department  data  showed today in
 Washington . That included a drop of 15,000 in clothing and
accessories stores and a decrease of 10,000 in building-material
and garden suppliers, according to the report.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  and  J.C. Penney
Co. (JCP)  have reduced their workforces to cut costs and keep prices
low at the same time that they work to fend off competition from
online merchants such as Amazon.com Inc. Retailers have been
cautious about hiring because of political paralysis in
Washington and concern the 2 percentage-point increase in
payroll taxes will slow purchases, said Jack Kleinhenz, chief
economist for the National Retail Federation.  “Retailers are very concerned about getting the right mix
of inventory and employees, and how to make that mix work,”
Kleinhenz said in a telephone interview today.  The NRF, a Washington-based trade group, forecasts U.S.
retail sales will increase 3.4 percent this year, slower than
the 4.2 percent gain in 2012.  Overall, U.S. employers hired fewer workers than forecast
in March and a slump in the size of the labor force pushed the
jobless rate down to a four-year low. Payrolls grew by 88,000
workers, the smallest gain in nine months. The jobless rate fell
to 7.6 percent from 7.7 percent.  Wal-Mart Complaints  The decline in retail employment last month represents a
pause in a pickup that began in July of last year. In the eight
months that ended in February, retail employment increased by
about 205,000.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, has been working to
bolster profitability by opening more stores while hiring fewer
workers. The U.S. workforce at Wal-Mart’s namesake and Sam’s
Club warehouse chains fell by about 120,000 employees in the
past five years, to about 1.3 million, while the company has
added about 484 U.S. stores.  The workforce decline has coincided with customer
frustration that there aren’t enough employees to keep shelves
stocked, cash registers manned and shoppers’ questions answered.  The Bentonville, Arkansas-based chain’s workers have
complained that merchandise ready for the sales floor remains on
pallets and in steel bins in stores’ back rooms because there
aren’t enough employees to stock shelves. At Wal-Mart stores
across the country, departments have merged to eliminate
positions. Management bonuses at the chain are based partly on
minimizing store payroll.  Customer Satisfaction  Wal-Mart’s in-stock shelf availability is at historically
high levels, averaging about 90 percent to 95 percent, and
surveys of more than 500,000 customers a month show its shoppers
have positive experiences at the stores, Brooke Buchanan, a
spokeswoman, said today.  The company hired about 80,000 workers in the U.S. from
Feb. 1 through April 1, Buchanan said today, without providing
the net change to the retailer’s workforce. Wal-Mart typically
has 15,000 to 50,000 job openings and is currently at the high
end of the range, Buchanan said.  “We’re committed to doing more to help Americans get back
to work,” she said.  Sears Shrinks  After closing stores and spinning off its smaller-format
locations, Hoffman Estates, Illinois-based Sears had 18,000
fewer workers in the year ended Feb. 2, for a total of 246,000,
according to company filings. J.C. Penney has eliminated 19,000
jobs since Chief Executive Officer Ron Johnson began an overhaul
of the company’s pricing and merchandise last year. Sales at the
Plano, Texas-based merchant plunged 25 percent in the year ended
Feb. 2, and the company employed about 116,000 workers as of the
end of that fiscal year.  Retailers in the U.S. operate more than 3.6 million
businesses, contributing $2.5 trillion to annual gross domestic
product, according to the NRF.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index (S5RETL)  fell 0.7 percent
today, while the broader S&P 500 slid 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Callan in  New York  at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  