-- Rigel Sinks as Arthritis Medicine Shows Mixed Results
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-04-05T12:48:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/rigel-sinks-as-arthritis-medicine-shows-mixed-results.html
Rigel Pharmaceuticals Inc. (RIGL) , a
drugmaker with no products on the market, fell in early trading
after its experimental rheumatoid arthritis medicine being
developed with  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  showed mixed results in a trial.  Rigel dropped 28 percent to $5.40 at 8:08 a.m.  New York 
time. The  shares  of the South  San Francisco , California-based
company fell 5.9 percent in the 12 months through yesterday.  The treatment, fostamatinib, showed statistically
significant improvement in a measure of arthritis signs and
symptoms in the study known as Oskira-1, London-based
AstraZeneca said in a  statement  today. Fostamatinib didn’t show
improvement in an X-ray that tracks the progression of joint
damage, the company said.  “The jury is still out on fostamatinib,” David Ferreiro,
an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co., wrote in a research report
today. He has an “outperform” recommendation on Rigel.
“Overall, we expect downside in the shares” and need more data
to “reach a conclusion.”  The trial shows the drug “has an effect on the signs and
symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis,” Briggs Morrison, executive
vice president of AstraZeneca’s global medicines development,
said in the statement. “We will await the results of the
remaining Phase III studies, Oskira-2 and Oskira-3, to further
evaluate and characterize the profile of fostamatinib as a
potential treatment for rheumatoid arthritis.”  Commercial Potential  The results may add to concern that fostamatinib lacks
commercial potential. The drug failed to show a benefit versus
 Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ Humira in a mid-stage trial, AstraZeneca
said in December. Results from Oskira-2 and Oskira-3 are due
later in the second quarter, AstraZeneca said.  “Though the drug could still be viable, the weaker-than-
expected efficacy results suggest a less competitive profile
than we had expected,”  Brian Abrahams , an analyst with Wells
Fargo, wrote in a research note today. He lowered his rating on
Rigel to market perform from outperform. The results add “some
clinical and regulatory risk” and reduce “the potential market
opportunity for the agent were it to be approved.”  AstraZeneca  fell  less than 1 percent in London trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  