-- Roach Says U.S. Fed Easing Not Adequate to Fix Consumer Finances
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-04-05T12:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/roach-says-u-s-fed-easing-not-adequate-to-fix-consumer-finances.html
Yale University senior fellow
 Stephen Roach  said the  Federal Reserve ’s easy monetary policy
has done little to help indebted U.S. consumers.  “What has QE done to repair the balance sheets of bruised,
battered American consumers?” Roach said, speaking on Bloomberg
Television’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen.  Roach, a former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley
Asia, said first-quarter growth wasn’t enough to support Fed
actions as consumer demand has grown by less than one percent
annually for five years.  “We shouldn’t frame monetary policy based on one quarter,
and I care about the  consumer spending  piece,” he said.
“What’s the personal savings rate right now? It’s below 3
percent. What’s the debt-to-income ratio? It’s above 100
percent.”  The Federal Reserve is purchasing a total of $85 billion in
mortgage-backed securities and Treasury debt monthly, a program
known as quantitative easing or QE. The move seeks to reduce 7.7
percent unemployment and ensure the nation’s labor market
improves “substantially,” according to the  Federal Open Market
Committee .  Speaking yesterday in Washington, Federal Reserve Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  said she is “encouraged by recent signs
that the economy is improving and healing from the trauma of the
crisis.” She said reducing unemployment should “take center
stage.”  Consumer Spending  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 0.4 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter, up from a 0.1 percent prior estimate
and following a 3.1 percent pace in the third quarter, revised
Commerce Department figures showed last week. Consumer spending,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, rose 0.7
percent after a 0.4 percent advance the prior month that was
bigger than previously estimated, according to data released by
the department.  Roach said policy makers should focus on helping American
buyers, rather than attempting to do something “new and
different” at each meeting.  “What has not been done is to assist the biggest sector of
the economy, the American consumer, in repairing their balance
sheets,” Roach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  Washington  at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  