-- Rosengren Says Job Weakness Warrants ‘Aggressive’ Fed Action
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-04-05T12:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/rosengren-says-job-weakness-warrants-aggressive-fed-response.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
President  Eric Rosengren  said the harm from long-term
unemployment warrants a powerful effort by the Fed to boost the
labor market.  “If spells of unemployment have a persistent impact on
income, wealth and home ownership, then a more aggressive
response to persistently high unemployment rates is warranted,”
Rosengren said today in the text of remarks prepared for
delivery in Boston.  Rosengren, who spoke just minutes before the Labor
Department released its monthly jobs report, focused on the
effect of educational attainment on a person’s economic well-
being. The economy added 88,000 jobs in March and a slump in the
size of the labor force pushed the unemployment rate down to 7.6
percent, a four-year low, indicating the U.S. labor market is
struggling to make bigger strides.  The  Boston  Fed chief has supported the central bank’s
monthly purchases of $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage-
backed securities to try to bring down unemployment, now at 7.6
percent. The Fed previously bought $2.3 trillion of assets in
two earlier quantitative-easing programs. Rosengren holds a vote
on monetary policy this year.  Drawing on research from Boston Fed economists, Rosengren
said “during economic downturns, those with poor educational
attainment are disproportionately likely to become unemployed.”  “Unemployment can have a far-reaching impact on other
aspects of life, including expected future earnings, wealth and
home ownership,” he said to the Early Childhood Summit 2013 at
the Boston Children’s Museum.  Cites Data  Rosengren cited data showing that 11.2 percent of people
with less than a high school diploma were unemployed, compared
to 3.8 percent of people with a bachelors degree or higher.  “More rapid economic growth is likely to not only reduce
the unemployment rate, but also reduce some of the collateral
damage the economy may otherwise face from the spells of long-
duration unemployment,” he said. “Continued accommodative
policy, such as continuing our asset purchase program through
this year, is an appropriate response to labor market
scarring.”  Rosengren, 55, became president of the Boston Fed in July
2007, and had previously served in the economic and supervision
departments of the bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  