-- Rutgers Scandal Should Surprise No One, Horrify Everyone
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-04-05T17:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/rutgers-scandal-should-surprise-no-one-horrify-everyone.html
Rutgers University basketball coach
Mike Rice finally got what was coming to him.  Rice had been briefly suspended and fined in December for
behavior that the school at the time euphemistically  referred to 
as “not to the Rutgers standard.” This week, after a video
surfaced of Rice’s insane, profane and violent treatment of his
players during practices, the coach was belatedly relieved of
his post and the university quasi-apologized. Now, faculty
members are calling for the  ouster  of Rutgers President Robert Barchi.  The larger lesson for the academic world here is a familiar
one that bears repeating: The pursuit of big-time athletic glory
far too often comes at the cost of common sense -- both moral
and fiscal.  Rutgers knew exactly what it was getting into with Rice. It
should have, at any rate: Rice was already  infamous  for his
fanaticism, even by the elevated standards of college
basketball, and the school felt secure enough in his on-court
prowess to offer him $650,000 annually, plus generous benefits -
- paid for by New Jersey taxpayers.  Two Failures  In doing so, the school’s most obvious failure was an
ethical one. The use of salty language is not unknown in locker
rooms. Nor is it overly troublesome in itself. Rice’s ranting,
however, was so  vile and abusive  that it’s hard to believe the
man was ever entrusted to oversee students. The video showed him
using homophobic taunts -- this at the school where a student
committed suicide in 2010 after his roommate filmed him in a
romantic encounter with another man -- as well as shoving,
kicking and throwing basketballs at his players. Many of those
players, remember, are teenagers.  In short, the episode exemplified how the college sports
machine routinely treats athletes as commodities. And it made a
mockery, yet again, of the supposition that athletic programs
conceive of their primary goal as an educational one.  The second failure revealed by this episode was financial.
In 2007, Rutgers scrapped six varsity teams, and left dozens of
student athletes in the lurch, ostensibly to ameliorate chronic
budget problems. We say “ostensibly” because funding for
athletics actually  increased substantially  in the next few years
-- even as the school fired employees, reduced classes and
raised tuition and student fees. A more plausible reason for the
cuts was to focus more on football and basketball, and thereby
boost the school’s athletic profile.  According to  data compiled  by  USA Today , Rutgers spent
$60.2 million on its athletics programs in 2011, of which 47
percent -- more than $28 million -- was subsidized by the
school. That,  according to  data compiled by Bloomberg, is the
largest subsidy among 54 U.S. public universities in the six
biggest football conferences. The school has been bestowing this
largess even as its state funding fell 10 percent in the three
fiscal years through June 2012.  This is egregious on its face. Even more so when the
putative rewards of athletic success for a school -- increased
applications and alumni donations -- have been shown to be
 temporary  or  illusory .  And what about Barchi? A few observations. What kind of an
educator would only suspend someone who had treated students so
monstrously? And what kind of leader doesn’t recognize when a
school’s priorities have become so distorted that such behavior
is not only tolerated but generously subsidized? Barchi, who
started in 2012, didn’t cause the problems at Rutgers. As
president, however, he had a responsibility to start mitigating
them. When he  learned  of Rice’s behavior last year, he had an
obvious opportunity to start changing the school’s culture for
the better. He failed.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 