-- Rutgers President Stays as Athletic Director Resigns
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-04-05T20:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/rutgers-stature-falls-as-abuse-brings-calls-for-president-to-go.html
Rutgers University President Robert Barchi resisted calls to resign as Athletic Director Tim Pernetti stepped down and blamed administrators for not letting
him immediately fire the basketball coach for abusing players.  Barchi  apologized  to students, players and faculty and said
he regrets not seeing video of the abuse sooner. Still, he said
his term is at the will of Rutgers’s Board of Governors, whose
chairman, Ralph Izzo, told reporters there are no plans to oust
Barchi.  “I wish I had the opportunity to go back and override”
the initial decision not to fire coach Mike Rice, Barchi said.
“The outcome would have been different.”  The April 3 dismissal of Rice followed the nationally
telecast video showing him physically and verbally attacking
players at practices while using gay slurs. Pernetti said in his
 resignation letter  that his instincts when he saw the video were
to fire Rice, rather than suspend him.  “However, Rutgers decided to follow a process involving
university lawyers, human resources professionals, and outside
counsel,” Pernetti wrote. “Following review of the independent
investigative report, the consensus was that university policy
would not justify dismissal.”  New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie, a first-term Republican
seeking re-election in November, called Pernetti’s decision to
resign “appropriate and necessary,” according to a statement.
Christie commended Barchi for taking steps to establish new
leadership for the athletic department.  ‘Dark Cloud’  Barchi, 66, a neurologist and former University of
Pennsylvania provost, vowed after his appointment last April to
add medical and dental schools, and to lead Rutgers to “the
position of leadership to which it is rightfully entitled.” The
scandal may make that goal tougher to achieve, lawmakers said.  “This incident will continue to hang over Rutgers like a
dark cloud for weeks, months and perhaps years to come,” state
Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a Democrat, said in a
statement.  Since becoming the school’s 20th president, Barchi has set
about implementing Governor  Chris Christie ’s directive to
reorganize the state’s higher education system, including the
merger of Rutgers and state medical schools.  Owais Hashmi, a junior finance major who lives on campus at
Chi Psi fraternity, said Barchi should keep his job.  “I don’t think that Barchi should eventually get the boot
because he’s spearheaded the Rutgers/UMDNJ merger and he’s doing
a lot of things beyond that,” Hashmi said outside the student
center today, refering to the University of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey. “He hasn’t done a single thing that
was bad or a black eye prior to this point,” he said.  Abusive Behavior  Faculty disagreed.  Rutgers teachers, through their union, last night called on
the school’s  Board of Governors  “to restore the confidence of
our students and their parents that abuse of authority will not
be tolerated at Rutgers.” The number of faculty members calling
for Barchi’s immediate resignation swelled yesterday to at least
50.  “Although President Barchi is now suggesting otherwise, he
has known about Coach Rice’s homophobic, misogynist and abusive
behavior for several months,” 10 faculty members said in a
letter to the board of governors and board of trustees two days
ago demanding Barchi’s immediate resignation. “Not only did he
not fire Coach Rice, he in essence covered up the coach’s
actions by failing to tell faculty and students about them.”  Big Ten  Rice was initially suspended and fined $50,000 in December,
three weeks after Rutgers was invited to join the  Big Ten
Conference , a move from the Big East Conference that may
increase the school’s athletic-department income by millions of
dollars.  That initial decision may have been taken in part because
of the politics of intercollegiate sports, said Scott Minto,
director of the sports MBA program at  San Diego State
University .  “There were political implications,” Minto said. “I
don’t see how as a manager you err on the side of slapping
someone on the wrist unless you are making a more strategic
decision overall.”  Jim Delaney , commissioner of the Big Ten, said in a
statement that while the conference is interested in the outcome
of the university’s investigation, the situation “will have no
impact on Rutgers’s transition to, or membership in, the Big
Ten.”  Eric Murdock  A Dec. 27 letter to the school’s legal counsel from the
attorney of Eric Murdock, Rutgers’ former director of basketball
player development, alleged that Pernetti knew about the abuse
as early as June. Attorney Barry Kozyra said in the letter that
he submitted a CD containing audio recordings of phone
conversations between Murdock, Rice and Pernetti from that time.  Murdock, a former NBA player, is suing the university for
wrongful termination, saying his contract wasn’t renewed because
he brought Rice’s behavior to their attention. He is seeking
$950,000 to resolve his claims, according to the letter.  Barchi denied any coverup. He said he first saw the video
on the evening of April 2, and decided immediately afterward
that the coach must go. Rice was fired the next day.  Rice’s conduct was “‘unacceptable and does not represent
the high standard of leadership and accountability we strive for
within the Rutgers athletics program,” Barchi said.  “I’m not going to try to defend myself,” Barchi told
reporters today. “That’s for the people I report to to make a
decision about.”  Pernetti said in his resignation letter that he and Barchi
agreed earlier today that stepping down was “in the best
interests” of the school.  ‘One Incident’  “My continued tenure as athletic director is no longer
sustainable for the university which I attended and where a
piece of me will always remain,” Pernetti wrote in the letter
to Barchi. “I trust that my tenure at Rutgers will not be
judged by this one incident.”  State funding for  Rutgers , New Jersey’s flagship public
university, fell 10 percent to $262 million in the three fiscal
years through June 2012. The school’s subsidy to sports programs
was $28.5 million in fiscal 2011, the largest among 54 U.S.
public universities in the six biggest football conferences,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Academic Cuts  As a result, academic units were forced to cut budgets. The
history department stopped paying for faculty telephones and the
psychology department chairman issued a directive suggesting
professors give shorter and fewer tests to save money on
photocopying.  The diversion of cash to subsidize sports rankled some
professors.  “We call on the board of governors, once again, to revisit
their oversight of the athletics department and to create a
healthy balance between academics and athletics,” the Rutgers
chapter of the  American Association  of University Professors-
American Federation of Teachers said in a statement last night.  Rutgers is tied with Big Ten member  Minnesota  for 68th
place in the  2013 U.S. News & World Report  rankings of best
colleges. Until the basketball scandal broke, Rutgers’ academic
ambitions had been buoyed by the school’s announcement it was
switching to the Big Ten. Like Rutgers, all Big Ten colleges
except  Nebraska  are in the Association of American Universities,
an invitation-only group of 62 research schools. The conference
also makes up the Committee on Institutional Cooperation, which
facilitates sharing of academic resources.  Revenue Share  The school’s biggest benefit from the switch may be getting
a share of conference revenue -- $265 million in 2010 -- which
may help erase the annual payment to the athletic department.  Rutgers, with more than 58,000 students on three campuses,
was founded in 1766 as Queen’s College and renamed in 1825 after
Revolutionary War hero Henry Rutgers. Graduates include
economist  Milton Friedman , singer  Paul Robeson  and Massachusetts
Senator  Elizabeth Warren , who went to the law school.  Rutgers spent $226,532 on the search that yielded Barchi,
according to the Star-Ledger. His first-year base pay was
$650,000, according to a copy of his contract provided by the
school.  He was selected president by the school’s board of
governors, with 11 voting members, who acted with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, which has 59 votes. Christie,
50, appoints six of the governors, with the rest elected by the
trustees. Among the trustees with  voting rights , five are chosen
by the governor.  Rutgers Bullying  The airing by ESPN of video showing Rice grabbing and
pushing players, haranguing them with expletive-laden homophobic
slurs and hurling basketballs at their heads, came just over a
year after Rutgers student Dharun Ravi was convicted of invasion
of privacy for spying on his gay roommate, freshman Tyler
Clementi, who committed suicide in 2010 after video of him
kissing a man was recorded and posted on the Internet by Ravi.  The incident pushed Rutgers to the forefront of a national
discussion about bullying and the treatment of young gays, and
the school in February named a center to honor Clementi that
will be used for anti-bullying programs.  Rutgers leaders must explain “how such an abusive
environment was ever permitted to exist at our state
university,” Assemblywoman Celeste Riley, a Democrat from
Bridgeton who heads her house’s higher education committee, said
in a statement two days ago.  Pernetti, whose annual salary is $452,769, was included in
a list last month of five nominees for athletic director of the
year in the 2013 Sports Business Awards.  “Pernetti did accomplish some great things for the
school,” Sweeney said. “His getting Rutgers into the Big Ten
is a noteworthy achievement that we can be proud of. But his
handling of this entire incident made this action necessary.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  