-- Searching for Sugarman Salvation in IStar Land: Mortgages
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-04-05T15:32:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/searching-for-sugarman-salvation-in-istar-land-mortgages.html
When Jay Sugarman’s  IStar Financial
Inc. (SFI)  bought Fremont General Corp.’s commercial lending business
in June 2007, the deal brought loans on undeveloped residential
land as new home sales were two years into a six-year slide.  The $1.9 billion debt-fueled purchase pushed IStar to the
brink of default as the financial crisis unfolded. Its shares,
which hit an eight-year high of $52.54 that year, plunged 99
percent by February, 2009. From the second quarter of 2011
through the end of last year, IStar reported seven consecutive
quarters of  net losses  as commercial delinquencies piled up.  Now the company’s real estate holdings, including property
in states hardest hit by the housing crash such as  Arizona ,
California and Florida, are leading its rehabilitation as
commercial and residential markets rebound. The shares have
gained 33 percent this year as the real estate recovery
accelerates and after IStar navigated credit markets to repay
bondholders and then took advantage of investor demand for junk-
rated securities to refinance more than $2 billion of debt.  “This land business is going to be one of the best areas
over the next three to five years,” Sugarman, 50, the chairman
and chief executive officer of the New York-based company, said
in a telephone interview. “We’re pretty darn well positioned to
take advantage of that.”  Sugarman’s Success  IStar’s struggles since 2007 had threatened to tarnish
Sugarman’s wunderkind reputation. Before turning 40, the Houston
native, who graduated summa cum laude at  Princeton University 
and won academic prizes at  Harvard Business School , was running
one of the best-performing publicly traded firms in the U.S.  He started the real estate finance operation with  Barry Sternlicht  of Starwood Capital Group LLC in 1993, after managing
private investment funds for the Burden family, a branch of the
Vanderbilts, and the Ziff family.  IStar, known until 2000 as Starwood Financial Inc., was
created for Starwood’s institutional and high-net-worth clients.
Sugarman then made it the largest commercial mortgage  real
estate investment trust , in part by financing high-risk loans
that more conservative banks shunned, such as debt on  Chelsea
Piers  in  New York  and  Washington  Center in Washington. It
returned almost 300 percent from 1999 to the start of 2007,
compared with a gain of 8.1 percent for the  Standard & Poor’s 
500 Index.  Fortunes took a turn in 2007 even as Sugarman said he saw
trouble looming in real estate because of excessive debt running
through the economy. Despite his concern, the company used $1.9
billion of short-term funding to finance the Fremont purchase,
which was mostly construction loans, with a concentration in
residential, including condominiums. The transaction also
obligated IStar to fund $3.72 billion in real-estate projects.  Root Problem  IStar had planned to replace the interim financing with
equity and debt until the U.S.  housing boom  cratered, causing
losses on subprime bonds that infected the financial system and
choked off new sources of funding. The company’s shares fell 99
percent from the peak in 2007 to February 2009.  The Fremont deal was the “root” of the company’s
subsequent financial woes,  Mark Palmer , an analyst at BTIG LLC,
a New York-based brokerage, said in a telephone interview. About
three years later, things still “looked dire,” he said.  In August 2009,  Fitch Ratings  lowered IStar’s debt  ratings 
to CC, the lowest junk tier, saying the company faced “probable
default” and citing a weakening in the loan portfolio and
increasing pressures on liquidity. The company’s bonds plunged
to below 30 cents on the dollar.  ‘Liquidity Mistakes’  “We were too big, we had asset types that were too
illiquid and candidly we hadn’t gone to the  capital markets  in
the time frame we needed to, to ride us through the storm,”
Sugarman said. “Companies like ours don’t get in trouble from
credit mistakes, they get in trouble from liquidity mistakes.”  By September 2010, IStar had $8.6 billion in debt,
including billions of dollars that needed to be refinanced at
the same time U.S.  unemployment  was approaching 10 percent.
IStar hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  and Kirkland & Ellis LLP to advise on a
potential restructuring that may have included a pre-packaged
bankruptcy, people familiar with the plan said at the time.  Sugarman said his opening gambit in discussions with
lenders was to reassure them everyone would be repaid, even as
loans IStar held were souring.  “We never felt like we were on the precipice,” Sugarman
said. “We always felt, ‘Guys, we can get through this, we can
cross the river, we can get on the other side, we can get on
solid ground, but you have to believe that first or you won’t
make it.’”  Taking Title  As the property debt went into default, IStar ended up
taking title to the real estate backing it. The firm then
limited making new loans and focused on resolving troubled
assets and cutting debt. The need to keep paying creditors came
at a cost, as it sold assets in 2008 and 2009 that it wanted to
keep and have since soared in value.  “We sold a lot of New York and a lot of D.C. that were
liquid,” Sugarman said. “We had to sell for liquidity purposes
to make sure we were ahead of all our liability maturities and
I’m sure all the folks who bought those did extremely well.”  In October 2010, IStar repaid a $1 billion  credit line 
early.  “We started to turn the corner when we paid the $1 billion
back before anyone expected us to,” Sugarman said. “People
started to take notice and say, ‘Oh, those guys are committed to
turning the ship around.’”  New Loans  Within a few months, Sugarman then arranged a $3 billion
loan from lenders led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , taking advantage
of renewed demand for risky assets driven by Federal Reserve
efforts to stimulate the economy. The moves paid off and the
company’s likelihood of default plunged.  “Sugarman has led IStar back from the brink,” BTIG’s Palmer said. “It’s impressive to see an executive put in that
situation and be able to work the company out of it.”  IStar, with holdings from the Fremont deal, now owns more
than 25,000 lots in its land portfolio and has property in 11
states, including Arizona, California, Florida,  Hawaii  and New
York. Land is one of the company’s four main businesses. IStar
also owns single-tenant properties, a real estate finance
business and other commercial and residential operating
properties, including office buildings, hotels and condominium
developments.  Rebound Play  “If you’re looking for a story that has some sort of
derivative play off the rebound in housing, then IStar is
certainly one that you would put on that list,”  Michael Kim , an
analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said
in a telephone interview. “The properties they’ve taken title
to from those peak-of-the-market loans, those are the assets
that could provide the upside proposition in IStar.”  About 22 percent, or $971 million, of its $5.7 billion in
assets is in land.  “We’ve built a pretty compelling land business more
recently,” Sugarman said. “You’ve seen a lot of dynamic
activity in the homebuilder sector predicated on the recovery.”  IStar rose 0.1 percent to $10.90 as of 11:30 a.m. in New
York and has climbed 50 percent in the past year compared with a
jump of 64 percent for an index of  homebuilders . Mortgage REITs
have returned 28 percent, including reinvested dividends.  IStar’s condominium business, mainly luxury units in major
U.S. cities, has also rebounded. In the fourth quarter it sold
170 units for $92.7 million, at an average price of about
$545,300 for a profit of $27 million. It had 974 condos in
inventory at the end of the quarter.  Capital Costs  The company still has work to do to improve its financial
performance. It hasn’t paid a dividend since the third quarter
of 2008, and hasn’t had a quarter of funds from operation per
share since the fourth quarter of 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  IStar’s  cost of capital  is still high and its  credit rating 
is below investment grade at Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch
and Standard & Poor’s. Reducing the cost of capital is critical
for the company to borrow money and then lend it and invest to
make money.  “It will take some time,” Kim said of IStar getting its
investment grade rating back. “That’s going to come from
delivering on their operating goals and showing the value in the
portfolio.”  After focusing internally for a few years, the company is
finally looking for new investments.  “It’s likely the company will begin to return to lending
and investing to some extent in 2013,” Palmer said.  IStar agreed in January to sell its stake in LNR Property
LLC, the biggest manager of distressed U.S. commercial real
estate loans for $220 million. The transaction, expected to
close in the second quarter, will provide the company with cash
it can use for new investments, it said in its annual  report 
filed last month.  “Now it’s a little more forward looking,” Sugarman said.
“We’re still a six-plus billion dollar company, we still have a
nice footprint in the industry, so I think we’ve got a nice
strong platform to work from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  