-- Senators Draft Higher Capital Requirement for Biggest U.S. Banks
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-04-05T22:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/senators-to-propose-higher-capital-for-banks-over-400-billion.html
The largest U.S. banks, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America  Corp., would have to
hold capital in excess of Basel III standards under a proposal
being drafted by Senate Democrats and Republicans to curb the
size of too-big-to-fail banks.  The current draft of the legislation would require U.S.
regulators to replace Basel III requirements with a higher
capital standard: 10 percent for all banks and an additional
surcharge of 5 percent for institutions with more than $400
billion in assets. Senators Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from  Ohio ,
and David Vitter, a Republican from  Louisiana , have said they
intend to introduce the bill this month.  The measure comes amid calls by regulators including
Federal Reserve chairman Ben S. Bernanke to do more to rein in
the size of so-called too-big-to-fail banks, a term used to
describe institutions perceived to be so big and important that
taxpayers would be compelled to prevent their failure. The
proposal’s authors have said it incorporates ideas from FDIC
Vice Chairman Thomas Hoenig, Dallas Federal Reserve President
Richard Fisher and former FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair.  Analysts including Jaret Seiberg of Guggenheim Securities
LLC’s Washington Research Group said that the bill doesn’t yet
have enough support to become law. Still, its bipartisan support
means it has a better chance of passage than other proposals.  “I don’t think this language can be enacted into law but
that doesn’t mean if you are at a big bank you should breathe
easy,” Seiberg wrote in a market commentary. “This is
indicative of a big and serious threat.”  Strictest Provisions  The measure would impose the strictest provisions on six
banks -- JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  -- all
of which have assets greater than $400 billion.  Karen Shaw Petrou, co-founder of Federal Financial
Analytics Inc., a Washington-based consulting firm, said the
proposal would return the banking system to a time before the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. was set up to guarantee bank
deposits.  “I view it as a radical view of how American banks should
be restructured that seems to disregard the role of the FDIC
coverage, prudential regulation and the totally different
structure of the 2013 economy,” Petrou said in an interview.  Brown has said the goal of the legislation is to take away
the “economic advantage the market gives” large banks and to
reduce the risk they pose to the financial system. He said
support for a too-big-to-fail bill has grown over the last 10 to
12 months.  Support Growing  “I’m confident that support is growing,” Brown said in a
March 10 interview with Bloomberg Television. “I don’t know
that we’ve got the 50 or maybe 60 votes we need yet.”  Under Basel III, banks must hold at least 7 percent of Tier
1 capital against a bank’s risk-weighted assets, plus as much as
a 2.5 percent surcharge for some of the world’s largest and most
complex banks.  “A Wall Street lobbyist stole and distributed a copy of
our draft bill to try and drum up support for protecting the big
banks’ taxpayer-funded handouts -- and ultimately remain too-
big-to-fail,” Luke Bolar, a spokesman for Vitter, said when
asked to comment on the draft bill.  Large bank lobbying groups have fought criticism that some
banks remain too-big-to-fail. They issued a brief on March 11
arguing that the Dodd-Frank Act, passed by Congress in response
to the 2008 credit crisis, greatly diminished whatever advantage
the biggest lenders held over smaller rivals.  ‘Excessively High’  “The reported draft mandates excessively high capital that
will restrict banks’ ability to lend to businesses and job
creators, and hurt economic growth,” Rob Nichols, president and
chief executive of the Financial Services Forum, said in an e-
mail.  The draft bill is subject to change before its
introduction. It would have to be adopted by both chambers of
Congress and be signed by President  Barack Obama  before it would
become law.  The legislation would require banks to rely more on
tangible common equity and less on risk-weighted assets. The
bill would require the Federal Reserve and Comptroller of the
Currency to write regulations setting capital standards for
subsidiaries with at least $50 billion in consolidated assets.
It would impose limits on federal bailouts for non-bank
subsidiaries, including for U.S. branches of a foreign bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  