-- Sequestration Seen as Airline Drag as U.S. Cuts Travel
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-04-05T20:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/sequestration-seen-as-airline-drag-as-u-s-cuts-travel.html
U.S. government spending on air
travel probably fell as much as 30 percent in the past month
amid congressionally mandated budget cuts that threaten to keep
weighing on the industry, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst said.  Demand from federal employees may stay at this level or
even lower “in perpetuity,” JPMorgan’s Jamie Baker wrote today
in a note to clients in which he estimated that the government
accounts for 3 percent to 4 percent of airline revenue. He pared
his full-year revenue projections by as much as 3 percent.  Sequestration’s impact on U.S. air travel won’t be as bad
as the 2008 financial crisis, H1N1 flu, the SARS respiratory
outbreak or tsunamis, “but it still stings,” wrote Baker, who
rates Delta and US Airways as overweight. Declining  fuel prices 
may temper the fallout, he said.  “It definitely will put pressure on earnings near-term
because business demand is soft,” Savanthi Syth, a Raymond
James Financial Inc. analyst, said in an interview. “But
capacity control -- the reason that this industry is different
than it has been historically and able to create profits -- is
still intact. We see sequester as a short-term impact with
little visibility as to when it will ease.”  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  paced a decline by the  Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index (BUSAIRL) , which slid 0.7 percent at the close in New York.
Delta and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  this week blamed sequestration
for shortfalls in a benchmark revenue gauge in March.  Revenue Pressure  Delta’s revenue for each seat flown a mile only rose 2
percent in March, short of a forecast for at least 4.5 percent,
according to the airline, which attributed part of the drop to
sequestration. Domestic traffic including regional partners slid
0.1 percent, Atlanta-based Delta said.  US Airways said March unit revenue was unchanged, lagging
behind its expectation for a 2 percent to 4 percent gain because
of “reduced close-in demand believed to be driven largely by
the sequester.”  The drop in airline stocks because of sequestration is
“unwarranted,”  Helane Becker , an analyst at Cowen Securities
LLC in New York, wrote today in a note to clients.  Excluding government reductions, airline bookings “remain
robust,” said Becker, who recommends buying Delta and Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways.  Pressure on the stocks from sequestration may “create an
interesting entry point” for investors willing to look beyond
the next few months, said Syth, who is based in St. Petersburg,
 Florida . She rates Delta and US Airways market perform.  An outbreak of a bird-flu virus in China also weighed on
U.S. airlines today. European and Asian aviation stocks fell on
concern that the disease will clip travel for carriers already
unsettled by military tensions with North Korea.  Air France-KLM
Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest airline, slid 7.8 percent in Paris.  Any travel disruptions from the bird flu probably would be
temporary,  Michael Derchin , an analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote today in a note. He recommended
buying airline stocks today to take advantage of the weakness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in  Dallas  at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  