-- Serbia Adds Razvojna Banka’s Assets to Postanska as Loss Expands
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-04-05T14:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/serbia-adds-razvojna-banka-s-assets-to-postanska-as-loss-expands.html
Serbia will shut  Razvojna Banka
Vojvodine AD (MTBN)  after transferring its assets and liabilities to
 Postanska Stedionica Banka AD (PSBN)  as the state-controlled bank’s
losses grew almost 83 percent in three months.  Postanska will take over 17.5 billion dinars ($203.79
million) of deposits and 6.3 billion dinars will be covered with
government bonds, the government said in an e-mailed statement
today. The decision ends the search for a strategic partner to
take over the assets and liabilities of the unprofitable bank,
62 percent owned by Serbia’s northern province of Vojvodina.  The government decided that “Razvojna Banka Vojvodine and
Postanska Stedionica Banka will sign an agreement on the
transfer of part of assets and liabilities” and all Razvojna’s
depositors will become Postanska clients as of April 8, it said.  Razvojna had a 14.53 billion-dinar accumulated loss in
2012, which expanded from 7.94 billion dinars at the end of
September, according to data posted on the Belgrade Stock
Exchange website on March 28. Its assets contracted to 25.95
billion dinars in 2012 from 35.5 billion dinars in 2011, the
data showed.  The transfer to Postanska Stedionica Banka is in line with
an Oct. 26 law designed to merge state banks, averting their
bankruptcy and maintaining financial stability.  Razvojna Banka is the second bank in a year in which the
government is trying to save deposits and avoid a run on banks
as the Balkan country fights the effect of the  European debt
crisis .  Saving Effort  Serbia wants to save almost 110 million euros ($142
million) in insured deposits and almost as much in uninsured
deposits at Razvojna, as well as 70,000 depositors, it said.  The effort to save the bank, previously known as Metals
Banka AD, was the second in two years. In late April 2010,
Vojvodina added capital to bail it out and renamed it Razvojna
Banka Vojvodine. Its market share by assets stood at 1.3 percent
in September.  Serbia and Vojvodina will jointly sell a five-year bond to
match the size of uninsured deposits.  The government set aside 300 million euros in its 2013
budget as a reserve financial stability fund to bolster the
banking industry if needed. Prime Minister Ivica Dacic’s
Cabinet, in office since July, is also seeking an adviser to
help it recapitalize or sell  Privredna Banka (PRBN)  Beograd AD,
according to a Dec. 5 invitation published in the Belgrade
newspaper Politika.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  