-- Serengeti’s LaNasa Said to Hire Ex-Goldman Colleagues
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-04-05T21:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/serengeti-s-lanasa-said-to-hire-ex-goldman-colleagues.html
Serengeti Asset Management LP, the
New York-based hedge-fund firm started by Jody LaNasa, hired two
of LaNasa’s former colleagues at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Leslie Biddle and Daniel Eichner, according to a person familiar
with the appointments.  Biddle will work with LaNasa and partner Vivian Lau, both
former Goldman colleagues, on investments in energy, power and
natural resources, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. Eichner was
hired as managing director of business development, marketing
and investor relations, the person said.  LaNasa founded Serengeti in 2007, building it into a $1.3
billion firm investing in distressed debt, structured finance
and equities. He was formerly head of the multistrategy
investing desk in the special situations investments group at
Goldman. The firm’s Serengeti Opportunities Ltd. fund rose 1.4
percent in March and 8.3 percent this year, after gaining 13
percent in 2012, according to the person.  Mary Beth Grover, a spokeswoman for Serengeti at the
Abernathy MacGregor Group, declined to comment on the
appointments and the returns.  Biddle, who joined Serengeti as partner, will also help run
the firm with LaNasa and Lau, with responsibilities in
investments and business development, the person said. Biddle
was a senior partner at Goldman Sachs, according to the person,
where she was global head of commodity sales and chief financial
officer of metals and mining investments.  Eichner, Lau  Eichner worked for LaNasa before and was an analyst in
Goldman Sachs’s special situations investments group in 2002 and
2003, the person said. He joined from Garrison Investment Group
LP, where he was responsible for  investor relations .  Lau joined Serengeti in 2008. Before that, she worked at
Goldman Sachs for eight years and co-ran the multistrategy
investment business in the special situations group, the person
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  