-- Sex Assault Victims Can Get Counseling Without Disclosure
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-04-05T16:21:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/sex-assault-victims-can-get-counseling-without-disclosure.html
Victims of sexual assault can get
mental-health counseling without disclosing it on applications
for U.S. government security clearance under a new policy set by
the director of national intelligence.  The guidance, effective immediately, seeks to counter a
perception that disclosing such counseling would jeopardize the
clearance needed for sensitive government positions, Charles
Sowell, deputy assistant director for special security, said
today.  “Victims of sexual assault will be encouraged to seek the
mental-health services they may need while feeling safe that
their privacy protections are strictly enforced,” Sowell said
on a conference call with reporters.  The revision mostly affects Defense Department employees
and applicants, who make up about 85 percent of those completing
the government’s standard security screening questionnaire,
Sowell said.  The Pentagon has estimated there are about 19,000 sexual
assaults a year in the military, based on anonymous surveys of
the active-duty force, though the number of reported cases each
year is smaller.  “This will save careers,” said Jennifer Norris, who left
the Maine Air National Guard after having to disclose counseling
she received for a rape and several assaults. “I should never
have had to tell them to begin with.”  Question No. 21 on the screening questionnaire for
national-security positions asks whether an applicant has
consulted a health-care professional for an emotional or mental-
health condition in the past seven years. The new guidance
includes an instruction directing victims of sexual assault who
receive counseling for the assault to answer “no.”  Formal Review  “We’ve changed that question repeatedly to keep up with
the times,” Sowell said, citing exemptions already in place for
those who receive family, marriage or grief counseling.  A broader, more formal review of the counseling question is
under way and “is going to take some time to get that wording
right,” he said.  “Today’s announcement from the federal government is a
major victory for our brave men and women in uniform that have
been raped or sexually assaulted,” said Nancy Parrish,
president of Protect our Defenders, a victims’ advocacy group.  “Too many survivors have been denied security clearance
for reporting their sexual assault, and these changes begin to
fix this wrong,” Parrish said in a statement.  Hundreds of thousands of employees or applicants complete
the government’s Standard Form 86 questionnaire each year,
Sowell said. Employees with secret-level clearances must be
reinvestigated every 10 years, while those with top-secret
clearances must be reexamined every five years, according to
Sowell.  “I believe that this interim policy guidance will
positively impact national security,”   James Clapper , the
director of national intelligence, said in a statement. “The
U.S. government recognizes the critical importance of mental
health and supports proactive management of mental health
conditions, wellness and recovery.”  For Related News and Information:
Military’s Sex-Assault Rules Need Review, Secretary Hagel Says  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  