-- SGX to Introduce Iron Ore Futures as Investors Bet on China
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n   a n d   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-04-05T12:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/sgx-to-introduce-iron-ore-futures-as-investors-wager-on-china.html
SGX AsiaClear, the world’s largest
clearer of iron ore swaps, is scheduled to start a futures
contract for the steel-making commodity next week as investors
seek to bet on the pace of Chinese growth and swings in prices.  The Singapore-based clearing house, a unit of  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , will offer the contracts from April 8 alongside
the swaps, according to a statement on its  website . One futures
contract will be 100 metric tons compared with 500 tons for the
swaps, the website shows. The planned start, which was delayed
from February, was confirmed by Joan Lew, a spokeswoman.  Global demand for seaborne ore has doubled since 2004 as
China emerged as the world’s second-largest economy, ramping up 
steel output  to support the construction of infrastructure and
the manufacture of consumer appliances. As demand expanded,
pricing shifted from annual contracts set between mining
companies and  steel mills  to shorter-term agreements and
increased spot sales. SGX joins CME Group Inc. and
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. in offering ore futures.  SGX may be seeking to meet an expected increase in demand
from U.S.-based traders, said Kerry Deal, head of iron ore and
bulk derivatives at Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd. “They look at this
as a good  China  play. China is continuing to grow and this is a
China-priced product,” he said in a phone interview.  Tianjin Prices  The contract will be settled in cash against The Steel
Index Ltd.  price  for Tianjin, which refers to ore with 62
percent content delivered to the Chinese port. Trading will run
for 12 hours from 8 a.m. in Singapore, and contracts will be
offered for as many as 48 consecutive months from the current
month, the website said.  “There’s a sense that in the long run, the market is
shifting more towards a listed future, that regulators
everywhere have a more favorable view of futures than they do of
the OTC cleared swap,” said Deal, using the initials for over-
the-counter.  U.S. regulators, guided by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act designed
to curb excessive risk-taking after the financial crisis, now
require most privately negotiated swap trades be backed by a
clearinghouse that’s capitalized by the largest banks. That
means dealers and customers have to post upfront collateral.  Trading in  iron ore  was near a record last month at 20
million tons, The Steel Index said yesterday. The total in over-
the-counter swaps and options cleared by exchanges was up from
7.9 million tons a year earlier and compares with the all-time
high of 20.3 million in September. Volume in the first quarter
was 58 million tons, from 21.2 million tons in the same period
last year and more than the total for all of 2011, it said.  ‘Systems Testing’  The introduction of the new product, which had been set to
start on Feb. 25, was postponed for six weeks to “provide
member firms sufficient time to prepare their trading and
clearing support, including conducting necessary systems
testing,” SGX AsiaClear said in a Feb. 21 statement.  Iron ore  in Tianjin was at $135.90 a dry ton yesterday, 6.2
percent lower this year, according to The Steel Index. The price
averaged $128.30 in 2012, swinging between a high of $149.40 in
April and low of $86.70 in September.  Global seaborne demand has surged from 610 million tons in
2004 to an estimated 1.258 billion tons this year, according to
Morgan Stanley. China, the largest steelmaker, will account for
about 66 percent of the total. Iron ore is the world’s biggest
seaborne cargo after oil.  China’s Imports  Prices may slump as much as 34 percent to $90 a ton by the
end of December on expectations for increased supply, according
to the median of seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
in a survey published yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which
forecasts an average price of $139 in 2013, expects China’s
imports to climb 4 percent, the least in three years.  Investors can trade swaps handled by brokers including SSY
Futures Ltd., GFI Group Inc., Clarkson Plc and Freight Investor
Services Ltd.  Intercontinental Exchange , the operator of
regulated exchanges and clearinghouses, said on Jan. 28 that it
planned to start two kinds of iron ore futures on the ICE
Futures Europe Exchange from Feb. 11.  China’s economy  is set to expand 8.1 percent this year
after the weakest annual growth in 13 years in 2012, according
to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
 Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE5)  together with London-based Rio Tinto Group,
Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Perth-based Fortescue
Metals Group supply 71 percent of seaborne iron ore cargo.  A record 108.9 million tons of iron ore swaps were cleared
by SGX AsiaClear last year, which clears more than 90 percent of
the swaps, according to its website.  Shares in SGX ended little changed at S$7.57 in  Singapore .
That’s 8 percent higher this year, valuing the company at S$8.09
billion ($6.53 billion).  To contact the reporters for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net ;
Glenys Sim in Singapore at   gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  