-- Slovenia Needs No Aid, Addressing Problems, Estonia’s Ligi Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-04-05T14:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/slovenia-needs-no-aid-addressing-problems-estonia-s-ligi-says.html
Slovenia “is addressing problems”
with long-term economic policy and growth and doesn’t need a
bailout, Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said.  The former Yugoslav country has a “clearly different”
economic model from Cyprus and doesn’t have a “bubble from
attracting external funds,” Ligi said in an interview today in
Tallinn, the Estonian capital. Estonia, Slovenia and Slovakia
are the only ex-communist countries in the 17-nation euro area.  Cyprus’s government wound up talks this week with the so-
called troika of officials representing the European Commission,
the  International Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank  on
the terms for the country’s 10 billion-euro ($12.8 billion)
rescue. Slovenia, struggling with its second recession since
2009 and rising bad debts at its banks, is trying to avoid
becoming the sixth euro nation to ask for a bailout.  “Every country should first do its homework,” Ligi said.
“As far as I know, Slovenia is doing that and we don’t have
information that they would need a similar bailout like Cyprus.
They have promised to manage.”  Problems with Slovenia’s banks “aren’t insurmountable”
and policy makers are aware that the financial industry needs to
be rebuilt, the newly appointed central bank Governor Bostjan Jazbec said on April 3.  Europe ’s finance ministers are “keeping fingers crossed”
that Italy won’t reverse steps made by caretaker Prime Minister
 Mario Monti , who remains in office until a new government is
installed, Ligi said. The country’s February elections failed to
produce a ruling coalition with a parliamentary majority, which
delayed the approval of stimulus measures as government
borrowing costs rise amid market turmoil sparked by Cyprus.  ‘Was Worried’  Cyprus agreed March 16 to a bailout from the European Union
that included a tax on all  bank deposits , a condition that left
politicians racing for almost two weeks to revise the aid
package and exempt insured funds from losses.  “It is true that the Eurogroup was worried from the start
about the guaranteed deposits, but it is a separate issue
whether the signals given by different Eurogroup nations between
the first and the second proposals were good communication,”
Ligi said, without giving details. “It definitely wasn’t good,
the controversy between the signals that were given after the
first proposal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  