-- Soros Joins Gross in Warning Kuroda Plan Risks Yen Rout
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2013-04-05T08:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/soros-joins-gross-in-warning-kuroda-plan-risks-yen-rout.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
and  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said the
 Bank of Japan (8301) ’s plan to end deflation risks weakening the yen.  “If the yen starts to fall, which it has done, and people
in Japan realize that it’s liable to continue and want to put
their money abroad, then the fall may become like an
avalanche,” Soros said today in an interview on CNBC.  The currency will have to depreciate “much more” for BOJ
Governor Haruhiko Kuroda to reach his inflation target of 2
percent, Gross said yesterday.  Soros and Gross chimed in after Kuroda announced plans
yesterday to double the BOJ’s monthly bond purchases to about
7.5 trillion yen ($77.8 billion) as it seeks to achieve 2
percent annual inflation in 2 years.  Japan ’s currency fell 18
percent in the past six months on speculation policy makers were
planning to pump more money into the economy.  Only the Malawian and Venezuelan currencies performed
worse, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yen was little changed against the dollar today at
96.32 as of 8:51 a.m. in London. It earlier weakened to 97.19, a
level not seen since August 2009.  The BOJ is ready to do more if needed, Kuroda told
reporters in Tokyo yesterday.  Unstoppable Momentum?  “If what they’re doing gets something started, they may
not be able to stop it,” Soros said.  Soros Fund Management LLC, the billionaire’s $24 billion
family office, made almost $1 billion since November from bets
that the yen would tumble, a person close to the New York-based
company told Bloomberg in mid-February.  In 1992, Soros and his then chief strategist Stan
Druckenmiller made a $10 billion wager the  Bank of England  would
be forced to devalue the pound, a trade that netted $1 billion.  Kuroda may have difficulty achieving his inflation goal,
Gross said. Group of Seven nations may press Japan to control
the pace of the yen’s decline to temper gains in their own
currencies, he said. A stronger currency makes a nation’s goods
more expensive to overseas buyers.  “It seems not unachievable, but it’s certainly a high
target to reach,” Gross said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart” with  Adam Johnson  and Sara Eisen.
“They’ve got to depreciate the yen. To our way of thinking,
much more depreciation of the yen has to take place in order to
get even close to 2 percent” inflation, he said.  “I’m not sure that other G-7 countries are willing to
permit that,” said Gross, who is based in Newport Beach,
California. “They’ve got to control it to some extent.”  Gross manages the $289 billion  Total Return Fund. (PTTRX)  Pimco is
a unit Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  