-- Summers Sees 2013 Growth Healthy With No Panic on Jobs
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2013-04-06T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/summers-sees-2013-growth-healthy-with-no-panic-on-jobs.html
Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers said he expects healthy economic growth in the U.S. this
year and next and doesn’t see a “need to panic” over a March
employment report that shows slowing job creation.  Summers, who directed President  Barack Obama ’s National
Economic Council for the administration’s first two years, said
the economy should expand this year at a rate “north of 2.5
percent.” Next year, there’s “a good chance for above 3
percent” growth, he said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend.  The Labor Department reported yesterday that payrolls grew
by 88,000 in March, the smallest gain in nine months and lower
than the most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  Summers said the economy’s “basic momentum” is still
“growing at a rate that is closing the  unemployment  gap.”  Surveying the international scene, he cautioned that the
disarray surrounding the European-led bailout of Cyprus may do
lasting damage to the region.  “It seems to me the awkwardness with which they handled
the Cyprus situation has got to have created a substantial sense
of unease in Europe, and that is something that I think is worth
worrying about,” Summers, 58, said.  Euro-area leaders are struggling to stabilize the region
after a month in which they fumbled a rescue of Cyprus and the
euro fell to its lowest level of the year against the dollar.
The International Monetary Fund said April 3 it would contribute
about 1 billion euros ($1.29 billion) as part of a 10 billion-
euro rescue package for Cyprus.  ‘Bold Experiment’  Conversely, Summers applauded  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda’s move this week to embark on record easing as
“a bold experiment” to end 15 years of deflation in the
country. The Bank of Japan’s move means the world’s four biggest
developed-market monetary authorities -- BOJ, the Federal
Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England --
are aligned in commitments to spur growth and return their
economies to full strength.  The BOJ said it will double the monetary base by the end of
2014 through purchases of government bonds, in Japan’s biggest-
ever round of asset purchases.  “On the evidence of the Japanese stock market, on the
evidence of expectations in Japan over the last several months,
you’d have to say that there’s a positive verdict on what
they’ve been doing so far,” Summers said.  Even so, he said that the effectiveness of the new Japanese
monetary policy will become clear only over time.  ‘Coiling a Spring’  “When you’ve had macro-economically irresponsible policies
in the past, they often produce benefits that are very great for
the first number of months and, like coiling a spring, provide
for problems later,” Summers said.  He said the U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing
policy continues to be justified by economic conditions, as the
risk of a slowdown still outweighs the risk of accelerating
inflation.  On the  federal budget , Summers said that an Obama plan that
includes cuts to entitlement programs such as Social Security
and Medicare “will remove a lot of the excuses” for Republican
congressional leaders “who do not want to negotiate” with the
president. Democrats and Republicans are currently locked in a
stalemate over federal budget deficits.  ‘Balanced’ Proposal  Obama’s budget plan, to be unveiled April 10, will call for
reducing Social Security recipients’ annual cost-of-living
increases by changing the measure of inflation used, according
to an outline the White House released. For Medicare, the
president will propose reducing payments to drug companies and
health care providers and imposing higher costs on high-income
beneficiaries.  Summers said the budget “is balanced. It recognizes that
entitlements have to be part of an ultimate solution.”  He predicted little chance that the White House and
Congress would soon agree on an overhaul of the tax code.  “Of all the propositions that there are, probably there
are none that would command support across a wider range of
economists than the idea that a broader base and a lower rate is
fairer and makes the economy grow,” Summers said. Still, he
added, “I wouldn’t be betting on it.”  Since his departure from the Obama administration, Summers
has returned to Harvard University, where he is now an economics
professor at the Kennedy School of Government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  