-- Swedish Manufacturers Resume Hiring to Capture Global Revival
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-04-05T08:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/swedish-manufacturers-resume-hiring-to-capture-global-revival.html
Sweden ’s biggest exporters are
hiring more workers again as they gear up for an expansion to
tap growing demand in Asia and the U.S.  There has been across the board demand for more workers at
Sweden’s exporters, small- and mid-sized manufacturing companies
and at suppliers, Lars Forseth, head of the Swedish unit of
 Milwaukee , Wisconsin-based  Manpower Inc. (MAN) , said in an April 3
interview. He declined to comment on specific industries, citing
competition reasons.  “We saw a change starting to happen sometime in early
March,” Forseth said. “We’re at the start of a very small
upturn but it is nonetheless a change in a positive direction.”  Swedish manufacturing expanded for a second month in March
and companies including  Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA) ,  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) ,  SKF AB (SKFB) 
and  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  have all expressed optimism about a rebound in the
U.S., the world’s largest economy. A  March 12  Manpower survey
forecast job growth in Swedish manufacturing of 2 percent in the
second quarter, after 4 percent growth in the first quarter.  Sweden’s $500 billion economy has been struggling to expand
as Europe’s debt-crisis induced recession is sapping demand for
exporters. The country’s krona is also one the best-performing
major currencies in the world over the past year, making Swedish
goods more expensive abroad.  Demand Spreads  Economic growth in Sweden, the largest Nordic economy,
slowed to 0.8 percent last year from 3.7 percent in 2011 as
exports fell. The economy will expand 1.3 percent this year and
2.3 percent in 2014, Sweden’s National Institute of Economic
Research said on March 27.  Swedish manufacturing expanded faster than economists had
projected in March, with a purchasing managers’ index rising to
52.1 from 50.9 in February. A reading above 50 indicates growth.
Orders increased both nationally and in export markets in March.  Still, the index’s employment component dipped to 44.2 from
45.3 even as the sub-index measuring production plans rose to
60.5. This signals growing production and “strengthens the case
for new hiring,” Swedbank, which compiles the index, said.  Manpower clients are looking for workers within production,
including assembly and for expertise in handling machinery,
Forseth said. A further increase in demand could also spill over
to white-collar employees, he said. Demand is seen supported by
Asia and the U.S., while  Europe  is still more subdued, he said.  Full Speed  SKF, the world’s largest maker of ball bearings used in
everything from cars to washing machines and hospital beds,
plans to add more production in the U.S. to meet growing demand
in North America, Chief Executive Officer Tom Johnstone said
last month in an interview from Gothenburg, Sweden.  “For the last two or three years we’ve been much more
bullish on North America because I really believe that in the
medium and longer-term that North America will be, from an
industrial viewpoint, a growing economy,” he said.  Atlas Copco CEO Ronnie Leten also said last month the
Stockholm-based maker of air compressors is going “full speed
ahead” in the U.S to capitalize on growth fueled by limited
salary increases and favorable energy prices.  The world’s largest economy is projected to accelerate in
the first quarter as companies invest in new equipment and
rebuild stockpiles, while consumers keep spending in the face of
higher taxes. The economy will expand at a 2 percent rate in the
first quarter, according to the median estimate of 73 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from March 8 to March 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  