-- Swiss Spent 4.5 Billion Francs Shopping Abroad: Study
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-04-05T10:50:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/swiss-spent-4-5-billion-francs-shopping-abroad-study.html
A third of Swiss residents bought
clothes and groceries abroad last year, spending 4.5 billion
francs ($4.8 billion), according to a study published today.  Landlocked  Switzerland  is not a member of the European
Union and prices for goods ranging from jeans to vegetables to
books are often much higher than in neighboring France,  Germany ,
Austria and  Italy . In recent years, a rise in the Swiss franc
against the euro has prompted many in Switzerland to cross the
border to shop. Newspapers have dubbed them “shopping
tourists” and their willingness to travel in search of deals
has left Swiss retailers struggling.  The amount spent on targeted shopping abroad is the
equivalent of about 5 percent of Swiss retail sales, according
to a study by market research institute  GfK , carried out for the
Swiss association of retailers, which represents Migros, Coop,
Manor, Denner,  Valora Holding AG (VALN)  and  Charles Voegele Holding AG. (VCH) 
Eighty-one percent of those surveyed said they were going abroad
to take advantage of cheaper prices, the study showed. Swiss
citizens spent another 3.8 billion francs on acquisitions
carried out when traveling abroad on vacations or during
business trips, GfK said.  At 41 percent, residents of the Italian-speaking canton of
Ticino were the most frequent shoppers outside of Switzerland,
above the national average of 31 percent, the study determined.
Even so, the bulk of the spending took place in Germany,
followed by France, Italy and Austria, according to the data.  The biggest share of the expenditure -- 31 percent -- was
on clothing and shoes, followed by food, then toiletries and
finally home furnishings.  Swiss  consumer prices  have fallen over the past year on the
back of cheaper imported goods. The  Swiss National Bank  set a
cap of 1.20 per euro on the franc in September 2011 to shield
the economy from deflation and a recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  