-- U.K. Credit Rating Affirmed by S&P as Outlook Remains Negative
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-04-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/u-k-credit-rating-affirmed-by-s-p-as-outlook-remains-negative.html
Britain retained its top AAA credit
rating at  Standard & Poor’s , which said the government has the
capacity to meet its fiscal challenges, though the outlook for
the grade remains negative.  “We believe that the government will implement its fiscal
mandate and that it has the ability and willingness to respond
rapidly to economic challenges,” S&P said in a statement in
London yesterday. The negative outlook means “at least a one-
in-three chance” of a downgrade if economic and fiscal
performances were to weaken beyond current expectations.  The affirmation comes after Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne ’s March 20 budget, when he announced a cut in the
growth forecast and said it will take longer than previously
expected to lower the nation’s debt. Moody’s Investors Service
stripped Britain of its top grade in February, and  Fitch Ratings 
put the nation on “watch negative” two days after the budget.  The independent  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its
2013 growth projection to 0.6 percent from 1.2 percent on March
20. The OBR also expects net debt to begin falling in 2017-18, a
year later than previously planned. It’s the second time the
debt target has slipped.  S&P put the U.K.’s rating on a negative outlook in
December, a week after Osborne delivered his autumn statement,
when he first pushed back his debt time frame.  Gilts Rise  Fitch said on March 22 that its decision to put the U.K.’s
AAA rating on watch negative indicates a “heightened
probability of a downgrade in the near term.” It plans to
complete its review of the grade by the end of this month.  Investors often ignore rating and outlook changes. Gilts
have advanced since Moody’s cut Britain’s rating to Aa1 from Aaa
on Feb. 22. U.K. government bonds rose yesterday, with the 10-
year yield falling to 1.63 percent, the lowest since September.  In its statement yesterday, S&P said that the Bank of
England’s accommodative policy stance should help to keep the
pound “competitive.” Sterling has fallen about 5.7 percent
against the dollar and 4.7 percent versus the euro this year.
It’s the second worst performer after the yen in 2013, based on
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indices.  The ratings company also said the U.K. government has been
taking measures to stimulate credit, though it doesn’t expect
these to have a “substantial impact on net lending.”  It forecast that the economy will grow an average 1.6
percent a year from 2013 to 2016, based on the impact of the
government fiscal plans. Governance issues won’t “materially
diminish”  London ’s position as the “pre-eminent” financial
center in the European Union, it said.  The U.K. Treasury in London responded to the S&P statement,
saying it was a “reminder that our country cannot afford to
simply run away from our problems.”  “Though it is taking time, we are slowly but surely fixing
this country’s economic problems,” it said.  S&P said its view on the U.K. is predicated on the country
remaining a member of the EU.  “Our baseline assumption is that business investment will
not be affected by uncertainty regarding the outcome of a
possible referendum on EU membership,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  