-- U.K. Says Bonus Curbs It Fought Threaten Financial Stability
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-04-05T12:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/u-k-says-bonus-curbs-it-fought-threaten-financial-stability.html
Banker bonus curbs backed by the
rest of the European Union imperil efforts to make lenders more
resilient in crises, the U.K. said in a new attack following
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s defeated bid to
block the measures.  The limits banning bonuses more than twice fixed pay “will
be damaging to financial stability and the soundness of affected
credit institutions” and “are not consistent with
internationally agreed principles,” the U.K. said in a
 statement  to the EU’s Council of Ministers, published on the
EU’s website.  Britain also criticized the broader legislation containing
the pay rules, saying it may fail “in certain significant
areas” to properly implement global standards agreed on by the
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The Basel group has
promised to report on whether the final version of the EU rules
clashes with an international accord known as Basel III.  The U.K., which lacks a veto on financial laws, was the
sole dissenting voice opposing a deal struck between governments
and EU lawmakers last month on how to apply the Basel rules --
which more than triple the core reserves that banks must hold
against possible losses. The European Parliament insisted on
adding the pay curbs in a bid to stop excessive bonuses that it
said spurred irresponsible risk taking.  The U.K. government’s representation in Brussels declined
to specify which parts of the EU’s interpretation of Basel III
wouldn’t be in line with international guidance.  Osborne and U.K. diplomats had argued the bonuses plan
could drive up fixed salaries at banks and damage the
competitiveness of the nation’s financial services industry.  ‘Monster’ Legislation  “This piece of legislation is a monster, I wouldn’t be
proud of it at all,” Karel Lannoo, chief executive officer of
the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels, said in
reference to the draft EU law. “It is not Basel III compliant,
there are some very serious differences.”  Lannoo said the EU plan imposes less tough capital rules on
banks’ insurance arms, it allows lenders to escape capital
requirements on their holdings of sovereign debt, and it doesn’t
include a firm commitment to introduce binding limit on bank
indebtedness.  “We consider CRD IV to be fully compliant with Basel
III,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for Michel Barnier, the
EU’s financial services chief, said in an interview. “The rules
have been calibrated to take account of the fact that the EU
will apply them to all its banks, far more than required by
Basel,” Hughes said. CRD IV is the name of the EU law to
implement the Basel pact.  Basel Power  The Basel committee brings together regulators from 27
nations including the U.K., U.S. and  China  to set common
standards for their banks. The group doesn’t have the power to
force countries to apply its rules. It can investigate how well
the measures are being applied and publish its findings.  Amid U.K. opposition to the bonus curbs, the country’s
banks have faced criticism for the way they reward staff.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest lender by assets,
paid investment bankers bonuses “incapable of justification”
as employees focused on revenue at the expense of clients,
according to an internal report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  