-- U.K. Home Prices Rise as Halifax Sees Modest Improvement
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-04-05T07:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/u-k-house-prices-rise-as-halifax-sees-modest-2013-improvement.html
U.K.  house prices  rose in March,
according to Halifax, which said values may continue on a
“modest” upward trend this year.  Home values  increased 0.2 percent from the previous month
to an average 163,943 pounds ($249,500), the mortgage unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in a statement in London today.
From a year earlier, values were up 0.3 percent.  Both the  Bank of England  and the government have introduced
measures to support lending, while a BOE survey this week showed
that U.K. lenders increased the availability of mortgages in the
first quarter. Still, mortgage approvals fell more than
economists forecast in February, as a stagnating economy and
turmoil in the euro area dented confidence.  “Weak income growth and continuing below-trend economic
growth are likely to remain significant constraints on housing
demand during the remainder of this year,” said  Martin Ellis , a
Halifax economist. “We expect to see a modest increase in U.K.
 house prices  during 2013.”  House prices were 1.2 percent higher in the first quarter
compared with the final three months of last year, according to
today’s report.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged 3.5
billion pounds in his budget last month to help home buyers.
That followed the introduction last summer of the Funding for
Lending Scheme, designed to spur banks to step up lending.  Recent house-price data have been mixed.  Nationwide
Building Society  said last week that the outlook for the housing
market was “unusually uncertain” as prices remained little
changed in March. By contrast, Hometrack Ltd. said home values
rose the most in three years.  The BOE kept the size of its  bond-purchase program 
unchanged at 375 billion pounds yesterday and held its  key
interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in  London  at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  