-- U.S. Isn’t ‘Getting Too Jumpy’ on Kim Threats, Rice Says
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2013-04-06T07:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/u-s-isn-t-getting-too-jumpy-on-kim-threats-rice-says.html
The U.S. wants to send a message
that America can defend itself and allies without “getting too
jumpy” about  North Korea ’s barrage of threats,  Susan Rice , the
U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations , said.  While North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un “appears to be
pushing the envelope,” the U.S. is seeking “a de-escalation of
these tensions,” Rice said yesterday in an interview with
Andrea Mitchell on  MSNBC .  “Our interest is in reminding him and those around him of
the benefits of an alternative peaceful course,” Rice said,
without “getting too jumpy when he wakes up in the morning and
issues yet another provocative statement.”  North Korea yesterday told  Russia  and other countries to
consider evacuating their embassies in Pyongyang, warning they
can’t be protected if there’s a conflict. Kim’s regime has made
an intensifying series of statements threatening confrontation
and even nuclear war with the U.S. and  South Korea .  Rice said the U.S. has been communicating with  China , North
Korea’s neighbor, biggest  trading partner  and closest ally about
a collective international response. China and the U.S. worked
together at the UN Security Council last month to craft a
resolution that imposed tougher sanctions on North Korea after
it conducted a nuclear test.  “Clearly, with the border that they have, with the
economic relationship that they have, they can do more,” Rice
said. China is “very much of the view that Kim Jong Un has gone
too far and that this now is a situation that has the potential
to directly threaten their interests in the region.”  ‘Unacceptable’ Conduct  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said today in China
that North Korea’s statements are designed to raise regional
tensions and called for Kim’s regime to return to six-nation
denuclearization talks. Those negotiations with the U.S., China,
Russia,  Japan  and South Korea haven’t met since 2008 and North
Korea in January declared them over.  “This conduct is unacceptable and we condemn it,” Gillard
said at the Boao Forum in the southern province of  Hainan .
“It’s now for each of us to use whatever pressure we can on
North Korea to cut out this conduct.”  South Korean Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin said yesterday
North Korea may be preparing a test launch of a medium-range
Musudan ballistic missile.  “We would not be surprised to see them take such an
action,” White House spokesman  Jay Carney  told reporters
yesterday in  Washington . “It would fit their current pattern of
bellicose, unhelpful and unconstructive rhetoric and actions.”  Missile Report  North Korea was seen loading two mid-range missiles onto
mobile launchers and hiding them in a facility near the east
coast, Yonhap reported yesterday, citing unidentified South
Korean military sources. Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok
declined to confirm or comment on the report.  Yesterday’s warning to diplomats in Pyongyang joins “an
escalating series of rhetorical statements, and the question is
to what end,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
told reporters yesterday in Washington. “We all know that this
is an unpredictable regime and an unpredictable situation.”  The U.S. has no indication that  Sweden  will change its
diplomatic status in North Korea, Nuland said. Sweden represents
U.S. interests in the country because the U.S. and North Korea
don’t have formal diplomatic relations.  Nuland cited a  release  April 4 from the U.S. embassy in
 Seoul  saying that “despite current political tensions with
North Korea, there is no specific information to suggest there
are imminent threats” to U.S. citizens or facilities in South
Korea.  Market Concerns  Tensions on the Korean peninsula have been reflected in
financial markets. South Korea’s  Kospi index  fell 1.6 percent
yesterday to 1,927.23 in Seoul, its steepest loss since Oct. 26.
The won dropped 0.7 percent to 1,131.69 per dollar, the weakest
since Sept. 6. The currency slumped 6 percent in the past three
months, Asia’s second-worst performer.  The UN has said that for now its staff of 36 international
employees and 21 locally hired workers will continue to carry
out humanitarian relief in North Korea, one of the world’s most
impoverished countries.  Russia is “alarmed” by the tensions on the Korean
peninsula and is in “close contact” with the U.S., China,
Japan and South Korea over the proposal to empty diplomatic
missions, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said, according
to a  statement  on the ministry’s website. Russia also sought
clarification from the government in Pyongyang, he said.  ‘Unspoken Need’  “There rests an unspoken need for more direct engagement
by Russia and China, maybe in the form of a summit to deal with
an unpredictable young leader,”  George Lopez , a former UN
sanctions investigator on North Korea, said, referring to Kim in
an e-mail.  The crisis is escalating after the communist nation warned
this week that “the moment of explosion is approaching soon”
and said it’s poised to conduct a “smaller, lighter and
diversified” nuclear attack.  “In recent weeks, the North Korean government has raised
tensions on the Korean peninsula and the wider region through a
series of public statements and other provocations,” the
British Foreign Office said. “We condemn this behavior and urge
the North Korean government to work constructively with the
international community, including over the presence of foreign
embassies.”  In  Germany , the North Korean ambassador was summoned to the
Foreign Ministry in Berlin yesterday and told that  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government is extremely concerned by the
escalation on the Korean peninsula, which Germany finds
unacceptable, the ministry said in a statement.  The matter will be on the agenda at a meeting of foreign
ministers from the Group of Eight nations scheduled in London
next week with the goal of reaching a “resolute” common
reaction to North Korea’s “irresponsible threats,” the
ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  