-- Wal-Mart Bonds Fly Off Shelf as Shoppers Stew: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2013-04-05T15:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/wal-mart-bonds-fly-off-shelf-as-shoppers-stew-corporate-finance.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is winning the
lowest borrowing costs this year as its AA credit rating offsets
challenges from a corruption probe to reports of thinly stocked
shelves.  The world’s largest retailer, which has $5 billion of debt
 maturing  through October, yesterday sold an equal amount of
bonds in a four-part offering that included the lowest coupon on
three-year notes in 2013, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Wal-Mart’s sale adds to a supply of AA rated debt
that has declined to 11 percent of the $4 trillion U.S.
corporate market from 18 percent three years ago.  Wal-Mart, whose annual free  cash flow  exceeds the market
values of about half the companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
stock index, is succeeding in the bond market even after
forecasting quarterly same-store sales won’t improve from a year
earlier. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer is also
contending with a federal investigation into whether it
systematically bribed Mexican officials and customer complaints
of deteriorating service.  “The stable free cash flow is the major driver,” James Goldstein, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “I don’t think people are too concerned
about the headlines.”  Narrowest Spread  Wal-Mart’s sold $1 billion of 0.6 percent notes due April
2016 that yield 30 basis points more than similar-maturity
Treasuries. That’s the narrowest spread for similar-maturity
corporate debt this year, eclipsing the 35 basis-point gap
awarded to GlaxoSmithKline Plc, PepsiCo Inc. and Praxair Inc.,
Bloomberg data show.  The three-year notes rose 0.23 cent on the dollar to 100.22
cents and yielded 0.53 percent at 10:50 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The deal also included $1.25 billion of 1.125 percent debt
maturing in April 2018, $1.75 billion of 2.55 percent, 10-year
debt and $1 billion of 30-year securities that pay a 4 percent
coupon to match the 2013 low previously recorded by Medtronic
Inc. and Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. The 2043 notes rose 2.4 cents
to 102.6 and yielded 3.85 percent at 11:47 a.m.  “Wal-Mart remains committed to maintaining a strong
balance sheet, which combined with our solid free cash flow and
AA credit rating helped us secure favorable coupons,” said
Randy Hargrove, a company spokesman.  Interest Cost  Each of Wal-Mart’s coupons are lower than the average for
 similar-maturity debt  ranked AA, at least seven levels above
speculative grade, as of April 3, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. Wal-Mart is  rated  Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service
and an equivalent AA by Standard & Poor’s.  The company’s weighted average coupon of 2.09 percent on
yesterday’s transaction is about half the 4.02 percent paid on
its $3.69 billion of dollar-denominated debt maturing this year,
Bloomberg data show.  “They’re going to slash their interest expense with this
issue,” said Nikhill Patel, an analyst at San Antonio-based
Frost Investment Advisors LLC, which oversees $9 billion.
“Investors are drawn to the strong free cash flow and operating
margins that Wal-Mart generates.”  Wal-Mart’s $12.7 billion of  free cash  in the 12 months
ended Jan. 31 is more than eight times the funds generated by
Costco Wholesale Corp., the largest U.S. warehouse club. An
operating margin of 5.93 percent exceeds every U.S. food and
staples retailer with market values bigger than $5 billion
except Whole Foods Market Inc., Bloomberg data show.  Facing Obstacles  Before yesterday’s sale, Wal-Mart’s debt underperformed
similarly rated bonds this year. A price decline of 1.82 percent
for the company’s notes compares with a 0.7 percent drop in AA
rated securities, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  The company is facing obstacles. A decline in the
retailer’s U.S. workforce even as it opens new stores has
coincided with customer frustration that there aren’t enough
employees to keep shelves stocked, cash registers manned and
shoppers’ questions answered. Staffing at Wal-Mart and Sam’s
Club outlets in the U.S. has declined by about 120,000 employees
since 2008 to 1.3 million, according to regulatory filings. In
the same period, the number of stores grew to 4,005 from 3,550,
the documents show.  That’s benefited companies such as Target Corp., which has
an operating margin of 7.11 percent, as customers seek
alternatives.  ‘Execute Superbly’  Wal-Mart’s in-stock shelf availability is at historically
high levels and averages between 90 percent and 95 percent,
Hargrove said.  Same-store sales for Wal-Mart’s U.S. locations in the 13
weeks ending April 26 will be little changed from a year
earlier, Bill Simon, chief executive officer of Wal-Mart U.S.,
said on a Feb. 21 teleconference to discuss fourth-quarter
results with analysts and investors.  The company, which spent $157 million in the year ended
Jan. 31 linked to its investigations of possible bribery in its
international operations, said last month that it expects to
continue incurring costs related to the probes. The U.S.
Department of Justice and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, as well as federal and local government agencies in
 Mexico , are also examining bribery allegations.  While Wal-Mart doesn’t expect those matters to have a
material adverse effect on its business, the company said it
can’t reasonably estimate the potential loss.  “Most of the issues people raise are issues that a
shareholder might care about but not a bondholder,” said Carol Levenson, director of research at Chicago-based Gimme Credit
LLC, which rates Wal-Mart’s debt “stable.” “This is perhaps
the strongest, steadiest retailing credit out there. They know
what they’re doing and generally they execute superbly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  