-- Women in Green Show Corporate Clout Overtakes Masters Gentility
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-04-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/women-in-green-show-corporate-clout-overtakes-masters-gentility.html
Women in green jackets aren’t the
only change at Augusta National Golf Club as it prepares to host
the Masters Tournament next week.  Along with its first female members, the 80-year-old
private club in Augusta, Georgia, has its initial corporate-
hospitality pavilion and a newly hired woman executive to help
chairman  Billy Payne  expand the business of golf’s opening
annual major championship. In the past seven years, Payne has
forged new sponsorship and broadcast deals, licensed a Masters
videogame, and built $13 million of facilities for corporate
partners and club members to entertain clients.  Augusta National’s members include  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
Chairman  Warren Buffett  and  Microsoft Inc. (MIC)  co-founder  Bill Gates . After decades of reflecting the genteel values of  Bobby Jones , Augusta National co-founder and golf’s lone Grand Slam
champion, this Who’s Who of American business is starting to run
its signature tournament like a business.  “This is a natural progression of the recognition that the
Masters is a commercial enterprise,” said Casey Alexander, a
golf industry analyst and research director of New York-based
Gilford Securities.  “The world is not the same as when Mr.
Jones ran the Masters. Things that do not evolve die.”  Jones and his successors charged patrons, as spectators
are called, low prices and forbade sponsors’ logos on the
grounds. The cost of a Masters ticket, or badge, for all four
rounds starting  April 11  is still $250, compared with $400 for
this June’s  U.S. Open . Corporate signs remain absent, and to 100
million global TV viewers who watch the tournament with few
commercials, the Masters seems unchanged. Hidden from the
cameras’ view are more than 100,000 square feet of new
corporate-hospitality buildings.  Olympics Lesson  While referring often to Jones, the 65-year-old Payne
operates as he did when leading another tradition-laden sports
event: the Olympics. The 1996 Games he oversaw in Atlanta were
the most sponsor-intensive in history.  The Masters’ growth has trumped maintaining club tradition
under Payne, in leading an institution that’s been slow to
change. Augusta National admitted its first black member in
1990. The club staged the 2003 and 2004 Masters without
sponsors, after the companies were pressed by a group of women’s
organizations to support ending all-male membership.  Payne’s ability to leverage and accommodate sponsors may
explain why he admitted former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and philanthropist Darla Moore as the club’s first female
members, according to Marcia Chambers, who has studied Augusta
National and written about golf-club discrimination. The August
announcement of their membership came four months after a
Masters-week controversy over the absence from the rolls of
Ginni Rometty, chief executive officer of Masters sponsor
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , whose four male
predecessors were all club members. Payne repeatedly refused to
discuss membership policy at his pre-tournament news conference.  ‘Corporate Need’  “They finally did the right thing, but they acted on
corporate need,” said Chambers, author of “The Unplayable Lie:
The  Untold Story  of Women and Discrimination in American Golf.”
“Steps had to be taken to admit her.”  Steve Ethun, a spokesman for Augusta National;  Ed Barbini ,
a spokesman for IBM;  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Masters
sponsor  AT&T Inc. (T) ; and  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for the
tournament’s third U.S. sponsor,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , declined to
comment on the relationship between sponsorship and membership.  In contrast to the noisy debate of a year ago, the arrival
last month of a high-ranking female executive at Augusta
National occurred almost without notice. Casey Coffman, formerly
of  Madison Square Garden Co., (MSG)  became the club’s senior director
of business affairs, Payne’s lieutenant on Masters sponsorships
and broadcast matters.  Payne’s Team  Coffman, whom an Augusta National spokesman declined to
make available for an interview, was a senior vice president for
corporate strategy and development at MSG and, prior to that,
chief operating officer of Hicks Sports Group, parent of
baseball’s Texas Rangers and hockey’s  Dallas Stars . She joined
recent Payne recruits including Mark Perrotta, the ex-chief of
product development and design at Walt Disney World who heads
Masters merchandising, and John Johnstone, a former
international vice president for Ritz-Carlton Hotel Co. who’s
director of club operations.  This new management team reflects Payne’s agenda, as does
his elevation of an insider, Will Jones, to Augusta National’s
executive director, the top staff position. The 46-year-old
Jones, like Payne a former University of Georgia football
player, was Coffman’s predecessor as business affairs head. An
executive who made his name expanding the business of the
Masters will in September succeed the retiring Jim Armstrong,
65, who’s held the job since 1979.  Changing Times  Until Payne’s arrival, lodging on the grounds, 10 white
buildings known at the club only as cabins, was for the use of
members, with each bearing the names of distinguished ones, such
as the Eisenhower Cabin.  In 2007, Augusta National began building  cabins  for
sponsors. The first three, near the 10th hole, were for IBM,
Exxon Mobil and AT&T.  Their average size is about 3,300 square
feet, according to county tax assessor records, and they are
valued at a total of $1.4 million.  In 2009, the club added  facilities  off the first fairway
for two new international sponsors, Rolex and Mercedes-Benz, and
its U.S. broadcaster since 1956,  CBS. (CBS)  They’re valued at a total
of $2.7 million by the tax assessor and encompass 16,500 square
feet.  Tough Ticket  The Masters, said sports business consultant Peter Stern,
is “the Holy Grail of sponsorships, because of the prestige of
the tournament and the limited supply of Masters badges.”  A
company’s ability to invite top customers to golf’s most
legendary tournament -- which is also one of sport’s toughest
tickets -- is a feat, according to Stern, president of
Strategic, a New York-based sponsorship advisory company.  For years, sponsors griped about their limited ability to
entertain customers on Augusta National’s grounds. Golf’s other
majors, the U.S. Open,  British Open  and PGA Championship, allow
sponsors to pitch giant hospitality tents at the tournament.
Masters sponsors, for the most part, had to go off-campus.  An archipelago of corporate-hospitality centers has formed
near the course. Masters sponsors pay an estimated $18 million a
year for the affiliation, according to sponsorship research firm
IEG. They didn’t like taking guests off the grounds, according
to one person familiar with their thinking who didn’t want to be
identified because the matter is private. Nor did Payne want so
many corporate-entertainment dollars going to outside
facilities, the person said.  Amen Corner  Payne built the sponsor cabins to solve the problem and, in
2010, added a  “members retreat”  in the woods near fabled
“Amen Corner“ -- the 11th to 13th holes. Club members could
bring guests to the 2,906-square-foot facility, valued by the
county assessor at $452,171, to dine in a mini-restaurant and
watch play on flat-screen TVs. Ethun confirmed the assessor’s
figures.  Sponsors and members wanted still more corporate-
entertainment capacity, as Payne explained in announcing the
facility he built to accommodate them.  “In response to repeated requests from our members and
companies with whom we have done business, in many cases for
decades, we built Berckmans Place,” he said at last year’s pre-
tournament press conference. “It offers the enhanced level of
hospitality requested and allows us to provide the Masters
experience for a greater number of golf fans.”  Sold Out  That week,  Jack Nicklaus , winner of a record 18 golf
majors, and Lynn Swann, an inductee of the Pro Football Hall of
Fame, helped present the partially completed, 90,000-square-
foot, column-fronted complex, with multiple dining options
inside and putting greens outside, to sponsors and fellow
members. All 400 weekly passes, costing $6,000 each and
providing Masters badges and Berckmans Place access, were sold.  The addition of Berckmans Place has given the Masters-week
economy in Augusta a boost, according to Diane Starr, whose
Corporate Quarters Inc. rents area homes and condominiums for
prices ranging from $3,000 to $30,000. Berckmans increased the
supply of Masters badges for up-market patrons, in turn helping
boost rental prices this year by as much as 15 percent, she
said.  “It increased the market for the larger executive
homes,” said Starr, who’s been in the Masters rental business
for more than 30 years. “It’s a seller’s market again because
of the demand.”  Growth Sport  Payne has said the tournament’s new business initiatives
will fund the club’s goal of helping golf grow. The club created
the  Masters Tournament  Foundation in 2011 to fund programs
expanding the sport.  “Berckmans Place will be a very substantial contributor,”
Payne said.  In a January 2011 announcement that the club, in
conjunction with EA Sports, had created a Masters video game,
Payne said all licensing fees collected by Augusta National
would go to the foundation.  Augusta National contributed $2.9 million to that
foundation in 2011, the first year for which it filed federal
financial reports. The foundation received $6.8 million of
contributions in 2011 and bestowed $1.7 million to golf-growth
programs.  The $13 million of corporate-hospitality facilities
represents only a portion of the $18 million worth of
construction on Payne’s watch, versus $2.6 million during
predecessor Hootie Johnson’s eight-year tenure, according to tax
 assessor records . The club has also added offices, shops and
other structures.  More Change  The next major developments may be off-campus. Augusta
National has spent more than $50 million buying properties in a
bordering neighborhood, according to tax assessor records
compiled by a longtime resident, William Hatcher. The club has
razed the purchased homes and uses the assembled 118 acres for
Masters parking.  Hatcher, a 66-year-old semi-retired contractor and one of
the last holdout homeowners, opined in a December interview that
something bigger may be in the works, saying, “My lot is off
the third fairway of the club’s next nine holes.”  He sold his 1,800-square-foot house to Augusta National for
$950,000 later that month and has ceased speculating about the
club’s plans. When contacted this week, Hatcher said silence was
a condition of the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  