-- WTO Has ‘No Choice’ Other Than to Revive Doha, Blanco Says
-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 2013-04-05T16:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/wto-has-no-choice-other-than-to-revive-doha-blanco-says.html
The  World Trade Organization  needs
to complete the Doha Round of talks as the group of nations has
to deliver on an unfulfilled promise that has been pending for
more than a decade, Herminio Blanco, Mexico’s candidate for the
organization’s top post, said.  “Unless you have solved in a substantive fashion the Doha
development agenda, the table will be very empty for starting a
new negotiation,” Blanco, 62, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s  New York  office yesterday. “So there’s no choice.
The WTO has to keep moving and modernizing,” he said.  Blanco, a former minister of commerce and industrial
development, is competing against eight contenders to succeed
Director-General  Pascal Lamy , whose term expires Aug. 31. This
year’s field of candidates is the largest to ever compete for
the position.  The Doha talks, which began in the Qatari capital in 2001,
had three primary areas of negotiation -- agriculture,
industrial goods and services. While discussions initially
snagged over  farm subsidies  in rich nations, the U.S. and the EU
have in recent years demanded that  India , China and  Brazil 
reduce tariffs on manufactured products.  When the Doha talks started, they were labeled as the Doha
Development Round, Blanco said, and they “promised benefits in
terms of access to markets to  developing countries , especially
to the least developed countries, so that promise is on the
table. There’s something to be done about developing
countries.”  ‘Call for Action’  The WTO also faces pressures to deliver results from
bilateral trade negotiations. The U.S. and the European Union
recently announced trade talks that may be completed in two
years. The announcement “is the most serious call for action in
Geneva,” Blanco said referring to the Swiss city where the WTO
is based.  “This agreement is about establishing a new paradigm of
rules for trade, and it will make the rules of the WTO look more
ancient,” Blanco said. The U.S. is also seeking to complete
discussions for a Pacific-region accord as President  Barack Obama  tries to meet his goal of doubling exports by the end of
2014.  Costa Rica Trade Minister Anabel Gonzalez and Roberto Carvalho de Azevedo, Brazil’s ambassador to the WTO, join Blanco
as this year’s candidates from  Latin America .  The Geneva-based organization has had only one director-
general from a developing country since its creation in 1995 and
no woman has ever been a candidate for the post before this
year, when three women are  vying  for the post.  “The main challenge and the next duty of the Director-
General is lead the organization into becoming one that keeps
being competitive,” said Blanco, who was Mexico’s chief
negotiator for the  North American Free Trade Agreement  that was
enacted in 1994.  ‘Flexibility’  Following France’s tenure, it may be time for a candidate
from a developing region to head the WTO, Blanco said in an
interview in Santiago Jan. 26.  Blanco, who has a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Chicago , is the founder and president of the board
of  IQOM Inteligencia Comercial , a Mexican trade service company
providing online analysis of trade measures in Latin America.  The other candidates are Indonesia’s Mari Pangestu, South
Korean Trade Minister Bark Tae-Ho, Jordan’s Ahmad Thougan Hindawi, Kenya’s Amina Mohamed, Ghana’s Alan John Kwadwo and New
Zealand’s Tim Groser. The organization’s General Council is
expected to complete the selection process no later than May 31,
according to the WTO website.  Blanco expressed confidence that WTO members can unlock the
 Doha Round  negotiations through flexibility. “I think larger
developed countries have to be flexible, but I also mean large
developing countries, emerging economies. Everybody has to be
flexible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  