-- Zloty Gains Most This Year on Asian Flows Into Bonds, U.S. Data
-- B y   M a c i e j   O n o s z k o
-- 2013-04-05T16:08:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/zloty-gains-most-this-year-on-asian-flows-into-bonds-u-s-data.html
The zloty strengthened the most this
year and Polish government bond yields hit record lows on
reports of Asian capital inflows and U.S. labor market data
stoking expectations for more global monetary easing.  The zloty appreciated 0.8 percent to 4.1546 against the
euro at 5:23 p.m. in Warsaw, the most since Dec. 27. The  yield 
on  Poland ’s 10-year government notes fell 16 basis points, or
0.16 percentage point, to 3.62 percent, the lowest on record.  “Everything that has a yield is being bought now,”
Sebastian Cichy, foreign exchange trader at BNP Paribas in
Warsaw, said by phone today. “There’s a mega-buy on Polish
bonds and this affects the currency.”  There are “very large inflows from Asian investors” into
Polish bonds after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  eased monetary policy
yesterday, deputy Finance Minister Wojciech Kowalczyk was cited
as saying by Reuters today. Weaker-than-expected U.S. data is
driving speculation that the Federal Reserve will continue to
buy bonds, boosting liquidity and a global hunt for yield which
has fuelled inflows into zloty debt.  “Poland is doing relatively well compared to other
countries and we are still attractive,” Marek Kaczor, the
Warsaw-based head of fixed income and derivatives at PKO Bank
Polski SA, Poland’s largest lender, said by phone today.  Jobs Data  Employers hired fewer U.S. workers than forecast in March
and a slump in the size of the labor force pushed the jobless
rate down to a four-year low, indicating the U.S. job market is
struggling to make bigger strides.  Pressure is also piling on Poland’s central bank to resume
rate reductions after Poland’s economy grew at the weakest pace
in four years in the fourth quarter of 2012 and inflation was
the slowest since 2006.  Policy makers cut borrowing costs by a total 150 basis
points since November to a record low of  3.25 percent  and
Governor Marek Belka said after last month’s reduction that the
rate panel adopted a “wait-and-see” approach. All 34
economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect interest rates to stay
unchanged next week.  Nine-month forward rate agreements, derivatives used to bet
on interest rates, traded 51 basis points below the Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate, signaling bets for more than two
quarter-point rate reductions this year.  The BOJ announced plans to double its monthly bond
purchases to about 7.5 trillion yen ($77.8 billion) as it seeks
to achieve 2 percent annual inflation in two years, helping
spark a global bond rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Onoszko in Warsaw at 
 monoszko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  