-- Zynga Bolsters Board With Venture Capitalist John Doerr
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-04-05T20:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/zynga-bolsters-board-with-venture-capitalist-john-doerr.html
John Doerr, the lead partner at
venture capital powerhouse Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, is
joining  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) ’s board of directors, bolstering governance
at the game maker as it seeks to revive growth.  Doerr, 61, who has backed leading Internet companies
including Amazon.com Inc. and Google Inc., becomes Zynga’s ninth
board member, the San Francisco-based company said in a
statement today.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Pincus has relied on the
connections and expertise of his star-studded board since
founding Zynga in 2007 and turning it into largest maker of
online social games, including “FarmVille” and “Zynga
Poker.” Bing Gordon, Doerr’s partner and a video-game veteran,
led Kleiner Perkins’ 2008 investment in Zynga and has served as
a frequent adviser to Pincus.  In addition to Doerr, Gordon and Pincus, the board includes
Jeffrey Katzenberg, the CEO of DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc.,
LinkedIn Corp. co-founder Reid Hoffman and Yahoo! Inc. veteran
Ellen Siminoff, who become Zynga’s first female director after
her appointment last year.  “In just five years Zynga has connected hundreds of
millions of people to their friends for fun,” Doerr said in a
statement. “I’m excited about working with Mark and the Zynga
team in its next chapters of growth.”  Zynga Stake  Kleiner Perkins remains one of Zynga’s largest
shareholders, with a  stake  of 21 million shares worth $72.5
million, based on yesterday’s closing price of $3.45, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Doerr also serves on the boards of Google, Bloom Energy
Corp. and Flipboard Inc.  Zynga advanced 2.9 percent to $3.55 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 65 percent since Zynga’s December
2011 initial public offering. The company has lost top
executives as growth in its core business of games for  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  has slowed. Pincus intends to expand the lineup of mobile
games and enter real-money gambling as regulations on that
practice ease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  