-- Magic Johnson Group to Buy L.A. Dodgers for $2 Billion
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-28T13:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/l-a-dodgers-said-to-trim-bidders-to-final-three-groups.html
Basketball Hall of Fame member
 Magic Johnson  and a group of investors that includes Guggenheim
Partners Chief Executive Officer  Mark Walter  won the auction for
the bankrupt Los Angeles Dodgers with a bid of more than $2
billion, doubling the previous record amount paid for a major
U.S. professional sports franchise.  The group was chosen yesterday by Dodgers owner  Frank McCourt  over billionaire Steve Cohen, who runs hedge fund
manager SAC Capital Advisors LP, and  Stan Kroenke , who owns the
 National Football League ’s St. Louis Rams and Arsenal of English
soccer’s Premier League.  “The word is ‘Wow,’”  Leo Hindery , the former chief
executive of the Yankees Entertainment & Sports Network and a
member of the unsuccessful bid group led by Colony Capital
Chairman Tom Barrack, said in a telephone interview today.
“Unbelievable. Look what this does to comps on every sports
transaction until the end of time. What you want to do today is
own the Kansas City Royals. You just got a new top out there.”  Johnson’s group also includes Hollywood producer Peter Guber, chief executive officer of Mandalay Entertainment Group
and co-owner of the  National Basketball Association ’s Golden
State Warriors, and former Atlanta Braves and Washington
Nationals President Stan Kasten, who’ll relocate to  Los Angeles 
and run the Dodgers. Two years ago Johnson, 52, sold his
minority stake in basketball’s  Los Angeles Lakers , where he won
five championships, to billionaire Patrick Soon-Shiong, who was
a member of Cohen’s group.  ‘Historic Franchise’  “I am thrilled to be part of the historic Dodger franchise
and intend to build on the fantastic foundation laid by Frank
McCourt as we drive the Dodgers back to the front page of the
sports section in our wonderful community of Los Angeles,”
Johnson said in an e-mailed statement from the team.  McCourt had been seeking at least $1.5 billion, people
familiar with the sale deliberations, who were granted anonymity
because the bidding process was confidential, said last month.
The price topped the $1.1 billion real estate developer Stephen Ross paid for the NFL’s Miami Dolphins.  “This agreement with Guggenheim reflects both the strength
and future potential of the  Los Angeles Dodgers , and assures
that the Dodgers will have new ownership with deep local
roots,” McCourt said in a statement.  Debt and Divorce  McCourt may collect more than $1 billion from the
transaction after paying off all the Dodgers creditors and his
ex-wife, Jamie McCourt. The team listed total liabilities of
$706 million, including $410 million in long-term debt, in its
latest operating report filed with the bankruptcy court. McCourt
must also pay Jamie $131 million under their divorce settlement.  McCourt and affiliates of the buyers will form a joint
venture to acquire the Dodgers’ Chavez Ravine property for
another $150 million, according to the statement. Chavez Ravine
is where Dodgers Stadium and its parking lots are located.  Johnson and his partners acquire one of the most storied
teams in U.S. sports. The Dodgers broke  Major League Baseball ’s
racial barrier in 1947 and, with the  New York  Giants 11 years
later, became the first franchises to move to the West Coast.  The auction took place over several weeks and differed from
the sale of any other Major League Baseball team, in part
because it was overseen by a retired federal judge. McCourt won
that and other concessions from MLB as part of a settlement that
ended a months-long bankruptcy court fight.  Details Revealed  McCourt has until April 6 to make public details of the
sale as part of the team’s bankruptcy-exit plan. The sale must
be completed by April 30, the day McCourt is required under a
divorce settlement to pay his ex-wife.  To persuade McCourt to sell, MLB agreed last year to pre-
approve a list of bidders and let retired U.S. District Court
Judge Joseph Farnan have the final word on certain disputes
related to the auction.  McCourt put the Dodgers into bankruptcy in June, claiming
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig forced the team into a cash
crisis by rejecting a new contract with  News Corp.’s (NWSA)  Fox Sports,
which holds the team’s television rights through the 2013
season.  Once under court protection, McCourt lost the support of
the network when he tried to solicit bids for a new television
deal earlier than allowed under the Fox Sports contract. McCourt
planned to sell the rights for more than $1 billion to raise
enough money to take the team out of bankruptcy.  That plan was attacked by Fox, which claimed it would
violate a no-shop clause in the current TV contract.  Quick Sale  McCourt settled his battle with MLB in November and dropped
his effort to sell the television rights early in January. In
return, Fox Sports agreed to support a quick sale of the team.  The sale is part of a bankruptcy-exit proposal, called a
reorganization plan, that must be approved by U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin Gross. He is scheduled to consider approval at a
hearing April 13.  The Dodgers were put up for sale in November and garnered
more than 10 bids, including an offer from Dallas Mavericks
basketball team owner  Mark Cuban .  Once the new Dodgers owners take control of the team, they
will be bound by the current Fox Sports contract, which means
they cannot try to negotiate a new television contract until
November.  The new owner may sign a traditional rights agreement or,
like the  New York Yankees  did with YES, start a regional sports
channel with the baseball team as anchor programming.  Regional Network  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  announced a plan last year to start
a regional sports network around the National Basketball
Association’s Lakers, where Johnson was a 10-time All-Star
selection.  Los Angeles is the No. 2 media market in the U.S. behind
New York.  Before the sale, the Dodgers, their stadium and surrounding
parking lots were worth $1.4 billion, second among MLB’s 30
teams to the Yankees, according to  Forbes  magazine.  While based in  Brooklyn , New York, the Dodgers became the
first Major League Baseball team with a black player when Jackie Robinson took the field in 1947. They started play in 1884 as
the Brooklyn Atlantics, and didn’t win their first championship
until 1955. Even with devoted fans that lovingly called them
“Dem Bums,” they joined the Giants in moving to the West Coast
in 1958.  The Dodgers have won six  World Series , tied for fifth-most
in baseball. Five of them came in Los Angeles, where Duke
Snider, Sandy Koufax, Steve Garvey,  Fernando Valenzuela  and Kirk Gibson led them to championships.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  