-- ‘Manon’ Bores in New Met Staging With Diva Netrebko
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2012-03-28T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/-manon-bores-in-new-met-staging-with-diva-netrebko.html
I can’t recall ever hearing anyone,
even the craziest opera nut, say: “I am just dying to see
‘Manon’ by Massenet!”  And after last night at the  Metropolitan Opera , I am pretty
sure I never will.  First heard in 1884, “Manon” has some very beautiful
music that rises from the stage in perfumed little puffs.  It’s rarely played, for good reason. After a few hours, you
think: “Quand est-ce que cette femme va crever?” “Manon”
goes on forever with two intermissions. We sat down at 7:30 and
creaked from our seats four hours later.  Where to begin?  The doomed love affair at its heart takes place in the 18th
century, a time of perukes, paniers, satin britches, fans,
beauty marks. Think of the dreamy paintings of Watteau or
Fragonard.  Like Puccini’s more dramatic “Manon Lescaut,” the
libretto is based on a mournful tale by the Abbe Prevost
describing how the young Chevalier des Grieux ended up in
 Louisiana  with a venal teenager who was heading to a nunnery.  Even the sturdiest heart surely sank as the Met’s curtain
rose on what looked like a prison courtyard topped off by a gray
sky.  Doll Houses  A vertiginous staircase rises to a second level decorated
with doll houses. There’s no sign this might be the inn at
Amiens as described by Massenet -- and he really was so modest
in his demands compared to say,  Richard Wagner !  If the economy goes south, we just might see that set
recycled into a production of “Wozzeck,” a somewhat darker
piece about a homicidal loser.  This “Manon” -- a coproduction with the  Royal Opera,
Covent Garden  -- reflects the uninteresting ideas of director
 Laurent Pelly , who also designed the costumes. He left Chantal
Thomas to work up the little sets, which still require long
pauses for scene changes.  Act II’s Parisian garret looks like it was hammered
together in a garage -- and prompts wistful memories of the far
more enchanting garret conjured up by  Franco Zeffirelli  for his
wondrous “ La Boheme .”  Delicate Charm  Pelly does not respect Massenet’s masterpiecelet and seems
tone deaf to its delicate charm.  He updates the period to around 1900, presumably to make it
darker and more serious. It is a fatal mistake.  Many operas float free of their period, propelled by such
timeless emotions as envy, obsession, rage, love. A director can
imprint them with his own obsessions.  “Manon” is not one of them.  It’s all about Rococo frippery and frou frou. There is no
essence and there are no deep characters to explore. The later
era wreaks havoc on a plot with historic references and
different mores.  Sadly, this dull show replaces a dazzling production by the
master of all masters, Jean-Pierre Ponnelle, whose Cours-la-
Reine scene was utter magic with its acrobats and flouncing
beauties.  In the present production we get a cheap-looking pleasure
park with awkward ramps, a dim ballet and a weird orange shape
in the back which I hoped was a balloon that might take off.  But nothing does in this inert show, except some of the
singing.  Netrebko’s Sheen  Anna Netrebko  leaves me conflicted: She has slimmed down
since her poster pictures and yet she seems to have outgrown the
part, coming off as studied and too mature. There’s a marvelous
sheen to her voice, but the trembling emotions of a teenager are
rarely inflected.  The real star was her chevalier, Piotr Beczala, a refined
tenor with a heavenly pianissimo. He’s a lively actor and
handsome too. Even so, he might reconsider ripping off his
churchly shirt to reveal his bosom in the dismally staged St.
Sulpice scene, which features three slanting columns and an
awkward cot. Lots of hearty laughter and snorts in my area.  Christophe Mortagne offered a spritely debut as Guillot de
Morfontaine, who orchestrates Manon’s downfall after too many
cruel rejections. David Pittsinger made about as much as a human
can of Comte des Grieux, the chevalier’s father.  Why doesn’t Pittsinger get leading roles here? I remember
him from “South Pacific” next door at the Beaumont when he
replaced sexy Paulo Szot, who was also on stage in this
“Manon.” Szot sang Manon’s cousin, a role that defines
nothingness. What is happening to his career?  Fabio Luisi could have picked up the pace in the pit.  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at   jburke21@bloomberg.net . 