-- Abramovich Sounds Out Guardiola on Chelsea Job: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-28T06:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/abramovich-sounds-out-guardiola-on-chelsea-job-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Guardiola Talks  Roman Abramovich’s advisers have opened a dialogue with the
representatives of Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola about the
possibility of him becoming Chelsea’s next manager, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  Guardiola remains Abramovich’s top choice to succeed Andre Villas-Boas and the billionaire Chelsea owner will continue in
his efforts until the Spaniard signs a contract extension or, as
he is also considering, takes a sabbatical from soccer at the
end of this season, the Telegraph added.  Arsenal Cull  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  wants to clear out fringe
players that cost 23 million pounds ($36.7 million) in wages
each year to fund off-season signings, the  Daily Mail reported .  Andrey Arshavin,  Marouane Chamakh ,  Nicklas Bendtner  and
Manuel Almunia are among those who will be put up for sale as
the club seeks to fund at least two big-name signings and reward
players including  Robin van Persie  with improved contracts, the
Mail added.  Gotze’s New Deal  Borussia Dortmund midfielder Mario Gotze, an off-season
target for Arsenal, extended his contract with the German
Bundesliga leader through 2016, the  Sun reported .  Real Madrid and Manchester United are also interested in
the 19-year-old, whose previous deal was due to expire in 2014,
the Sun added.  Adam’s Season Over  Liverpool midfielder  Charlie Adam  will miss the rest of the
season after damaging his lateral knee ligament during last
week’s 3-2 loss at Queens Park Rangers, the  Guardian reported .  Adam, who’s scored two goals in 35 appearances since his
move from Blackpool, won’t play again before next season, the
newspaper added.  Lucas Targets Return  Adam’s midfield teammate  Lucas Leiva  said he should be
ready to return for the start of the 2012-13 campaign as he
continues his rehabilitation after rupturing a cruciate knee
ligament in December, the  Daily Mirror reported .  “My rehab is going well and hopefully I will be fit for
next season,” the Mirror cited the Brazilian as saying. “It
was a bad injury so I need to recover properly to be strong
again.”  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  