-- ADM Seeks Oilseed Acquisitions in Europe, India on Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-28T17:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/adm-seeks-oilseed-capacity-in-europe-india-as-food-demand-grows.html
Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest grain processor, is seeking acquisitions in
 Europe  and  India  and plans to increase exports from South
America as growing incomes and population drive demand for food.  The company is focusing on growth and consolidation and is
looking to expand its high-margin North American business,
Senior Vice President Matt Jansen said today in a webcast.
Decatur, Illinois-based ADM expects continued growth in  China 
through its partnership with Wilmar International Ltd., he said.  “The less fragmented the market, the better the margin
environment will be,” Jansen said in the webcast.  Global food output must rise 70 percent in the next four
decades as the world  population  grows to 9.1 billion from 7
billion, and wealthier consumers eat more meat, the United
Nations Food & Agriculture Organization said.  South America 
accounts for about half of the 245 million metric tons of
soybeans the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  predicted last month
will be grown around the world in the 2011-2012 marketing year.  ADM is looking at consolidation and expansion that will
meet its targets for returns after reporting an 89 percent slump
in fiscal second-quarter profit because of shrinking oilseed-
processing margins and a drop in U.S. grain exports. The
company’s corn-processing margins in the third quarter may be
half of the level in the second quarter, while soybean
processing profits may see “sequential improvement,” according
to the webcast.  Not Bidding  ADM chose not to submit a final bid for Viterra Inc.
because the valuation wouldn’t have met “return objectives.”
Glencore International Plc announced a plan to merge with
Viterra on March 20. ADM also decided against buying certain
ethanol assets because the returns weren’t “good” and has
built plants instead, according to the webcast.  The company’s net income in 2012 may fall 14 percent to
$1.7 billion, according to the median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Its shares have gained 9.44 percent this
year to $31.32.  The company will try to expand its share in the MOU with
Wilmar, the world’s largest palm-oil trader, which covers areas
including ocean freight and fertilizer, Chief Operating Officer
Juan Luciano said. The pact may cut ADM’s operating costs by $30
million to $40 million per year, he said.  Drought-reduced soybean harvest in  Paraguay  may cut supply
for the company’s crushing plant, expected to be operational by
December, Valmor Schaffer, president of ADM South America, said
separately in the webcast. The unit is increasing exports of
soybeans out of Argentina and  Brazil , he said.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture expects Brazil, the
world’s second-largest grower of oilseeds, to surpass the U.S.
as the largest  shipper  of soybeans this year, after the South
American nation boosted output to a record last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net 
Luzi Ann Javier in Manila at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net 
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  