-- Magic Johnson Group to Buy L.A. Dodgers for $2 Billion
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/magic-johnson-group-to-buy-l-a-dodgers-for-2-billion.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  reached the
final stage of an auction for the baseball team one day early
after phone calls in which no rival topped the record $2.3
billion offer from a group led by  Magic Johnson , people familiar
with the sale said.  Dodgers attorney Bruce Bennett and Joseph C. Shenker, the
lawyer for team owner  Frank McCourt , late March 27 called off
yesterday’s scheduled gathering of the bidders in the New York
offices of Dewey & Leboeuf LLP, according to two people who were
granted anonymity because the process was confidential.  When Johnson heard the news, he handed out autographed
jerseys from the  Los Angeles Lakers , the team where he won five
 National Basketball Association  championships, emblazoned with
the words “Go Dodgers,” a person familiar with the scene said.  Major League Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  said “the
interest in this franchise and its historic sale price are
profound illustrations of the great overall health of our
industry,” according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.  “I believe that a man of Magic’s remarkable stature and
experience can play an integral role for one of the game’s most
historic franchises, in a city where he is revered,” Selig
said.  One of the bidders,  Stan Kroenke , who owns the  National
Football League ’s St. Louis Rams and Arsenal of English soccer’s
Premier League, didn’t submit paperwork that complied with
bidding rules by the 9 p.m. New York-time deadline on March 26,
one of the people said.  Kroenke’s representatives also expressed doubts about
attending the in-person stage of the auction that had been
planned for yesterday, the person said. In their last call with
the Dodgers, Kroenke’s representatives relented and said they
would attend, the person said.  Day of Calls  Work on the final stages of the deal began as early as 5:30
a.m. March 27. Throughout the day, Bennett and Shenker led
separate calls with the three bidding groups, the people said.
The third group was led by  Steve Cohen , who runs hedge fund
manager SAC Capital Advisors LP.  Many participants in Johnson’s bid hadn’t slept for 48
hours as they convened at Dewey & LeBoeuf’s offices to exchange
documents with the seller, a person familiar with the sale said.
McCourt’s representatives let it be known that they had asked
retired federal Judge Joseph Farnan, who was overseeing the
auction process, to come by, the person said.  Team Owners’ Call  Once the judge said he approved of the plan to end the
auction, at about 10:30 p.m., members of Johnson’s group knew
the team was theirs, according to the person. The winners, many
of them exhausted, celebrated by going out for hamburgers, the
person said.  Bennett is with the law firm Dewey & Leboeuf and Shenker is
with Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  One call on the afternoon of March 27 included all 30 of
the team owners in  Major League Baseball , held before they gave
their approval to the final three bid groups. On that call,
according to two people who participated, Farnan, who once
served as the U.S. attorney in  Delaware  and a U.S. District
judge in Wilmington, said he would monitor the final stage of
the auction to ensure the process was fair.  At least one owner wanted to make sure Farnan would be in
the room and listening to conversations between bidders and the
Dodgers, one person on the call said.  Record Price  The winning bid was more than twice the previous record
paid for a U.S. sports franchise, the $1.1 billion developer
Stephen Ross spent for the NFL’s Miami Dolphins.  Tripp Kyle, a spokesman for Guggenheim Partners, part of
Johnson’s bid group, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment on the process. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for
Cohen, declined to comment.  Robert Siegfried, a spokesman for the Dodgers, declined to
comment.  A legal representative of Kroenke’s team said that
paperwork was submitted by the deadline and a representative
would have attended the auction had one taken place, according
to a person familiar with the matter who was granted anonymity
because of the confidentiality of the sale process.  Johnson’s group also includes Hollywood producer Peter Guber, chief executive officer of Mandalay Entertainment Group
and co-owner of the National Basketball Association’s Golden
State Warriors, and former Atlanta Braves and Washington
Nationals President Stan Kasten, who will relocate to  Los
Angeles  and run the Dodgers.  Lakers Sale  Two years ago, Johnson, 52, sold his minority stake in the
Los Angeles Lakers to billionaire Patrick Soon-Shiong, who was a
member of Steve Cohen’s group.  McCourt may collect more than $1 billion from the
transaction after paying off all the Dodgers’ creditors and his
ex-wife, Jamie McCourt. The team listed total liabilities of
$706 million, including $410 million in long-term debt, in its
latest operating report filed with the  bankruptcy court . McCourt
must pay Jamie $131 million under their divorce settlement.  Johnson and his partners acquire one of the most storied
teams in U.S. sports. The Dodgers broke Major League Baseball’s
racial barrier in 1947 and, with the  New York  Giants 11 years
later, became the first franchises to move to the West Coast.  The auction took place over several weeks and differed from
the sale of any other Major League Baseball team, in part
because it was overseen by Farnan, the retired federal judge.
McCourt won that and other concessions from MLB as part of a
settlement that ended a months-long bankruptcy court fight.  Exit Plan  McCourt has until April 6 to make public details of the
sale as part of the team’s bankruptcy-exit plan. U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington is scheduled to consider
approval of the plan at a hearing April 13. The sale must be
completed by April 30, the day McCourt is required under a
divorce settlement to pay his ex-wife.  McCourt put the Dodgers into bankruptcy in June, claiming
Selig forced the team into a cash crisis by rejecting a new
contract with  News Corp.’s (NWSA)  Fox Sports, which holds the club’s
television rights through the 2013 season.  Once under court protection, McCourt lost the support of
the network when he tried to solicit bids for a new television
deal earlier than allowed under the Fox Sports contract.  That plan was attacked by Fox, which claimed it would
violate a no-shop clause in the current TV contract.  Mediation  After mediation sessions with Farnan, McCourt settled his
battle with MLB in November and dropped his effort to sell the
television rights early in January. In return, Fox Sports agreed
to support a quick sale of the team.  While based in  Brooklyn , New York, the Dodgers became the
first Major League Baseball team with a black player when  Jackie Robinson  took the field in 1947. They started play in 1884 as
the Brooklyn Atlantics, and didn’t win their first championship
until 1955. Even with devoted fans that lovingly called them
“Dem Bums,” they joined the Giants in moving to the West Coast
in 1958.  The Dodgers have won six  World Series , tied for fifth-most
in baseball. Five of them came in Los Angeles, where Duke
Snider,  Sandy Koufax , Steve Garvey, Fernando Valenzuela and Kirk Gibson led them to championships.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  