-- Magic Johnson’s $2.3 Billion Dodgers Bid Fueled by TV Potential
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-29T09:50:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/magic-johnson-s-2-3-billion-dodgers-bid-fueled-by-tv-potential.html
Magic Johnson’s winning $2.3
billion offer for the  Los Angeles Dodgers  probably was fueled by
what one sports economist called a “wild bidding process” that
will unfold between  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Sports for the Major League Baseball team’s broadcast rights.  Johnson’s group, which includes Guggenheim Partners Chief
Executive Mark Walter and former Atlanta Braves and Washington
Nationals President  Stan Kasten , gained the franchise with a bid
that adds to the team’s long history, more than doubling the
amount paid for a major U.S. sports franchise.  Competition for sports programming, which is live and
reaches a target demographic for advertisers of men age 18-34
years old, is driving up the price companies are willing to pay
for media rights. Keeping the Dodgers is essential for Fox,
which might have to scuttle its Prime Ticket unit if it loses
the baseball team’s games, said  Andrew Zimbalist , a sports
economist at  Smith College (85087MF)  in Northampton, Massachusetts.  “Clearly what’s going on here is that there’s been a
battle between Time Warner and Fox to establish regional sports
networks in Southern California,” Zimbalist said in a telephone
interview. “There’s a wild bidding process going on for sports
rights.”  Johnson, 52, and his partners outbid groups led by Steve Cohen, who runs hedge fund manager SAC Capital Advisors LP, and
Stan Kroenke, owner of the National Football League’s St. Louis
Rams and Arsenal of English soccer’s Premier League. The next
highest bid came from Cohen, an investor in the  New York Mets ,
who offered $1.3 billion, according to a person familiar with
the situation who was granted anonymity because no one is
authorized to discuss the process publicly. Jonathan Gasthalter,
a spokesman for Cohen, declined to comment.  Fox Contract  The Dodgers existing broadcast contract with Fox expires
after the 2013 season. No talks with a rival to Fox are allowed
until after November, according to court documents related to
the Dodgers’ bankruptcy.  Kasten said via e-mail that his group doesn’t include a
media partner.  “We’ll just do media at the proper time,” he said.  Time Warner (TWX)  Cable entered into a 20-year agreement last
year with the  Los Angeles Lakers , Johnson’s former National
Basketball Association team. As part of the arrangement, Time
Warner will launch high-definition regional sports networks in
English and Spanish. Lakers games previously were shown on Fox.  Chuck Greenberg , the former managing partner and chief
executive of baseball’s  Texas Rangers , who also were sold in
bankruptcy, said Dodgers owner Frank McCourt couldn’t have
picked a better time to sell because of the race to acquire
sports programming.  Past Deals  The Rangers signed a 20-year, $3 billion TV contract with
Fox in 2010. The Anaheim Angels signed a 20-year, $3 billion
contract with Fox last year, allowing the club to acquire free
agents Albert Pujols and C.J. Wilson. The  San Diego Padres 
agreed on a 20-year contract with Fox that will give the team an
ownership stake in a regional sports network.  The Dodgers have more leverage than all of those clubs,
Greenberg said in a telephone interview.  “The Dodgers represent everything we had to work with in
Texas but supercharged,” Greenberg said. “Time Warner is a
much more immediate threat to Fox. It’s a bigger market with a
bigger brand and a greater legacy.”  Previously, the highest price for a U.S. franchise was the
$1.1 billion real estate developer Stephen Ross paid for the
 National Football League ’s Miami Dolphins. Johnson’s bid
includes the Dodgers, their stadium and the land around the
facility.  The Dodgers’ price tag even got the attention of  Roger Goodell , commissioner of the NFL, the most visible and valuable
U.S. sports league. Goodell called it an “extraordinary
price.” The most valuable NFL team is the  Dallas Cowboys  at
$1.85 billion, according to Forbes.  Triple Play  The Dodgers have three options, says Steve Raab, president
of SNY, the regional sports network owned by Time Warner,
Comcast and the  New York  Mets, who hold a majority stake. They
can start a regional sports network on their own, become a
partner with Time Warner or remain with Fox, he said.  “Both Time Warner and Fox badly want it,” Raab said in a
telephone interview. “Those two players could bid it up high
enough that it’s not worth the risk to start your own RSN.”  Steve Mills, a former president at New York’s Madison
Square Garden, which runs basketball’s Knicks and hockey’s
Rangers, said the Hispanic community in  Southern California  also
is a factor in the high price. Johnson has expertise in selling
to minorities, said Mills, adding that he was surprised the bid
was higher than $1.7 billion.  “There’s value to a changing Latino marketplace,” Mills
said. “It’s an important audience to advertisers, which makes
the demo different to most baseball markets. The potential TV
revenue had to be the key driver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  