-- Mahindra, Taneja in Talks With India on Building Regional Jet
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-03-28T18:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/mahindra-taneja-in-talks-with-india-on-building-regional-jet.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  and  Taneja
Aerospace & Aviation Ltd. (TAA)  are in separate talks with India as
the country seeks a partner for a planned regional jet that will
spearhead its drive to develop a planemaking industry.  Discussions with state-owned  National Aerospace
Laboratories  are at an early stage and the companies are
awaiting more details, Arvind Mehra, chief executive officer of
Mahindra Aerospace Pvt., and S.M. Kapoor, the head of Taneja’s
plane-making facility, said in interviews. Shyam Chetty, the
head of plane designer National Aerospace, didn’t reply to e-
mailed questions yesterday.  “If it makes economic sense, we would like to be a
partner,” Mahindra’s Mehra said. “But ultimately we still have
to get a lot of information.”  NAL last year announced the 40 billion-rupee ($788 million)
plan to develop a 90-seat aircraft as the country joins  China  in
trying to form a globally competitive aerospace industry. The
Indian plane, China’s ARJ-21 and an in-development Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. aircraft will all compete against
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  and  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  models.  NAL expected to get government approval for the regional-
jet plan early this year, A.R. Upadhya, its then-director, said
in February 2011. Development and certification will probably
take about six years, he said then.  “There is a case for India to create an indigenous
aircraft industry,” said Harsh Vardhan, chairman of  Starair 
Consulting, a New Delhi-based industry consultant. “We are one
of the fastest growing aviation markets, we need an aircraft
that suits Indian conditions.”  China Jet  China’s ARJ-21 is running at least four years late. The
plane, built by Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China Ltd., began
its final flight-test certification program in February.
Commercial services were due to begin as early as 2007. Comac is
also working on the 168-seat C919, which will compete with
 Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS planes.  Mahindra, India’s biggest maker of sport-utility vehicles,
bought two Australian aerospace companies in 2009 as it pushed
into making planes. The Mumbai-based group makes light aircraft,
as well as parts for Boeing 737s, Gulfstream Aerospace Corp.
business jets and Lockheed Martin Corp.’s F-35 Joint Strike
Fighters, according to its  website .  Taneja, based in  Tamil Nadu , southern India, makes light
planes. It is India’s only private company to have locally
developed a certified aircraft, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  