-- Taiwan’s Bonds Rise on Concern Over Strength of U.S. Recovery
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-03-28T08:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/taiwan-s-bonds-rise-as-u-s-recovery-concern-spurs-safety-demand.html
Taiwan ’s government bonds gained,
with  benchmark  five-year yields at a one-week low, as regional
stock markets dropped on concern about the strength of the U.S.
economic recovery. The island’s dollar rose.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said unemployment
is still too high and policy makers don’t rule out any further
options to boost growth. The U.S. Conference Board reported
yesterday that an index of  consumer confidence  was at 70.2 this
month, near the 71.6 reading in February, which was the highest
in a year. Global funds sold $243 million more Taiwanese shares
than they bought in the first two days of this week, cutting net
purchases this year to $4.9 billion, according to exchange data.  “Investors are still concerned about the strength of the
U.S. recovery,” said  Albert Lee , a Taipei-based fixed-income
trader at Cathay United Bank Co. “Sentiment is a bit risk-off
today, especially as the end of the quarter is approaching.”  The yield on the 1 percent notes due January 2017 fell one
basis point to 0.992 percent at the close, according to Gretai
Securities Market. That’s the lowest rate for benchmark five-
year bonds since March 19.  Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.1 percent to NT$29.57 against its
U.S. counterpart, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency
has appreciated 2.4 percent this quarter.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings that traders use to price options, dropped 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 4.05 percent.  The overnight  money-market  rate was little changed at 0.402
percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  