-- Altria and Anti-Smokers Aim to Close Roll-Your-Own Shops
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-03-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/altria-and-anti-smokers-aim-to-close-roll-your-own-shops.html
Todd Ridge stopped smoking Camel
Lights last year after taxes pushed the price to $4.60 a pack.
Now he makes his own cigarettes at the Liberty Tobacco store in
Archdale,  North Carolina , cutting his habit’s cost in half.  Over the past 4 1/2 years, mom and pops have installed more
than 1,900 roll-your-own cigarette machines in 42 states,
according to RYO Machines, which makes them. Taking advantage of
a loophole in federal tax laws, some retailers are selling
tobacco labeled as the pipe variety, which is taxed less, even
though it often winds up in cigarettes.  Liggett Group says it’s losing sales to the roll-your-own
upstarts. The discount tobacco maker and  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  are
fighting alongside health advocates -- after decades at odds --
to press Congress and the  Food and Drug Administration  to
equalize tax payments on various forms of tobacco and to enforce
the same health rules imposed on major producers.  “Tobacco is tobacco is tobacco,” Liggett Chief Executive
Officer Ron Bernstein said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Morrisville, North Carolina. “All we want is a
level playing field.”  The U.S. in 2009 boosted taxes on a carton of cigarettes to
$10.07 from $3.90 and raised levies on an equivalent amount of
roll-your-own cigarette tobacco to $10.07 from 45 cents. Makers
of pipe tobacco won a smaller increase -- to $1.15 from 45 cents
-- by convincing Congress that sharply higher taxes would
“demolish” them, said Craig Williamson, president of the
Washington-based Pipe Tobacco Council. The tax disparity led
some small processors to start mislabeling their product as pipe
tobacco, he said.  Strip Mall Shop  Tommy Bunn, president of U.S. Flue-Cured Tobacco Growers
Inc., a major supplier of tobacco for the roll-your-own
cigarette machines, didn’t return a telephone call or e-mail
yesterday. The Raleigh, North Carolina-based group is a
cooperative of farmers.  Liberty Tobacco, tucked in a strip mall alongside L.A.
Nails and Spirit of Triad Ministries, is one of the retailers
that sprang up because of the tax difference. At lunch-time one
day last week, two smokers waited in line while 71-year-old
 Dennis Smith  watched his cigarettes plop into a plastic bin at
the ATM-sized machine’s base. The RYO Filling Station made by
RYO Machines in Girard,  Ohio , makes 200 cigarettes in about
eight minutes, including the time needed to pour the loose
tobacco and insert a cartridge of tubes with filters.  “They are better than any other brand,” Smith said. “You
don’t cough as much. I guess it’s because it is made from
natural tobacco.”  Health Claims  Such health claims are unproven and show why the FDA needs
to regulate roll-your-own cigarettes, Bernstein said. Liggett,
the fourth-biggest U.S. tobacco company, estimates that almost
2.7 million consumers smoked cigarettes made with mislabeled
pipe tobacco last year, triple the number in 2009. About 45.3
million American adults were smokers in 2010, according to the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  An expansion of the roll-your-own industry may hurt sales
at major U.S.  tobacco companies , which are experiencing falling
demand. That decline has accelerated since 2009, when President
Barack Obama’s push to discourage smoking led to the tax
increases that forced tobacco companies to raise prices.  While demand for cigarettes has declined steadily, tobacco
shares have brushed off surging volatility during the financial
crisis and  Europe ’s debt crisis because smokers are reluctant to
scale back when cigarette prices rise or the economy struggles.
As a result, the companies can return cash to investors. Altria
hit a record high yesterday of $30.61.  Tax Revenue  The U.S. has lost $1.3 billion in  tax revenue  from
mislabeled pipe tobacco since 2009, according to Liggett, owned
by Miami-based  Vector Group Ltd. (VGR)  Shipments by Altria’s  Philip
Morris USA  sank 4 percent last year compared with a 3.3 percent
drop in 2008.  The U.S. government loses $9.36 in tax revenue for every
carton of roll-your-own cigarettes filled with pipe tobacco,
according to Richmond, Virginia-based Altria, which makes one of
every two cigarettes sold in America. The company’s Marlboro is
the top-selling U.S. cigarette brand.  The cheaper prices encourage consumers who otherwise would
quit or cut back to keep smoking cigarettes that carry no health
warnings, said the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids.  The  U.S. Senate  sided with Big Tobacco two weeks ago,
passing a $109 billion highway appropriations bill with an
amendment that would classify tobacco shops with roll-your-own
machines as tobacco manufacturers. That means cigarettes made in
roll-your-own machines would be taxed at the same rate as
Marlboros and Camels.  Pipe Tobacco  While the amendment would help solve the issue of roll-
your-own machines in stores, “smokers would still be able to
buy the cheap, lower-tax pipe tobacco and roll their own
cigarettes at home,” said Vince Willmore, a spokesman for the
Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids in  Washington . The group agrees
with Liggett that loose tobacco and cigarettes should be taxed
equally.  Declaring retailers to be manufacturers “would put us out
of business,” said Josh Justice, 25, owner of the Liberty
Tobacco in Archdale and a second location in nearby High Point.
He estimated the machines in his stores have cranked out 7
million cigarettes since opening almost a year and a half ago.  “It’s another effort to put the small man out,” said
Ridge, 46, as he returned to Liberty Tobacco last week for a
week’s supply for him and his wife, Angie. Ridge pays about
$9.95 for the tobacco, $2.52 for 200 tubes and $9.19 to rent the
machine.  “The cost is half and they taste good,” Ridge said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  