-- Hana Financial Open to Insurer Acquisition, Chairman Kim Says
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-03-28T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/hana-financial-open-to-insurer-acquisition-chairman-kim-says.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) , which
completed  South Korea ’s biggest banking takeover last month,
will seek to buy an insurer to shore up its existing business,
Chairman Kim Jung Tai said.  “Insurance is the weakest part among Hana Financial
Group’s operations,” Kim told reporters today in  Seoul  in his
first briefing since taking over this week. “We have interest
in that area and will look into it when good opportunities
arise.” Kim ruled out a bid for ING Groep NV’s Asian insurance
unit, saying the competition is already tough.  Kim, 60, said he aims to make Hana Financial one of the top
50 banks in the world, ranked by assets, by 2015. Hana is also
open to acquisitions of small U.S. banks as it seeks growth
beyond its saturated home market, he said, without identifying
potential takeover targets or specifying regions where Hana
wants to expand.  Kim began his career at SeoulBank, joining Hana Bank in
1992 and becoming president and CEO of the subsidiary in March
2008. He served as CEO of Hana’s brokerage unit from 2006 to
2007, according to a  profile  posted on the company’s website. As
chairman and chief executive officer of the group he succeeds
Kim Seung Yu, who retired on March 23.  KEB Integration  Kim Jung Tai will work as a “helper” and “adviser” on
the integration of  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  with Hana, the nation’s
fourth-largest financial holding company, following legal
disputes, regulatory delays and opposition from KEB workers that
delayed the 4.4 trillion-won ($3.9 billion) takeover for more
than a year.  Hana on Feb. 9 completed the acquisition of a 57 percent
stake in KEB from Lone Star Funds and Export Import Bank of
 Korea , allowing the company to narrow the gap with rivals such
as  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000)  and  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)   The deal, first signed in November 2010, was hampered by
courts, regulators and lawmakers, derailing Dallas-based Lone
Star’s exit from its 2003 investment in KEB. Employees of KEB
criticized Hana’s acquisition of the lender from  Lone Star ,
saying it helped the U.S. fund make excessive profit.  Hana on Feb. 17 agreed with KEB workers to keep the bank
independent for next five years and keep the same number of
staff to assuage workers who pledged to “fight with all
possible means” including strikes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  