-- Manhattanites Reach Bronx as Americans Stay Near Home
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-03-28T23:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/manhattanites-reach-bronx-as-americans-stay-near-home.html
Fallout from the longest economic
slump since the Great Depression made Americans less likely to
move and more likely to go shorter distances when they did.  Hampered by an inability to find new jobs or sell their
homes, people moving from  Manhattan  made the Bronx their single-
biggest destination. Washington, D.C., residents were most
likely to relocate to neighboring Prince George’s County,
Maryland, and Los Angelenos decamped for adjacent San Bernardino
County, data released today by the Census Bureau show.  The 2005-09 figures were the first look at U.S. migratory
patterns since the 2000 census, spanning the peak of the housing
bubble and the near-collapse of the global financial system.  “Long-distance moves took a bigger hit during the
recession,”  William Frey , a senior demographer at the
Washington-based Brookings Institution, said in an e-mail.
“Shorter-distance moves tend to be safer, close to home and
likely to have occurred as a result of foreclosures.”  Even in cities that suffered the steepest population
declines, residents relocated only short distances. The largest
share of refugees from  Detroit , which lost a quarter of its
population from 2000 to 2010, moved to neighboring  Michigan (BEESMI) 
counties. Three of the most-popular destinations for people
moving out of Chicago, whose population fell 6.9 percent, were
the adjacent counties of DuPage, Will and Lake.  Moving On Up  While Manhattan showed a modest population gain during the
decade, surging real estate prices forced thousands of people
out of the heart of New York and into neighboring boroughs. The
data show that 16,686 people left New York County for the Bronx,
one of the nation’s poorest counties.  More than 11,000 people moved from Brooklyn to Manhattan
between 2005 and 2009; they were replaced by 15,020 people in
Manhattan who left for  Brooklyn . Queens provided 7,742 new
residents for Manhattan, which more than returned the favor by
sending 8,782 people across the East River to the borough.  While four of the five biggest sources of migration to
Manhattan came from surrounding counties, Europeans were the
second-largest source of newcomers to the borough, the census
data showed. Europeans made up 10,438 of Manhattan’s new
residents between 2005 and 2009.  The fourth- and fifth-highest number of departing Manhattan
residents wound up in neighboring Hudson County,  New Jersey (BEESNJ) , and
Westchester County, New York.  Staying Within Michigan  Likewise, the top five destinations of residents leaving
Detroit were in  Michigan . Oakland County, adjacent to Detroit,
picked up 18,957 new residents from the Motor City, while 11,808
moved to Detroit from Oakland.  Maryland (GSPSMD)  suburbs accounted for the bulk of departing
 Washington  residents, with Prince George’s County taking in
13,825 former capital dwellers. Montgomery County, Maryland,
received another 5,667 people from Washington, and Arlington
County,  Virginia , received 3,384.  The largest number of people leaving  San Francisco 
remained in the Bay Area. The Census Bureau estimated 11,002
people left for San Mateo County. Another 7,761 moved to Alameda
County, and 4,141 wound up in Contra Costa.  Asians, the nation’s fastest-growing racial group, made up
the fifth-largest source of newcomers to Manhattan and
Washington as well as the third-largest number of new residents
for Wayne County, Michigan, home to Detroit, offsetting at least
part of the city’s population plunge.  Asians constituted the third-largest number of new San
Franciscans and the largest single number of newcomers to
 Chicago ,  Los Angeles , San Diego and Santa Clara,  California .  Miami Draws Immigrants  Miami retained its reputation as a magnet for immigrants,
with four of its five largest incoming groups originating
overseas. An estimated 15,318 people moved to Miami-Dade County
from Caribbean countries.  Neighboring Broward County contributed 11,514 newcomers,
and South American countries were responsible for another 6,652
new Miami residents. Central American and European immigrants
made up the fourth- and fifth-largest groups for Miami-Dade
County, the Census Bureau said.  Central Americans, the nation’s second-fastest growing
group, were responsible for the third-largest number of
newcomers to Los Angeles and the largest source of incoming
residents for Harris County,  Texas , where 18,273 moved, and in
Bexar County, home to San Antonio, where 5,905 moved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Frank Bass  in  New York  at   fbass1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan in Washington at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net  