-- UN Is Ready to Send More Observers to Syria Next Week
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-04-20T12:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/anti-assad-syrians-seek-unity-as-70-nation-istanbul-summit-nears.html
The  United Nations  said it’s ready
to send more observers to Syria in a week to help monitor
implementation of a cease-fire agreement, as Russia and  China 
voiced support for the mission.  The seven observers already in the country will be expanded
to 30, Al Arabiya television reported, citing Ahmad Fawzi, an
aide to UN envoy  Kofi Annan , who brokered a truce this month
between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and opposition groups
fighting to overthrow him. The UN will be ready for rapid
deployment of a larger group of 300 monitors when the UN
Security Council approves their dispatch, he said.  The cease-fire took effect on April 12 under Annan’s six-
point plan to end a conflict that the UN estimates has killed
more than 9,000 people since March last year. While the daily
death toll has fallen since the truce, dozens of killings are
still reported most days, with both sides accusing the other of
breaking their commitment.  Security forces today killed seven people in the central
province of Homs, one in the northern province of Idlib and a
child in Douma, northeast of Damascus, the Local Coordination
Committees of  Syria , an opposition group, said in an e-mailed
statement. Al Jazeera television showed artillery attacks in
Homs. A bomb blast in Suhum Golan killed 10 members of the
Syrian security forces, state television said.  Russia, China  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  urged the Security
Council to pass a resolution as quickly as possible authorizing
a full-scale observer mission, the Interfax news agency
reported. China is willing to send personnel to join the UN
observer team, Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Weimin said in
Beijing today.  Russia has counted Syria as an ally since the Soviet era,
and together with China has blocked U.S.-led efforts to get
tougher measures against Assad approved by the  Security Council .  More than 61,000 Syrian refugees and their hosts -- Turkey,
Lebanon, Jordan and  Iraq  -- “are beginning to show signs of
strain,” the  UN High Commissioner for Refugees  said today in an
e-mailed statement. Children are the worst affected and show
“signs of trauma and grave distress,” the agency said.  The international community hasn’t fulfilled its month-old
$84 million humanitarian-aid pledge, delivering less than 20
percent of the funds to help respond to the Syrian crisis, UNHCR
said. The agency was able to fund eight of the 34 organizations
that sought aid.  ‘Escalating Violence’  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said yesterday that there
are signs in recent days that the cease-fire is fraying, with
“reports of renewed and escalating violence, including the
shelling of civilian areas, grave abuses by government forces,
and attacks by armed groups.”  The U.S., which along with European and Arab allies is
backing the Syrian rebels, is considering working with  Turkey  to
set up an “assistance hub” on the Turkish-Syrian border to
coordinate aid for opposition groups, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in Paris yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  