-- Apple CEO Meets Vice Premier Who May Be Next China Leader
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-28T06:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/apple-ceo-meets-vice-premier-who-may-be-next-china-leader.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
Tim Cook met Chinese Vice Premier Li Keqiang, who may lead the
nation’s government next year, in a second day of talks with
officials in the company’s largest market outside the U.S.  Cook and Li had a “great meeting,” Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-
based Apple spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview today.
She declined to provide details of Cook’s talks yesterday or
those with Beijing Mayor Guo Jinlong a day earlier.  The meeting with Li gives Cook a chance to build a personal
connection with a  leading candidate  to replace  Wen Jiabao  as
 China ’s premier next March, based on an assessment by  Li Cheng ,
a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution . Apple’s contact
with Chinese officials also prompted criticism from creditors of
the company Apple is battling for rights to the iPad trademark
in China.  Cook is on a “political public relations campaign” for
its legal battle over the trademark, Li Su, president of Hejun
Vanguard Group, which represents creditors of the Shenzhen-based
unit of  Proview International Holdings Ltd. (334) , which claims to own
the iPad trademark in China. The  posts  were confirmed in an e-
mail by Huang Yiding, vice president at Hejun Vanguard.  Apple says it bought the rights to the trademark in China
from Proview in 2009. A Shenzhen court last November ruled that
Apple’s contract for the mark with a Taiwan sister company was
invalid because the unit that owned the rights wasn’t included.
Apple appealed that decision on Feb. 29 and a decision is due
within three months.  “Proview is misleading Chinese courts and customers,” Wu
said today when asked for comment on the remarks by Hejun
Vanguard’s Li on Cook’s visit.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  