-- Mariners Top Athletics in Tokyo as Major League Season Opens
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 2012-03-28T14:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/mariners-beat-athletics-in-tokyo-as-major-league-season-opens.html
Ichiro Suzuki  had four hits and
Dustin Ackley added a home run and as the  Seattle Mariners  won
3-1 in 11 innings over the  Oakland Athletics  in Tokyo to open
the Major League Baseball season.  Felix Hernandez  gave up one run on five hits over eight
innings as the teams began a two-game series at the Tokyo Dome.
Hernandez, the 2010 Cy Young Award winner as the American
League’s top pitcher, struck out six without issuing a walk.  Pregame ceremonies began with a tribute to the victims of
last year’s tsunami in Japan, including Taylor Anderson, an
American teacher who was killed after ensuring the safety of her
students in Ishinomaki. Videos commemorating the March 11, 2011,
disaster were played between innings and Anderson’s parents were
part of first-pitch ceremony.  Major League Baseball  and U.S.
officials also provided videos.  The tsunami, which hit Japan’s Pacific coastline 60 minutes
after a magnitude-9 earthquake struck at 2:46 p.m., left 15,854
people dead and 3,272 missing, destroying entire towns,
crippling a nuclear plant and leaving hundreds of thousands of
people homeless.  Both the Japanese and U.S. national anthems played before
the game, and fans began entering the stadium three hours before
the first pitch to watch batting practice.  Ackley hit a homer to right field in the fourth inning and
added a run-scoring single to center in the 11th. After stealing
second base, he scored on Ichiro’s fourth hit of the night, a
single up the middle.  Ichiro Returns  Ichiro, who played for the Orix Blue Wave in  Japan ’s
Pacific League for nine seasons before joining the Mariners in
2001, got the first hit of the season and 2,429th of his major-
league career in the first inning. He batted third in the
Mariners’ lineup, a switch from his previous role as a leadoff
hitter.  Oakland’s lone run came on Kurt Suzuki’s fourth-inning
double to left which scored shortstop Cliff Pennington.  Tom Wilhelmsen (1-0) pitched two scoreless innings for the
win and Brandon League got the save. Brandon McCarthy gave up
one run on six hits for the Athletics over seven innings. Andrew
Carignan (0-1) took the loss, allowing both earned runs in the
11th.  The A’s, who are making their second trip to Japan in five
seasons, haven’t had a winning record since 2006. Oakland opened
its 2008 campaign in Japan against the Boston  Red Sox , splitting
a pair of games.  Opening Games  It was the ninth time the two teams had played each other
to open the major-league season, with Seattle holding a 6-3
advantage.  The Mariners ties to Japan are strong. Besides Ichiro on
the field, they are owned by Nintendo of America.  The teams had been scheduled to play in Tokyo in March
2003, but that series was canceled due to the threat of war in
 Iraq . Current Athletics manager  Bob Melvin  was then the manager
of the Mariners.  This series marks the fourth season-opener in Japan and the
first since the Red Sox and A’s played in 2008 at  Tokyo  Dome.  After their two games in Tokyo, the A’s return to the U.S.
for four exhibition outings before playing their home opener on
April 6 against the Mariners. The Mariners have their home
opener the following Friday, April 13, against the A’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 