-- Asia Set to Double Reserve Pool as Europe Squeezes IMF: Economy
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-03-28T03:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/asia-set-to-double-reserve-pool-as-europe-squeezes-imf-economy.html
Asian policy makers are preparing
to double a $120 billion reserve pool to defend the region
against shocks, reducing their reliance on traditional backstops
such as the  International Monetary Fund  as Europe saps
resources.  Officials meeting in the Cambodian capital of  Phnom Penh 
this week will discuss boosting to $240 billion the so-called
Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralization agreement, a foreign-
currency reserve pool created by Japan,  China ,  South Korea  and
10 Southeast Asian nations that took effect in 2010, said Wei Benhua, director of the fund’s surveillance unit in  Singapore .  Asian nations, holder of more than half of global reserves,
are looking within themselves to protect the world’s fastest-
growing region as Europe and the U.S. struggle to recover from
the worst economic slump since World War II. The IMF, which
bailed out South Korea,  Indonesia  and Thailand during the
1997-98 Asian financial crisis, estimates that the euro area
will take up about 80 percent of its total credit in 2014.  “The global financial crisis and  Europe ’s debt crisis show
that when markets become irrational or extremely volatile,
countries need all the resources they can get,” said Tai Hui,
Singapore-based head of Southeast Asian economics at Standard
Chartered Plc. “When there are trillions sloshing around in
foreign-exchange reserves in  Asia , adding another $120 billion
is very small.”  Crisis Prevention  The aim of a larger reserve pool is “crisis prevention,”
said Wei, who heads the Asean+3 Macroeconomic Research Office in
Singapore and is a former deputy director at China’s  State
Administration of Foreign Exchange . Deputy finance ministers
from  Southeast Asia , China, Japan and South Korea will discuss
the plan this week and submit it to their ministers for a May
approval, he said.  The countries have bolstered cooperation since the regional
crisis almost 15 years ago, when  Thailand ’s baht devaluation set
off a plunge in neighboring currencies and sparked a financial
meltdown. Central banks are also diversifying their reserves and
moving into yuan-denominated assets, while increasing bilateral
currency swaps to support trade and investment.  Help from developed countries and the global institutions
led by them may be limited as Europe’s debt crisis is prolonged.
European ministers meet this week to discuss enlarging their
crisis fund as the cost of saving the region’s economies from
bankruptcy exceeds 385 billion euros ($513 billion).  Europe’s Options  Euro-area finance ministers are weighing their options on
the temporary European Financial Stability Facility, which
manages rescue programs for Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece , and
its permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism. They
may decide to increase their crisis fund to a total capacity of
692 billion euros from a current limit of 500 billion euros when
they meet March 30, a euro-area official said.  Reports today may confirm the U.K. economy shrank 0.2
percent in the fourth quarter from the previous three months,
while French gross domestic product rose 0.2 percent from the
third quarter, matching earlier estimates, according to
Bloomberg surveys. Inflation in  Germany  slowed this month,
another survey showed ahead of a release today.  Thailand may say manufacturing slumped for a sixth month in
February and exports contracted for a fourth month, while the
U.S. may report a rebound in durable goods orders, according to
other Bloomberg surveys of economists.  The Chiang Mai Initiative supplements existing
international financial arrangements through currency swap
transactions among member nations if needed, or can act as a
backstop for those facing balance-of-payments or short-term
liquidity difficulties. The swap agreements have not been
tapped.  Access to Reserves  The proposed increase in the Chiang Mai Initiative will be
a fraction of the foreign-currency holdings that Asian nations
have accumulated, totaling more than $6.5 trillion.  China (WIRACHIN)  alone
has about $3.2 trillion of reserves, followed by  Japan ’s
holdings of more than $1.2 trillion.  The pool widens access to reserves that will allow
countries such as Indonesia and Thailand, recipients of IMF
bailouts during the Asian crisis, to defend their currencies in
times of turmoil. The IMF loaned more than $100 billion to the
two nations and South Korea, and governments were forced to cut
spending, raise  interest rates  and sell state-owned companies in
return.  Still, regional safety nets do not erase the need for
global ones, Singapore central bank Managing Director Ravi Menon
said in January. It is in the interest of Asian countries to
have the IMF continue playing an “active role” in the region
and complement regional financing arrangements such as the
Chiang Mai Initiative, he said.  Capacity Diminished  “Where a crisis is largely regional in nature, contagion
can be rapid and the capacity of a regional safety net can be
diminished,” Menon said. “Global safety nets may well be
necessary as a complement in situations like these.”  With Asia continuing to lead global growth and being the
recipient of capital inflows as investors seek higher returns,
 Standard Chartered ’s Hui said it’s timely for officials to boost
regional safety nets.  “When the emergency does hit, you always wish you have
more rather than less,” Hui said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  