-- Asia’s Airports Climb World Rankings as Atlanta Stays Top
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-03-28T13:49:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/asian-airports-storm-global-rankings-as-atlanta-keeps-top-spot.html
Asian airports dominated gains in
passenger numbers last year, with five hubs posting double-digit
growth and Beijing narrowing the gap to world No. 1 Atlanta.  Jakarta was fastest-expanding among the top 30 terminals,
growing traveler numbers 19 percent to 52.4 million, figures
from  Airports Council International  show. Bangkok posted a 12
percent increase and Singapore, Guangzhou in  China  and  Kuala
Lumpur  -- new to the ranking -- all exceeded 10 percent growth.  Atlanta, home to  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , remained top after
its passenger total rose 3.4 percent to 92.4 million, while
Beijing had a 4.7 percent gain, to 77.4 million.  London Heathrow 
displaced Chicago O’Hare to rank third after disruption from
strikes and volcanoes decreased and  Hong Kong (CXLTFREI)  entered the top 10
at the expense of Denver, though its freight-market lead shrank.  “ Asia  is not only where the growth is in terms of GDP and
incomes, which fuel demand, but levels of investment there mean
its airports are also able to accommodate the increase, which is
not necessarily the case elsewhere,” said  Chris Tarry , an
independent aviation analyst in London.  Hong Kong  last week backed plans for a HK$86.2 billion ($11
billion) third runway and  Malaysia Airports Holdings Bhd. (MAHB)  is
adding a base for low-cost carriers at Kuala Lumpur. Beijing
opened a terminal in 2008 bigger than all five at Heathrow,
which is constrained by a government ban on a new runway.  Istanbul Surge  Two other airports in the global top 30, both in  Europe ,
achieved double-digit jumps; Istanbul entered the ranking after
lifting numbers 16 percent, second only to Jakarta, on surging
growth at Turk Hava Yollari AO or  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) , and
Amsterdam Schiphol posted a 10 percent increase to regain No. 4
spot in the region from  Madrid , where traffic fell 0.4 percent.  Three other hubs saw numbers shrink -- Chicago, Houston and
Tokyo Haneda, which handles the bulk of Japanese domestic
traffic and suffered the biggest decline of all, 2.9 percent,
following the earthquake and tsunami last March.  In the freight market, the amount of cargo handled at Hong
Kong decreased by 4.7 percent to 3.97 million metric tons,
keeping it ahead of  Memphis ,  Tennessee , headquarters of  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) , where the volume was static at 3.92 million tons.  Across the 906 airports surveyed cargo volumes slipped 0.1
percent, versus a 4.9 percent increase in passenger traffic. Of
the top 30 for freight, 11 suffered drops and only three, Doha
in Qatar and Cologne and Leipzig, had double-digit gains, with
the German advances aided by a night-flights ban at  Frankfurt .  Outside of the top 30,  New Delhi  attracted about 22 percent
more travelers and  Rio de Janeiro  almost 21 percent more.  In Europe, Barcelona posted near-18 percent growth to 34
million passengers, spurred by a terminal extension and flights
from  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  and  EasyJet Plc. (EZJ)  Moscow’s Domodedovo
and Sheremetyevo hubs both achieved growth of about 16 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in  London  at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  