-- Stocks Fall as Slump in Oil Drags on Energy Producers
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-03-28T20:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/asian-stocks-retreat-as-oil-aussie-slide.html
U.S. stocks fell for a second day,
led by commodity producers, as oil plunged on an increase in
crude supplies while growth in durable-goods orders trailed
estimates. Treasuries fell after demand weakened at an auction.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.5 percent to
1,405.54 at 4 p.m. in New York. Oil retreated for the first time
in four days, losing 1.8 percent to $105.41 a barrel. The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note increased two basis points to 2.20
percent.  Portugal ’s two-year note yield fell for the 10th day,
the longest stretch since February 2009, as Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  said the euro crisis is “almost over.”  Crude helped drag the  S&P GSCI Index (SPGSCI)  of raw materials down
1.2 percent after U.S. Energy Department data showed supplies of
oil rose by 7.1 million barrels last week, more than twice the
increase forecast by analysts. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  told ABC News yesterday that the U.S. economic recovery
isn’t assured and policy makers don’t rule out any further
options to boost growth.  “We got a larger-than-expected 7.1 million barrel build in
crude supplies, which certainly sends a message that there is
plenty of crude around,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at
Citi Futures Perspective in New York. “There were already a lot
of bearish factors at work before the report came out.”  Crude in  New York  declined as much as 2.5 percent after the
Energy Department said supplies grew to 353.4 million barrels
following the largest increase since July 2010. Prices also fell
after French Industry Minister Eric Besson said the U.S.
proposed releasing oil from strategic reserves.  Commodities Retreat  All but two of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI index
retreated. Copper declined the most in three weeks, losing 2.3
percent, to $3.7925 a pound. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
three-month outlook on commodities to neutral from overweight.  Chevron Corp., Exxon Mobil Corp. and Occidental Petroleum
Corp. paced losses in 42 of 43  energy companies  in the  S&P 500 (SPX) ,
sending the group down 1.2 percent and contributing the most to
the index’s decline among 10 industries.  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC) 
climbed 4.3 percent after Pentair Inc. agreed to combine with
its Tyco Flow in a $4.53 billion deal. Pentair rallied 15
percent.  Global stocks are having the best start to a year since
1998, with the  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  up 11 percent, on
speculation the U.S. recovery will be sustained and  Europe ’s
debt crisis is easing. The  S&P 500  has rallied almost 12 percent
this quarter. It has slipped less than 0.8 percent from a nearly
four-year high reached on March 26.  `Too Early'  Industrial companies in the S&P 500 fell 1 percent as a
group to help lead losses. Bookings for  goods  meant to last at
least three years advanced 2.2 percent, less than projected,
after a revised 3.6 percent decline the prior month, data from
the Commerce Department showed. Economists forecast a 3 percent
gain, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Bernanke said unemployment remains too high and it’s “too
early to declare victory” for the economy, according to a
transcript of the interview with ABC News anchor  Diane Sawyer .  “Bernanke confirmed again that the Fed will keep monetary
policy accommodative for the foreseeable future and would be
prepared to do more should the economy falter later this year,”
said  Mark Bronzo , who helps manage about $125 billion at
Guggenheim Investments, in Irvington, New York.  “The equity
markets have had a big move but due to the typical window
dressing at the end of the quarter we expect the markets to hold
on to its gains in the short term.”  Two-year Treasury yields increased one basis point to 0.35
percent, while 30-year rates added one point to 3.31 percent.  Treasury Auction  Treasury five-year notes attracted the lowest demand at an
auction since August as investors questioned whether the economy
is faltering enough to merit additional stimulus by the Fed. The
bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids
with the amount of debt offered, was 2.85 at the $35 billion
sale, down from a 10-auction average of 2.91 and the least since
it was 2.71 seven months ago.  Almost five shares fell for each that gained in the Stoxx
600. Anglo American Plc and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  lost more than 2.7
percent to lead mining companies lower.  Total SA (FP) ,  France ’s
largest oil producer, fell 1.4 percent after a gas leak from its
Elgin platform in the U.K.  North Sea  entered a fourth day.  The euro appreciated against 13 of its 16 major
counterparts, while trading little changed at $1.3320 against
the dollar.  Bailout Boost  European governments are preparing for a one-year increase
in the ceiling on rescue aid to 940 billion euros ($1.3
trillion) to keep the debt crisis at bay, according to a draft
statement written for finance ministers. The euro-area finance
chiefs will probably decide at a meeting in Copenhagen March 30
to run the 500 billion-euro permanent European Stability
Mechanism alongside the 200 billion euros committed by the
temporary fund, a European official told reporters earlier today
in Brussels.  Beyond that, they are also set to allow the temporary
fund’s unused 240 billion euros to be tapped until mid-2013 “in
exceptional circumstances following a unanimous decision of
euro-area heads of state or government notably in case the ESM
capacity would prove insufficient,” according to the draft
dated March 23 and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The two-year Portuguese yield slipped 13 basis points to
9.37 percent, falling 3.57 percentage points during the streak.
Italian two-year note yields were up one basis point at 2.63
percent as the government sold 8.5 billion euros ($11 billion)
of bills at the lowest rate in more than a year.  Monti said in  Tokyo  today that his nation has helped to
stop a worsening of the situation and that the risk of debt
contagion from  Spain  has decreased after measures taken to
increase a firewall.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets (MXEF)  Index slipped 1.2 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index tumbled 2.7 percent, the most in four
months. Jiangxi Copper Co.,  China ’s biggest producer of the
metal, said earnings fell 18 percent in the second half and
Societe Generale SA said the Asian nation’s corporate profits
won’t grow this year.  Russia’s Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 2.2 percent as
oil and metals prices retreated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  