-- Tata Communications’ $2 Billion Loan Attracts 4 Banks
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2012-03-28T14:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/tata-communications-2-billion-loan-said-to-attract-four-banks.html
(Corrects newspaper name in fifth paragraph.)  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM) ’s loan of
as much as $2 billion to help finance a possible bid for  Cable &
Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  has attracted DBS Bank Ltd., according to
two people familiar with the matter.  DBS Bank joins Standard Chartered Plc,  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and  State Bank of India (SBIN)  as
underwriters on the loan, the people said, asking not to be
identified because the details are private.  About two more banks are considering joining the facility
at the senior level to help underwrite it, the people said.  Tata Communications said it may make a cash offer for Cable
& Wireless, setting up a potential rivalry with  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  to win control of the owner of Britain’s largest business
fiber network. Talks are “at a very preliminary stage” and
Tata Communications must decide whether it will make an offer by
March 29, the company said on March 1.  Vodafone and Tata Communications seek to extend that March
29 deadline because Cable & Wireless hasn’t provided sufficient
information to the bidders yet, the Sunday Telegraph reported on
March 25, without saying how it got the information.  A spokeswoman for Tata Communications, who asked not to be
named citing company policy, declined to comment on the
financing when contacted by phone in Mumbai today.  Two telephone calls and an e-mail to DBS Bank Singapore-
based spokeswoman, Edna Koh, seeking comment on the same weren’t
immediately returned.  London-based Cable & Wireless, which has replaced two chief
executive officers since June, has assets ranging from a U.K.
fiber network to an overseas enterprise unit.  Tata Group , which
controls the telecommunications provider, has acquired companies
in the U.K. including Jaguar Land Rover Plc and Corus Group Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Mock in Hong Kong at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  