-- Australian Dollar Declines on Budget, Economic Growth Con
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-03-29T15:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/australian-n-z-dollars-set-for-monthly-drops-as-stocks-decline.html
Australia ’s dollar dropped against
most of its 16 major peers after Treasurer Wayne Swan said
meeting a budget-surplus goal will require spending cuts.  The Aussie fell to a two-month low against its U.S.
counterpart amid concern Chinese manufacturing is losing
momentum, curbing demand for the nation’s commodity exports. New
Zealand’s dollar reached a five-month high against its
Australian counterpart after data showed business confidence
improved in the smaller nation and as traders increased bets
that Australia’s central bank will cut  interest rates .  “Over the next one to three months, we will go lower” in
the Australian currency, said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in
Auckland at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest
lender. “The main reason for that will be slower economic
growth globally. Particularly important will be the slowing
growth in China.”  The Aussie fell 0.6 percent to $1.0322 as of 11:37 a.m. in
 New York  and touched $1.0305, the lowest since Jan. 17. The  New
Zealand dollar , known as the kiwi, dropped 0.5 percent to 81.27
U.S. cents.  The Australian dollar has lost 3.8 percent against the U.S.
currency this month, paring its yearly gain to 1.1 percent. The
kiwi has fallen 2.6 percent in March and has gained 4.6 percent
this year.  Swan’s Surplus  Contemporary and structural budget influences “are
combining to make that surplus much more difficult to achieve,”
Swan said in a speech today. “The reality is that we will need
to cut and cancel existing programs if we are to meet” the
government’s surplus targets.  A flash reading for Chinese manufacturing this month was at
48.1, below the 50 level that divides expansion from
contraction,  and compared with a final 49.6 in February HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said March 22.  The  China  Federation of Logistics & Purchasing will issue
its  purchasing managers’ index  on April 1, with economists
predicting a 50.6 figure. The nation is Australia’s largest
overseas market and New Zealand’s second-biggest export
destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  