-- AIJ Falsified Reports, Tax Prosecutors, Swaps: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-28T13:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/tax-prosecutors-eu-bank-funding-swap-exemptions-compliance.html
AIJ Investment Advisors Co. 
President Kazuhiko Asakawa said he ordered the falsification of
fund performance reports in the hope the Japanese asset manager
could recoup losses that may exceed $1 billion.  Admitting for the first time that  AIJ (0202964D)  had disguised losses,
Asakawa told a Japanese parliamentary committee that he can’t
explain how investor funds will be repaid. He apologized to
clients and the securities investment community.  The losses have prompted the review of 265 asset managers
nationwide, and last week AIJ’s offices were raided and its
registration revoked. Securities regulators say Asakawa and
Shigeko Takahashi, another director, conspired to conceal
trading losses to attract pension funds, a scandal that has
weakened confidence in corporate governance after camera maker
 Olympus Corp. (7733)  admitted last year to a 13-year cover-up of
losses.  Lawmakers called for further questioning of Asakawa in
front of the country’s Diet, saying the answers provided weren’t
sufficient. Asakawa had initially declined a request to appear
before the parliamentary committee.  The firm oversaw 145.8 billion yen ($1.8 billion) of
clients’ money and lost 109.2 billion yen from derivatives
trades directed by Asakawa over nine years, the Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission said last week. AIJ’s clients
included 92 pension funds, according to the SESC. Most were
small to mid-sized Japanese retirement plans that strived to
close funding gaps created by low bond yields and two decades of
slumping stocks.  Regulators on March 23 searched AIJ’s Tokyo headquarters
and withdrew its registration.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Lawmaker Bowles Says Parliament Supports Bank-Funding Rule  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the  European Parliament ’s
committee that screens draft financial regulation, said that
lawmakers supported imposing a minimum stable funding rule on
lenders.  There is a “balance in parliament” in favor of the rule,
known as a net stable funding ratio, Bowles told lawmakers in
the committee. This is a point where parliament could be
“strong,” she said.  The parliament is weighing how the EU should apply bank
capital and liquidity rules agreed on in 2010 by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision . The new rules shouldn’t be
allowed to harm so-called trade finance activities by banks,
Bowles said.  U.S. House Backs Exemptions to Swaps Rules in Bipartisan Vote  The U.S. House voted to exempt manufacturers and commercial
swap-users from collateral requirements and ease regulations on
inter-company trades in a bid to amend the Dodd-Frank Act
financial overhaul.  The collateral measure, approved 370-24 in  Washington , is
designed to bar regulators from requiring so-called end-users to
post margin. MillerCoors LLC has  sought an exemption  for swaps
it uses to hedge the price of aluminum, while Baltimore-based
 Constellation Energy Group (CEG)  uses  derivatives  to hedge volatility
in physical energy markets.  The two measures passed with bipartisan support and need
Senate approval before heading to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature. Republican and Democrat lawmakers have argued that
regulators including the  Federal Reserve  and Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. have misinterpreted Dodd-Frank to lead some end-
users to face margin requirements.  The Democrat-led Senate has yet to consider similar
legislation and currently has no hearings or floor action
scheduled on the bill.  A separate measure, approved on a 357-36 vote, would bar
regulators from imposing clearing, trading and margin
requirements on transactions between affiliates of a company
that files consolidated financial statements.  The  Institute of International Bankers  and  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc.  have urged regulators to
exempt inter-affiliate trades because they don’t present risks
to the financial-system. Isda’s members included  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   For more, click here.  Taiwan FSC Lets Futures Brokerages Set Up Information Companies  Taiwan’s financial regulator will allow futures brokerages
to invest as much as 10 percent of their net worth in
information companies, the Financial Supervisory Commission said
in a statement on its website.  Each futures brokerage will be allowed to own and set up
one fully-owned information company to provide securities and
futures related information, according to the statement.  Commodity Derivatives Rules May Be Toughened by EU Lawmakers  European Union lawmakers may seek to toughen planned curbs
on speculation with commodity derivatives as part of an overhaul
of financial-market rules.  Markus Ferber, the lawmaker leading work on the measures in
the European Parliament, is proposing to force venues to limit
the number of commodity-derivative contracts that traders can
enter into, according to a report sent by his office. The
requirement would go beyond a draft law published last year by
 Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief.  Politicians including French President Nicolas Sarkozy have
demanded restrictions on commodity derivatives speculation,
which they blame for spikes in world food prices. The  Institute
of International Finance , an association representing global
lenders, has said there is “little convincing evidence linking
financial investment with trends in commodity prices and
volatility.”  Barnier last year proposed an overhaul of the EU’s market
legislation, known as Mifid, in a bid to plug regulatory gaps
exposed by the financial crisis that followed  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LAH) ’s 2008 collapse.  His draft law would require venues handling commodity
derivatives to either cap the number of contracts that traders
can enter into -- a so-called position limit -- or enforce
“alternative arrangements.”  Such alternatives should be “an addition, not an
alternative, to the use of position limits,” Ferber said in the
report.  BOE’s FPC May Seek Powers Over U.K. Banks’ Liquidity Buffers  The Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee said it
may seek powers over liquidity buffers to manage risks across
the banking system.  “A key risk faced by many financial institutions, and
banks in particular, derives from the fact that they typically
borrow funds on a short-term basis and lend over a longer
term,” the FPC said in the record of its March 16 meeting,
published in  London  today. It was “likely to be desirable, in
due course, for the statutory FPC to have powers of direction
over a liquidity instrument that would tackle the build up of
such vulnerabilities.”  The FPC said it held off seeking such a power at the
meeting as there is no “commonly accepted regulatory liquidity
standard.” It will return to the liquidity issue once
international standards have been agreed, it said.  The panel recommended earlier this month that Parliament
give it tools in three areas: countercyclical capital buffers,
sectoral  capital requirements  and leverage ratios.  Some FPC members said a leverage ratio would be a “crude
backstop,” noting that banks could respond by shifting balance
sheets into riskier assets while keeping the level of total
assets unchanged.  Compliance Action  U.S. Tax-Evasion Probes Said to Slow as Prosecutors Transfer  The U.S.  Justice Department  has lost almost 30 percent of
its tax prosecutors in the past month, slowing a U.S. crackdown
on offshore banks that enabled  tax evasion , according to four
people familiar with the matter.  Twenty-five of the 95 prosecutors in the tax division left
headquarters in Washington for six-month “details” with U.S.
attorneys around the country, and another three took permanent
assignments, according to the four people, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Many of the lawyers handled cases involving foreign banks
or financial advisers suspected of helping U.S. clients cheat on
taxes, the people said. The transfers came amid criminal probes
of at least 11 Swiss financial institutions, including Credit
Suisse Group AG, with the tax division leading or assisting each
prosecution.  Nathan Hochman, a former assistant attorney general who
oversaw the tax division under President  George W. Bush , said
moving this number of people “will significantly compromise
such enforcement at the very time it is needed” to deal with
the volume of offshore cases.  The division also investigates identity theft, illegal tax
shelters and other crimes, while approving every tax case filed
by the 94 presidentially appointed U.S. attorneys serving the
Justice Department around the country.  “Offshore non-compliance by U.S. taxpayers remains a top
priority for the Justice Department’s Tax Division,” said
Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman. “We will
continue to pursue those cases vigorously.”  The offshore tax crackdown has expanded since 2007.
Prosecutors have since filed criminal charges against at least
21 foreign bankers, advisers and attorneys and at least 40 U.S.
taxpayers.  For more, click here.  Sony Offers Compromises to EU for $2.2 Billion EMI Deal  A Sony Corp.-led group offered compromises to European
Union regulators examining its $2.2 billion purchase of EMI
Group’s publishing unit to address antitrust concerns.  The  European Commission   extended  its deadline to rule on
the deal until April 19 after the companies made the offer,
according to a filing on its website. It didn’t give any details
of the proposed remedies.  The EU is probing the offer from the Sony-led group, which
includes the Michael Jackson estate, Mubadala Development Co.
and  Blackstone Group. (BX)  It is also conducting an in-depth probe of
Universal Music Group’s offer to buy parts of the EMI record
label.  The European Commission declined to comment. Sony/ATV
spokesman Jimmy Asci didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment before regular business hours.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal had said it expected an in-depth
probe into its plan to buy EMI’s recorded-music business, which
includes the Beatles albums. Sony has agreed to buy the
publishing business, which owns copyrights to songs and
represents songwriters, including Beyonce, Jay-Z and Tinie
Tempah.  Iceland Central Bank, Special Prosecutor Search Samherji Offices  Iceland’s central bank and the Office of the Special
Prosecutor yesterday carried out investigations of the offices
of  Samherji hf .  The search, which included office sites in Reykjavik and
Akureyri, was conducted under the central bank’s mandated
investigative role of the Foreign Exchange Act, the bank said in
an e-mail.  United Technologies Faces Deeper EU Probe Over Goodrich Bid  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  faces an in-depth probe by
European Union regulators into its bid to buy  Goodrich Corp. (GR)  for
$16.5 billion amid concerns the deal may harm competition for
engine controls and AC power generators.  The European Commission extended its deadline to rule on
the deal until Aug. 9 to examine it in greater detail, according
to an e-mailed statement. The company said it remains confident
the purchase will be completed by mid-year.  United Technologies, which has aviation brands including
 Sikorsky (0108022D)  helicopters and Pratt & Whitney engines, agreed to buy
Goodrich in September, adding a maker of aircraft landing gear
and jet-turbine casings to take advantage of a record surge in
commercial plane orders. The Hartford, Connecticut-based company
is making its first big purchase since buying Sundstrand Corp.
in 1999 for $4 billion.  “The phase II in the EU is not surprising, it is part of
the normal regulator review process,” spokesman John Moran said
by e-mail. “We continue to work with the EU and other
regulatory authorities and continue to expect a mid-year
closing.”  Bank Single Market Starting to Fragment in EU, Regulator Says  The single market for  investment banking  is starting to
fragment across the European Union, the region’s top regulator
warned.  Andrea Enria, chairman of the  European Banking Authority ,
said there are “signs, unfortunately” that banks’ shedding of
assets is making them less active in other EU nations. Cross-
border lending is shrinking as companies strive to meet tougher
capital rules, he said at an event in Brussels yesterday.  Officials from Austria’s central bank and financial
regulators imposed tougher rules last year on loans to Eastern
European countries, restricting their banks to lending no more
than 110 percent of local deposits and funding raised by
subsidiaries.  The EBA, set up last year to harmonize banking rules across
the European Union, told banks to raise 114.7 billion euros
($153 billion) in fresh capital by the end of June as part of
measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  Courts  Obama Health Law Seen in Jeopardy After Justices’ Questioning  U.S. Supreme Court justices voiced skepticism about
President Barack Obama’s health-care law, hinting they might
strike down his biggest domestic achievement just months before
the election.  On the second of three days in the historic case, justices’
questions over the law’s requirement that Americans buy
insurance or pay a penalty indicated they might split 5-to-4,
with five Republican appointees banding together to topple the
law. The Obama administration needs the vote of at least one of
the five Republican appointees on the nine-member court to
uphold the law.  The court probably will rule in late June.  For more, click here and click here.  For a Bloomberg Television report, click here.  J&J’s $158 Million Settlement With Texas Approved by Court  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and the state of  Texas  won court approval
of the company’s agreement to pay $158 million to settle claims
that the drugmaker fraudulently marketed its Risperdal anti-
psychotic drug.  J&J reached the settlement in January to resolve claims it
defrauded the state’s Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal
for uses not approved by U.S. regulators, including for children
with psychiatric disorders. The state also claimed the New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based drugmaker downplayed the health risk
of Risperdal.  Travis County District Judge John Dietz in Austin, Texas,
approved the settlement yesterday following a meeting in court
with lawyers. J&J and its Janssen unit denied any wrongdoing in
the final agreement.  “This settlement represents a resolution to claims brought
by the State in 2004 for alleged Medicaid overpayment during the
years 1994-2008, and will circumvent potentially lengthy and
costly appellate activities,” Teresa Mueller, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Under the agreement, J&J and Janssen will pay $158 million,
with 40 percent going to the state, 31 percent to the U.S., 17
percent to whistle-blower Allen Jones, who brought the lawsuit,
and the rest to his attorneys, Tommy Jacks, one of Jones’s
lawyers, said in an interview.  Tom Kelley, spokesman for the Texas attorney general,
declined to comment on the breakdown. The state is getting a
larger share than initially expected, he said.  The Texas case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288,
District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  For more, click here.  Interviews  Dresner Sees Passage of Bill for Start-Up Funding  Steven Dresner, founder and president of Dealflow Media
Inc., talks about prospects  for legislation that would help
start-up companies raise cash with “crowd funding” or the sale
of small amounts of stock to many individuals.  Dresner talks with Sara Eisen on Bloomberg Television’s
“Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  