-- Bank of China Seeks to Join World’s Biggest Metals Exchange
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-03-28T17:50:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/bank-of-china-seeks-to-join-world-s-biggest-metals-exchange-2-.html
Bank of China Ltd.  became the first
Chinese company to apply for membership on the  London  Metal
Exchange, the world’s biggest metals bourse.  BOCI Global Commodities (U.K.) Ltd. is seeking to become a
category 2 member, giving it the right to trade by telephone and
electronically, the LME said in a notice today. It won’t have
access to the ring, London’s last open-outcry trading floor.  China accounts for about 39 percent of global copper usage,
42 percent of aluminum and 43 percent of nickel demand,
according to  Barclays Capital . The LME opened its first Asian
office in  Singapore  in 2010 and introduced new contracts with
the Singapore Exchange Ltd. last year to attract new investors.
The LME is also considering takeover bids for the 135-year-old
exchange after trading volume climbed to a record last year.  “ China  is such a big user of the LME,” said Herwig Schmidt, head of sales at Triland Metals Ltd., one of 12
companies trading on the floor of the LME and a unit of Tokyo-
based Mitsubishi Corp. “It’s the first step that encourages
others to follow.”  The LME’s board will review the application on April 23,
said  Chris Evans , the exchange’s head of business development.  The LME handles more than 80 percent of industrial metals
futures trading. The Bank of China is the country’s third-
largest lender by assets. BOCI Global Commodities was not
immediately able to provide comment.  Toyota Tsusho  Floor trading is reserved for category 1 members. The LME
has 26 category 2 members including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
 Toyota Tsusho Corp. (8015) , the trading house part-owned by Japanese
carmaker Toyota Motor Corp., according to the LME’s website.  “It is very exciting for the LME to have this type of
development from a leading bank from the world’s largest
consumer,” Mo Ahmadzadeh, senior vice president of INTL FCStone
Inc. in  New York , said by e-mail. An LME member that is
affiliated with a company from China may be able to manage more
trading on behalf of domestic clients from the country than
current brokers, he said.  A new category 2 member would have to buy B shares of the
LME. They last traded at 70 pounds ($111) on Feb. 24, according
to data from JPMorgan Chase & Co. on Bloomberg. Ordinary shares
confer ownership.  The LME will invite takeover offers from a “small number”
of bidders by May 7. It may be worth $1.3 billion, hedge-fund
adviser Equity Research Desk has said. CME Group Inc., NYSE
Euronext and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. made preliminary
offers, according to three people with direct knowledge of the
matter.  Trading Surge  Investors bought and sold $15.4 trillion of LME contracts
last year, up 33 percent from 2010. The  LME Index (LMEX)  of the six
main metals traded on the exchange -- copper, aluminum, nickel,
zinc, lead and tin -- more than tripled in the decade through
2011 as demand from  emerging markets  led by China overwhelmed
supply from mines.  BOCI Global Commodities, owned by the Chinese bank’s BOC
International Holdings Ltd. unit, was authorized by U.K.
regulators in January to hold client money. Bank of China plans
to open a Chicago branch to strengthen ties with  commodities
markets ,  China Daily  reported March 1.  G.H. Financials Ltd., based in London, also applied for
category 2 membership, according to LME.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  