-- Banks Hold $1 Billion in MF Global U.K. Cash, KPMG Says
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-03-28T12:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/banks-hold-1-billion-in-mf-global-u-k-client-cash-kpmg-says.html
About $1 billion of  MF Global
Holding Ltd. (MFGLQ)  U.K. clients’ money remains locked away in other
financial institutions five months after the brokerage’s
collapse, administrators KPMG LLP said.  KPMG has collected more than $500 million from those
accounts to date, the firm said in an  update  published on its
website. The figures relate to unsegregated client accounts,
which MF Global was allowed to mix with its own funds and which
have proved difficult for the administrators to recover.  KPMG said it was taking action to obtain the $1 billion of
unsegregated assets from a “small number of financial
institutions” that it didn’t identify. The firm threatened to
sue banks that don’t hand over funds, it said at a London
creditors meeting in January.  KPMG, appointed to wind up the London-based unit when the
New York-based parent filed for bankruptcy in October, plans to
produce statements setting out the account positions of 75
percent of customers by March 30. MF Global was the fifth-
largest financial company to file for bankruptcy when it sought
protection on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls on its bets on
European sovereign debt.  Metal Exchange Customers  MF Global customers that traded on the London Metal
Exchange are unlikely to receive statements until April because
of the complexity of their positions, KPMG said.  KPMG is involved in a $700 million dispute over customer
money with James Giddens, the trustee for MF Global’s  New York 
brokerage. Giddens claims the money was held in the U.K. for the
New York unit’s customers and wants to be paid from a pool of
protected accounts.  “We are currently working with” the U.S. trustee to
“reconcile the universe of claims and counterclaims,” KPMG
said in its update to clients this week.  The U.S. brokerage liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  