-- Bank of America Sales Traders Kogan, Myasina Said to Depart
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-03-28T16:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/bank-of-america-sales-traders-kogan-myasina-said-to-depart.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sales and
trading directors George Kogan, Ekaterina Myasina and Alexander Orekhov left the firm, two people briefed on the matter said.  Kogan, a sales director in Moscow who formerly worked at
 Renaissance Capital  and Troika Dialog, left this week, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the moves haven’t
been made public. Myasina, a director of equity sales trading
who joined from Morgan Stanley in January 2010, departed this
week, the people said. Orekhov, an equity trader, has also left,
one of the people said.  Kogan declined to comment while Myasina didn’t respond to
calls and an e-mail seeking comment. Orekhov couldn’t be reached
on his office number and his colleagues declined to provide a
mobile phone number. Officials at the bank declined to comment.  Bank of America advised on one share sale last year, a $3.3
billion offering by  VTB Group (VTBR) ,  Russia ’s second-biggest lender.
That gave it third place in the Russian equity league tables,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank was placed
38th in the Russian mergers and acquisitions rankings last year,
the data show.  The firm hired Konstantin Korischenko, former general
director of the Micex Stock Exchange, in October 2010 to head
its Russian operations. Korischenko, a former deputy central
bank chairman, replaced Bernard Sucher who had left to “pursue
other career opportunities, according to the bank. Riccardo Orcel, Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s head of investment
banking for central and eastern  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa, also quit last year to join VTB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  