-- Bankrupt Jefferson County, Alabama, Will Miss Bond Payment
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-03-28T20:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/bankrupt-jefferson-county-alabama-will-miss-bond-payment-1-.html
Jefferson County (3681MF) ,  Alabama , will
miss a $15 million general-obligation bond payment due April 2,
Commissioner  David Carrington  said in Birmingham.  Jefferson County filed for bankruptcy in November after
county, state officials, a court-appointed receiver and
bondholders failed to implement a deal that would have reduced
$3 billion in debt tied to the failed financing of a sewer
renovation by about $1 billion. The county also has about $200
million of general-obligation bond debt and $814 million of
school-construction bonds.  The decision to stop paying was difficult, said Kenneth Klee, the county’s bankruptcy attorney: “These general-
obligation bonds are held by ordinary citizens who rely on the
income.”  The financial crisis in the county, the state’s most
populous, was caused by years of corruption and bond deals gone
bad. Jefferson has laid off workers, closed courthouses and has
been unable even to pick up roadkill on a timely basis.  Its general obligation debt is unsecured. In its bankruptcy
petition, the county listed the top three unsecured creditors
such debt as Munich’s Bayerische Landesbank, the Depository
Trust Co. and a unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Carrington and Klee blamed the missed payment on the
Alabama Legislature, which hasn’t allowed the county to raise
more revenue since courts struck down a tax on wages.  Klee said reserves would drop to $7 million by September if
the county continued to pay on its bonds: “That’s
unacceptable,” he said in an interview in Birmingham.  Nothing Coming  The bonds in question were Series 2001-B, 2003-A and 2004-
A.  “The county expects to be unable to resume payments on
those warrants until they are restructured or reinstated under
the county’s plan of adjustment in the Chapter 9 case,”
according to a press release.  The restructuring “is dependent on legislative action to
provide a stable, long term source of general fund revenues to
the county,” the release said.  National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., formerly known as
MBIA Insurance Corp., insures about $96 million of the 2003A and
2004 bonds.  Making Good  “National will ensure that its policyholders will receive
all of their principal and interest payments on time,” said
 Kevin Brown , a spokesman, in an e-mailed statement. “National
remains concerned that the Alabama Legislature’s failure to act
in support of the County could have negative repercussions for
other municipalities throughout Alabama as well as for the state
itself.”  Justin Perras , a spokesman for JPMorgan, declined to
comment.  “Jeffco has turned from a sewer problem to a full-blown
crisis of willingness to pay,” said Matt Fabian, a managing
director at Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,  Massachusetts .
“The county and the state are both culpable in this.”  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  