-- Batista Gains $7.7 Billion to Advance in Wealth Ranking
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 2012-03-28T01:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/batista-gains-7-7-billion-to-advance-in-wealth-ranking.html
Eike Batista’s net worth soared
$7.7 billion after he sold a 5.63 stake in his EBX Group Co.
holding company to Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co.  The Brazilian billionaire’s fortune rose 29 percent to
$34.5 billion since the beginning of trading on March 26, when
he announced the deal. That ranks him above American brothers
Charles and  David Koch  and makes him the eighth richest man on
Earth, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, a daily
measure of the world’s richest people.  “Imagine me getting my engine and adding another turbo
charger,” Batista said in an interview March 26 describing why
he sold a piece of his commodities empire.  Batista said in the interview that he may sell another $1
billion stake in EBX to raise more cash in an effort to surpass
Mexican  Carlos Slim  as the world’s richest man. Slim is worth
$70.6 billion, more than double Batista, according to the index.  Mubadala will pay Batista $2 billion for the stake in EBX,
valuing the holding company at $35.5 billion. Under the terms of
the deal, the sovereign-wealth fund will receive 5.63 percent of
each of Batista’s stakes in his publicly traded companies, he
said in the interview.  The fund will also own the same stake in Batista’s closely
held businesses, such as gold miner AUX and real-estate
developer REX, as well as a piece of any of EBX’s new ventures,
he said.  Batista is raising money to start businesses in industries
ranging from fertilizers to precious metals while making
investments in his existing commodity companies, including oil
producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA and shipbuilder  OSX
Brasil SA. (OSXB3)  The $2 billion will go into EBX’s coffers when the
transaction is completed April 20.  Batista kept some assets for himself. Mubadala will not
share ownership in 660 million titles linked to future royalties
from MMX’s Sudeste port, which were valued at $1.34 billion at
the close of  Sao Paulo  trading yesterday. He will also maintain
an estimated $470 million in liquid investments, vehicles and
personal real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  or 