-- Bayern Munich Wins in Champions League; Barcelona Held Scoreless
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-28T22:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/bayern-munich-wins-in-champions-league-barcelona-held-scoreless.html
Bayern Munich  took another step
toward a home Champions League soccer final in May, as defending
champion Barcelona went scoreless in the competition for the
first time in nearly 2 1/2 years.  Mario Gomez  and  Arjen Robben  scored as Bayern won 2-0 at
Marseille in their quarterfinal opener. Barcelona failed to find
the net in a 0-0 draw at AC Milan last night after having almost
two-thirds of the possession and three times as many shots.  “We had a lot of chances tonight but unfortunately we
weren’t able to take advantage of them,” Barcelona goalkeeper
 Victor Valdes  said on UEFA’s website. “The tie is very much
open and will now be decided at our stadium.”  Bayern and Barcelona will host the return matches in the
two-game series on April 3. The final is May 19 at Munich’s
 Allianz Arena , Bayern’s home ground.  Chelsea beat Benfica 1-0 and record nine-time winner Real
 Madrid  won 3-0 at APOEL Nicosia two nights ago in the other
final eight matchups. The results mark the first time that all
four home teams in the Champions League quarterfinals failed to
score a goal in the opening match.  Bayern benefited from a mistake by third-string Marseille
goalkeeper Elinton Andrade to score a controversial goal in the
44th minute at the Stade Velodrome.  Bayern captain Philipp Lahm appeared to handle the ball,
leading to a break that ended with Gomez shooting from just
outside the area. Andrade, playing in place of backup Gennaro Bracigliano with starter Steve Mandanda suspended, allowed the
ball to go under him and into the net.  Mistake Hurts  “The goal just before the break hurt us because they
failed to create many chances before that,” Marseille coach
Didier Deschamps said on UEFA’s website. “But great teams only
need a few chances to score.”  It was Gomez’s 11th  Champions League  goal this season, one
fewer than Barcelona’s  Lionel Messi , and his 37th in all
competitions.  Robben then clinched the victory in the 69th minute after
exchanging passes with Thomas Muller, to put the four-time
European champion closer to a semifinal against Real Madrid.  “We still have to play one match at home,” Robben said.
“Madrid also won well away, so the possibilities are big that
we will meet in the semifinals.”  Barcelona had 62 percent of possession and a 15-4 advantage
in shot attempts at the San Siro, though was thwarted by an AC
Milan defense that had allowed 11 goals, the most of any team
remaining in the competition.  Barcelona last failed to score in a Champions League game
on Nov. 4, 2009, when it drew 0-0 at Rubin Kazan.  ‘Tough Encounter’  “We knew it was going to be a tough encounter,” Barcelona
captain Carles Puyol said on UEFA’s website. “In the second leg
we’ll go out to win as we always do and we have the advantage of
trying to do so at home.”  Milan’s Robinho sent a shot from six yards (5.5 meters) out
well over the goal in the third minute and Barcelona was denied
a penalty after  Alexis Sanchez  appeared to be taken down by
Milan goalkeeper Christian Abbiati. Messi was then ruled offside
as he tapped in a cross from Daniel Alves.  Barcelona pressed for most of the second half and Puyol
sent a diving header from a corner kick just wide of the post
with 15 minutes left. Abbiati then stopped Messi’s shot in the
88th minute and Luca Antonini blocked Cristian Tello’s follow-up
in front of the open net.  The draw keeps seven-time winner Milan unbeaten in 15 home
quarterfinal matches in  Europe ’s elite club competition.  “We showed great commitment despite experiencing some
difficult moments,” Milan manager Massimiliano Allegri said on
UEFA’s website. “The final result is fair, now we know we can
get the qualification in Barcelona.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 