-- Bertelsmann Chief Opens Door to Share Sale After 177 Years
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-03-28T11:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/bertelsmann-ceo-opens-door-to-share-sale-by-177-year-old-company.html
Bertelsmann AG (BTG)  plans legal changes
that may pave the way for an initial public offering, indicating
the 177-year-old company’s owner is relaxing its opposition to a
share sale under new Chief Executive Officer Thomas Rabe.  Europe’s largest media company plans to convert into
 Bertelsmann  SE & Co. KGaA by June 30, a legal form that
facilitates additional private investment, including a possible
share sale, Rabe said in Berlin today.  The Mohn family, which resisted taking Bertelsmann public
in the past decade, initiated the change, according to Rabe. The
former chief financial officer, who took over as CEO at the
start of the year, aims to rekindle growth by expanding the BMG
music-rights unit, establish Bertelsmann in the education-
services market and boosting its presence in  China  and  India .  “The strategic priority for us is now to improve the
growth profile of Bertelsmann,” Rabe said. The company makes
about 80 percent of its sales in  Europe  and lackluster growth
there means it needs to enter faster-growing markets, he said.  The legal change will give the Guetersloh, Germany-based
company more flexibility to raise funds for the planned
expansion, said Rabe, speaking to journalists before he
presented the company’s full-year earnings.  “We’re facing a strategic reshaping, and of course we have
to see how we finance such a transformation,” he said. “This
also includes the option to potentially take the company to the
stock exchange, if that turns out to be the best path for us and
for our shareholders.”  Seeking ‘Inspiration’  The Mohn family, which owns 19.1 percent of Bertelsmann
according to the company’s website, engineered the ouster of
former CEO  Thomas Middelhoff  in 2002 because he sought to sell
shares to fund faster growth, investors said at the time.  The company, which controls Europe’s largest television
broadcaster  RTL Group SA (RTL) , reported a 1.2 percent increase in
revenue last year. The publishing business, whose brands include
 Random House , reported declining sales for the period.  The KGaA legal form is used by members of  Germany ’s
benchmark DAX Index including  Henkel AG (HEN3) , the maker of Loctite
superglue, drugmaker  Merck KGaA (MRK)  and kidney dialysis company
 Fresenius Medical Care AG (FME) .  These companies “aren’t setting an example, but of course
they give us inspiration,” Rabe said, adding that Bertelsmann
will remain an “independent family company.”  The rest of Bertelsmann is held by foundations, including
the Bertelsmann Foundation and the Reinhard Mohn Foundation,
whose boards count some Mohn family members.  Strategy Focus  Rabe, in his previous role as CFO, orchestrated the 4.5
billion-euros ($6 billion) purchase of a 25.1 percent
Bertelsmann stake from  Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA (GBLB)  in 2006 to
reduce pressure for an initial public offering and return
control to the Mohns.  Since Rabe was promoted, Bertelsmann has set up a wider
management committee to advise the board on strategy, hired an
executive to supervise expansion in new areas, and presented two
new candidates, Guillaume de Posch and Anke Schaeferkordt, to
succeed RTL CEO Gerhard Zeiler next month.  The company expects a “moderate” increase in revenue and
operating earnings before interest and taxes in 2012 and 2013,
and profit this year will be higher than last year’s 612 million
euros as restructuring costs decline, the company said in its
annual report today.  “It’s not yet decided if and when and how we will take on
capital, what matters is that it meets the requirements of our
strategy,” Rabe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  