-- BlackRock’s Raw Supports Glencore’s $34 Billion Xstrata Bid
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-03-28T16:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/blackrock-s-raw-supports-glencore-s-35-billion-xstrata-takeover.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  fund manager
Catherine Raw, who helps manage the firm’s $14 billion World
Mining Fund, said she supports  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s 21.3
billion pound ($34 billion) bid for  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   “If you were to ask me today whether or not the natural
resources team would accept the offer, then yes, we would,”
Raw, who co-manages the fund with  Evy Hambro , said today in an
interview in  Hong Kong . BlackRock is the largest shareholder in
Xstrata after Glencore with about 6 percent, and holds about 1.6
percent of Glencore.  The comments are the first time a fund manager from
BlackRock, the world’s biggest money manager, has expressed a
view on the bid since it was announced on Feb. 7. Glencore, the
largest publicly traded commodity supplier, already owns 34
percent of Xstrata and agreed to buy the company for 2.8 of its
shares for each one in Xstrata.  “There are other holders in BlackRock that just own
Xstrata or just own Glencore, so there are differing views
across the firm as to whether or not the deal is a good one,”
she said. “In terms of the natural resources team’s view, we
see the joint entity as being a better solution for both
companies.”  Glencore, based in Baar, Switzerland, has faced calls from
Xstrata investors including  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Fidelity Worldwide
Investment and  Standard Life Plc (SL/)  to raise its bid. The
transaction would create the fourth-largest mining company.  Shareholder Meeting  The commodities supplier declined by 3.1 percent to close
at 389.25 pence in London trading. Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata dropped 3.4 percent to 1,068.5 pence.  Glencore has said it hopes to complete the takeover of
Xstrata by the third quarter. Official documents for the deal
may be posted in late April, triggering an extraordinary general
meeting for Xstrata shareholders, Liberum Capital Ltd. said
March 13.  Investors holding 16.48 percent of Xstrata can succeed in
voting to block the deal. That’s because the U.K. takeover code
prevents Glencore from voting its stake in Xstrata, putting the
final decision into the hands of the shareholders who control
the rest of the company.  The transaction also needs to be assessed by regulators in
 Europe ,  China ,  South Africa  and Australia.  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said March
5 the all-share offer is a “fair price,” rebuffing calls from
some investors to raise it.  The deal “has been negotiated for a long time, fully
accepted by Xstrata’s CEO and unanimously accepted by their
board, so therefore that’s the price,” Glasenberg, 55, said.
“I’m a little lost why people are expecting us to pay a bigger
premium than what has been put on the table.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  