-- Blackstone Group’s GSO Capital Raises $4 Billion Credit Fund
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-03-28T14:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/blackstone-s-gso-raises-4-billion-mezzanine-fund-correct-.html
GSO Capital Partners LP, the credit
investment arm of  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , raised $4 billion for its
second mezzanine fund focused on middle-market companies, twice
the amount of commitments for its first.  The GSO Capital Opportunities Fund II will provide
mezzanine financing to companies across a range of sectors
primarily in the U.S. and Europe, said Beth Chartoff, head of
marketing and client relationships at GSO.  The fund has committed or deployed $780 million in four
companies, including providing financing to  Sony Corp. (6758)  for its
acquisition of EMI Group’s music publishing unit, GSO said today
in a statement. It also made a preferred-equity investment in a
unit of  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  GSO’s first mezzanine fund was
$2 billion and began investing in 2007.  “Banks have really stopped providing committed financing
to middle-market companies,” Chartoff said in a telephone
interview. “If you are a middle-market company and need $100
million or $200 million of debt financing to make an
acquisition, it is just too difficult to access the high-yield
market.”  The GSO Capital Opportunities Fund II is overseen by
portfolio managers and senior managing directors Robert Petrini,
Louis Salvatore, Timothy White, Michael Whitman and Dwight Scott.  GSO began marketing its second fund during the first
quarter of last year and closed on March 22, Chartoff said. It
is one of the largest mezzanine funds raised, according to data
from research firm Preqin. The largest is a $13 billion fund
raised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s  GS Mezzanine Partners ,
according to Preqin.  ‘Right Size’  “We thought $2 billion, the size of our first fund, was
undercapitalized for what we needed,” Chartoff said. “We
thought $4 billion was the right size.”  GSO, which has about $46 billion in assets, provides junior
capital to leveraged buyouts, acquisitions and growth financing
through its mezzanine fund, focusing on companies with earnings
from $25 million to $200 million, according to its  website .  GSO invested its first mezzanine fund in few European
companies because many of the capital structures were
overleveraged, Chartoff said. The company anticipates being more
active in that area with the new fund, she said.  “What we see now is a banking sector extremely challenged,
capital structures we like in  Europe  and private equity with dry
powder that will need mezzanine financing,” Chartoff said.  ‘Market Dislocation’  GSO provided 85 million euros ($113.5 million) to Coditel
Holding SA, the cable operator based in  Luxembourg .  “Our mezzanine and rescue lending drawdown funds have been
very active against a backdrop of market dislocation and
heightened caution by traditional lenders, providing much-needed
capital in a capital-constrained world,”  Stephen Schwarzman ,
chairman and chief executive officer of Blackstone, said on a
Feb. 2  conference call .  The mezzanine and rescue lending funds have generated gross
annualized return of 23 percent and 21 percent since inception,
Schwarzman said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  