-- BlackRock Cuts BHP Stake on Olympic Dam, Shale Gas Concerns
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-03-29T06:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/blackrock-fund-cuts-bhp-stake-on-olympic-dam-shale-gas-concerns.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Catherine Raw, who
helps manage the $14 billion World Mining Fund, trimmed holdings
in  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  following concerns the company’s Olympic
Dam project and shale gas assets may curb returns.  “Some of the decisions they are making are very good in
terms of long term strategy but are you going to make money from
it in the next three years, which is our investment horizon?”
Raw, a  fund manager  at BlackRock, said yesterday in  Hong Kong .
“I struggle to understand how they are going to do that.”  BHP, the biggest mining company, hasn’t decided whether to
expand the Olympic Dam uranium-copper-gold mine in  South
Australia  at a cost Deutsche Bank AG estimated in October at
$27.4 billion. It spent $16.9 billion in 2011 on shale gas,
buying  Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  of the U.S. and assets from
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)   “They need to clearly indicate to the market what their
strategy around Olympic Dam is, around shale gas is, all of
these things, to return confidence that they are not spending
huge amounts of capex for very low returns,” Raw said. “Which
at the moment is the perception in the market and one of the
reasons why we don’t need to be having such a large position.”  “That’s our fear,” she said. “It was a fear really that
came in immediately after the shale acquisition.”  Shares of Melbourne-based BHP represent about 6.5 percent
of the World Mining Fund, down from about 9 percent to 10
percent before, Raw said. “For us that’s quite a big shift out
of BHP,” she said.  Largest Holder  BlackRock is the largest shareholder of BHP’s Australian
stock, with 5.7 percent, according to  data  Bloomberg compiled.
It controls 10 percent of BHP’s London stock, the data show. The
fund is also the largest shareholder of  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) ’s
Australian stock, with 5.8 percent, and 9.1 percent of the
company’s London stock, according to Bloomberg data.  Rio Tinto, the world’s  third-largest mining  company and
second-biggest  iron ore  exporter, offers better returns on
investment in the near-term as it expands existing mines rather
than building export capacity and has greater exposure to iron
ore and copper, Raw said.  London-based Rio got 78 percent of its net income from iron
ore in 2011 and 12 percent from copper, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. BHP got 41 percent of its operating
income from iron ore in the year ending June 30, 2011 and its
base metals group, which includes copper, silver, zinc, uranium
and lead, contributed 21 percent.  Development Pipeline  “Rio’s development pipeline actually looks more
interesting because it’s in the right commodities and it’s
relatively low cost compared to the industry as a whole,” she
said. “That’s why we maintain overweight in Rio.”  BHP dropped 1 percent to A$34.25 at the close of trading in
Sydney.  Rio Tinto  fell 0.3 percent to A$64.36.  Ruban Yogarajah, a London-based spokesman for BHP, declined
to comment and referred to remarks from Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  on a conference call with reporters on Feb. 8.  “We are going to continue to invest through the cycle,”
Kloppers said on the call. The company will continue to “live
within our means, which means we are only going to invest the
 cash flow  that we generate out of our base assets over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  