-- BOE’s FPC May Seek Powers Over U.K. Banks’ Liquidity Buffers
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-03-28T08:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/boe-s-fpc-says-it-may-seek-powers-over-banks-liquidity-buffers.html
The Bank of England’s Financial
Policy Committee said it may seek powers over liquidity buffers
to manage risks across the banking system.  “A key risk faced by many financial institutions, and
banks in particular, derives from the fact that they typically
borrow funds on a short-term basis and lend over a longer
term,” the FPC said in the record of its March 16 meeting,
published in London today. It was “likely to be desirable, in
due course, for the statutory FPC to have powers of direction
over a liquidity instrument that would tackle the build up of
such vulnerabilities.”  The FPC said it held off seeking such a power at the
meeting as there is no “commonly accepted regulatory liquidity
standard.” It will return to the liquidity issue once
international standards have been agreed, it said.  The panel recommended earlier this month that Parliament
give it tools in three areas. It requested powers of direction
over countercyclical capital buffers, sectoral  capital
requirements  and leverage ratios. The U.K. Treasury had sought
guidance from the FPC on the tools it would need as the
government overhauls regulation of lenders after the financial
crisis.  The FPC expressed concern in today’s statement about the
“lack of consistency across banks’ internal assessments of the
riskiness of various categories of exposures.” It said control
over a leverage ratio could be “an effective way of
counteracting problems with mis-calibrated risks weights.”  Still, some FPC members said a leverage ratio would be a
“crude backstop.” It noted that banks could respond by
shifting balance sheets into riskier assets while maintaining
the level of total assets unchanged.  In the record, the FPC repeated its March 23 statement on
financial stability, saying while the outlook had improved,
conditions remained “fragile.” It also said that banks with
large exposures to some euro-area countries should be
“particularly alert to the need to build capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  