-- Box Inc. Starts Mobile Cloud Service in Challenge to Oracle
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-28T18:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/box-inc-starts-mobile-cloud-service-in-challenge-to-oracle-ibm.html
Box Inc. will offer corporate
clients access to applications on remote servers via  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s mobile devices, challenging software makers such as
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   The Box OneCloud service lets business clients use more
than 30 applications, such as Quickoffice, PDF Expert and Adobe
Systems Inc.’s EchoSign, and store all their data on Box’s
network of servers. Los Altos, California-based Box will work to
expand the available programs in coming months, Chief Executive
Officer Aaron Levie said in an interview.  Box is one of a bevy of startups, also including Dropbox
Inc., that are trying to gain a foothold in the market for
business collaboration -- now dominated by software giants like
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Oracle and IBM. As more companies move
computing tasks off their own servers, offsite workloads in the
so-called cloud will increase by an average of  50 percent  a year
through 2014, according to a Morgan Stanley report last year.  “This is one of the most strategic and significant events
for our company this year,” Levie said. “A very significant
portion of our long-term revenue will come as a result of
this.”  The company says it has more than 10 million users,
including those from about 82 percent of Fortune 500 companies.
Box, which was founded in 2005, may consider going public in the
next several years, Levie said.  Investors, Rivals  Box doesn’t disclose its sales. The company offers
customers some free access to servers, then charges for
additional services. Its business-access plan costs $15 a month
per user.  The company has raised $162 million from investors
including  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  and SAP Ventures, the venture
capital firm affiliated with software maker  SAP AG. (SAP)   Still, Box faces significant competition. Oracle, the
largest seller of  database software , has been making
acquisitions to broaden its offerings in cloud computing. In
February, it agreed to buy Taleo Corp., a maker of online human-
resources software, for $1.9 billion.  Web-storage provider Dropbox  raised  $250 million in October
from investors including Index Ventures, Benchmark Capital and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. At the time, the service had more than
45 million users.  “More and more corporate customers are going to insist the
solution is deeper,”  Michael Fauscette , an analyst at
researcher IDC, said in an interview. “Other vendors could
compete and, potentially, partner with Box. It’s probably a co-
existence strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  