-- British Airways Owner IAG Offers More Remedies for BMI Deal
-- B y   P e t e r   C h a p m a n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-28T13:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/british-airways-owner-iag-offers-more-remedies-for-bmi-deal-1-.html
European Union Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said he’s studying additional
remedies offered by British Airways’ parent  International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG)  in its bid to acquire  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s BMI unit.  IAG (IAG)  has offered additional measures to assuage EU antitrust
regulators after its initial proposals were rejected by parties
that may be affected by the deal, Almunia told reporters in
Brussels today. Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. and Scottish
lawmakers oppose the deal, saying it would eliminate passenger
choice by giving British Airways a monopoly on routes from
 Scotland  to London’s Heathrow airport.  “The Commission must not waver from its purpose of
protecting competition and with it the best interests of the
consumer,” Virgin Atlantic said in an e-mailed statement in
response to Almunia’s remarks today. “We will continue to
challenge this deal unless robust remedies are offered which
protect the best interests of the passenger.”  IAG, based in  London , agreed in December to buy BMI, the
second-biggest operator at London’s Heathrow airport, for 172.5
million pounds ($274 million). The carrier wants to use BMI’s
take-off and landing slots to expand British Airways flights to
fast growing  emerging markets  in  Asia  and  Latin America .  ‘Remedy Slots’  “We received yesterday additional proposals for remedies
coming from IAG,” Almunia said. “The original remedies
proposed by IAG were market tested and the opinion of the
stakeholders consulted was negative.”  Virgin Atlantic, based in Crawley,  England , said in the
statement that it would use any “remedy slots” that it may
acquire from IAG, as part of regulatory clearance, on routes
where British Airways would otherwise hold a monopoly.  IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  said March 20 that
loss-making BMI would likely fail to survive if European
antitrust regulators block the deal. Lufthansa CEO Christoph Franz said separately on the same day that disposing of BMI was
the only way of safeguarding jobs at the carrier.  “I know the situation of many people working in BMI and
many people having bought tickets on BMI flights,” Almunia
said. “So I will try to advance as much as possible the
analysis of how we can decide on this case.”  The European Commission has set a deadline of March 30 to
rule on the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Chapman at 
 pchapman10@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net .
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  