-- HCA Leads Credit Swap Jump as Hearings Cast Cloud on Health Law
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-03-28T22:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/hca-leads-credit-swap-jump-as-hearings-cast-cloud-on-health-law.html
The cost to protect against losses
on the debt of U.S. health-care companies is rising as investors
hedge against potential declines when the U.S. Supreme Court
rules on President Barack Obama’s landmark health law.  Credit-default swaps linked to hospital operators HCA
Holdings Inc.,  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  and  Community Health
Systems Inc. (CYH)  are poised for the biggest monthly increase since
September, climbing an  average  88 basis points to 604 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. Swaps on HCA, the
biggest U.S. hospital chain, reached the highest relative to a
benchmark in more than five months on March 26, the day before a
new version of the index started trading.  Investors are buying protection against a decline in
health-care company bonds as the nation’s highest court wraps up
three days of hearings challenging the constitutionality of the
health law, which expands insurance to cover about 32 million
people who would otherwise lack it. Several justices expressed
skepticism yesterday that the law is constitutional.  The swaps on hospital operators moved wider “in
concert with the uncertainty,” Diya Sawhny, an analyst at New
York-based CreditSights Inc. said in a telephone interview.  While speculative-grade health-care bonds have had the best
start to a year since 2009, the jump in credit-default swaps on
the securities signals growing concerns that the  Supreme Court ’s
decision will damp future gains.  HCA Swaps  Bonds of health-care companies rated below investment grade
gained 5.1 percent in the first two months of the year and have
lost 0.3 percent this month, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  Swaps on  HCA (HCA) , the biggest issuer in the index, have jumped
55 basis points this month to 511 basis points, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The contracts
climbed to within 30 basis points of the Markit CDX North
America High Yield Index on March 26, the narrowest gap since
Oct. 4. The company had $27.1 billion of long-term debt at the
end of 2011, according to a regulatory  filing .  Contracts tied to  Tenet Healthcare , the third-largest U.S.
hospital operator, have climbed 97 basis points in March to 637
basis points, CMA prices show. Swaps on  Community Health , the
second-largest, rose 112 to 664.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Broad Market  A broader gauge of corporate credit risk rose today. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a benchmark
gauge of credit risk tied to 125 companies in the U.S. and
Canada, climbed 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 90.8 basis
points at 5:12 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd.  The individual mandate, the requirement that most Americans
purchase insurance, is at the heart of the health-care law,
which overhauls an industry that accounts for 18 percent of the
 U.S. economy .  “Just getting some clarity on some of these issues around
the Affordable Care Act will improve investor sentiment around
the space because it’s been hanging over the industry the past
two years,” Megan Neuburger, an analyst at  Fitch Ratings  in New
York, said in a telephone interview.  June Ruling  A full scale rejection of the individual mandate would
result in a smaller insured population which would be generally
worse for the health-care industry, Sawhny of CreditSights said.  The court probably would rule in late June. Without the
mandate, the Obama administration says some provisions of the
overhaul will fail, such as a ban against declining coverage to
people with pre-existing health conditions.  If the law is upheld, hospital providers will probably be
able to reduce bad debt, which would aid profitability,
according to Neuburger.  “It’s going to be good” for earnings and cash flow,
Neuburger said. “The worst-case scenario would be a rollback of
the coverage expansion elements, but no associated rollback of
all the reimbursement reform and the Medicare cuts that go along
with that,” she said.  A committee of credit traders and investors will decide if
a so-called succession event occurred with contracts on American
Tower Corp., the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association 
said on its website. A query was posted on the website for a
determination after American Tower’s merger into its wholly
owned American Tower REIT, Inc. on Dec. 31, followed by a change
in its name to American Tower Corp.  ISDA defines a succession event as an occurrence such as a
merger or consolidation in which one entity is responsible for
the obligations of another entity.  Swaps linked to the Boston-based company, which leases
wireless communications tower space, increased by 4 basis points
today, to 254 basis points, according to data provider CMA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  