-- Californians Love Taxes, Not Government Reform
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-03-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/californians-love-taxes-not-government-reform.html
A funny thing happened after
 California  officials  announced  the shutdown of 70 state parks in
the face of an estimated $33 million in budget cutbacks: Private
companies, wealthy donors, nonprofit organizations and local
governments  came up with ways  to keep many parks open.  Eleven parks have already  been dropped  from the closing
list, and the parks agency is holding workshops to teach
community groups how to run a state park.  Unfortunately, such creative solutions -- where government
officials privatize services or find other ways to stretch the
taxpayer’s dollar -- appear less likely as Californians express
support for tax increases.  In a new state poll,  64 percent  of those surveyed are
behind Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to “temporarily” boost the
 state sales tax  by a quarter cent and impose a new surcharge on
people earning more than $250,000 a year.  With more money coming in, politicians will have no stomach
for reform. As former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger ’s top
pension adviser,  David Crane ,  warned recently  in the  Sacramento 
Bee, referring to the state’s unfunded pension and health-care
liabilities, “a tax increase in the absence of reform would mask
those problems, leading to even larger leakages down the road
and even greater degradation of services.”  Regarding the parks, Governor Brown and his fellow
Democrats promoted the Washington Monument Syndrome, which
refers to the way the federal government, when faced with budget
reductions, shuts down the monument to annoy tourists and
strong-arm taxpayers into giving them more revenue.  False Choice  Brown has based his entire program on that approach. He
keeps frightening voters with his tiresome false choice: higher
taxes or fewer services.  The governor has shown little interest in reforming
programs beyond some superficial tweaks -- such as cutting a few
commissions, or restricting state employees’ mobile phones --
but he often prattles on about what it will mean when government
has to do less. At a speech to county officials last summer, he
said that if voters refuse to grant tax extensions, “we will get
a radical restructuring of what we are.”  But the thing that needs a radical restructuring is a state
government that puts the interests of those who work for it
above the provision of services to the actual public.  Privatization -- for state parks and other sites, or for
 prisons  and roads -- is by no means a cure-all when government
budgets hit the wall. But it is one option that is rarely
considered these days, especially in California, where the
powerful public-sector unions have been championing legislation
that takes any outsourcing possibilities off the table. The
unions have focused on some failed privatization experiments,
but they never mention the success stories or the common
failures when the government provides services.  Last year, for instance, Brown  signed a law  intended to
stop local libraries from outsourcing their operations to a
private contractor. The Library Journal reported that the
measure was aimed at a Maryland-based outsourcing company,
 Library Systems & Services LLC , which “operates libraries in
Camarillo, Moorpark, Redding/Shasta County and Riverside
County.”  The Legislature often proposes union-backed measures that
restrict private alternatives in various areas of state
government, including professional engineering services,
information-technology contracts and the like.  At the local level, some Southern California cities
(including  Ojai ,  Stanton  and  Claremont ) are considering reverse
privatization -- spending $100 million or more in bonds and
using the power of eminent domain to take over water utilities
from their private suppliers in order to combat rising rates,
even though these bills are climbing for public and privatized
systems alike.  Prison Horror Stories  But California also has new opportunities for
privatization. Last April, the state approved a realignment of
its prisons, sending many low-level, nonviolent offenders from
the state system to the counties. California’s annual cost of
 $47,000 per inmate  is the highest in the nation, and private
operators offer opportunities for savings as well as for an
improvement in the horrific conditions in the state’s prisons,
where guards are often protected from accountability, thanks to
a  reported  code of silence, and where 70 percent of parolees
return to prison within three years of their release.  Critics of privatization, such as New York Times columnist
 Paul Krugman , focus on the potential for undue political
influence: “We seem to be turning into a country where crony
capitalism doesn’t just waste taxpayer money but warps criminal
justice, in which growing incarceration reflects not the need to
protect law-abiding citizens but the profits corporations can
reap from a larger prison population.”  Yet nothing has warped the California justice system more
than the  California Correctional Peace Officers Association ,
which exerts undue political influence on both major parties.
The prison guards union supports law-and-order politicians and
uses its muscle to oppose reforms to the state’s ham-fisted
three-strikes law and to its drug laws.  As the  Los Angeles Times reported  last year, “Lawmakers
struggling to keep cell phones away from California’s most
dangerous inmates say a main obstacle is the politically
powerful prison guards union, whose members would have to be
paid millions of dollars extra to be searched on their way into
work.” The guards, the article noted, “are the main source of
smuggled phones that inmates use to run drugs and other crimes,
according to legislative analysts who examined the problem.”  Yes, a private prison company has  contributed money  to
support Governor Brown’s tax-increase measure, but no private
vendor could ever approach the clout of the prison guards union,
which can stop even the most modest criminal-justice
innovations.  Other unions are equally adept at stopping reforms in other
parts of state government.  Privatization Battle  Private companies cannot simply offload their unfunded
employee costs onto the taxpayer, the way the public unions do,
because they have to control their costs. For instance, Golden
State Water Co., now fighting the municipal takeover attempts
referred to above, has higher rates than neighboring government-
run systems, but its rates must cover the total cost to provide
the service, which is why it switched its employees from a
defined-benefit  pension plan  to a defined-contribution plan.  Privatization is not the same thing as the true private
sector, where companies compete for customers rather than to win
government contracts. In its worst form, a privatized service
marries the inefficiencies and bureaucracy of the public sector
with the profit motive.  But more often -- such as in  Riverside , where the
privatized library significantly expanded its services -- it
offers significant cost savings and greater oversight,
accountability and improved customer service.  For those who reflexively reject privatization, what is the
alternative? The status quo, after all, is a greedy public
workforce that has shown again and again that it puts its own
welfare above that of the people. As long as the voters are
willing to increase their taxes, or someone else’s, to maintain
bloated and inefficient government, they will continue to get
more of the same old thing.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in Sacramento, California. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Medicare’s payment board .
 Ezra Klein  on mandates, taxes and  saving Obamacare.   Amity Shlaes 
on  Barack Obama and FDR .  Caroline Baum  on the  national-debt time
bomb . Robert H. Gertner on the  Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau . Oleg Kashin on  Russia’s protest problem .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento, California, at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 