-- Cameron Urges Talks to Stop Fuel Strike, Hones Contingency Plans
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-28T16:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/cameron-says-no-justification-for-tank-truck-drivers-strike-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
called on the Unite labor union and employers to hold talks on
averting a strike by fuel-truck drivers as the government
stepped up contingency plans to cope with any gasoline shortage.  Drivers in the Unite union working for fuel-distribution
companies whose customers include  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , J. Sainsbury Plc,
 BP Plc (BP\)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)   voted this week to strike  in
protest at working conditions and changes to their pensions. The
union said today it’s eager to begin negotiations while the
government-funded  Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service 
said it’s in “urgent discussions” with both sides.  “A strike would be completely irresponsible,” Cameron
told reporters in  London  today. “What needs to happen is for
unions and employers to sit down and discuss these issues.”  Cameron’s office said after a meeting of the government’s
“Cobra” emergency committee today that the two sides need to
reach agreement on preventing “irresponsible industrial action
that threatens the nation with economic and social disruption.”
It said contingency plans were being readied to ensure the flow
of fuel supplies and to minimize disruption to the public.  “The government has learnt lessons from the past and
stands ready to act to manage the impact of any strike, in
particular, to our emergency and essential services,” the
premier’s office said in an e-mailed statement. The Cobra
meeting “looked to further measures to strengthen the
resilience of the fuel supply including by increasing the
potential number of military drivers and by maximizing the
levels of fuel storage capacity outside of depots.”  Military Drivers  Cabinet Office minister Francis Maude said earlier today
that while about 200 military teams will be trained to drive
tank-trucks in the event of a strike, this won’t be enough to
prevent disruption.  In 2000, protests about the high price of gasoline outside
oil refineries by farmers and truck drivers led to panic-buying,
nationwide shortages and rationing. A strike could hit supplies
to 90 percent of Britain’s 8,700 gas stations.  “There is no shortage of fuel at present and forecourts
are being replenished,” Cameron’s office said.  Maude said people would be wise to ensure their cars were
topped up, and to have a spare jerry can of fuel at home.
Cameron told drivers that while there’s “no need to queue,”
they should ensure their car is full of fuel “if they can.”  The Fire Brigades Union, which represents firefighters,
attacked Maude, saying his advice to store gasoline or diesel at
home would “massively” increase the risk of blazes and
explosions.  ‘Little Practical Help’  “There is a real danger the public will start storing fuel
in inappropriate ways if the government is encouraging panic
buying and storage,” FBU General Secretary Matt Wrack  said in a
statement . “It is already against the law to store more than 10
liters of petrol in two proper five-liter plastic containers in
the home. As that amounts to little more than a third of a tank
in most cars the advice is of little practical help.”  “We are in urgent discussions with the parties involved on
an individual basis,” ACAS said in a statement. “It is normal
for us to do this to establish the format for talks. There are
eight parties involved in this dispute -- Unite and seven
contractors.”  “We welcome the prospect of exploratory talks,” Unite
Assistant General Secretary Diana Holland said in an e-mailed
statement. “The minimum standards we are seeking are no
different from those covering other parts of the oil industry.
We trust that the employers, and the supply chain, including oil
majors, will engage with us and that the government will do
everything in their power to help us avoid industrial action.”  Seven Days  Unite has 28 days to set a strike date, for which it must
give seven days’ notice.  “What both sides need to do is get into those talks,”
opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  said in televised
comments from Redditch in the English Midlands. “Industrial
action needs to be avoided at all costs.”  “The government should not be ramping up the rhetoric,”
Miliband said. “It should be stepping up the negotiations.”  Cameron said earlier he had no desire “to raise the
temperature” with unions any more than necessary, but
contingency planning had to take place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 