-- Canadian Stocks Fall on Missed Durable Goods Forecast
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-03-28T20:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/canadian-stocks-fall-as-energy-shares-drop-along-with-oil.html
Canadian stocks  declined the most
in two weeks, led by materials and energy shares, after orders
for U.S.  durable goods  rose less than projected in February.  Goldcorp Inc. decreased 0.9 percent as a strike by jewelers
in  India  curbed demand.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) ,  Canada ’s
second-largest publicly traded copper producer, fell 3 percent
on indications that demand for the metal is weakening in  China .
 Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-largest
energy company by market value, declined 1.6 percent after U.S.
oil inventories climbed the most in 20 months last week.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 98.18
points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,413.86 in Toronto for the biggest
decline since March 14.  “In Canada, energy and materials are two of the most
economically sensitive sectors,” Pat McHugh, senior managing
director and Canadian equity strategist at Manulife Financial
Corp.’s asset-management unit, said in a telephone interview.
The unit oversees about $217 billion. “Anything that indicates
a weakness in the economy, whether consumer or capital goods
related, would impact them negatively. I’m not surprised they’re
taking it on the chin today.”  The benchmark equity gauge increased 0.4 percent this week
through yesterday after rising to a three-week high on Monday,
led by commodity producers. The index fell 1 percent in March
through yesterday, heading for its first monthly decline of the
year, as materials and energy shares have declined due to
growing concern that demand may slow in China and rising crude
stockpiles.  India Strike  Canadian gold companies declined as futures fell for a
second straight day after a trade group said jewelers in India,
the world’s biggest buyer, will extend a nationwide strike until
the government withdraws a levy on non-branded products.  Goldcorp (G) , the world’s second-biggest gold producer by
market value, decreased 0.9 percent to C$44.45.  Jaguar Mining
Inc. (JAG) , which produces gold in  Brazil , dropped 6.1 percent to
C$4.78.  Copper shares dropped as the metal fell the most in three
weeks after  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358) , China’s top producer, recorded
an 18 percent decline in second-half 2011 profit and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. cut its three-month outlook for raw materials.  First Quantum Minerals fell 3 percent to C$18.27. Ivanhoe
Mines Ltd., Rio Tinto Group’s majority-owned partner in the Oyu
Tolgoi copper project in Mongolia, decreased 3.6 percent to
C$15.52.  Energy companies  in the S&P/TSX fell for a second day after
U.S. oil inventories increased 7.1 million barrels to 353.4
million, the most since July 2010 and more than twice the gain
predicted in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. Oil also fell
after French Industry Minister Eric Besson said the U.S.
proposed releasing oil from strategic reserves.  Canadian Natural Resources declined 1.6 percent to C$32.83.
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
decreased 1.3 percent to C$32.47.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  