-- Chelsea Therapeutics Fails to Win Backing for Dizziness Drug
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-03-28T23:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/chelsea-therapeutics-fails-to-win-approval-for-dizziness-drug.html
Chelsea Therapeutics International
Ltd. (CHTP)  failed to win U.S. regulatory approval for Northera, a drug
to treat a cause of dizziness and fainting in people with
nervous-system disorders.  The  Food and Drug Administration  requested data from an
additional study of Northera, which can curb drops in blood
pressure that trigger the symptoms, the company said today in a
statement. The agency also suggested that if the drug were to
gain approval, it may carry a so-called black box warning, the
FDA’s strictest, related to a type of hypertension that could
occur, the Charlotte, North Carolina-based company said.  An FDA reviewer last month recommended against Northera’s
approval, linking it to a life-threatening neurological disorder
and saying it wasn’t proven to work long-term. A panel of
outside advisers voted Feb. 23 in favor of the drug because few
treatments exist for the  blood-pressure  drop known as neurogenic
orthostatic hypotension.  “We believe there continues to be an important unmet
medical need in addressing the symptoms associated with
neurogenic OH and remain committed to working with the FDA to
determine the appropriate next steps required to bring a much
needed new therapy to the market as quickly as possible,” said
Simon Pedder, the company’s president and chief executive
officer.  Clinical Trial  Chelsea Therapeutics is conducting a clinical trial that
may provide the additional data about the drug’s “efficacy and
durability” sought by the FDA, the company said in the
statement.  The company’s shares  dropped  27 percent to $2.67 in
extended trading at 7:47 p.m. New York time. The stock declined
3.4 percent to $3.67 when regular trading was halted at 2:49
p.m. pending the announcement of the FDA’s decision.  About 180,000 patients in the U.S. suffer from the blood-
pressure condition that leads to symptoms such as dizziness,
becoming light-headed, blurred vision and fainting,  Keith Schmidt , sales and marketing vice president for Chelsea
Therapeutics told analysts on a Nov. 2 conference call.  Northera is available in  Japan  as part of a marketing
agreement with  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506)  and generates
annual revenue of $50 million, Chelsea Therapeutics said on its
website. The FDA is concerned that the drug has been associated
with 28 reports of a life-threatening neurological disorder
known as neuroleptic malignant syndrome in patients in Japan,
agency reviewer Melanie Blank told advisers. The reports don’t
contain enough detail to determine whether the condition is
related to the drug, she said.  No incidents of the disorder have been reported in the
company’s studies, Chelsea Therapeutics said in a Feb. 13
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Romaine Bostick at 
 rbostick@bloomberg.net  