-- China’s Stocks Decline to 7-Week Low on Profit Concern
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-28T07:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/china-s-stock-futures-fall-on-profit-concerns-lower-growth.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in
four months after Societe Generale SA said Chinese corporate
profits won’t grow at all this year and the nation’s largest
copper producer reported slumping earnings.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  slid 5.5 percent after posting an 18
percent drop in net income and Societe Generale said industrial
profit for the first two months signaled overly optimistic
estimates for earnings. China Citic Bank Corp. led declines for
lenders as Aberdeen Asset Management Plc said it is underweight
on China on concern about the nation’s non-performing loans.
 Air China Ltd. (601111) , the biggest international carrier, lost the most
since December after saying passenger growth may slow.  “Investors had expected earnings to be weak but they are
still below expectations so stocks are falling,” said Larry Wan, Beijing-based head of investment at Union Life Asset
Management Co., which manages the equivalent of $2.2 billion.
“Moreover, shares have already risen quite a bit this year on
monetary easing expectations.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 62.3 points, or 2.7
percent, to 2,284.88 at the close, its biggest drop since Nov.
30. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 2.8 percent to 2,474.90. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, lost 0.3 percent yesterday in  New
York .  The Shanghai Composite has dropped 7.1 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 on concern the world’s second-biggest
economy is stalling as the government’s property curbs and tight
monetary policies reduce profits. Premier  Wen Jiabao  announced
at the beginning of a national lawmakers’ congress on March 5 an
economic growth target of 7.5 percent for this year, down from 8
percent over the past seven years.  No Profit Growth  Four hundred and sixty-two companies in the Shanghai
Composite have released annual earnings. They posted profit
growth of 17 percent on average, trailing analyst estimates by
4.1 percent, Bloomberg  data  showed. That compared with an
increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  Industrial companies posted their first January-February
profit decline since 2009, as net income dropped 5.2 percent
from a year earlier to 606 billion yuan ($96 billion), the
National Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. That compared with
a 34.3 percent gain in the first two months of 2011.  The industrial profit figures suggest 2012 consensus
earnings estimates for Hong Kong-listed Chinese companies are
“far too optimistic,”  Societe Generale  strategists Guy Stear
and Anthony Lee wrote in a note to clients dated yesterday.
Air China dropped 4.3 percent after reporting a worse-than-
expected decline in 2011 profit and predicting passenger growth
may slow to 4.4 percent this year.  Hard Landing Risk  A gauge of  material producers  in the CSI 300 fell 4.3
percent, the most among 10 industry groups. Jiangxi Copper
plunged 5.5 percent to 24.69 yuan after it reported net income
of 2.27 billion yuan in the six months ended Dec. 31, compared
with 2.79 billion yuan a year earlier, according to Bloomberg
calculations. The profit trailed the 3.04 billion yuan median
estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Aluminum Corp. of
China Ltd. tumbled 5.8 percent to 6.64 yuan.  Angang Steel Co. slid 3.1 percent to 4.39 yuan. The
steelmaker posted a net loss of 1.93 billion yuan in the six
months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of 713 million yuan a
year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
Angang Steel’s full-year earnings posted in Shenzhen yesterday.  “The economy is bad, demand is weak, and the upstream is
particularly in trouble,” said Tao Dong, chief regional
economist at Credit Suisse AG in  Hong Kong . “Some companies’
earnings, especially those upstream, are probably going to feel
a hard landing instead of a soft landing.”  Smallcaps Decline  The Shanghai gauge tumbled a combined 33 percent in 2010
and 2011, making it the worst performer among the world’s 10
biggest markets, as the central bank increased  interest rates 
and lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios to tame inflation.  China may seek to boost the stock market, increase the
minimum purchasing price of grains, lower  mortgage rates  for
first-home buyers and stabilize the  exchange rate  as part of
policies to prevent a slowdown from worsening and make
consumption a major driver for the economy, according to T.H.
Capital LLC.  Vice Premier  Wang Qishan  said the government will explore
building an over-the-counter market and boost the weight of
direct financing, the Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  Measures of small- and medium-size companies and ChiNext
startup firms slumped 4 percent and 5.1 percent respectively in
Shenzhen on concern rising share supply will damp valuations.  Aberdeen Asset is underweight on  China  on concern about the
nation’s non-performing loans, Assistant Investment Manager
Pruksa Iamthongthong said in an interview today from Singapore.  Banks Retreat  Chinese residential developers may face a survival test
this year, especially smaller players that leveraged to buy land
and would now need to cut prices in order to replenish balance
sheets, Iamthongthong said.  China Citic Bank declined 2.5 percent to 4.34 yuan, while
Huaxia Bank Co. lost 2.5 percent to 10.72 yuan.  The Shanghai Composite has advanced 3.9 percent this
quarter, boosting valuations to 9.5 times estimated profit,
compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6, weekly  data 
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 17
today, compared with this year’s low of 14.8 on March 13,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About 6.1 billion
shares changed hands in the gauge yesterday, or 31 percent lower
than the daily average this year, Bloomberg data showed.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Weiyi Lim in  Singapore  at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  