-- China Repo Jumps to One-Month High as Holiday Cash Demand Rises
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-28T09:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/china-repo-jumps-to-one-month-high-as-holiday-cash-demand-rises.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
rose for a third day, touching a one-month high, as demand for
funds increased in the run up to next week’s holidays.  The People’s Bank of China didn’t gauge demand for bill
sales due tomorrow and instead asked banks to submit orders for
91-day  repurchase agreements , according to a trader at a primary
dealer required to bid at the auctions. The monetary authority
has refrained from issuing three-month and one-year securities
since Dec. 22 and Dec. 27, respectively. China’s financial
markets will close April 2-4 for public holidays.  “There will be more demand for funding for the rest of
this week,” said Weisheng He, a fixed-income trader at
Citigroup Inc. in  Shanghai . “Another reduction in the reserve
ratio is possible either in April or May. Corporate tax payments
due next month could turn liquidity tighter, gradually pushing
up the inter-bank rate.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, increased 23 basis points
to 3.53 percent, the highest level since Feb. 28, in Shanghai,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It slid 207 basis points, or 2.07
percentage points, this quarter, the most since the first three
months of 2011.  The PBOC has reduced banks’  reserve requirements  twice
since the start of December to prop up a slowing economy. China
may cut the ratio as many as three times this year, by 50 basis
points each time, Financial News reported today, citing Tang Jianwei, an analyst at Bank of Communications Co.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repo rate, fell two basis points to 3.15 percent,
taking this quarter’s advance to 23 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  