-- China May Let Oil Refiners Set Fuel Prices, Sinopec Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-28T10:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/china-may-let-oil-refiners-set-fuel-prices-sinopec-says.html
China  will let oil companies set
fuel prices according to government-guided rates, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported, citing a vice chairman at the
nation’s top economic planner.  Certain companies will be allowed to adjust gasoline and
diesel prices based on a pricing mechanism, which sets
government-guidance rates, Peng Sen, a vice chairman of National
Development and Reform Commission, told Xinhua today. Government
pricing bureaus will supervise the tariff adjustment, Peng said.  China has delayed increases under a rule that allows fuel
tariffs to be adjusted when the 22-day moving average of three
crude grades changes more than 4 percent from the last price
move. The government raised prices on March 20 by as much as 8
percent after the average climbed more than 10 percent. Rates
advanced as much as 550 yuan a metric ton in 2011, while the
formula indicated they should have gained 1,500 yuan, NDRC said
on Feb. 7.  “Chinese oil refiners will benefit from the pricing
power,”  Qiu Xiaofeng , an oil analyst with  China Galaxy
Securities Co. (CGSZ) , said by telephone from Shanghai. “Their
refining margins will be largely improved as they will be able
to pass on rising crude costs to consumers in a timely manner.”  China plans to introduce the new oil-product pricing later
this year when crude costs stabilize or decline, Peng was quoted
as saying.  Liu Tienan, the head of China’s National Energy
Administration, has suggested that oil companies set the retail
price of gasoline and diesel based on an existing mechanism for
determining tariffs,  China Petrochemical Corp. (SINZ) , the nation’s top
economic planner, said in a statement on its online  newsletter 
today. No government approval should be needed for the
adjustments, Liu was quoted as saying.  Refining Losses  Domestic refining losses this month will be about $7.10 a
barrel, compared with $7 a barrel in February, Cheng Khoo, an
analyst at BNP Paribas SA in  Hong Kong , said in a research note
on March 20 after the fuel-price increase. Brent crude prices
have climbed 16 percent this year to $124.90 a barrel today amid
concern Western sanctions on  Iran  will curb Middle East crude
supplies.  NDRC said last month that it plans to revise the current
system to let domestic fuel rates more closely track crude costs.
The proposal has been submitted to the State Council, Sinopec
Group said in today’s statement, citing NDRC’s Peng Sen.  Shorter Cycle  The new system may shorten the pricing cycle to 10 days
from 22 days and replace  Indonesia ’s Cinta with New York-traded
West Texas Intermediate oil in the crude basket, according to
Sinopec statement, which didn’t cite anyone. The other two
grades are Brent and Dubai.  Oil companies  will be able to set
fuel prices based on guidelines from an independent institution,
it said.  The mechanism is “very likely” to be introduced in the
second half, said Qiu.  China plans to expand the trial of natural gas pricing to
nationwide in two to three years, Peng was quoted by Xinhua.  China in December implemented a pricing ceiling for natural
gas sold in southern provinces of Guangdong and Guangxi on a
trial basis. The price ceilings are derived through a formula
that sets a benchmark gas level in Shanghai by calculating the
costs of imported fuel oil and liquefied petroleum gas in the
city.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in  Shanghai  at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  