-- Citic Pacific Wins Bid to Block Police Use of Legal Papers
-- B y   D o u g l a s   W o n g
-- 2012-03-28T08:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/citic-pacific-wins-appeal-police-shouldn-t-access-documents-1-.html
  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , which delayed
reporting a potential HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion) loss from a
failed derivatives bet, won its appeal that police shouldn’t
have access to documents it argued were private.  There isn’t evidence that the six documents -- including
advice from the steelmaker and property developer’s law firm
 Mayer Brown JSM (JOHNSL)  that it gave to the Securities and Futures
Commission -- were produced to facilitate dishonest conduct,
Court of Appeal Judge Michael Hartmann wrote in a ruling handed
down today.  Citic Pacific’s raising of loans from three banks after it
became aware of its financial difficulties in September 2008 but
before its Oct. 20  profit  warning that year doesn’t constitute a
prima facie case of dishonest concealment, he said in a 34-page
judgment agreed to by judges Susan Kwan and Jonathan Harris.  Even if there was evidence of dishonest conduct by any of
Citic Pacific’s  directors , that doesn’t “indicate a dishonest
purpose in obtaining the advice” from their lawyers, Hartmann
said.  Hong Kong’s Department of Justice said last year it
suspected Citic Pacific defrauded four banks before Oct. 20,
2008, when it sought financing without disclosing losses on
currency bets. The company is also appealing another decision to
allow police access to documents seized in a raid on its offices
in April 2009.  ‘Didn’t Know’  “We are studying the reasoning of the Court and will
consider what action, if any, we should take,” Josephine Chan,
spokeswoman for the department, said by e-mail.  Citic Pacific’s officers didn’t know the implications of
the company’s currency exposure when they failed to disclose
potential losses, a lawyer for the company told the appeals
court in December.  “In contracts of this complexity, how can you decide
within two days that you’re going to sustain huge losses that
would require a report to the stock exchange?” said Collingwood
Thompson, a lawyer for the steelmaker.  Citic Pacific’s bets on the Australian dollar prompted a
bailout from its parent Citic Group, which is backed by  China ’s
cabinet, and the resignation of its chairman Larry Yung.  Foreign Exchange Loss  The company had said in a stock exchange filing on Sept.
12, 2008, that its directors weren’t aware of any material
adverse change in the group’s financial position. It announced
on Oct. 20 that its bet the Australian dollar would fall against
its U.S. counterpart could result in losses of as much as
HK$15.5 billion. The company learned of the exposure on Sept. 7,
it said.  Justice Department lawyer Charlotte Draycott said last year
that any responsible director would have been monitoring the
relevant exchange rates on a daily basis.  “It’s completely unrealistic to say the people in charge
of this company, the board of directors, were not fully aware of
what was happening,” she told the court.  The case is Citic Pacific Ltd. and Secretary of Justice,
Commissioner of Police, CACV60/2011 in  Hong Kong ’s Court of
Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Wong in Hong Kong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  