-- Cnooc to Start Offshore Fields, Shale Gas to Expand Reserves
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-03-29T01:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/cnooc-s-annual-profit-beats-estimates-after-oil-prices-surge.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest
offshore energy producer, plans to develop new fields, acquire
overseas assets and develop unconventional resources such as
shale gas to meet output targets.  The energy explorer will start four blocks off the Chinese
coast this year, Cnooc said, after posting second-half profit
that beat analysts’ estimates. It is also “determined” to
learn shale-gas technology from its partners and deploy it in
China, holder of the world’s largest deposits of the fuel,
Chairman Wang Yilin told reporters yesterday.  Cnooc, which cut its 2011 production goal after spills shut
its biggest field off the coast, plans to boost output by as
much as 2.7 percent this year. The company has  bid  for about $9
billion of overseas assets in the last two years to diversify
reserves, including shale-gas acreages in  North America .  “The company has to make sure its offshore fields can
deliver stable growth this year to meet its annual production
target,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “Investment in shale gas will not
generate immediate returns at least before 2015, but Cnooc
certainly cannot afford to miss an opportunity of this scale.”  Cnooc, which relies on reserves off the Chinese coast for
80 percent of its output, plans to start production at Weizhou
6-9/6-10, Yacheng 13-4, Panyu 4-2/5-1 and Liuhua 4-1, slides on
its website yesterday showed. Outside China, the Long Lake oil-
sands project in  Canada  and the Missan oilfield in  Iraq  will
begin contributing to earnings this year, the company said.  The unit of China National Offshore Oil Corp. targets to
produce the equivalent of 330 million to 340 million barrels of
oil in 2012. Overseas oil production may rise as much as 30
percent this year while domestic output will be stable, Chief
Executive Officer Li Fanrong said at the media briefing.  Shares Decline  Cnooc has fallen 16 percent in Hong Kong in the past year,
compared with the 11 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng
Index . The  stock  dropped 2.4 percent to HK$16.06 as of 9:53 a.m.
local time, as crude traded near the lowest close in almost a
week in  New York .  Second-half profit rose 8.8 percent to 30.9 billion yuan
($4.9 billion), according to calculations made by subtracting
first-half earnings from the 2011 net income. That beats the
mean estimate of 29.9 billion yuan in a Bloomberg survey of
eight analysts. Chief Financial Officer Zhong Hua declined to
confirm the derived figure.  Full-year net income climbed 29 percent to a record 70.3
billion yuan as crude prices surged. That outpaced the 2 percent
gain by China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., whose refining segment
posted an operating loss. Cnooc doesn’t process crude.
PetroChina Co. reports its earnings today.  Cnooc’s growth trailed the 35 percent increase at  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and the 54 percent jump at Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Oil Prices  Revenue rose 34 percent to 240.9 billion yuan last year as
the company’s average realized crude price surged 41 percent to
$109.75 a barrel, Cnooc said. Production reached about 331
million to 332 million barrels, compared with a reduced goal of
331 million to 341 million, the company said in January.  Cnooc cut its 2011 output goal by as much as 9.3 percent
after leaks closed the Penglai 19-3 field and the $7.1 billion
purchase of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Argentine unit collapsed in November. CEO
Li reiterated in January the company’s target of boosting
production by 6 to 10 percent in the five years ending 2015.  Chinese companies bid more than $24 billion for overseas
assets last year to help supply the world’s largest energy user.
Domestic fuel demand is rising even as the government pares its
annual economic growth target to 7.5 percent from 8 percent.  Oil consumption growth may gain 4.9 percent this year,
compared with the 4.5 percent increase in 2011, as  China  adds
refining capacity and fills emergency fuel stockpiles, China
National Petroleum Corp., the country’s biggest energy producer,
said in its annual research report released last month.  Shale Gas  Cnooc started exploring for gas found in shale in eastern
Anhui province in December, following rivals including Sinopec,
as China Petroleum is known.  China has yet to produce shale gas commercially as its
explorers struggle to overcome the lack of expertise and
difficult geology. Cnooc, seeking drilling knowledge, acquired
stakes in U.S. shale-gas acreage from Chesapeake Energy Corp.
for a total of $1.65 billion in February 2011 and November 2010.  The Ministry of Land and Resources held the country’s first
auction of shale-gas explorations rights last year, in which
Cnooc participated. Sinopec and Henan Provincial Coal Seam Gas
Development & Utilization Co. won. Cnooc will “definitely”
join the second round of sale, Chairman Wang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  