-- Currency Volatility Hits Small Companies Most, WTO Seminar Finds
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-03-28T18:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/currency-volatility-hits-small-companies-most-wto-seminar-finds.html
Exchange-rate volatility and
misalignments have a particularly severe impact on small and
medium-sized businesses, representatives of industry said at a
World Trade Organization seminar on currencies.  The two-day symposium “raised awareness of the complexity
of the issues and was held in a constructive spirit,” Martin
Glass, chairman of the WTO’s Working Group on Trade, Debt and
Finance, told journalists in Geneva today. “Members are well
aware that exchange rates are part of the WTO external
environment and could be seen as an irritant in trading
relations.”  The forum was organized at the request of  Brazil , which
along with the U.S. and  Europe  has said that  China  keeps the
yuan undervalued to boost  exports  and lower unemployment.  Industry representatives discussed the difficulty of
competing with countries that benefit from undervalued exchange
rates and said raising tariffs would be a last resort, according
to Glass. Josue Gomes da Silva, chief executive officer of Cia
de Tecidos Norte de Minas, the Brazilian textile company known
as  Coteminas (CTNM4) , said exchange-rate misalignments are at the center
of problems his country’s industries face.  Representatives of the public sector said trade-policy
measures aren’t the right response to non-trade policy concerns
and urged governments to address the root causes of
misalignments, Glass said. These include “the management of
monetary policies, the handling of short-term capital flows and
the lack of structural reforms in certain countries,” he said.  The symposium brought together senior officials from the
 International Monetary Fund , the  World Bank , the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development and central banks, as
well as academics and business executives including Ruogu Li,
chairman of the Export-Import Bank of China, and Philip Mosimann, CEO of  Switzerland ’s Bucher Industries AG.  Discussions on the topic will continue in the coming
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  