-- Czech Rates Left Unchanged as Recession Eclipses Inflation
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-03-29T13:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/czech-rate-to-stay-at-record-low-as-recession-eclipses-inflation.html
The Czech central bank kept its
main interest rate at a record low for a 15th meeting as risks
of an extended economic recession overshadowed an inflation
spike fueled by an increase in sales taxes.  Six out of seven board members voted to leave the  benchmark 
two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent, a quarter-point less
than the  European Central Bank ’s main rate, in line with the
forecasts of all 22 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. One policy
maker demanded a quarter-point increase in the rate, which
hasn’t changed since May 2010.  The economy, exporting about 80 percent of its output, slid
into a  recession  last year as government spending cuts
outweighed demand abroad for Czech-made vehicles, car parts and
electronics goods.  Inflation (CZCPYOY)  accelerated to the fastest pace in
more than three years in February, driven by an increase in the
value-added  tax rate  at the start of the year, Governor Miroslav
Singer told reporters in Prague today.  “There is slowing foreign demand, expected fiscal
consolidation here and elsewhere and stagnating economy,”
Singer said, listing reasons taming inflationary pressures. The
bank board’s consensus “is slightly moving away” from the
assumption of a decline in  interest rates  in the second half of
the year, which was included in the bank’s latest forecast, he
said.  Gross domestic product fell 0.1 percent in the last quarter
of 2011, the same as in the previous three months. GDP in
 Germany (GRGDPPGQ) ,  Europe ’s largest economy and the main market for Czech
goods, declined 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter from the
previous three months after growing 0.6 percent between July and
September. The Czech Republic ships about 70 percent of its
exports to the euro area’s 17 members.  Rising Currency  The Czech koruna has strengthened 3.4 percent to the euro
since the start of the year, the seventh-biggest gain among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded at
24.769 to the euro as of 3:10 p.m. in  Prague , compared with the
weakest level in 18 months of 26.063 to the euro on Nov. 25.  The inflation rate jumped to 3.7 percent in February, the
highest since November 2008, exceeding the central bank’s 2
percent target for a fifth month. The bank forecasts the rate
will stay above 3 percent this year and before falling to 1.5
percent in the first quarter of 2013.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect
taxes, was 2.5 percent in February, according to central bank
data. Monetary-policy inflation will “move near” the inflation
target of 2 percent by the third quarter of next year, Singer
said today.  “Negative demand inflation, a stagnating economy,
uncertainty in the euro area and the koruna’s relatively quick
rebound are, in short, the reasons why rates aren’t changing
now,”  Martin Lobotka , an analyst at Erste Group Bank AG’s Czech
unit Ceska Sporitelna AS, said by phone.  Poland ’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 4.5 percent for a ninth month on March 7, while
Hungarian policy makers kept their main rate at the same level
for a third month on March 27.  Investors have pared bets on a decline in interest rates,
with the forward-rate agreements fixing the three-month interest
rate in nine months at 1.2 percent today, up from 1.03 percent
on Feb. 2, the day of the previous monetary-policy meeting.  Weak Demand  The central bank doesn’t need to raise interest rates even
with accelerating  inflation  as government austerity measures and
a lack of spending by households and companies keep demand-led
inflation pressures under control, Vice-Governor Mojmir Hampl
said in a March 19 interview.  The government raised the lower bracket for the value-added
tax levied on goods and services including food, drugs and
public transport to 14 percent from 10 percent starting in 2012
to boost budget revenue. Annual  retail -sales growth slowed to
1.3 percent in January, from 7.3 percent a year earlier, as
budget spending cuts curbed  household income  and  unemployment 
rate rose to an 11-month high of 9.2 percent in February.  “The combination of the central bank’s approach until now,
the higher inflation rate, prospects of weak domestic demand,
more fiscal savings and the outlook for further gradual koruna
appreciation is pointing to a longer period of stable interest
rates,”  Michal Brozka , the chief analyst at Raiffeisenbank AS
in Prague said in a note to clients today.  The central bank cut its forecast for 2012 economic growth
to zero from a previous estimate for a 1.2 percent expansion
because of weaker demand for Czech products abroad and the
impact of government’s budget spending cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  