-- Damas’ Board Agrees to Mannai’s Cash Offer of $0.45 a Share
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2012-03-28T10:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/damas-board-agrees-to-mannai-s-cash-offer-of-0-45-a-share-1-.html
Damas International Ltd. (DAMAS) , a Dubai-
based jewellery maker and retailer, said its board recommended
accepting a cash offer for the company from Qatar’s  Mannai
Corp. (MCCS) , valuing Damas’ equity at about $445 million.  Mannai Corp, a retailer of  consumer goods  and automobiles,
will make the bid through its BidCo. unit, which will pay $0.45
for each Damas share, according to a Damas statement on Nasdaq
Dubai today. The price is a 191 percent premium to Damas’
average closing price of $0.1547 in the three months to Jan. 9,
said the company. BidCo, in which EFG Hermes Capital Partners
Management Ltd. also owns a stake, said 77.8 percent of Damas
shareholders had accepted the offer.  “Damas is a very attractive retail brand with a highly
successful regional business,” Alekh Grewal, chief executive
officer of Mannai and director of BidCo said. “Our bid to
acquire Damas is testament to its sound business model and
promising growth potential.”  Mannai said in January it was considering a cash bid for
Damas, which was forced to restructure its board and debt after
unauthorized trading by its founders. Damas’ shares closed at
$0.41 on Nasdaq Dubai yesterday.  Damas’ board, which is being advised by Nomura
International Plc, considered the bid “fair and reasonable,”
according to the statement. The bid is conditional on at least
75 percent of Damas shareholders accepting the offer, and if it
does BidCo. will seek to delist Damas shares.  Mannai and BidCo., also known as Golden Investment Ltd.,
were advised by EFG-Hermes UAE Ltd., while Clifford Chance LLP
acted as legal counsel and KPMG was the financial due diligence
adviser, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net 
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  