-- Degree’s Pitchman Sanchez Might Sweat More With Tebow in Wings
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-03-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/degree-s-pitchman-sanchez-might-sweat-more-with-tebow-in-wings.html
Timing is everything in sports --
just ask Unilever and Mark Sanchez.  On the same day the London- and Rotterdam-based consumer-
products maker unveiled the  New York  Jets quarterback as the
centerpiece of a marketing campaign for its Degree anti-
perspirant, Sanchez endured the sweat-inducing debut of his new
backup,  Tim Tebow , who may replace him.  Sanchez has been the Jets starter since his rookie year in
2009 and led them to the American Football Conference
championship game his first two years. Last season, he came
under criticism from fans and management as New York lost its
last three games to miss the playoffs, while Tebow led the
 Denver Broncos  to the postseason.  “It’s unfortunate timing as the attention on Sanchez is
not the positive attention that Unilever were expecting,” said
Sue Bridgewater, director of the Centre for Management in Sport
at the U.K.’s Warwick Business School. “That is the risk you
take in using a sports star as an endorser.”  Unilever (UNA) ’s March 26 announcement received scant attention.
Tebow that day held his first press conference at the team’s
training center in  Florham Park , New Jersey, that drew more than
200 media members. He said he understands that he is Sanchez’s
backup, although that doesn’t mean he won’t try to earn the
first-team job.  “For everybody who puts on a uniform, you want to go out
there and play,” Tebow, 24, said. “Every day in practice I am
going to go out there, and I am going to compete.”  ‘Here to Help’  The Degree marketing will put Sanchez through a series of
“adrenaline-fueled adventures” such as flying with the U.S.
Navy’s Blue Angels jet squadron, training with the U.S. rugby
team, or driving a rally race car. Sanchez will tackle two of
four possible challenges,  voted  by fans, during the offseason.  “Football season is over, but it doesn’t mean the
pressures have ended for pro quarterback  Mark Sanchez ,”
Unilever  said  in a press release. Added the Jets quarterback, in
the same release: “I can’t wait to push my off-season even more
with a new set of adventures.”  Sanchez, who didn’t attend Tebow’s press conference, said
he’s not worried that the new arrival will threaten his job.  “He’s here to help us,” the 25-year-old quarterback told
reporters later that day. “I’m confident in my abilities. I
know the team has the same belief. I’m the same guy who helped
the team win a lot of games here.”  ‘No Big Crisis’  Ill-timed athlete endorsements are nothing new. At the 2008
Beijing Olympics, Chinese hurdler Liu Xiang, a favorite to win
gold as he did in 2004, withdrew through injury, striking a blow
to companies such as Nike Inc. and Coca-Cola Co. who had him in
their marketing plans. Golfer Tiger Woods’ extramarital affairs
cost him deals with Accenture Plc and AT&T Inc.  “They are great sports stars, but they can get injured, or
lose form, and this can happen suddenly, and dramatically,”
said Bridgewater. “In the case of Sanchez, there is no big
crisis as there has been with some celebrity endorsers over the
years, just a temporary dip in performance. If this went on
longer term, they might reassess his strategic value to them.”  Tebow, who won the Heisman Trophy as college football’s
best player in 2007, has had more successes lately than Sanchez.
He helped the Broncos rebound from a 1-4 start to make the
playoffs, where they upset the Pittsburgh Steelers in overtime
before falling to the  New England Patriots .  A Christian who stresses his faith publicly, Tebow was
named America’s favorite pro athlete in an ESPN  poll  this year.
He had the NFL’s second-best-selling jersey from April 2011
through February this year, trailing only  Aaron Rodgers  of the
 Green Bay Packers , according to the  National Football League .  Verbal Altercations  The Jets collapse last season was marked by locker-room
controversy including verbal altercations between Sanchez and
receiver  Santonio Holmes . Sanchez was 23rd among quarterbacks
with a 78.2 rating, and General Manager Mike Tannenbaum said he
“didn’t play well.”  The Jets acquired Tebow and a seventh-round draft pick on
March 21 from the Denver Broncos for fourth- and sixth-round
selections. Sanchez signed a five-year contract extension worth
$58 million earlier this month, ESPN reported, citing people
inside the NFL.  Sanchez said he’s not concerned that fans may chant Tebow’s
name if the team is struggling. Such a situation might trigger
Degree’s so-called MotionSense technology, a “breakthrough
formula” engineered to “stay ahead of sweat and odor.”  The product’s suggested retail price is $4.29. A seat in
the Toyota Coaches Club at MetLife Stadium in  East Rutherford ,
 New Jersey , five yards behind the Jets’ bench costs $700, plus a
$20,000 personal seat license.  Tebow said he will try to “expand the role” he is given.
“I play better when I have more on the line,” he said at the
press conference.  Spoken like a future anti-perspirant pitchman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  