-- Dollar Rises as Global Growth Concern Spurs Safe-Asset De
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-28T21:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/dollar-rises-as-global-growth-concern-spurs-safe-asset-de.html
The yen rose against the dollar and
euro as concern the rate of global economic growth is slowing
spurred demand for safer assets as the nation approaches its
fiscal year end.  The Japanese currency strengthened against the majority its
16 major counterparts amid speculation Japanese companies will
repatriate overseas earnings before the end of the fiscal year
on March 31. The dollar strengthened earlier after a report
showed U.S. factory orders trailed forecasts and the  United
Kingdom  revised first-quarter growth downward. The 17-nation
euro erased losses against the dollar after a draft statement
from European finance ministers showed governments are preparing
to increase rescue funds.  “The yen has been benefiting from repatriation flows,”
said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research with online
currency trader GFT Forex, in New York. “It is fiscal year end
and you’re seeing these flows, especially because the yen was at
very good levels to take profit. Today is a day of  risk
aversion .”  The yen advanced 0.3 percent against the dollar to 82.90 at
5:02 p.m. in New York. It added 0.3 percent against the euro to
110.36, after rising as much as 0.8 percent, the most since
March 22. The dollar was little changed against the euro at
$1.3317 after gaining as much as 0.3 percent.  2012 View  The euro has risen 0.6 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The dollar has depreciated 2.4
percent, while the yen has fallen 10.1 percent, the worst two
performances. The  New Zealand dollar , up 3.2 percent, and
 Norway ’s krone, up 2 percent, are the best performers in 2012.  Iceland’s krona and the Argentine peso are the biggest
losers against the dollar this year among 25 emerging market
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The krona
has lost 3.4 percent and the peso has fallen 1.7 percent. The
Hungarian forint and Polish zloty have strengthened the most
against the U.S. currency, adding 10.6 and 10.2 percent,
respectively.  The South African rand was the worst performer against the
dollar today, falling 0.9 percent to 7.6751 per dollar, after
commodities fell on signs of slowing demand from China. China’s
copper demand based on trade data climbed 26 percent in January
and February from a year earlier, down from 30 percent growth in
December.  China Policy  “We are seeing ongoing concerns out of  China ,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist for Gain Capital Group LLC
in New York. “China is slowing down it is just a matter of if
it is going to be a hard landing or a soft one.”  Sweden’s krona advanced against all its major peers, rising
0.4 percent to 6.6594 per dollar.  The nation’s consumer confidence index rose to zero from
minus 3.2 the previous month, the Stockholm-based National
Institute of  Economic Research  said today. Economists predicted
a reading of minus 2, according to the median of 14 forecasts in
a Bloomberg survey.  The euro was bolstered by a draft statement showing that
European governments are preparing for a one-year increase in
the ceiling on rescue aid to 940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion)
to keep the debt crisis at bay. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said two days ago her country may back plans for the European
Financial Stability Facility and the European Stability
Mechanism to run in parallel. Italian, Portuguese and Spanish
10-year government bonds rose.  European Talks  “If the news on the European ceiling is correct, it looks
like it’s more ambitious than investors hoped for,” said GFT’s
Lien. “I think at best we were looking at combining the two
funds at 500 billion euros. The devil is in the details -- we
need to make sure it is an unconditional boost and not one that
has too many qualifications for the money to be received by the
struggling nations.”  Implied volatility for three-month euro-dollar options,
which indicates expected swings in the underlying currencies,
fell to as low as 9.74 percent, the least since August 2008.  Bookings for U.S. durable goods, meant to last at least
three years, advanced 2.2 percent, less than projected, after a
revised 3.6 percent decline the prior month, data from the
Commerce Department showed today in  Washington . Economists
forecast a 3 percent gain, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Growth Concern  “It seems the market is very cautious as there is a bit of
concern about the global economy, based off the data we are
receiving,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. “Gradually,
people are re-pricing global growth.”  Britain’s pound fell after a report showed the economy
shrank more than first estimated in the fourth quarter,
strengthening the case for the central bank to maintain asset
purchases. U.K. gross domestic product dropped 0.3 percent from
the previous three months, compared with an earlier estimate of
0.2 percent, data showed today.  Bank of England  Governor Mervyn
King said yesterday he has an open mind on whether more monetary
stimulus, or quantitative easing, is needed.  Sterling depreciated 0.4 percent to $1.5889.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  