-- Dubai Oil Bourse Wants Buyers to Make Oman Contract a Benchmark
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-03-28T11:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/dubai-oil-bourse-wants-buyers-to-make-oman-contract-a-benchmark.html
The Dubai Mercantile Exchange plans
to ask crude buyers in Asia to lobby  Saudi Arabia  and other oil
producers in the  Persian Gulf  to adopt its Oman crude futures
contract as a benchmark for their official selling prices.  Adoption of the contract as a benchmark must be “customer-
driven,” Kendal Vroman, managing director for commodity products
at  CME Group Inc. (CME) , said in Dubai. Chicago-based CME, which last
month doubled its stake in the Dubai exchange to 50 percent,
will use its sales and marketing team in Asia to promote the
Oman contract as a hedging tool, he said.  The energy-focused DME has been seeking to establish the
Oman contract, which gives investors the option of taking
physical deliveries of crude, as the pricing standard for oil
sales to  Asia . The exchange hopes that by boosting its trading
volume it can persuade buyers of Middle Eastern oil to tell
producers that the Oman contract would be their best benchmark
for crude sold under long-term contracts, Vroman and DME
Chairman Ahmad Sharaf told reporters at a briefing in Dubai.  The more popular standard for Middle Eastern crude is the
Dubai price assessment published by Platts, an energy-
information division of McGraw-Hill Cos.  The Dubai bourse’s average daily volume rose to a record
last month, with a mean of 5,378 Oman crude contracts trading
each day, DME data show. Trading reached a single-day high on
Feb. 15 when 10,142 contracts were bought and sold. “We think
we’re close” to a breakthrough to wider acceptance, Vroman
said.  Non-OPEC Oman  Oman, the largest Middle Eastern oil producer that’s not a
member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
uses monthly averages generated by the exchange to set the
 official selling price  for its crude. Dubai, the second-biggest
sheikhdom in the  United Arab Emirates , began using the DME
contract as a benchmark for its oil in 2009.  The DME may offer trading in other products such as jet
fuel or liquefied natural gas, Sharaf said, without specifying
dates.  The exchange’s management board is looking for a new chief
executive officer after Thomas Leaver said this month he was
resigning from the post. The board is compiling a shortlist of
candidates to be interviewed in coming months, Sharaf said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  