-- Dutch Economists Urge U.K.-Style Study on Splitting Up Ba
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-03-28T19:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/dutch-economists-urge-u-k-style-study-on-splitting-up-ba.html
Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager  supported a parliament proposal to set up an independent
commission to study the future structure of the country’s
banking industry after a European group presents its own report.  “A Dutch committee should not work parallel to a European
group,” De Jager told parliament in The Hague today. “I am
open to such a commission” being established in the Netherlands
“if it takes into account the results of a European commission,
expected after summer.”  The European Union’s executive body last month published
the members and remit of a group of experts that will examine
whether banks should build firewalls to protect taxpayers and
customers when failure of one part of a lender threatens to
cascade throughout the company.  The group, led by European Central Bank council member
 Erkki Liikanen , is studying whether structural reforms of
European banks would strengthen financial stability in addition
to planned reforms.  The lawmakers’ proposal echoed a suggestion made by a group
of Dutch economists to demand a committee similar to the U.K.’s
Independent Commission on Banking that would study separating
investment banking from lenders’ essential public functions.  ‘Additional Safeguards”  “Contrary to comparable countries like the U.K. and
 Switzerland , the Netherlands doesn’t have plans yet to build in
additional safeguards” to limit risks from its financial
industry, the economists, led by former Rabobank Groep chairman
Herman Wijffels, said in a  letter  to members of parliament dated
March 26.  Dutch lenders have a combined balance sheet almost five
times the size of the economy, and bailouts of institutions
including  ING (INGA)  Groep NV and  ABN Amro  Group NV in the wake of the
global financial crisis stretched the nation’s budget. De Jager
proposed making banks “ring-fence ready,” rendering it easier
to set apart so-called utility functions in times of crisis.  “The Minister insufficiently acknowledges the advantages
of structural measures,” the economists said of De Jager.
Wijffels suggested a group of experts should study what reforms
would be suitable in the Netherlands, including a legal split of
investment and consumer banking operations. He is also a member
of the European group of experts advising the European
Commission.  John Vickers , chairman of the U.K. commission, last year
recommended that British banks insulate their consumer units
from  investment banking  to increase stability in the financial
system. The U.K. government has pledged to pass laws by 2015 to
implement his proposals.  Funding Gap  De Jager has said British-style ring fencing makes less
sense for the Netherlands, as investment banking accounts for a
smaller share of Dutch lenders’ balance sheets. He has also said
Dutch banks can’t insulate themselves entirely from investment-
banking risks given the small size of local deposits relative to
their loan books, making them reliant on counterparties for
hedging and external funding.  “All in all, our proposal is pretty similar to Vickers,”
De Jager said today. “We propose to separate activities
operationally and financially within a bank.”  ING, Rabobank, ABN Amro and  SNS Reaal NV (SR)  have been decreed
“systemically important,” meaning the Dutch state demands
additional capital requirements of 1 percent to 3 percent on top
of Basel III requirements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  