-- Tea Party Targets Lugar, Hatch 70 Years of Senate Tenure
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-03-28T15:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/tea-party-targets-lugar-hatch-70-years-of-senate-tenure.html
Senators  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah (BEESUT)  and
 Richard Lugar  of  Indiana (BEES)  share a big headache: their 35-year
careers in the chamber are being targeted for a swift end by
FreedomWorks, a group that supports the Tea Party and operates a
super-political action committee.  First elected in 1976, Hatch and Lugar are the Senate’s
longest-serving Republicans. They will be committee chairmen if
re-elected this fall and their party takes control of the Senate
in January.  FreedomWorks, which favors smaller government, has spent
more than $735,000 on TV ads, grassroots outreach and glossy
brochures seeking to defeat the two senators. It says both men
vote too often with Democrats to expand the scope of government.
The group pledges to spend more, with Hatch facing delegates at
a Republican nominating convention April 21 and Lugar running in
a May 8 primary.  “I would like to win the fight against at least one of
them, but I think there’s a pathway to victory in both states,”
Russ Walker, FreedomWorks vice president of political campaigns,
said at the group’s Washington headquarters last week.  The voting will be a test of the  Tea Party ’s ability to
influence Senate primaries as it did two years ago in such
states as Delaware, Alaska and  Nevada , said  Jennifer Duffy , an
editor at the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  “It’s critical because without a success the movement will
be quickly written off as a fad,” she said.  ‘Just Plain Bullies’  Hatch and Lugar said they are maneuvering to thwart the
efforts of FreedomWorks, which Hatch, 78, called a cluster of
“radical right-wing libertarians.”  “They’re just plain bullies and obnoxious,” Hatch said in
an interview, adding that he’s “cautiously optimistic” he is
lining up solid support among new party delegates in his home
state that include Tea Party activists.  Lugar, 79, said: “We’re waging a good campaign, and I’m
very hopeful of success.”  Founded by former Republican House Majority Leader Richard Armey of  Texas , FreedomWorks has grown into an operation that
claims 1.6 million members. Its super-PAC, which raises
unlimited amounts for federal elections, says it has taken in
$3.5 million for this election. It is the only major
conservative group making independent expenditures against both
senators.  Hatch is slated to take the gavel of the Finance Committee,
which oversees tax and trade policy, while Lugar would be
chairman of the Foreign Relations panel if Republicans win
control of the Senate in November. Currently the party holds 47
of the chamber’s 100 seats.  2008 Bank Bailout  The senators have been targeted by the Tea Party for
supporting the 2008 bank bailout and a pathway to citizenship
for some children of illegal immigrants. Hatch also is being
opposed because of his work with the late Democratic Senator  Ted Kennedy  of  Massachusetts  to create a children’s health program.  Republicans are favored to keep Hatch’s Utah seat if he
loses the nomination. Those running include former state Senator
Dan Liljenquist. Lugar’s seat may be competitive even if he
prevails in his primary against  Indiana  Treasurer Richard Mourdock, said  Nathan Gonzales , editor of the nonpartisan
Rothenberg Political Report. The winner will face Democratic
Representative Joe Donnelly.  2010 Utah Convention  Hatch is FreedomWorks’s biggest target, with the group
spending more than $626,000 in an attempt to defeat him. Hatch
wants to avoid the fate of former three-term Utah Senator Robert Bennett, who was toppled at the 2010 state convention because he
didn’t win enough votes to make the ballot for a two-candidate
primary race. Republican  Mike Lee , backed by the Tea Party,
ended up winning Bennett’s seat.  FreedomWorks, meanwhile, has spent almost $34,000 against
Lugar and $75,000 in support of Mourdock. More expenditures are
coming by early May, Walker said.  Lugar is more vulnerable than Hatch, said Duffy of the Cook
Report. Hatch has support from delegates to the party convention
elected at caucuses this month, she said. Hatch will avoid a
June 26 primary if he wins at least 60 percent of delegate
votes, she said, adding that she sees little risk of Hatch being
cast aside like Bennett.  Lugar had an embarrassing setback March 15 when a
Democratic-dominated local election board determined he is
ineligible to vote in the state because he sold his Indiana home
in 1977. Lugar points to past legal opinions that said he’s a
legal resident, and he is weighing an appeal.  Club for Growth  Also, he’s facing the likelihood of attack ads from other
conservative groups. The anti-tax group Club for Growth has
endorsed Mourdock and on March 23 bought TV time in Indianapolis
and two other Indiana cities, said a political consultant with
knowledge of the purchases who requested anonymity. Barney
Keller, a Club for Growth spokesman, said he can’t confirm where
ads will run or the cost of what will be a “substantial”
purchase of anti-Lugar ads. The group is still examining Hatch’s
race, Keller said.  Tea Party Express political director Sal Russo said his
group sees Hatch as a “solid conservative” who has apologized
for supporting the bank bailout. Not so for Lugar, he said, who
the group views as not contrite enough, and it probably will air
ads against him, he said.  “He continues to be indignant with Tea Party groups and
he’s not willing to recognize that our economic situation is
worsening,” Russo said of Lugar.  Get Out the Vote  To combat that, Lugar campaign volunteers have called an
estimated 1 million Indiana voters urging their support of the
senator, said Andy Fisher, a spokesman for the campaign. A nine-
person field team leads a get-out-the-vote effort.  The Lugar campaign has run ads on TV network stations 2,765
times at a cost of $748,180 through March 26, according to
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Hatch’s efforts are more extensive. A 25-person Hatch staff
is phoning  Utah  voters and has been meeting with possible
delegates over the past year, said Kitty Dunn, the campaign’s
field operations manager.  “We did it aggressively and consistently in pushing his
message,” Dunn said.  Hatch has met with Utah Tea Party activists at picnics and
town hall meetings, and in private discussions. In coming weeks,
Hatch will attend most of 29 planned Republican county meetings
and meet with as many of the 4,000 delegates as possible, Dunn
said. His campaign aired 329 spots on Utah network broadcast
stations by March 26, at a cost of $264,030, according to CMAG.  ‘Notch in Their Belt’  Some of the delegates say FreedomWorks has gone too far in
trying to defeat Hatch.  “They tried to come into our state and put another notch
in their belt,” said Lisa Thorpe, a delegate who lives in  St.
George  and said she has decided to support Hatch. “They were
successful with Senator Bennett two years ago, and they’re
trying to do it again with Senator Hatch because it helps their
fundraising efforts.”  Walker said it will be worth the cost of this effort if his
group ensures the election of more Republican senators who favor
low taxes and spending cuts.  “The key is: Are we creating a fiscally conservative
caucus and are we moving policy in  Washington ?” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  