-- Health Law’s Medicaid Expansion Debated by U.S. High Court
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-03-28T19:08:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/health-law-s-medicaid-expansion-debated-by-u-s-high-court-1-.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices
grappled with whether Congress had the power to expand the
Medicaid insurance program for the poor as part of President
Barack Obama’s health-care law.  Twenty-six states are challenging the expansion on grounds
it would coerce them into spending more of their tax money than
they want to spend.  “Can you conceive of any state saying no” to additional
federal Medicaid funds, Justice  Antonin Scalia  asked U.S.
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, who defended the measure.
“And if you can’t, that sounds like coercion,” Scalia said.  The  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  argument wrapped up the third and final day of
Supreme Court hearings on the health-care law. Earlier today,
several justices indicated they may throw out other parts of the
law if they strike down its core requirement that Americans
obtain insurance.  The health law’s Medicaid expansion is designed to cover 17
million uninsured people by extending eligibility to those with
incomes up to 138 percent of the federal poverty line. States
that don’t comply with the expansion would lose all or part of
their share of federal Medicaid funding.  During the debate on Medicaid, the justices divided along
ideological lines, with those appointed by Democratic presidents
defending Congress’s authority to expand Medicaid.  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  said she couldn’t recall a
“federal program struck down because it’s so good it becomes
coercive to be in it.”  Justice  Stephen Breyer  minimized concerns by the states
that the government is wrongly coercing them if they refuse to
participate in the health-care law’s expansion. Breyer said the
2010 health-care statute doesn’t add any threat to Medicaid
funding that hasn’t been in the law since the mid-1960s.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  