-- ECB’s Weidmann Says Rescue Fund Expansion Won’t Solve Crisis
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-28T14:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/ecb-s-weidmann-says-rescue-fund-expansion-won-t-solve-crisis.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said boosting  Europe ’s rescue funds
will not solve its debt crisis, days before finance ministers
meet to discuss expanding the limit on bailout lending.  “Just like the ‘Tower of Babel,’ the ‘Wall of Money’ will
never reach heaven,” Weidmann said in a speech at  Chatham House 
in London today. “If we continue to make it higher and higher,
we will, in fact, run into more worldly constraints,” which
might include setting “incentives that lead to new problems in
the future.”  Euro-area finance ministers are likely to bolster Europe’s
crisis funds to between 700 billion euros ($934 billion) and 940
billion euros at a meeting in Copenhagen on March 30. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week gave her first indication
that she is prepared to allow an increase in the firewall as
Portugal and Spain show “fragility.”  “All the money we put on the table will not buy us a
lasting solution to the crisis,” Weidmann said, citing  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King ’s view on the matter that it merely
buys time.  Weidmann, who used to work as Merkel’s economic adviser
before taking the helm at the Bundesbank, said countries with
deficits in their budgets and current accounts must seek to
address those imbalances. Countries with surpluses shouldn’t be
called upon to make themselves less competitive, he said.  ECB Role  He said the risks that fiscal austerity will prevent
countries returning to growth are “being exaggerated,” and
“in any case, there is little alternative.”  Weidmann rejected any calls for the ECB to “temporarily
ease the pressure” and do more to support the euro-area
economy.  The central bank’s two three-year cash injections, loaning
banks a combined 1 trillion euros, have temporarily calmed
markets. While it’s “unavoidable” that central banks have to
act more flexibly in times of crisis, “once a central bank
becomes involved in fiscal policy, it eventually loses its
independence and its credibility as an inflation-fighter,” he
said.  ECB policy makers have signaled they’re reluctant to add to
stimulus measures and started to talk about their eventual
withdrawal.  Low Rates  Still, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development called yesterday on the ECB to deploy more emergency
measures and commit to keeping rates low “if the crisis were to
intensify.”  The ECB has shouldered the main crisis-fighting burden by
flooding the banking system with liquidity, buying  government
bonds  in the secondary market and cutting the key rate to a
record low of 1 percent.  Weidmann said the ECB had already “undertaken tremendous
efforts” and said the reason the central bank’s founding treaty
“explicitly prohibits monetizing public debt” is to avoid a
situation where “governments have an incentive to accummulate
debt.”  “If central banks went down this route, they would be
redistributing fiscal risks and costs among the taxpayers of the
euro area,” he said. That would have “a highly corrosive
effect on the credibility of central banks and on their
independence,” Weidmann said.  He also said he expects inflation in  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy, to accelerate “as we will see more
heterogenity in the years ahead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  