-- Express Scripts’s FTC Ruling on Medco Said Likely by Friday
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-28T20:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/medco-rises-on-optimism-takeover-by-express-scripts-may-be-soon.html
Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)  will probably
get a Federal Trade Commission ruling as early as March 30 on
its proposed takeover of pharmacy-benefits manager  Medco Health
Solutions Inc. (MHS) , said two people familiar with the case who
declined to be identified because the review is private.  Medco reached its highest value in eight years earlier
today after saying in a filing it expects the $29.1 billion deal
to close as soon as next week. It isn’t clear whether the FTC,
after reviewing antitrust concerns, will impose conditions in
order to allow the deal to go through.  Express Scripts , based in  St. Louis , agreed in July to buy
 Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco, saying the deal would
help consumers by giving them more power to negotiate prices.
The companies act as middlemen among drugmakers, pharmacies and
health-plan sponsors to manage patients’ benefits.  The timeline from the companies was surprising and
“reinforced confidence in the viability of the deal,” wrote
 Dave Shove , a BMO Capital Markets analyst in New York, in a note
to clients. “This deal will close a bit earlier than we
anticipated, potentially indicating less complex divestiture
requirements from the FTC.”  Brian Henry , an Express Scripts spokesman, declined to
comment on discussions with the FTC.  Peter Kaplan , an agency
spokesman, also declined to comment.  “We’re excited to move a step further to bringing the
companies together for the benefit of families and helping to do
all the things we felt was the rationale for this merger all
along,” Henry said in a telephone interview.  ‘Remaining Conditions’  In separate regulatory filings, the two companies said that
each “expects the parties may be in a position to close the
transaction as early as the week of April 2, 2012, subject to
satisfaction or waiver of the remaining closing conditions.”  Medco gained 3.3 percent to $71.23 at the close of trading
in  New York . Express Scripts climbed 1.3 percent to $53.89.  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz has been seeking ways to ensure
the transaction wouldn’t drive up prices and reduce pharmacy
services, said a person familiar with the review on March 9.  “This has been a long and thorough investigation, typical
of an FTC merger inquiry and it’s unclear whether conditions
will be required by the FTC,” said Robert W. Doyle, an
antitrust attorney in Washington and former FTC official. “It
seems in all likelihood that this transaction will ultimately
get done.”  The National Community Pharmacists Association and the
National Association of Chain Drug Stores said they had
responded to a request from the FTC to suggest ways to revise
the transaction so it wouldn’t hurt competition.  Agency officials had discussed whether the FTC should
require Express Scripts to sell some specialty pharmacies to
gain approval of the deal with Medco, the person said March 9.  Specialty pharmacies sell treatments for ailments such as
cancer and HIV that often are injected or infused and usually
require cooling or other special handling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  