-- Egypt Constitution-Drafting Committee Starts Work Amid Divisions
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-03-28T13:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/egypt-constitution-drafting-committee-starts-work-amid-divisions.html
The committee formed to write a new
constitution for  Egypt  elected the speaker of parliament’s lower
house to head it, in an inaugural meeting that followed the
withdrawal of several secular members.  “We fully realize that the constitution-drafting process
must be done wisely and responsibly, away from the narrow
calculations of partisan gains,” Mohammed Saad el-Katatni said
in a televised session of the committee, known as the
Constituent Assembly, after he was chosen to lead it. “There
must be a consensus among all national forces over the visions
that will govern our work in the coming period.”  The makeup of the panel has been the focus of political
wrangling, with critics arguing that the process of selecting
its members favored Islamists and has resulted in the
underrepresentation of groups such as women and legal experts.
The disagreements add to the turmoil surrounding the transition
to democracy in the Arab world’s most populous nation following
last year’s uprising that led to  Hosni Mubarak ’s ouster.  The new charter is expected to determine issues such as the
role of Islam in  Egypt (EHGDEGY) , the powers of the president and
parliament, and the position of the armed forces.  About a quarter of the 100-member Constituent Assembly
didn’t attend today’s session. El-Katatni said only one formally
notified the body of his withdrawal from the panel.  During the meeting, some of the assembly’s members made
proposals to deal with the concerns of those who have said they
were withdrawing, while others criticized their positions.  ‘Severe Sadness’  “I must express my severe sadness about all the struggles
and the confrontations among the elite -- there are 85 million
citizens awaiting a solution to their problems and awaiting a
future fit for this great country,” assembly member Farouk
Gweida told the meeting. “We cannot think in a political or
partisan manner at this historic moment. This is a national
position that God and history will ask us about.”  The Free Egyptians party, co-founded by billionaire Naguib Sawiris, and a number of lawmakers such as Amr Hamzawy have
announced their withdrawal from the committee.  El-Katatni said just one of the 100 members formally
notified the panel of his withdrawal from the panel, while
someone on a list of backup members also pulled out.  El-Katatni tried to assuage concerns about the
constitution-drafting process.  “The era when constitutional articles and important laws
were drafted behind closed doors and imposed on the people has
gone,” he said. He called on groups and individuals to present
the assembly with their proposals for the constitution.  The Islamist-dominated parliament voted this month for half
of the constitution-drafting assembly to come from within it and
the rest from outside.  Muslim Brotherhood  The Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party makes up
the largest bloc in parliament. A more conservative Salafi bloc
comes next. Salafis are followers of an austere interpretation
of Islam.  In addition to the debates over the degree of influence
Islamists will have over the constitution, critics of the ruling
military council have said they don’t want the charter drawn up
while the generals are still at the helm, concerned they may try
to enshrine privileges for the military in the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 