-- Emerging Stocks Fall First Day in Four on Growth Concerns
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-03-28T21:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/emerging-stocks-fall-1st-day-in-four-on-growth-concern-correct-.html
Emerging-market stocks fell from a
one-week high as orders for goods in the U.S. rose less than
analysts estimated and on speculation Chinese companies’ profits
are being cut by the global slowdown.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  dropped 1.1 percent to
1,043.90 at the close in  New York , snapping a three-day advance,
as energy and materials producers retreated.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362) ,
 China ’s biggest producer of the metal, dropped 5.5 percent after
second-half profit slid 18 percent.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ,  Russia ’s biggest
non-state oil producer, slumped to a one-month low as 29 of the
30 companies on the benchmark Micex index declined.  BM&FBovespa
SA (BVMF3) ,  Brazil ’s biggest securities exchange, dropped the most in
four weeks after it said it was ordered to pay a penalty.  Orders for U.S. durable goods rose 2.2 percent in February,
below the 3 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Earnings for Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong 
won’t grow this year, said Societe Generale SA, which cut a
previous forecast for a 5 percent increase. Profits for Chinese
industrial companies had their first January-February decline
since 2009 amid slowing exports, the National Bureau of
Statistics said on its website yesterday.  “It was certainly China that spooked the market this
morning and the data in the U.S. was a touch disappointing
too,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-markets economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said by phone. “Our sense is
still that a softer landing is perhaps more likely in China than
a hard landing that some seem to be assuming.”  Emerging-market stocks have retreated 3.3 percent this
month, cutting their rise this year to 14 percent. The  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  of developed-nation shares has gained 11 percent, to
trade for 13.1 times estimated earnings. That’s more expensive
than emerging-market equities, which trade for 10.7 times
estimated earnings.  ETF Slumps  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
lost 1.7 percent to $42.69. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
 Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices
on the fund and expectations of price swings, rose 5 percent to
26.91, the highest in two weeks.  BM&FBovespa slid 2.6 percent after saying a local court
ordered it to pay 8.42 billion reais ($4.62 billion) in a civil
case related to central bank futures trading around the time of
the 1999  currency devaluation . The benchmark  Bovespa index  lost
1.5 percent, closing at the lowest since Feb. 14.  The  Micex Index (MICEX)  fell 2.2 percent in Moscow, led by energy
companies.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) , Russia’s biggest non-state oil producer,
fell 2.4 percent and  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s largest natural
gas company, retreated 1.5 percent. Oil dropped 1.8 percent in
New York.  OAO Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s largest producer of coal for
making steel, slid 4.4 percent.  Gome, Renhe  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong lost 1 percent.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd. (493) , the nation’s
second-biggest electronics retailer, slumped 21 percent in Hong
Kong after missing earnings estimates.  Renhe Commercial Holdings
Co. (1387) , which develops underground shopping centers, plummeted 20
percent to a record low after profit excluding revaluations in
2011 declined 92 percent from a year earlier, according to
Citigroup Inc., based on the earnings from the company
yesterday.  The ruble depreciated by 1.3 percent against the dollar, as
most emerging-market currencies weakened. The rand retreated 0.9
percent.  Turkey, South Africa  Eregli Demir & Celik Fabrikalari TAS (EREGL) ,  Turkey ’s largest
steelmaker, plunged 11 percent after ArcelorMittal, the world’s
biggest steelmaker, sold a quarter of its stake in the company.
The  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  slid 1.1 percent in Istanbul.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  retreated 0.7 percent
in Johannesburg, the first decline in four days.  The  BUX Index (BUX)  slipped 0.7 percent in Budapest to the lowest
level in three weeks. Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest refiner, slid
0.8 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 337, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloombeg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 