-- Enbridge Pipelines to Ease Crude Logjam: Corporate Canada
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   B r a d   O l s o n
-- 2012-03-28T20:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/enbridge-pipelines-to-ease-crude-logjam-corporate-canada.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s plans to expand
U.S. pipeline capacity may help generate as much as $15 billion
for Canadian  oil-sands  producers such as  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and
boost government tax revenue as Alberta crude begins to command
a higher price.  Canadian crude has been backing up in the U.S. trading hub
at Cushing,  Oklahoma , along with oil produced in  North Dakota ,
forcing down prices.  Western Canada Select oil , a Canadian
benchmark, has sold for about $42 a barrel less than world
prices this year, a record gap, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The differential is more than four times greater than
the same period two years earlier.  Two projects announced on March 26 by Calgary-based
Enbridge and U.S. partner  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  would
expand crude capacity to the  Gulf Coast  by 500,000 barrels a day
by 2014, a big step toward narrowing the price gap, said Roger
McKnight, senior petroleum adviser at En-Pro International Inc.,
an Oshawa, Ontario-based energy adviser.  “That discount can absolutely be cut in half,” McKnight
said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Something’s got to
give because you have a huge economy in Alberta and the rest of
 Canada  dependent on getting this oil to market.”  Reducing the gap just by half would represent $15 billion a
year in additional value for Canada’s estimated 2 million
barrels a day of exports to the U.S., according to Bloomberg
data.  Cross-Town Competition  Enbridge will probably be the first to add additional
capacity to transport Canadian crude to new markets as it races
cross-town competitor  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , whose Keystone XL
conduit is being built in sections after President Barack Obama
blocked its Canada-U.S. cross-border leg in January.  Enbridge’s plan may not face as many challenges as the
Alberta-to-Texas Keystone XL project because it doesn’t cross
the border, so it won’t need U.S. State Department approval, and
Enbridge’s southern pipeline expansion can be built on existing
right of way.  “Make no mistake, this suite of assets does not face the
same pressure point as the competing XL system,”  Carl Kirst , an
analyst with BMO Capital Markets in Houston, said today in a
note to clients.  Output from the oil sands and new formations including
North Dakota’s Bakken shale may increase by 3.5 million to 4.5
million barrels a day by 2020, said Jackie Forrest, senior
director of global oil for IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates. Without new pipelines, the oil will get backed up in
Canada and the U.S. Midwest, she said.  ‘Bottlenecks’  “This expansion of the Enbridge system will help get rid
of some of those bottlenecks,” Forrest said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “That should help to narrow the disconnect
between Canadian and other U.S. crudes and the rest of the
world.”  The Enbridge and TransCanada lines together would add more
than 1.2 million barrels of capacity to transport crude produced
in Canada’s oil sands to Texas refineries.  More oil arriving in the U.S. from Canada would boost
refiners including  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC) ,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) 
and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , which faced declining margins on
processing heavy crude on the U.S. Gulf Coast as it began to
trade at a premium to lighter grades of U.S. oil for the first
time in 20 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Refiners invested more than $25 billion to upgrade plants
in anticipation of added volumes from Canada that theoretically
could improve the profits of processing crude because heavy oil
has traditionally been cheaper.  Mayan Crude  The lack of supply from Canada, combined with added demand
created by the upgrades, has made heavy oil more expensive for
the first time since 1992. Mayan crude, a heavy grade from
 Mexico , cost an average of $5.89 more than lighter West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, so far in 2012. In the first
quarter of 2010, WTI cost $9.03 more a barrel than the Mexican
crude, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The first of Enbridge’s plans is a $2 billion project with
Enterprise to reverse the flow of the Seaway pipeline and expand
its capacity. When completed in 2014, as much as 850,000 barrels
a day will flow from Cushing to the U.S. Gulf Coast, the
companies said.  Enbridge’s Flanagan South project, which would cost $2.8
billion and be completed around the same time, would be built
along the route of its existing Spearhead pipeline and have a
capacity of 585,000 barrels a day.  Existing Mainline  The company’s existing crude mainline to  Chicago  has spare
capacity that will allow Enbridge to boost shipments of Canadian
oil to the U.S. by as much as 500,000 barrels a day, Vern Yu,
vice president of business development and asset management at
Enbridge, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  With additional projects the company is considering,
Enbridge could increase that amount to 1 million barrels a day,
he said.  TransCanada’s Keystone XL and Enbridge’s system expansions
will both be needed, Yu said.  “If you look at the supply picture coming out of western
Canada and North Dakota’s Bakken, we think both pipelines are
necessary to move the crude out of those producing regions,” he
said. “The 2015 to 2017 time frame is when both networks are
needed.”  Pipeline development has become a rallying cry for Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper , who has said new markets for Canadian
oil is in the “national interest.” Federal Natural Resources
Minister Joe Oliver has called environmental groups who oppose
oil-sands pipeline development “enemies” of Canada.  Exports to U.S.  About 99 percent of Canadian crude exports go to the U.S.,
with most of that ending up in the Midwest. Currently, producers
including  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE)  are resorting to freight trains to
transport crude. Other proposals for additional routes include
increasing pipeline capacity to Canada’s Pacific coast as well
as reversing or building new lines to the Atlantic provinces
through  Quebec .  Expanding exports to the U.S. and tapping markets in  Asia 
may raise the price received by Canadian producers by $13.60 a
barrel by 2030 and add an additional C$131 billion ($131.2
billion) to Canada’s economy from 2016 to 2030, according to a
Dec. 15 study by the University of Calgary’s School of Public
Policy.  Export Revenue  More than two-third of Canada’s total crude oil production
of about 3.5 million barrels was exported, according to the C.D.
Howe Institute in a Feb. 29 report. Energy products, also
including hydro power and natural gas, accounted for more than
22 percent of Canada’s export revenue in 2010, the Toronto-based
think tank said.  Oil is Canada’s most valuable export and every additional
dollar increase in the value of oil over a 12-month period adds
C$223 million to the province of  Alberta  in tax revenues and
royalties, the government says.  Enbridge and Houston-based Enterprise are scheduled to move
more than 150,000 barrels a day of capacity on the reversed
Seaway pipeline by June 1. That will rise to 400,000 barrels by
2013 after pump additions and upgrades, and more than 850,000
barrels by 2014, the companies said.  The two projects will add $3 a share, or $2.35 billion, to
Enbridge’s value, said BMO’s Kirst.  Enbridge  rose  1.5 percent to close at C$39.04 in Toronto,
while Enterprise fell 0.3 percent to $50.67 in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  