-- EPA Can’t Disapprove Texas Air-Quality Rules, Court Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-03-28T18:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/epa-can-t-disapprove-texas-air-quality-rules-court-says-1-.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency had “no legal basis” to disapprove a Texas plan for
implementing federal air-quality standards, a court said.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New Orleans ordered the agency
to reconsider the Texas regulations and “limit its review” to
ensuring that they meet the “minimal” Clean Air Act
requirements that govern state implementation plans.  “If Texas’s regulations satisfy those basic requirements,
the EPA must approve them,” the court said in its 22-page March
26 ruling.  The EPA rejected Texas’s rules on minor new-source review
permits in September 2010, contending they didn’t meet Clean Air
Act requirements. The Texas attorney general, the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce and businesses sued the EPA, challenging the ruling.  The EPA failed to identify any provisions of the law that
the Texas program violated, the appeals court said. The agency
also missed a deadline to rule on the Texas permit plan, the
court said.  “The EPA unlawfully disapproved a commonsense Texas air
permitting program that fully complied with the federal  Clean
Air Act  and reduced harmful emissions,” Texas Attorney General
 Greg Abbott  said in a statement today.  ‘Limited Authority’  “The EPA disregarded the limited authority it was granted
under federal law and incorrectly alleged that Texas would not
act sensibly and in accordance with its own laws,” Abbott said.
“This victory marks the second time in the last three months
that Texas has successfully obtained relief from the courts
after an unlawful overreach by the EPA.”  The decision could be relevant to a case brought by states
including Texas against EPA regulations to cut interstate
pollution from  power plants , according to Christine Tezak,
senior policy analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in McLean,
Virginia.  “The industry and states are likely to prevail in their
appeal” against the cross-state rule, Tezak said in a report on
the  New Orleans  court’s ruling today. The cross-state case is
pending in the federal appeals court in  Washington .  The Texas case is Luminant Generation Co. v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 10-60891, U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals for the 5th Circuit (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  