-- Mercedes Attacks BMW From Hungary With Europe’s Last Plant: Cars
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-29T13:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/mercedes-attacks-bmw-from-hungary-with-europe-s-last-plant-cars.html
Daimler AG’s (DAI)  Mercedes-Benz kicked
off its assault on  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s luxury-car
sales lead on the plains of Hungary.  An 800 million-euro ($1.07 billion) factory, located in
Kecskemet about 90 kilometers (56 miles) southeast of Budapest,
began production of the Mercedes B-Class compact today, marking
the carmaker’s first new assembly plant in 15 years -- and
likely the last major auto facility to be built in Europe.  “This could be the final big plant by a European carmaker
in the region,” said Carol Thomas, an analyst with LMC
Automotive in Oxford,  England . “The factory is coming quite a
bit later than others in Europe, which is struggling with
overcapacity. The growth and expansion has shifted to  Asia  and
 Latin America .”  Daimler Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  is flouting
capacity concerns in Europe to take on BMW’s 1-Series and X1 in
the market for price-sensitive compact cars. With Hungarian
workers paid a fifth of what their  German (DAI)  counterparts demand,
Daimler needs the factory to meet its goal of boosting sales 27
percent to at least 1.6 million vehicles by 2015, while at the
same time raising profitability with models like the A-Class
hatchback and a compact sport-utility vehicle.  “We are on the offensive,” Zetsche said today at the
official plant opening. “Our entire team is focused on
reclaiming the leadership position.”  To reach this goal, Mercedes plans to grow at “above-
average” rates in markets such as  China ,  India  and the U.S. by
tailoring cars to local tastes and expanding sales networks,
Zetsche said.  Production Surge  The Kecskemet plant, the first new Mercedes factory since
it began producing cars in  Alabama  in 1997, will be paired with
the production from the factory in Rastatt, Germany, which
underwent a 600 million-euro expansion to meet anticipated
demand for the small cars. Mercedes produces the A-Class and B-
Class in Rastatt.  Combined, the Kecskemet and Rastatt plants will have an
estimated capacity of about 450,000 vehicles, which would be
equivalent to 35 percent of Mercedes car sales this year,
according to data from IHS Automotive.  “They need high volume to pay for all that investment,”
said Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst with IHS.
“The stakes are high.”  Factory Expansion  The Hungarian factory, which will also produce the new CLA
four-door coupe from 2013, will have initial capacity of 100,000
vehicles a year and could “easily” be increased to 200,000,
Mercedes production chief  Wolfgang Bernhard  said. Manufacturing
costs at the plant are 30 percent lower than in  Germany , chiefly
because of cheaper labor costs, he said.  Jobs at the plant are already being added, with 500 new
hires planned by the end of this year to help fill more than
100,000 orders for the B-Class.  Lower production costs, including increased parts sharing,
are part of Mercedes plans to save 6 billion euros by 2017 to
offset rising raw material costs and increased spending to lower
carbon-dioxide emissions of its vehicles, the company said
today.  Daimler dropped as much as 1.37 euros, or 3 percent, to
44.42 euros and was down 2.5 percent as of 2:55 p.m. in
Frankfurt trading. The shares have  fallen  26 percent in the last
five years, valuing the Stuttgart, Germany-based carmaker, which
is also the world’s biggest truckmaker, at 48.1 billion euros.
BMW stock has gained 51 percent over the same period, giving the
world’s largest maker of a luxury autos a market capitalization
of 42.4 billion euros.  ‘Painful’ Cuts Needed  The factory will add to car-making excess in Europe, where
auto sales are poised to decline for the fifth consecutive year
in 2012. The slump means that the region’s carmakers will
probably use about 65 percent of total production capacity this
year, down from 71 percent last year, according to LMC
Automotive. The unused assembly lines could manufacture about 10
million vehicles, the market researcher said.  The capacity overhang requires plant closures and job cuts
to make auto production in Europe profitable again, according to
 Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of  Fiat SpA (F)  and
Chrysler Group LLC.  “It has to be painful, when you are talking about
reductions,” Marchionne said last week in Bruges,  Belgium .
“It’s going to have initially a negative impact on
employment.”  Fiat last year closed a factory in Sicily in an effort to
end losses in the region. In February,  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211) 
said it will stop making cars at its factory in the Netherlands
after failing to come up with a plan to maintain production.  Housing Shortage  With that backdrop, Kecskemet is thanking its lucky stars
that it was selected as the site of the Mercedes factory.  “We’re the envy of the region,” said Klaudia Pataki,
deputy mayor of the city of about 110,000 people on the sandy
plains of southern  Hungary . “This investment has definitely
changed the strategy and image of the city for at least 50
years.”  The influx of more than 2,500 jobs at the plant and more
from parts suppliers has led to a housing shortage, which should
spark a building boom, Pataki said. That’s a stark contrast to
the rest of Hungary, where the number of homes built last year
fell 39 percent from 2010, deeper than slumps between the two
World Wars and at the beginning of the Communist era, according
to the country’s statistics office.  Frozen Funds  Hungary, the most indebted nation among the European
Union’s eastern members, is struggling to narrow its  budget
deficit , which has overshot the bloc’s shortfall limit since the
country joined in 2004.  The EU (BKIR)  partially froze Hungary’s
infrastructure-development aid for 2013, giving it until June 22
to take action to cut the deficit.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who attended the
plant’s opening ceremony today, is embroiled in a legal dispute
with the EU over the independence of the central bank and the
courts. The dispute has blocked financial aid negotiations with
the  International Monetary Fund  and the EU. The economy is set
to contract 0.6 percent this year following an expansion of 1.7
percent in 2011, according to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  Mercedes is following Audi, which has manufactured motors
in the western Hungarian city of Gyor since 1993. Audi began
building the 30,500-euro TT coupe there in 1998 and is investing
900 million euros to expand annual capacity to 125,000 cars by
next year from 38,500 in 2010.  Cheaper Labor  Hungary’s attraction is an educated labor force that last
year cost 8.61 euros an hour compared with 45.66 euros in
Germany, according to data from German auto industry group VDA.
With about 40 working hours spent to assemble Mercedes vehicles,
the savings are equivalent to about 1,480 euros per car,
according to  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the University of Duisburg-Essen.  Daimler said today that it aims to reduce the average hours
spent assembling a vehicle to 30. In Hungary, the low cost of
labor in Hungary meant fewer robots in areas of the plant, such
as the paintshop, said Bernhard.  Cheaper production costs should help Mercedes boost profit
on the vehicles. The Daimler car unit intends to lift its
operating profit margin to at least 10 percent of sales in 2013
from 9 percent last year.  “Adding capacity in the premium segment makes sense, as
car buyers are either moving upmarket or heading downmarket,”
said  Michael Tyndall , a London-based auto analyst with Barclays.
“The problem for the mass-market carmakers is they expanded
into Eastern and Central  Europe  without closing western
factories, so they’ve created their own problem to an extent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  