-- Hernadi Sees Risk of Hungary Extending Industry Tax Without IMF
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2012-03-28T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/hernadi-sees-risk-of-hungary-extending-industry-tax-without-imf.html
Hungary  failing to reach a bailout
agreement with the  International Monetary Fund  would raise the
risk of the government extending special industry taxes, said
the head of the country’s largest company.  The pressure the business community is putting on Prime
Minister  Viktor Orban  to sign an IMF deal in a deteriorating
economy is “very high,”  Zsolt Hernadi , chairman of  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) ,
Hungary’s largest refiner with a market capitalization of 1.95
trillion forint ($8.9 billion), said in a March 27 interview at
the company’s Budapest headquarters. There’s a “high
likelihood” of Hungary obtaining a loan soon, he said.  “If there is no agreement with the IMF, it could lead to
the extension of the crisis tax or the levying of other taxes on
small businesses so as to keep the public budget in balance,”
said Hernadi, 51. “The pressure from the business environment
and the macroeconomic environment is very high to fulfill the
potential conditions of an IMF agreement and to sign it.”  Hungary has failed to meet European Union conditions to
start talks on an IMF-led loan four months after Orban requested
financial assistance as the forint fell to a record low against
the euro and the country’s sovereign credit rating was cut to
junk. The EU has blocked talks because of its objections to laws
it says affect the independence of the central bank, judiciary
and the data-protection office.  Since winning power in 2010, Orban has relied on
extraordinary taxes on the energy, banking, retail and
telecommunication industries to plug budget holes. The Cabinet
has pledged to end the levies after this year with the exception
of the financial industry, where it will fall by 50 percent.  Tax Burden  Mol, which operates in 13 countries including Pakistan,
Iraq, Syria and  Croatia , paid 29 billion forint in the special
tax last year, when it raised net income 46 percent to 152
billion forint.  Mol rose 7.6 percent this year, compared with a 9.9 percent
increase in Hungary’s benchmark BUX index. The stock dropped 0.8
percent yesterday to close at 18,670 forint.  The company relies on exploration projects to boost
profitability as the economic crisis saps demand for fuel in
eastern  Europe . High  oil prices , along with lower demand,
refining overcapacity and “very tight” regulations create a
competitive disadvantage that will have a “dramatic” impact on
European refineries, Hernadi said.  Oil-Price Outlook  Crude oil for May delivery fell $2.23, or 2.1 percent, to
$105.10 a barrel at 12:53 p.m. on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange yesterday. Futures reached $110.55 on March 1, the
highest intraday price since May 4. Brent oil for May settlement
dropped $1.83, or 1.5 percent, to $123.71 a barrel on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate crude traded in
New York was at $18.89, up from $18.21 on March 27.  “We expect that oil prices remain high in the mid-term but
we do not see the likelihood of a significantly higher level
than today,” Hernadi said. “Many refineries will fall in the
next years. But we see it as an efficiency issue. Those
refineries that adapt to change and are able to increase their
efficiency have better chances to stay alive. We believe that we
will be among those.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Winkler  in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  