-- Espirito Santo Among Five Portugal Lenders Cut by Moody’s
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-03-29T17:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/espirito-santo-among-five-portugal-banks-downgraded-by-moody-s.html
Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  was among
five banks in  Portugal  to have credit ratings cut by Moody’s
Investors Service, which cited asset risks and a “poor economic
outlook” in a nation whose own grade was reduced last month.  Espirito Santo, Portugal’s largest publicly traded bank by
market value, had its debt rating lowered one level to Ba3,
Moody’s said yesterday in a statement. It took the same action
for  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA  and  Banco BPI SA. (BPI)  Banco
Internacional do Funchal was downgraded to B1 from Ba3.  Portugal was among six European nations, along with Spain
and  Italy , to have debt ratings cut by Moody’s Feb. 13 as the
region’s government-debt crisis spurs austerity programs that
may undermine growth. Yesterday’s moves give the four banks
grades on par with or lower than Portugal’s, which fell to Ba3
from Ba2. Banco Santander Totta SA, the Portuguese unit of
 Spain ’s largest lender, was cut two levels to Ba1 from Baa2.  Downgrades of the nation’s lenders were generally driven by
“expected further deterioration of banks’ domestic asset
quality” and firms’ prolonged difficulty accessing private
wholesale funding sources, Moody’s said in the statement.
“While none of these pressures are new, in Moody’s view they
continue to mount against the backdrop of the ongoing euro debt
crisis.”  Moody’s report shows that Santander Totta, whose new credit
rating is the highest of the five lenders, “continues to
display the strongest financial indicators within the Portuguese
banking sector,” Cristina Dias Neves, a spokeswoman for the
Lisbon-based lender, said in an e-mail.  None of the other four banks returned e-mailed requests for
comment on the downgrades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  