-- EU Nears One-Year Boost in Rescue Fund to $1.3 Trillion
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-03-28T22:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/eu-nearing-one-year-rescue-boost-to-eu940-billion-draft-says.html
European governments are preparing
for a one-year increase in the ceiling on rescue aid to 940
billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to keep the debt crisis at bay,
according to a draft statement written for finance ministers.  The euro-area finance chiefs will probably decide at a
meeting in Copenhagen tomorrow to run the 500 billion-euro
permanent European Stability Mechanism alongside the 200 billion
euros committed by the temporary fund, a European official told
reporters in Brussels yesterday.  Beyond that, they are also set to allow the temporary
fund’s unused 240 billion euros to be tapped until mid-2013 “in
exceptional circumstances following a unanimous decision of
euro-area heads of state or government notably in case the ESM
capacity would prove insufficient,” according to the draft
dated March 23 and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The boost to the war chest would come after  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  of  Germany , the dominant power in two years of
crisis fighting, this week warned of “fragility” in Portugal
and  Spain . It would also be designed to lure the rest of the
world into putting more money into the International Monetary
Fund’s arsenal.  European policy makers are wrangling over amendments to
rules written last year that limit total available bailout funds
to 500 billion euros. The IMF has made additional aid contingent
on Europe first doing more to help itself.  Crisis Buffer  Finance ministers may make changes to the draft statement
at their meeting tomorrow. In yesterday’s briefing, the European
official said the likeliest outcome is an anti-crisis buffer
somewhere between 700 billion and 940 billion euros, without
saying how long these amounts would be available.  The language in the draft also emphasizes the political
hurdles to tapping the unused parts of the temporary fund, the
 European Financial Stability Facility . Merkel or any other euro-
area government leader could exercise a veto.  Extra money won’t put the debt crisis to rest, said Jens Weidmann, who was Merkel’s economic adviser until he became head
of Germany’s central bank last year.  “Just like the ‘Tower of Babel,’ the ‘Wall of Money’ will
never reach heaven,” Weidmann said yesterday at  Chatham House 
in  London . “If we continue to make it higher and higher, we
will, in fact, run into more worldly constraints,” which might
include setting “incentives that lead to new problems in the
future.”  Capital Call  In addition, an increase in the aid ceiling wouldn’t make
the entire sum available upfront. It would require a capital
call in an emergency to mobilize the ESM’s entire 500 billion
euros before mid-2014.  Assuming that the temporary fund expires in mid-2013
without making further commitments, the permanent aid ceiling
would revert to 700 billion euros, according to the draft. The
ESM’s provisions allow the finance ministers to raise or lower
its capital at any time.  Discussion of the lending cap will coincide with a possible
further speedup of the capitalization of the permanent fund. The
first of five planned annual payments will be made in July and
the second in October, the draft statement said.  The remaining payments may also be accelerated, with two in
2013 and the final installment in the first half of 2014, two
years earlier than previously planned, the statement said.  As a result,  Europe  would be capable of making a
theoretical three-year aid pledge of 500 billion euros on July 1
and having enough money to follow through, the European official
said.  The firewall “has to be credible,” German government
spokesman Steffen Seibert told reporters in Berlin yesterday
when asked about calls for the backstop to be as much as 1
trillion euros. At the same time, “it’s regrettable that in
this discussion no number is ever big enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  