-- Euro Near Month-High Before EU Meeting, German Jobs Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-03-29T01:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/euro-near-1-month-high.html
The euro was within 0.5 percent of
a one-month high after a draft statement from European finance
ministers showed governments are preparing to increase rescue
funds when they meet tomorrow.  Europe ’s common currency was poised for its first quarterly
gain against the  U.S. dollar  since June before data forecast to
show unemployment in  Germany , the region’s biggest economy,
remained at the lowest in more than two decades. The yen rose
against the greenback as Asian stocks extended a global rout,
supporting demand for haven assets.  “It has been a factor supporting the euro and has helped
the currency recover,” Greg Gibbs, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney, said
of the euro area’s rescue fund. “It has helped the sense of
calm in European bond markets over recent weeks.”  The euro fetched $1.3324 as of 10:26 a.m. in  Tokyo  from
$1.3317 yesterday in  New York . The 17-nation currency touched
$1.3386 on March 27, the strongest since Feb. 29. It was at
110.27 yen from 110.40 yesterday. The yen rose 0.2 percent to
82.75 per dollar.  A draft statement written for European finance ministers
showed the region’s governments are preparing for a one-year
increase in the ceiling on rescue aid to 940 billion euros ($1.3
trillion) to keep the debt crisis at bay. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said on March 26 her country may back plans for
the European Financial Stability Facility and the European
Stability Mechanism to run in parallel.  German Unemployment  Germany’s unemployment rate probably held at 6.8 percent in
March from previous month, the lowest since the nation’s
reunification, according to median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The number of people out of work
probably fell 10,000 from February, a separate poll shows.  Business confidence in the nation rose to an eight-month
high in March, a private report this week showed. The Munich-
based Ifo institute’s business climate index, based on a survey
of 7,000 executives, increased to 109.8 from a revised 109.7 in
February.  “The German economy is doing relatively well; unemployment
should drop today, inflation is moderating and this week’s Ifo
was solid,” Emma Lawson, a Sydney-based currency strategist at
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , wrote in a research note today.
“We do believe the approval for the rescue package will go
ahead tomorrow, and this may create more support for the euro in
the interim.”  2012 Performance  The euro has risen 0.6 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-market currencies. The dollar has weakened 2.4
percent, while the yen has fallen 10 percent, the worst two
performances. The New Zealand dollar’s 3.3 percent gain is the
best performance in 2012.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks fell 0.6 percent
following a 0.8 percent decline in The MSCI World Index of
shares yesterday.  “The yen has now become more linked up with equity
moves,” said RBS’s Gibbs. “I’m more inclined to be buying than
selling at these levels.”  The 82 level “looks like quite a good technical support
for dollar-yen,” he said. The yen last touched 82 per dollar on
March 23, when it climbed to as high as 81.98. A support level
is an area on a chart where orders to buy a security may be
clustered.  Demand for the yen was also supported amid speculation the
country’s companies will repatriate overseas earnings before the
end of the fiscal year on March 31.  “There is demand to buy the yen at the fiscal year-end and
that is capping gains in dollar-yen,” said Kazuo Shirai, a
trader at Union Bank NA in  Los Angeles . “I think the yen will
grind weaker if it stays around 82 per dollar level next
month.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net 
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  