-- Europe Seen Lifting Firewall in Bid for More Aid
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-03-28T10:20:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/europe-seen-lifting-firewall-in-bid-for-more-aid.html
European governments are likely to
boost the limit on rescue lending to between 700 billion euros
and 940 billion euros ($935 billion to $1.3 trillion) and expect
more support to come from major global powers, a European Union
official said.  Euro-area finance ministers will lift the aid ceiling from
500 billion euros at a meeting March 30 in Copenhagen and may
speed up payments into the planned permanent rescue fund, the
official told reporters in Brussels today on condition of
anonymity because no decisions have been made.  Leaders are confident that the extra capacity plus more
than 1 trillion euros pumped into the financial system by the
 European Central Bank  will persuade the rest of the world to
chip in more via the  International Monetary Fund , the official
said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of  Germany , the dominant country
in two years of crisis fighting, this week backed an increase in
the lending limit to address “fragility” in Portugal and
 Spain .  Merkel assented to letting the 200 billion euros spent or
committed by the temporary rescue fund be added on top of the
500 billion euros to be deployed by the permanent fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, due to be set up in July. That
would permit the ESM to operate at capacity.  At issue is how to handle the 240 billion euros left in the
temporary fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, the
EU official said. The official ruled out a “maximalist”
solution of piling all of it into the rescue pot.  Speeding Payments  Discussion of the lending cap will coincide with a possible
further speedup of the capitalization of the permanent fund.
Government leaders agreed March 1 to make the first two of five
planned annual payments this year.  The remaining payments may also be accelerated, possibly
with two in 2013 and the final installment in 2014, two years
earlier than first planned, the official said.  As a result,  Europe  would be capable of making a
theoretical three-year aid pledge of 500 billion euros on July 1
and having enough money to follow through, the official said.  The official also predicted a decision on March 30 to fill
a vacancy on the central bank’s board, in a faceoff between
Luxembourg Central Bank Governor Yves Mersch and Spain’s Antonio Sainz de Vicuna, head of the Frankfurt-based bank’s legal
department.  Luxembourg is laying claim to an Executive Board seat that
has been in Spain’s hands since the euro’s debut. The term of
the incumbent, Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo, ends on May 31.  Two other appointments aren’t ripe for decisions, the
official said. They are for a successor to Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  as chair of euro meetings and for
the top job at the permanent rescue fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  