-- Europeans See Crisis Near End, Bernanke Warns on Recovery
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-03-28T07:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/europeans-see-crisis-near-end-bernanke-warns-on-recovery.html
European leaders signaled rising
confidence that their region’s crisis is near an end, while
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned that a U.S.
recovery isn’t assured.  The euro area’s woes are “almost over” after a slow
initial response by policy makers, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said in Tokyo today. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
yesterday that the crisis is ebbing and her country’s borrowing
costs will probably rise as its status as a haven wanes.  Bernanke, who cited “green shoots” of recovery in the
U.S. in March 2009 only to see his nation’s jobless rate climb
to 10 percent seven months later, said in remarks published
yesterday “it’s far too early to declare victory.” The jobless
rate remains too high and policy makers don’t rule out further
options to boost growth, he said in a transcript of an interview
with ABC News anchor Diane Sawyer provided by the network.  Bernanke’s comments contrasted with a series of
declarations by Monti during a visit to  Japan , with the Italian
leader saying a solution to Greece’s challenges is almost
accomplished, Spain is employing discipline and Italian actions
have helped stop deterioration in  Europe ’s woes.  Monti predicted a continued rally in Italian bonds. The
country sold 3.82 billion euros ($5 billion) of zero-coupon and
inflation-linked securities yesterday as borrowing costs fell to
a four-month low.  ‘Muddle Through’  “Anyone who pretends to know if we are out of the woods
yet is clearly kidding themselves or misleading their
audience,” said Glenn Levine, a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics in Sydney. “Things have stabilized in Europe and it’s
in their interest to be optimistic but the muddle-through is
still on.”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said late yesterday
that while the European Central Bank’s long-year loans created a
“window of opportunity,” it remains to be seen whether euro-
area officials will use the time to tackle their problems.  “The difficulty is that windows of opportunity have been
created regularly for over two years, and nothing seems to have
gone through the window,” he said. “But hope springs
eternal. I don’t know whether they will take advantage of it or
not.”  Stocks Gain  Conclusions to Europe’s turmoil have been called
prematurely before. In March 2010, former European Commission
President  Romano Prodi  said the worst of Greece’s financial
crisis was over and other European nations wouldn’t follow in
its path. Since then, Portugal and Ireland needed bailouts.  “The euro zone has gone through a huge crisis,” Monti
said in a speech today. “I believe that this crisis is now
almost over.”  Stocks have risen on optimism the global recovery will be
sustained, with the U.S. jobless rate dropping, the ECB stepping
up liquidity support and euro-region leaders sealing a second
Greek bailout package. The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 12
percent from the start of the year through yesterday, and is
headed for the biggest quarterly gain since the three months
through September 2009.  Equities surrendered some of the advance today, with the
measure dropping 0.4 percent, undermined by the emergence of
 China ’s slowdown as a new element for the global economy to
contend with.  Chinese Outlook  Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao has pledged to maintain curbs on
his nation’s property market, and set the lowest growth target
since 2004 for this year in a speech this month.  Chinese corporate profits won’t grow at all this year,
according to Societe Generale SA. The latest industrial profit
figures suggest 2012 consensus earnings estimates for Hong Kong-
listed Chinese companies are “far too optimistic,” Societe
Generale strategists Guy Stear and Anthony Lee wrote in a note
to clients dated yesterday.  In the U.S., while the best six months of job gains since
2006 have boosted consumer confidence toward a one-year high,
Fed officials have said more monetary accommodation may still be
needed to fuel the economic expansion.  “Bernanke is right to be more cautious,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc.
in  Tokyo . “Most of the investors think the situation will not
deteriorate but we are still far from saying the crisis is
over.”  Rescue Fund  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday
that he sees no scenario under which the current euro-area
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, will
have to issue new bailouts in the next three months. Schaeuble
and Merkel spoke to lawmakers from their Christian Democratic
Union, according to officials who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the briefing was private.  “The world economy is recovering and though there
obviously are risks, on balance we’re through the worst in
Europe,” said  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING Financial
Markets in Singapore. Bernanke may be more cautious because
“the Fed has a dual mandate of inflation and unemployment and
while they’re doing OK on the inflation metric, they’re failing
dismally on the other,” he said.  The U.S. jobless rate is at 8.3 percent and Bernanke said
in the interview that “it could still be a few more years”
before unemployment returns to normal levels, and “until we get
faster growth than we’ve been seeing, it is probably gonna take
a while still.”  The Federal Open Market Committee in a March 13 meeting
decided to leave policy unchanged and keep the main  interest
rate  close to zero at least through late 2014.  Debate on Easing  Policy makers including Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren 
and Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  have argued for more
monetary accommodation if unemployment remains high. In
contrast,  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed, and
Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  said last week that the improving  U.S.
economy  is reducing the need for additional easing.  Bullard said today in Beijing that while the chance of a
major financial meltdown in Europe is going down, risks haven’t
completely disappeared. The U.S. economy is looking better this
year than last year, and inflation is moderating while remaining
a little above target, Bullard said to reporters.  Euro-area finance ministers are weighing options on the
EFSF, which manages rescue programs for Ireland, Portugal and
Greece, and its successor, the European Stability Mechanism.
They may decide to increase the fund to a total capacity of 692
billion euros from a current limit of 500 billion euros when
they meet March 30, a euro-area official said.  Bank of Japan (8301)  board member Ryuzo Miyao warned today that
Europe’s fiscal woes aren’t over and continue to warrant close
attention.  “Europe’s debt problems haven’t been resolved,” Miyao
said at a speech in Chiba, outside of Tokyo. “We need to
continue to pay close attention to the risk that economic
stagnation will become chronic and prolonged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  