-- European Stocks Fall for Second Day; Banca Popolare Drops
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-03-28T16:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/european-stock-futures-fall-as-bernanke-warns-on-recovery.html
European (SXXP)  stocks declined for a
second day as  European (SXXP)  Central Bank Governing Council member
Jens Weidmann said boosting the euro area’s rescue funds will
not solve its debt crisis.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl  lost 5.4 percent as the
lender said it swung to a loss in 2011.  JKX Oil & Gas Plc (JKX) 
plunged 14 percent after saying it will not pay an interim
dividend this year.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  declined 1.1 percent to 264.10
at the close. The gauge has still climbed 8 percent this
quarter. The number of shares changing hands on the Euro Stoxx
50 Index was 9.1 percent less than the average over 30 days,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Just like the ‘Tower of Babel,’ the ‘Wall of Money’ will
never reach heaven,” Weidmann said in a speech at  Chatham House 
in London today. “If we continue to make it higher and higher,
we will, in fact, run into more worldly constraints,” which
might include setting “incentives that lead to new problems in
the future.”  Euro-area finance ministers are likely to bolster  Europe ’s
crisis funds to between 700 billion euros ($934 billion) and 9
billion euros at a meeting in Copenhagen on March 30. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  this week gave her first indication
that she is prepared to allow an increase in the firewall as
Portugal and  Spain  show “fragility.”  Merkel said yesterday that the crisis is ebbing and her
country’s borrowing costs will probably rise as its status as a
haven wanes.  Italy’s Prime Minister,  Mario Monti , said in  Tokyo  today
the euro area’s woes are “almost over” after a slow initial
response by policy makers. The risk of debt contagion from Spain
has decreased after measures taken to boost a firewall, he said.  French Economy  France ’s economy expanded less than expected in the fourth
quarter. Gross domestic product grew 1.3 percent in the three
months from a year earlier, instead of the 1.4 percent
previously estimated, the national statistics office Insee said
today.  The U.K.’s economy  shrank  more than previously forecast in
the fourth quarter as output at services companies declined. GDP
fell 0.3 percent from the third quarter, compared with a
previous estimate of 0.2 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London .  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
in remarks published yesterday that “it’s far too early to
declare victory” on the economy. The jobless rate remains too
high, he said in a transcript of an interview with ABC News
anchor Diane Sawyer provided by the network.  Orders for durable goods  in the world’s biggest economy
rose less than estimated in February, figures from the Commerce
Department showed today.  Bookings for goods meant to last at
least three years increased 2.2 percent after dropping 3.7
percent a month earlier. Economists had forecast an gain of 3
percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Banca Popolare di Milano fell 5.4 percent to 44.53 euro
cents as the lender posted a net loss of 614 million euros for
2011, compared with a profit a year earlier, after a goodwill
writedown of 336 million euros in the fourth quarter.  JKX Oil & Gas plunged 14 percent to 157.75 pence after the
company said it will not  pay an interim dividend for 2011 and
that financial resources over the next six months “will be
stretched.”  Evraz Declines  Evraz Plc slid 5.5 percent to 359.80 pence. Russia’s
largest steelmaker by output said net income dropped to $461
million last year from $486 million in 2010. That missed
analysts’ estimate of $910 million.  ICAP Plc (IAP)  dropped 3.5 percent to 394.60 pence after the
biggest broker of transactions between banks said it expects
full-year performance to be in line with analyst estimates.  Neopost SA (NEO)  slipped 3 percent to 48.93 euros after Oddo &
Cie. said the company will find it difficult to improve margins
in 2012.  Nokia Oyj rose 3.5 percent to 4.14 euros after Swedbank AB
upgraded the stock to buy from neutral, saying the mobile phone
maker will ship “decent” volumes this year.  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  jumped 3.2 percent to 3.98 euros after
Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi said today he sees no more
exceptional losses in the future. The company said  after the
market closed yesterday that it sees  2012 earnings before
interest, tax and amortization of about 1.1 billion euros,
higher than analysts’ estimate of 935 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  