-- Ex-Democratic Campaign Treasurer Durkee Charged With Fraud
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-03-29T00:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/ex-democratic-campaign-treasurer-durkee-charged-with-fraud-1-.html
Kinde Durkee, a former Democratic
campaign treasurer in  California , was charged with mail fraud
for misappropriating as much as $7 million from candidates
including U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein.  Durkee ran Durkee & Associates, which provided accounting
and reporting services to candidates’ campaign committees. For
more than 10 years starting in 2000, she moved client money into
other accounts without authorization and used it to pay her
mortgage and American Express bills, U.S. prosecutors said in a
filing today in federal court in Sacramento, California.  Durkee submitted false information to federal and state
campaign-finance regulators as part of the scheme, which had at
least 50 victims, prosecutors said. Many of Durkee’s clients
thought their campaign accounts had more money than they
actually did because of the transfers, according to the filing.
Over the years, Durkee had signature authority on about 700 bank
accounts, including those for political campaigns.  Durkee will be arraigned and enter a plea in federal court
in  Sacramento  March 30, according to a court filing today.  In 2010, Durkee deposited $156,000 in checks from
Feinstein’s campaign committee account into her company’s
account to cover mortgage payments on her home in  Long Beach ,
California, phone bills, American Express bills and other
expenses, prosecutors said.  Daniel Nixon, an attorney for Durkee, didn’t respond to a
voice-mail message today seeking comment on the filing. The
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation arrested Durkee in September,
when she was first charged with taking money from the campaign
account of a contender for the state Assembly.  The case is U.S. v. Durkee, 12-123, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  