-- Ex-President George H.W. Bush to Back Romney, Campaign Says
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-28T18:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/ex-president-george-h-w-bush-to-endorse-romney-campaign-says.html
Mitt Romney , the front-runner in
the Republican presidential contest, will receive the backing of
former President  George H.W. Bush  tomorrow, Romney’s campaign
announced today.  Bush’s endorsement is part of an accelerating effort by
Romney and his allies to have top Republicans unite behind him
as part of persuading his rivals for the nomination to end their
candidacies.  A series of elected officials, business leaders and party
activists have endorsed Romney in the past week, including one
of Bush’s sons, former Florida Governor Jeb Bush. Former first
lady Barbara Bush has also formally backed Romney and recorded
calls for voters voicing her support played before March 6
primaries in Ohio and Vermont.  Another of the elder Bush’s sons, former President  George W. Bush , has yet to endorse in the Republican race.  The elder Bush, 87, has made public comments praising
Romney while withholding an actual endorsement. He will provide
it tomorrow afternoon at his office in Houston, according to
Romney’s campaign.  Wisconsin Focus  Former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , Romney’s main
challenger, has rebuffed the calls to end his campaign and was
in  Wisconsin  today seeking support in the state’s April 3
primary.  Santorum is seeking a strong showing in Wisconsin as Romney
is heavily favored to win the day’s other two primaries, in
Maryland and Washington, D.C. Santorum isn’t on the Washington
ballot. The next round of ballots will be cast April 24 in  Rhode
Island ,  Connecticut ,  New York  and Delaware -- states where
Romney is favored -- and in Pennsylvania, which Santorum
represented in the House and Senate.  A  poll  released today shows a close race in Pennsylvania,
where a Santorum loss would increase the pressure on him to
withdraw. In the survey by Franklin and Marshall College in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Santorum barely leads Romney among
registered Republicans in the state, 30 percent to 28 percent.
Representative Ron Paul of Texas had 9 percent and former U.S.
House Newt Gingrich 6 percent.  In a comparable poll in February, Santorum was ahead of
Romney by 29 percentage points. The latest poll was conducted
March 20-25 and has an error margin of plus-or-minus 4.2 points.  Paul and Gingrich each said this week they intend to remain
in the race. Gingrich is cutting campaign staff and scaling back
his schedule amid a shortage of funds for his candidacy.  “We’re staying in, that’s exactly why we’re downsizing”
Gingrich said today on WTOP, a  Washington  radio station. “We’re
doing the appropriate things to be able to campaign.”  With 1,144 convention delegates needed for the nomination,
Romney leads with 568, according to an Associated Press tally.
Santorum has 273, Gingrich 135 and Paul 50.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  