-- MF Global Treasurer Declines to Answer Questions From Panel
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-03-28T22:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/mf-global-treasurer-declines-to-answer-questions-for-house-panel.html
Edith O’Brien, the  MF Global
Holdings Ltd. (MF)  assistant treasurer who has become a key figure in
the disappearance of as much as $1.6 billion in customer funds,
declined to answer questions from U.S. lawmakers.  O’Brien, who appeared today under subpoena before a House
Financial Services subcommittee, invoked her constitutional
right against self-incrimination during a hearing on the New
York firm’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy, the eighth largest in U.S.
history.  After saying twice that she would not answer a question on
the advice of counsel, O’Brien told lawmakers she would not
answer any questions during today’s hearing.  “We’re extremely disappointed that you’ve chosen to do
that,” Representative  Randy Neugebauer , the chairman of the
Financial Services oversight and investigations panel, said
before he dismissed her.  Although O’Brien was not present for the question-and-
answer period, her role in the transfers was a topic lawmakers -
- and the other MF Global executives present --returned to
multiple times.  O’Brien was pulled from back-office obscurity onto center
stage last year when former MF Global chief executive Jon S. Corzine identified her several times as an employee with
knowledge of transfers that may have included customer funds.  ‘Direct Instructions’  Attention on O’Brien heightened after the March 23 release
of a  memo  drafted by congressional staff. The memo cites an e-
mail from O’Brien noting that a transfer made in the days before
the firm’s bankruptcy was done “Per JC’s [ Jon Corzine ’s] direct
instructions.”  Christine Serwinski, chief financial officer of the firm’s
North American broker-dealer, said O’Brien and another employee
had the authority to transfer funds from a customer segregated
account. She also said that Corzine’s personal involvement in
the transfer would have been “unusual.”  Vinay Mahajan, the firm’s global treasurer who was not in
attendance, was identified by Serwinski as a second executive
who had the authority to sign off on transfers. Mahajan also was
identified in the House memo as informing colleagues in an Oct.
28 e-mail that an overdrawn account in  London  had to be “fully
funded ASAP.”  “Mr. Mahajan worked for only 10 weeks at MF Global and
we’re confident that he at all times acted appropriately,”
Gregory John O’Connell, Mahajan’s attorney, said today in an
statement.  Two-Stage Transfer  Another MF Global executive, General Counsel Laurie Ferber,
testified that she sought O’Brien’s assurance of the propriety
of the two-stage transfer -- a $200 million transfer from a
segregated account at the firm’s brokerage to a “house”
account, followed by the move of $175 million from the house
account to a London subsidiary’s account at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   JPMorgan, by mid-afternoon of Oct. 28, contacted Corzine to
request confirmation in writing that the transferred money was
made up only of the firm’s funds, Diane Genova, a deputy general
counsel for the bank, said in her prepared remarks.  “Mr. Corzine said he understood the request and would have
someone in his organization review it,” Genova said. The bank
then “e-mailed a proposed draft letter to Mr. Corzine.”  Corzine, 64, told lawmakers last year the firm’s back-
office staff had “explicitly” informed him that the $175
million transfer made before the bankruptcy filing was legal.  ‘Never Intended’  “I never gave any instruction to misuse customer funds, I
never intended anyone at MF Global to misuse customer funds and
I don’t believe that anything I said could reasonably have been
interpreted as an instruction to misuse customer funds,”
Corzine told lawmakers in December.  Ferber said she spoke with O’Brien about the transfers and
was was provided with copies of the transaction accounts.  “My very clear understanding was that if the compliance
certificate was limited to those two transactions she would sign
it,” Ferber said of O’Brien.  The letter was never returned to JPMorgan, according to
Genova. Serwinski, asked if she would have approved the transfer
if she knew all of the information about the funds involved,
said she would not have made the transaction.  Justice Department Investigates  Serwinski, Ferber and Henri Steenkamp, the firm’s chief
financial officer, told lawmakers they were all in contact with
the  Department of Justice , which is investigating the
bankruptcy. Serwinski said she had met with the the department
twice, Steenkamp said he was in contact with federal authorities
through his lawyers and Ferber said she is meeting with
authorities next month.  Lawmakers from both parties expressed frustration with the
way the three executives responded to their questions, reminding
them that MF Global’s clients included farmers and ranchers
around the country who have lost money. Representative Steve
Pearce, a New Mexico Republican, compared them to legendary
thieves “Bonnie and Clyde.”  “Looks like there’s been a great effort to maintain
plausible deniability,” said Representative Nan Hayworth, a New
York Republican.  Representative Michael Capuano of  Massachusetts , the top
Democrat on the panel, told the executives that criticism from
lawmakers is the least of their problems.  “Here’s your concern: The people sitting next to you,”
Capuano said. “Because somebody is going to say something to
the appropriate investigators to say this is the person who had
final responsibility. And when that happens, there’s going to be
problems for those individuals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  