-- Facebook Said to Halt Secondary-Market Trading This Week
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-28T20:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/facebook-said-to-halt-secondary-market-share-trading-this-week.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is halting the
trading of its shares on secondary markets by the beginning of
April as it prepares for an initial public offering, two people
with knowledge of the matter said.  Representatives of Facebook instructed firms that help
investors buy and sell stock in closely held companies to cease
trading of its equity this week, said the people, who asked to
not be identified because the conversations were private.
Facebook aims to hold its IPO in early May, one person said.  Facebook, which filed in February to raise $5 billion in
the largest-ever Internet public-market debut, is actively
traded on secondary markets, including SharesPost Inc. and
SecondMarket Inc. The halt gives the company time to account for
its shareholding base and would end price fluctuations as
Facebook confers with bankers and investors to determine its IPO
valuation, said  Lise Buyer , principal at Class V Group.  “It wouldn’t surprise me if they wanted to let the market
settle down before they head out on a roadshow” to meet with
would-be investors, said Buyer, who helped advise Google Inc. on
its 2004 IPO. Her firm is based in Portola Valley,  California .  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , declined to comment.  SharesPost moved the date of a Facebook-share auction to
March 30, the online marketplace said in an e-mail to its users
yesterday. Previously, the auction had been set for April 2.  Facebook’s Request  “At Facebook’s request, SharesPost will cease facilitating
transactions in Facebook stock as of Friday end of day to help
ensure the company’s orderly transition into the public
markets,” the company said in note to clients today.  While the trading of startup shares lets early employees
and investors make money from holdings, it has come under
regulatory scrutiny because the transactions can lure investors
who may not understand the company and the risks involved.  Earlier this month, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission settled with SharesPost to resolve claims that the
online marketplace acted as an unregistered broker of shares,
its first action in a broad probe of trades involving nonpublic
startups.  Facebook’s implied value dropped 5 percent to about $93
billion in a late-February auction of a fund that holds shares
of the social-networking company’s stock. The sale set a price
of $40 apiece for 125,000 units of the fund, according to San
Bruno, California-based SharesPost, which managed the auction. A
Feb. 14 fund auction valued Facebook at about $98 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  