-- Feldstein Says Tax Break Cap Can Help Reduce Deficits: Tom Keene
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-28T18:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/feldstein-says-tax-break-cap-can-help-reduce-deficits-tom-keene.html
The U.S. must overhaul tax breaks
and entitlement programs to help reduce the federal  budget
deficit  while safeguarding the economic recovery, according to
Harvard University Professor  Martin Feldstein .  Capping “all of the expenditure programs that are built
into the tax code” can lower total taxation without increasing
the deficit, Feldstein, a former head of the National Bureau of
Economic Research, said today in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Tom Keene  on “ Surveillance Midday .”  “There are so many forms of  government spending  which, if
they showed up as actual outlays in the government accounts,
there would be widespread agreement we don’t need these, we can
cut them back,” Feldstein said. “But they’re built into the
tax law, and therefore to put a limit on them you have to raise
some revenue. And folks who are allergic to raising revenue have
not yet come to recognize that those are spending by another
name.”  Lawmakers should overhaul Social Security by allowing a mix
of government and personal retirement accounts, Feldstein said.  “What we need to do to balance the Social Security is to
gradually do a transition to a mixed system in which we have the
pay-as-you-go system financed by the current  tax rate  plus
universal personal retirement accounts so that retirees in the
future will get a combination,” he said.  Feldstein led the NBER, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
group that officially dates economic recessions and expansions,
for nearly three decades except during a stint as chief economic
adviser to President Ronald Reagan from 1982 through 1984,
according to NBER’s  website . President  Barack Obama  appointed
Feldstein in 2009 to be a member of the administration’s
Economic Recovery Advisory Board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  