-- FIFA May Start Whistle-Blower Line to Report Corrupt Officials
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-28T17:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/fifa-may-start-whistle-blower-line-to-report-corrupt-officials.html
Soccer’s world governing body may
start a whistle-blower hotline where corruption allegations can
be made against serving FIFA officials, according to the sport
body’s outgoing head of security.  Chris Eaton , who is leaving in May to join the
International Centre for Sport Security in  Qatar , said his plan
to start a similar telephone service for players and officials
to report match-fixing was suspended by FIFA president Sepp Blatter because the organization is undergoing changes following
corruption scandals.  “President Blatter suspended the program on match-fixing
to allow the independent committee to determine whether this
should be applied to the totality of the sport,” Eaton said at
the Soccerex conference in Manchester  A 13-person panel led by Swiss law professor Mark Pieth
will meet with FIFA’s board in two days to propose how it can
change the way it does business after criticism from sponsors,
politicians and fans following the 2010 selection of  World Cup 
hosts and Blatter’s re-election to a fourth term six months
later.  Sponsors including Dubai-based Emirates Airline, Coca-Cola
Co. and VISA Inc. expressed unease at corruption allegations
involving the soccer body, which makes more than $4 billion from
its four-yearly World Cup.  Russia and Qatar won the rights for the tournaments in 2018
and 2022 after a campaign in which two voters were suspended
after offering to sell their support to undercover reporters.
Since then almost half of the executive board have either been
accused or sanctioned for impropriety.  Eaton said any organization that generates as much cash as
FIFA would benefit from adopting strong anti-corruption
measures. Eaton said some of the scandals FIFA has faced would
have been prevented if measures like a hotline had been adopted.  The failure to start the anti-match fixing program was
“frustrating,” he said, adding he understood Blatter’s
decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich via the London newsroom at
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 