-- Forecasters Cite Uncertainty in Trying to Predict U.S. Weather
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-28T12:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/forecasters-cite-uncertainty-in-trying-to-predict-u-s-weather.html
Computer weather models are
inconsistent in predicting how long warmth will linger in the
U.S. Midwest and cold will remain in the northeastern region,
forecasters said.  The central U.S. may be 3 to 5 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to
2.8 Celsius) above normal from April 2 to April 6, according to
the 6- to 10-day forecast from  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland .  Parts of the upper Great Plains may be as much as 8 degrees
above normal while the Northeast remains seasonably cool.  “The various weather models fail to maintain
consistency,” Rogers said. “This damages model credibility and
increases the odds for forecast changeability in the coming
days.”  Commodities traders watch temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and demand. About 51 percent of U.S. households use
natural gas for heating, according to the Energy Department.  The pattern driving the weather next week is “highly
variable,” according to  MDA EarthSat Weather ’s 6- to 10-day
forecast for the same time period. That may mean a chill in the
Northeast.  “The South could stay warmer through the period,” said
MDA, based in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  In his 6- to 10-day forecast, Weather Derivatives owner
 David Salmon  predicts the South will be 6 degrees above normal,
while most of the Midwest and Northeast won’t be as warm.  The coolest weather will be in the western U.S., according
to Salmon, in Belton, Missouri.  In  New York , the normal average temperature for April 3 is
48, according to MDA. It’s 44 in  Boston , 45 in Chicago, 53 in
 St. Louis , 59 in Atlanta, 62 in Dallas, 67 in Houston, 49 in
Seattle and 60 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  