-- Four Numbers Add Up to an American Debt Disaster
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-03-28T23:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/four-numbers-add-up-to-an-american-debt-disaster.html
Consider the following numbers:
2.2, 62.8, 454, 5.9. Drawing a blank? Not to worry. They don’t
mean much on their own.  Now consider them in context:  1) 2.2 percent is the  average interest rate  on the  U.S.
Treasury ’s marketable and non-marketable debt (February data).  2) 62.8 months is the  average maturity  of the Treasury’s
marketable debt (fourth quarter 2011).  3) $454 billion is the  interest expense  on publicly held
debt in fiscal 2011, which ended Sept. 30.  4) $5.9 trillion is the amount of debt coming due in the
next five years.  For the moment, Nos. 1 and 2 are helping No. 3 and creating
a big problem for No. 4. Unless Treasury does something about
No. 2, Nos. 1 and 3 will become liabilities while No. 4 has the
potential to provoke a crisis.  In plain English, the Treasury’s reliance on short-term
financing serves a dual purpose, neither of which is beneficial
in the long run. First, it helps conceal the depth of the
nation’s structural imbalances: the difference between what it
spends and what it collects in taxes. Second, it puts the U.S.
in the precarious position of having to roll over 71 percent of
its privately held marketable debt in the next five years --
probably at higher interest rates.  First Among Equals  And that’s a problem. The U.S. is more dependent on short-
term funding than many of  Europe ’s highly indebted  countries ,
including  Greece , Spain and  Portugal , according to Lawrence Goodman, president of the  Center for Financial Stability , a non-
partisan New York think tank focusing on financial markets.  The U.S. may have had a lot more debt in relation to the
size of its economy following World War II, but the structure
was much more favorable, with 41 percent maturing in less than
five years, 31 percent in five-to-10 years and 21 percent in 10
years or more, according to CFS data. Today, only 10 percent of
the public debt matures outside of a decade.  Based on the current structure, a one percentage-point
increase in the average interest rate will add $88 billion to
the Treasury’s interest payments this year alone, Goodman says.
If market  interest rates  were to return to more normal levels,
well, you do the math.  Some economists have cited the Treasury’s ability to borrow
all it wants at 2 percent as an argument for more fiscal
stimulus. Why not, as long as it’s cheap?  Goodman says the size of the  deficit  (8.2 percent of gross
domestic product) or the  debt  (67.7 percent of GDP) is only part
of the problem. The bigger threat is rollover risk: “the same
thing that got countries from Portugal to  Argentina  to Greece
into trouble,” he says. “It’s the repayment of principal that
often provides the catalyst for a market event or a crisis.”  The U.S. is unlikely to go from all-you-want-at-2-percent
to basket-case overnight. That said, policy makers would be wise
to view recent market volatility as a taste of things to come.  Talking to Goodman, I was reminded of the Treasury’s
standard sales pitch before quarterly refunding operations
during periods of rising yields. Some undersecretary for
domestic finance would be dispatched to tell us that Treasury
expected to have no trouble selling its debt.  I had an equally standard response: At what price?  That seems particularly relevant today. The  Federal Reserve 
purchased 61 percent of the net Treasury issuance last year,
according to the bank’s quarterly flow-of-funds report. That’s
masking the  decline in demand  from everyone else, including
banks, mutual funds, corporations and individuals, Goodman says.  Of course, Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  might look at the same
numbers and see them as a sign of success. His stated goal in
buying bonds is to lower Treasury yields and push investors into
riskier assets.  Free to Borrow  Then there’s the distortion in the  relative value  of stocks
versus bonds to worry about. Using the 10-year cyclically
adjusted price-earnings ratio and the inverse of the 10-year
Treasury yield, Goodman says the relationship hasn’t been this
out of whack since 1962.  The Treasury isn’t unaware of the rollover risk. At the
same time, it’s trying to accommodate the increased demand for
“high-quality liquid assets,” such as Treasury bills, as
required under new international  capital-and-liquidity
standards , says  Lou Crandall , the chief economist at Wrightson
ICAP in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  In fact, when Treasury bills carry a negative yield -- when
investors are paying the government to hold their money for
three, six or 12 months -- borrowing “more is better,”
Crandall says.  Still, the dangers are very real and were highlighted by
Bernanke himself last week in the second of four  lectures  to
students at George Washington University. Explaining why the
decline in  house prices  had a greater impact than the drop in
equity prices less than a decade earlier, Bernanke talked about
“vulnerabilities” in the financial system. Too much debt was
one; a reliance on short-term funding was another.  I doubt he had the Treasury in mind when he was explaining
how the subprime debacle morphed into a global financial crisis,
but the U.S. government would be wise to heed his advice.
Currently its demand on the credit markets for annual interest
and principal payments is equivalent to 25 percent of GDP,
Goodman says, 10 percentage points higher than the norm. That’s
real money. And with the federal  budget deficit  projected to top
$1 trillion for the fourth year running, the funding pressure is
bound to increase.  So the next time you hear someone say the Treasury can
borrow all it wants at 2 percent, tell him, that’s true -- until
it can’t.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  The editors on  Medicare's payment board .  Ezra Klein  on mandates,
taxes and saving  Obamacare . Amity Shlaes on  Barack Obama and FDR .
Robert H. Gertner on the  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. 
Oleg Kashin on  Russia's protest problem .  Steven Greenhut  on
Californians for  higher taxes .    To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  