-- Geithner Says Fannie, Freddie Should Cut Some Principal
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-03-28T20:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/geithner-says-fannie-freddie-should-cut-principal-in-some-cases.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  told a U.S. Senate panel that he believes Fannie Mae
and  Freddie Mac  should reduce principal on some home mortgages.  “We’ve been encouraging Fannie and Freddie to take another
look at the map, at the economics of the finance because we
think there is a strong case in some circumstances to add
principal reduction as part of their strategies to help maximize
return of the taxpayer,” Geithner testified today to a
subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee.  At the end of last year 12.1 percent of mortgages were
delinquent or in foreclosure, compared with 12.4 percent a year
earlier, according to the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance companies
under government conservatorship since 2008, haven’t granted
principal reductions because it would cost the taxpayer-funded
companies almost $100 billion, Edward DeMarco, the acting
director of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency , said in a Jan.
20 letter to Congress. The agency oversees  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac.  “What Mr. DeMarco has said is that they are taking another
look at their numbers, looking at our economic case. We are in
the process of working through that with him and I hope he is
going to be in a position to indicate what he plans to do in the
next several weeks,” Geithner said. “This is an important part
of a credible national strategy that they have been reluctant to
move even though they have done a lot of things that are very
very helpful.”  FHFA Study  The FHFA will release a study next month about whether it
makes sense to allow forgiveness on underwater loans guaranteed
by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, according to DeMarco.  “We are offering a rich array of tools to help borrowers
with their mortgage payments,” DeMarco said today on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart” program with  Trish Regan .  Three out of four borrowers with GSE loans who owe more
than their homes are worth are current on their mortgages,
DeMarco said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  