-- Geithner in Hearing Says U.S. Economy Is Regaining Strength
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-03-28T16:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/geithner-says-u-s-economy-is-regaining-strength-1-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today that the nation’s economy is “regaining
strength” and that the recovery “will depend in part on events
beyond our shores.”  “While the economy is regaining strength, we still face
significant economic challenges,” Geithner said today in the
prepared text of remarks to a House Appropriations subcommittee.
“Unemployment is still far too high, the housing market remains
weak, and the overall effects of the financial crisis remain an
obstacle to growth.”  Geithner said the U.S. recovery depends in part on events
in  Europe . He also urged lawmakers to support the Obama
administration’s budget request for Treasury and initiatives on
housing, student loans and taxes.  “There’s lots that separate us,” Geithner said to
lawmakers, including “how fast we cut deficits, where we cut
spending, where we make sure we’re investing in more things that
matter for future growth, how we protect the safety net, how to
make Medicare, Medicaid more sustainable, how do we define tax
reform in a way that’s fair.” He called those differences
“fundamental,” yet not “unbridgeable.”  Geithner also said Treasury would soon present a plan to
reform  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The government-sponsored
enterprises have been under conservatorship since 2008. Treasury
has already provided three options for reform.  Distressed Homeowners  “We are hoping to be in a position relatively soon to
engage with Congress more substantively to narrow those range of
choices,” Geithner said.  Geithner highlighted the administration’s programs to
modify mortgages and assist distressed homeowners. He urged
Congress to go further.  “As the president has made clear, more can be done to
help, and we urge Congress to consider the president’s plan to
help homeowners refinance their mortgages to take advantage of
lower rates,” Geithner said.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed a plan to help
“responsible” borrowers secure low-interest loans insured by
the  Federal Housing Administration  even if they owe more than
their house is worth.  Geithner also said the U.S. won’t hit its debt limit again
until late in the year and warned against Congress repeating the
threat of default.  “We cannot put the country through what we put the country
through last July and August with the threat of default for the
first time in our nation’s history hanging over the  United
States  for a long period of time,” Geithner said. “That did
more damage to  consumer confidence , business confidence, than
almost what was caused by the crisis.”  Geithner said he remains concerned about  China  allowing its
currency to appreciate. He said they have “some ways to go”
and he’d like to see them go further.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  