-- Gender Gap Tops $1 Million for CEO Pay at Lobbying Groups
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-03-28T15:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/gender-gap-tops-1-million-for-ceo-pay-at-lobbying-groups-1-.html
The heads of trade groups draw on a
common set of skills to succeed. Among them: a deep knowledge of
 Washington ’s lawmaking process, access to the capital’s power
players and the ability to charm and cajole in equal measures.  Though if you’re a woman holding such a job, don’t expect
to be paid the same as a man.  The average annual compensation of the women who lead four
of the capital’s most politically active industry groups lags
behind that of male peers by more than $1 million, according to
data in tax filings compiled by Bloomberg. The female CEOs took
home an average $1.43 million in 2010, compared with $2.48
million paid to the other 26 executives -- 57 cents for every
dollar earned by a man.  “The skills needed to run trade organizations are
basically the same,” says  Paul Hodgson , senior research
associate at  GMI Ratings , a New York-based governance consulting
firm. “There should be no differential between male and female
CEO pay. There isn’t an explanation for it, except sexism.”  Washington’s women suffer a greater gender gap than that of
their corporate counterparts. GMI’s most recent Female CEO Pay
Survey examined salary data from 2,704 publicly traded
corporations and found that on average, female CEOs earned 80
percent of what male CEOs made in annual earnings. In the
general population, women earned about 72 cents to every dollar
earned by men in 2010, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Lobbying Activity  The top 30 trade associations were ranked on their lobby
spending during the Obama administration. Those groups, led by
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, have spent $1.67 billion in
Washington since 2009. The survey captured groups that spent
more than $17.5 million influencing policy over that period.  The four women in the group of 30 --  Karen Ignagni  at
America’s Health Insurance Plans, Susan Neely at the American
Beverage Association, Denise Bode at the  American Wind Energy
Association  and Pamela Bailey at the Grocery Manufacturers
Association -- earned an average of $729,495 in base salary,
compared with the $1.07 million earned by men on the list.  For all 30 executives, average salary, including incentives
and deferred compensation, totaled $2.34 million in the most
recent filings, a 16 percent increase from the prior year.  “I am shocked that the gap is that large,” said Barbara Kasoff, president of Women Impacting Public Policy Inc., a
nonprofit organization promoting female-owned businesses. “If
we can’t resolve this bias, how are women ever going to have a
seat at the economic table?”  Glass Ceiling  The small number of women in the survey and the level of
their average pay shows that “there’s discrimination that is
real and has not disappeared,” said John A. Challenger, chief
executive officer of Chicago-based employment consultant company
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. “There is still a glass
ceiling that makes it difficult to change the number of women
who reach the top job in any meaningful way.”  Billy Tauzin, 68, a former Republican congressman from
 Louisiana , led all trade group heads with his $11.6 million
compensation in his last year at the  Pharmaceutical Research and
Manufacturers of America . Ranked just behind him were  Jack Gerard , 54, who earned $6.4 million at the  American Petroleum
Institute  and the Chamber’s  Thomas Donohue , 73, who took home
$4.75 million.  All four female trade CEOs have been prominent lobbyists
during the Obama era, though only Bailey received compensation
above the peer-group average for 2010.  Salary Psychology  “It’s still shocking every time you’re reminded of the
incredible lack of pay equity between men and women and this is
just one more indication that it transcends every sector,” said
Chellie Pingree, a Democratic representative from  Maine  and the
former CEO of Common Cause, a nonprofit organization that
lobbies for campaign finance reform.  “I think women at the top think, ‘Oh my goodness, I’m
making a million dollars, I have nothing to complain about,’ but
then they realize that the next guy’s getting two million,”
Pingree said. “I think that’s a psychology that happens with
women.”  Ignagni, 58, and Bode, 57, promoted their industries’
interests as the president designed his health-care law and
enacted a stimulus program that offered incentives for green
energy projects.  Soda Tax  Bailey’s Grocery Manufacturers Association and Neely’s
American Beverage Association both oppose a congressional
proposal for a 1-cent-per-ounce tax on sodas to fight youth
obesity. The levy is called “discriminatory” and
“regressive” and “nothing more than a money grab” on the
ABA’s “Sip and Savor” industry blog.  “They’ve put the kibosh on just about every effort” to
institute the fee, said George Hacker, a senior policy adviser
at the Washington-based Center for Science in the Public
Interest, a health advocacy organization that has lobbied in
favor of the tax. “They’ve been very effective.”  Ignagni was among those who repeatedly visited the White
House as President  Barack Obama  pushed Congress to overhaul
health care, White House records show. Ignagni, president of
America’s Health Insurance Plans, visited eight times, meeting
twice with Obama.  AHIP, whose members include Indianapolis-based WellPoint
Inc., successfully lobbied against efforts to include a public
insurance option to compete with the private companies that are
members of her trade association.  Trailing Donohue  Bailey, 63, led the female CEOs with a $2.8 million in
salary, incentives and deferred compensation in 2010. She was
followed by Ignagni who took in $1.49 million, Neely with
$837,443 and Bode, whose compensation totaled $579,395.  Bailey’s 2010 compensation rose 10 percent from the year
earlier, while Ignagni’s slumped 18 percent from 2009. In
contrast, Chamber chief Donohue saw a 27 percent leap in pay.  Ginny Smith, spokeswoman for the Grocery Manufacturers,
declined to comment on salary levels.  Robert Zirkelbach , a
spokesman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, also declined to
comment.  Bode, who ranked 30th in both base salary and total
compensation in the survey, declined to comment on her pay. She
said her wind energy group’s senior management team is equally
divided, with seven men and seven women.  “Women leading energy organizations of any type are in the
minority,” Bode said in an e-mailed statement. “But the wind
industry has done a good job of encouraging women to rise in the
ranks.”  Marketplace Review  Kevin Keane, the senior vice president for policy and
public affairs at the American Beverage Association, said its
board went through a “marketplace review” and Neely, 55, was
given a pay increase in 2011 in “seven figures,” he said. He
declined to specify her current compensation.  The salary analysis was limited to trade organizations
charged with representing the interests of industries, and
excluded single companies or pressure groups backed by
individual members, such as the  National Rifle Association  and
the AARP. Salary figures were taken from Form 990 filings that
nonprofit organizations are required to submit to the  Internal
Revenue Service  which list their highest paid employees.  Twenty-six of the top 30 trade groups have completed their
2010 regulatory filings with the IRS. For the remaining four --
the  American Bankers Association , the  Recording Industry
Association of America , the Managed Funds Association and the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association --
Bloomberg analyzed 2008 and 2009 filings.  Rising in the Ranks  The boards of trade associations will have to change their
behavior in order to attract the best talent, said  John Engler ,
the current head of the  Business Roundtable  who previously led
the  National Association of Manufacturers .  “I think you’re seeing a very impressive array of women
leaders that will continue to rise up,” said Engler, 63, a
former Republican governor of  Michigan . “You will not see
association CEOs remain a bastion of male CEOs.”  Kasoff of WIPP says her members aren’t willing to wait for
change.  ‘We can refuse to support companies or trade associations
that perpetuate this,” she said. “We’re going to build a
strategy and we’re going to attack this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net 
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net 
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  