-- Genworth Bets on Long-Term Care as Insurers Flee Market
-- B y   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-03-28T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/genworth-bets-on-long-term-care-as-insurers-flee-market.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the
biggest U.S. seller of long-term care coverage, is betting on a
rise in interest rates to boost profits as other insurers flee
the business.  Genworth, ranked by trade group Limra among the top five
long-term care insurance providers since at least 2007, stayed
focused on the market as the U.S. population ages and a hedging
strategy guards against declines in bond yields. Long-term care
was its biggest business last year, generating 29 percent, or $3
billion, of the Richmond, Virginia-based company’s $10.3 billion
in revenue.  “If we were in a high  interest-rate  environment, you
wouldn’t see any of them leaving the industry,” said Jesse
Slome, executive director of the  American Association  for Long-
Term Care Insurance. For every 0.5 percentage point drop in
investment return, he said insurers have to increase premiums by
about 15 percent to maintain net income projections.  Rivals retreated as low interest rates cut returns on funds
set aside to back policies.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer, said this month it will stop
selling individual long-term care policies amid “challenging
economics.”  Unum Group (UNM)  announced its exit from sales of the
product to groups in February after reporting a $425.4 million
fourth-quarter loss. No. 1 MetLife Inc. said in 2010 it would
stop sales of new long-term care coverage.  “We hedge that interest-rate risk,” Buck Stinson,
president of U.S. life insurance for Genworth, said in a phone
interview. “We’ll try to take that risk off the table.”  Rates Near Zero  The  Federal Open Market Committee  raised its assessment of
the economy on March 13, repeating that interest rates are
likely to stay low at least through late 2014. The central bank
in December 2008 lowered its target overnight interest rate to a
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Genworth fell less than 1 percent to $8.74 yesterday in New
York. It has risen 33 percent this year, the second-best
performance in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   Long-term care policies provide coverage to help pay for
home-health aides or residence in nursing homes or assisted-
living facilities. Genworth invests its premiums and relies on
portfolio returns to pay claims and book profits.  Genworth Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraizer said in
2009 that he was directing resources to  life insurance  and long-
term care after losses on retirement products and mortgage
guaranties. U.S. mortgage insurance has been unprofitable for
the company for four straight years through 2011.  Shut It Down  Mark Meiners , a professor of health administration and
policy at  George Mason University , said some insurers felt
“stuck” because they’re facing elevated risk on long-term care
and can’t get regulatory approval for higher rates.  “It’s easier to just shut it down when it’s a small part
of your business,” Meiners said in a phone interview from
Fairfax, Virginia.  MetLife CEO  Steven Kandarian  said this month that the
retreat from long-term care and the decision to scale back
offerings of variable annuities will help “strike the right
balance between growth, profitability and risk.”  MetLife (MET)  has
been focusing on expansion in  Latin America  and Asia after the
purchase in 2010 of American Life Insurance Co. for about
$16 billion.  The number of Americans age 65 and older may more than
double to 71 million by 2030, and about 70 percent will require
some form of long-term care, according to a 2010 industry
research report by Prudential. “We see the underlying consumer
need as being undeniable,” Genworth’s Stinson said.  The insurer said last month that it had received approvals
to charge policyholders more in 39 U.S. states as of Dec. 31.  “Genworth’s people are looking at this and saying, ‘Down
the line, this could be an exceedingly profitable business for
us,’” said Slome.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Ludtke in  New York  at 
 aludtke@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  