-- German Inflation Slowed in March as Oil Increased at Weaker Pace
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-03-28T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/german-inflation-slowed-in-march-as-oil-increased-at-weaker-pace.html
Inflation in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, slowed in March as energy prices increased at a
weaker pace than a year ago.  Inflation (GRCP2HYY) , calculated using a harmonized European Union
method, eased to 2.3 percent from 2.5 percent in February, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. That’s in
line with the median of 24 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey .
In the month, prices rose 0.4 percent.  The euro region’s economic slump and budget cuts from Spain
to Ireland have left companies with less room to pass on higher
costs even with tensions in the  Middle East  driving up crude oil
prices by 7.9 percent over the past two months. Still,  European
Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  said earlier this month that
short-term risks to price stability have moved to the upside.  “Inflation risks in Germany are higher than in the euro
area,” said Christian Melzer, an economist at Dekabank in
 Frankfurt . “Given the weak economic outlook and high
unemployment in the single-currency region, there’s no risk of
second-round effects. In Germany, that’s a little different.”  In Germany,  IG Metall , Europe’s biggest trade union
representing 3.6 million workers, is demanding a 6.5 percent
wage increase as the economy outperforms its euro-area partners
and unemployment holds at the lowest in more than two decades.  Energy Prices  The inflation rate eased in all six German states that
contributed data to today’s report as price increases for
products such as fuel or heating oil were weaker than in March
last year. In Saxony, energy prices rose 1.8 percent from
February and 6.7 percent from a year earlier, while in Baden-
Wuerttemberg fuel cost 4 percent more in the month and 7.2
percent more in the year. In Hesse, heating  oil prices  rose 0.3
percent from February and 7.9 percent from a year earlier.  In March 2011, the cost of energy rose 2.9 percent in the
month and 10.5 percent in the year at the national level, with
heating oil prices up 8.1 percent and 32.8 percent respectively.  German non-harmonized inflation slowed to 2.1 percent from
2.3 percent, with prices rising 0.3 percent from February, the
statistics office said.  “German inflation could fall below the European Central
Bank’s 2 percent limit as soon as April,” said Ulrike Rondorf,
an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. However, “economic
performance and wage demands are decisive factors that risk
fueling German inflation.”  ‘Clear Mandate’  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann suggested on March 13
the ECB could raise  interest rates  if inflation pressures
increased.  “We have a clear mandate and a clear hierarchy of our
goals, and the first is to maintain  price stability ,” he said
in an interview. “We’re determined to do so. You can be assured
we will react if inflation pressures arise.”  Euro-area inflation will slow to 2.5 percent in March from
2.7 percent in February, the median of 39 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey shows. Eurostat, the EU’s statistics
office, will publish that data on March 30.  The ECB predicts inflation will remain above 2 percent for
the rest of the year, even after at least six of the 17 euro
nations entered recessions. The region’s economy will contract
0.3 percent this year before returning to growth in 2013, the
European Commission projects.  The German economy will grow 0.6 percent this year, while
those of Italy and  Spain  are forecast to contract 1.3 percent
and 1 percent respectively, the Brussels-based commission said
on Feb. 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  