-- Romney Reaps Party Firepower as Gingrich Retrenches
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-29T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/gingrich-retrenches-as-republicans-rally-for-front-runner-romney.html
Mitt Romney  is drawing influential
Republican backers behind his presidential bid, as rival  Newt Gingrich  -- his long-shot campaign downsized and ambitions
curbed -- retrenches for a months-long fight to deny the front-
runner the party’s nomination.  U.S. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a 40-year-old Tea
Party favorite often mentioned as a vice-presidential prospect,
threw his support behind Romney, expressing certainty that the
former Massachusetts governor would be the nominee and saying
that he feared “disaster” if Gingrich or  Rick Santorum 
prolonged the primary race.  “We have got to come together behind who I think has
earned this nomination, and that’s Mitt Romney,” Rubio said in
an interview on  Fox News  yesterday.  Rubio’s endorsement came a day before Romney -- far ahead
of his rivals in delegates, campaign cash and votes amassed
during the primary season -- is to receive the official
endorsement of 87-year-old former President  George H.W. Bush .  It followed a vow from Gingrich yesterday to remain in the
race until Romney has enough delegates to clinch the nomination
-- even if it means forcing a contentious struggle at the
 Republican National Convention  in late August.  Speaking at  Georgetown University  in Washington, Gingrich
blamed his faltering presidential bid on a “cynical media”
that thinks big ideas are “silly.”  “I haven’t done a very good job as a candidate because it
is so difficult to communicate big solutions in this country,”
he said.  Unconventional Strategy  The former House Speaker’s spokesman said March 27 that
Gingrich had sacked his campaign manager, slashed his staff by
one-third and scaled back travel plans in a bid to conserve
resources while pursuing an unconventional strategy to obstruct
Romney’s path to the nomination.  “We’re staying in; that’s exactly why we’re downsizing,”
Gingrich said yesterday on WTOP, a  Washington  radio station.
“We’re doing the appropriate things to be able to campaign.”  He and Santorum have each given up on surpassing Romney in
delegates, instead seeking to prevent him from reaching the
1,144 delegates needed for the nomination. If successful, they
could force a battle at the party’s convention Aug. 27-30 in
Tampa, Florida -- a scenario some Republicans fear could hurt
their chances in the general election barely more than two
months later.  ‘Recipe for Disaster’  “There is no way that anyone can convince me that having a
floor fight at the convention in Tampa in August is a recipe for
victory in November,” Rubio said yesterday. “It’s a recipe for
disaster.”  Gingrich sees a convention battle as an opportunity.  If Romney falls short of the required delegates on the
first ballot at the convention, said Gingrich’s spokesman, R.C.
Hammond, “it’s a whole new ballgame.” The result would be a
debate among delegates about who is the best candidate to topple
President  Barack Obama  that could culminate in a substantial
shift in loyalties to Gingrich, Santorum, Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas -- or possibly a late entrant to the race.  “You start the primary season all over again, where it’s
essentially a debate among the delegates,” Hammond said.
“There’s a chance for Gingrich to be the nominee.”  Until then, Gingrich will keep a lighter campaign schedule
that focuses mostly on states in the South, where he has
performed better during the primary season, as well as
 California (BEESCA) , which holds its primary on June 5. Much of his time
will be spent in meetings and phone calls to win over delegates.  Whipping Delegates  “He’ll tap into his previous skills as a whip,” Hammond
said, using the term for the No. 3 House leader, whose job is to
count votes and persuade lawmakers to back the party agenda. As
minority whip, Gingrich helped orchestrate the Republican
takeover of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1994 and then
became the chamber’s speaker in 1995.  Romney leads in the delegate hunt with 568, according to
the latest Associated Press projections, while Santorum has 273,
Gingrich 135 and Paul 50.  Rubio denied yesterday, as he has previously, having any
interest in being his party’s vice presidential nominee.
“That’s not what I want to be, that’s not what I intend to be,
and that’s not going to happen,” he said.  Rubio and Bush are the latest in a series of elected
officials, business leaders and party activists -- including one
of Bush’s sons, former  Florida  Governor Jeb Bush -- to rally
behind Romney over the past week. Some of them have called for a
swift end to a primary that they say threatens to drag on for
months, potentially damaging the party’s brand and its eventual
standard bearer.  No End in Sight  Gingrich and Santorum have steadfastly resisted those calls
and worked to tarnish Romney’s air of inevitability and stoke
doubts about his conservative credentials, while vowing to
continue with increasingly implausible efforts to stop him from
winning the nomination.  “I think it is time for all the Republican candidates to
coalesce behind me,” Santorum said in Delavan Lake,  Wisconsin (BEESWI) ,
where he’s campaigning for support in the April 3 primary.
“Let’s just have a conservative nominee to take on Barack
Obama. Until that time happens, I’m not going to call on anyone
to get out,” he added, according to the AP.  Romney is favored to win the other two April 3 primaries,
in Maryland and Washington, D.C. Santorum isn’t on the
Washington ballot. The next contests will be on April 24 in
 Rhode Island ,  Connecticut ,  New York  and  Delaware  -- states
friendly to Romney -- and in  Pennsylvania , which Santorum
represented in the House and Senate.  A poll released yesterday underscored Santorum’s challenge,
showing his support eroding in  Pennsylvania (BEESPA) , where a loss would
increase pressure on him to withdraw.  Santorum Sinks  In the survey conducted March 20-25 by Franklin and
Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Santorum led Romney
among registered Republicans in the state, 30 percent to 28
percent. That’s a 27-point drop in the edge he enjoyed over
Romney in February. The poll’s margin of error was plus-or-minus
4.2 points.  Romney, in  Texas  for a fundraiser and to publicly claim
Bush’s support, telephoned  Wisconsin  voters for a virtual town
hall session yesterday in which he touted his credentials to
defeat Obama.  “I’m a conservative businessman,” he said, contrasting
himself with Santorum and Gingrich. “I believe that our nation
will be better-served by people going to Washington who are not
life-long politicians.”  Former first lady Barbara Bush has also backed Romney and
recorded calls for voters voicing her support played before
March 6 primaries in Ohio and  Vermont .  Another of Bush’s sons, former President  George W. Bush ,
has yet to endorse in the Republican race.  The elder Bush has made public comments praising Romney
without extending a formal endorsement. He will provide it today
at his office in Houston, according to Romney’s campaign.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  