-- Golf’s Masters Facing Male-Only Dilemma With New IBM CEO
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-03-28T04:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/golf-s-masters-facing-male-only-dilemma-with-new-ibm-ceo.html
Will  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s Ginni Rometty be able to wear a green jacket at
the  Masters Tournament ?  As Augusta National Golf Club prepares to host the
competition next week, it faces a quandary: The club hasn’t
admitted a woman as a member since its founding eight decades
ago, yet it has historically invited the chief executive officer
of IBM, one of three Masters sponsors. Since the company named
Rometty to the post this year, Augusta will have to break
tradition either way.  IBM holds a rarefied position at the Augusta, Georgia,
course. The company has a hospitality cabin near the 10th hole,
beside co-sponsors  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  The
companies’ male CEOs have been able to don the club’s signature
green member blazers while hosting clients. Non-members, who
don’t wear the jackets, must be accompanied by a member to visit
the course or play a round.  “They have a dilemma on many levels,” said Marcia
Chambers, senior research scholar in law and journalist in
residence at Yale University Law School. “If there’s been a
tradition of certain CEOs, then they should look at this new CEO
in the same way. The only thing that makes her any different is
her gender.”  Augusta, which owns and hosts the Masters, sets its own
rules as a private club and has resisted calls for change in the
past. Augusta didn’t have a black member until 1990, when it
extended an invitation to  Gannett Co. (GCI)  television President Ron
Townsend, who still belongs.  Membership Rules  Rometty, who does play golf, though not frequently,
inherited the sponsorship from predecessor  Sam Palmisano . IBM is
featured in the tournament’s TV commercials and runs its
website, mobile-phone applications and media-center technology.
Palmisano serves on Augusta’s technology tournament committee.
He remains IBM’s chairman -- a role Rometty is likely also to
assume upon his retirement.  Steve Ethun, a Masters Tournament spokesman, declined to
comment, citing a policy that forbids membership-related
discussions. Edward Barbini, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-
based IBM, also declined to comment. Augusta members are never
officially identified outside the exclusive greens; known
members contacted for this story declined to comment.  Augusta carefully cultivates its image. Running instead of
walking on the course -- for a good vantage point during the
tournament or a bathroom break -- is forbidden. Organizers of
the Masters refer to fans as “patrons.”  Very Private Party  Entertaining clients at the Masters is “a very private
cocktail party,” said Casey Alexander, who analyzes the golf
industry as a director of equity research at New York-based
Gilford Securities Inc. “It’s very different than the  Super
Bowl  or the  Kentucky Derby . You don’t see those big corporate
tents. You don’t see logos lining the fairways and that’s the
way they want it.”  Rometty’s promotion puts the club and the company in an
“interesting position” that’s likely to be tackled privately,
said Patrick Rishe, a sports business professor at Webster
University in  St. Louis . Private clubs are “clever in terms of
the language they use and their rule books,” and may simply add
an exception for top executives of key sponsors, he said.  Billy Payne, who succeeded William “Hootie” Johnson as
chairman of the tournament and the golf club in 2006, has said
he has “no specific timetable” on possibly ending the all-male
membership, which has been enforced since the club was founded
by Bobby Jones and Clifford Roberts on the grounds of the former
Fruitland Nurseries in 1933. The first Masters Tournament was
held a year later, and in 1937 Augusta members began wearing
green jackets -- a trademark differentiator from guests and golf
fans who buy tickets.  Payne’s Olympic Effort  Payne’s predecessor Johnson, now 81, ended his 2003 annual
gathering by saying the club’s position on women wouldn’t change
“if I drop dead right now.”  As the chief organizer of the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta,
Payne was known as being a progressive leader. His Olympic
organizing team included influential women Ginger Watkins, Linda Stephenson and Cindy Fowler. The group is credited with
convincing the  International Olympic Committee  to bring the
games to  Georgia ’s capital with its first bid -- the only city
in 50 years to win with its debut effort.  When Payne took over as chairman of Augusta National, he
vowed to help shed the club’s “crusty” image. In recent years,
the tournament has made changes, including a ticketing program
for children. In 2010, Payne publicly criticized the
extramarital affairs of four-time Masters winner  Tiger Woods .  “Our hero did not live up to the expectations of a role
model that we sought for our children,” he said.  IBM Precedent  Augusta declined to provide a current membership list for
this story. A 2010 partial list obtained by Bloomberg News and
2004 documents published by the Augusta Chronicle and USA Today
show the last four IBM CEOs were members, beginning with John R. Opel, who ran the company from 1981 to 1985 and died last year.
John F. Akers, IBM’s chief from 1985 to 1993, and Louis V. Gerstner, who helped turn around IBM as CEO from 1993 to 2002,
also were members.  Palmisano wasn’t listed as a member in 2004, a year after
taking over IBM. That suggests the club doesn’t always extend
invitations just as new CEOs take over, raising the possibility
that Rometty would be admitted later.  Unlike her golf-enthusiast predecessors, Rometty plays
occasionally. She and her husband, Mark, are avid scuba divers,
splitting their time between homes in White Plains,  New York ,
and  Bonita Springs , Florida.  Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson is a member, as is AT&T CEO
 Randall Stephenson .  Ed Whitacre , Stephenson’s predecessor, is a
member and in December gave Stephenson his place as a director
on the PGA Tour’s board -- professional golf’s inner circle.  IBM’s Technology  At the Masters, IBM provides reporters with individual
ThinkPad laptops in the tournament’s media center. The computers
provide statistics and stream video from the course throughout
the tournament. In 2010, IBM introduced 3D footage of the
tournament on the website it runs for the Masters.  “All of those platforms are intended to make the patron
feel as though they are experiencing the Masters just as if they
were at Augusta National,” said Barbini, the IBM spokesman.
IBM’s media center technology “allows each journalist to access
anything they need to file a story from a seat in the media
center -- including statistics, interviews and play-specific
video highlights.”  IBM’s official sponsorship began 10 years ago, though it
had been involved earlier. The company has run the masters.com
website since 1996.  Time to Change?  Augusta has faced pressure to change its policy on women
before. Martha Burk, then the president of the National Council
of Women’s Organizations, led a protest outside the golf
course’s gates during the 2003 Masters.  The club’s refusal to reconsider female membership prompted
the resignations of then-Treasury Secretary nominee John Snow
and former  CBS Corp. (CBS)  Chief Executive Officer Thomas Wyman, who
called the policy “pigheaded.” Wyman died about five weeks
later. Snow was secretary of the treasury under President  George W. Bush  from 2003 to 2006, and now is chairman of Cerberus
Capital Management LP, an investment firm.  Rishe, the Webster University professor, said Augusta may
resist the pressure again.  “It’s a private club, and I don’t think they’re really
concerned about how others perceive them,” he said. “Their
ratings will not rise and fall based on how people view this
particular topic. Their ratings will rise and fall if Tiger
Woods is at the top of his game, if Tiger and  Phil Mickelson  and
 Rory McIlroy  or some combination of them happen to be in the mix
on the final day of the tournament.”  Still, Chambers said IBM’s decision to name Rometty the
first female CEO in the company’s 100-year history offers a rare
chance for Augusta and its chairman.  “Billy Payne, with his history of inclusion and his role
with the Olympics, of all people, should finally take the
plunge,” Chambers said. “This is a good opportunity for him to
do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net 
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  