-- Greece May Have to Restructure Again, S&P’s Kraemer Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-29T07:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/greece-may-have-to-restructure-debt-again-s-p-s-kraemer-says.html
Greece  will probably have to
restructure its debt again and this may involve bailout partners
such as European governments, said  Moritz Kraemer , head of
sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s .  There may be “down the road, I’m not predicting today
when, another restructuring of the outstanding debt,” he said
at an event in London late yesterday. “At that time maybe the
official creditors need to come into the boat.”  Speaking at the same event at the  London School of
Economics ,  Poul Thomsen , the International Monetary Fund mission
chief to Greece, said while Greece has made an “aggressive”
fiscal adjustment, it will take at least a decade to fully
complete the country’s reforms.  Caretaker Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary
approval on March 21 for a second 130 billion-euro ($173
billion) rescue program. Passage of the legislation moves the
country a step closer to elections that may be held as early as
next month. Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign debt
restructuring in history earlier this month, paving the way for
the bailout.  Thomsen said that after the elections, there is “no doubt
it will have to reduce its fiscal deficit.” He also said it’s
not clear when Greece will be able to return to markets.  “It remains uncertain, with this high level of debt and
the risks the program faces because of possible resistance to
reforms, when  market access  will return,” he said. “There’s no
room for manoeuver or policy slippage.”  Rescue Funds  The euro rose 0.1 percent against the dollar today and
traded at $1.3334 as of 8:06 a.m. in London. It was little
sovereign ratings at Standard & Poor’s.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said this week that the
euro area’s woes are “almost over” after a slow initial
response by policy makers. Still, European governments are
preparing for a one-year increase in the ceiling on rescue aid
to 940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion) to keep the debt crisis at
bay, according to a draft statement for finance ministers.  The euro-area finance chiefs will probably decide at a
meeting tomorrow to run the 500 billion-euro permanent European
Stability Mechanism alongside the 200 billion euros committed by
the temporary fund, a European official said yesterday.  Temporary Fund  Beyond that, they are also set to allow the temporary
fund’s unused 240 billion euros to be tapped until mid-2013 “in
exceptional circumstances following a unanimous decision of
euro-area heads of state or government notably in case the ESM
capacity would prove insufficient,” according to the draft
dated March 23 and obtained by Bloomberg News.  Thomsen said that while Greece’s fiscal adjustment has been
“unprecedented, very impressive, and undoubtedly socially very
painful,” a “major adjustment is still needed, of 6-7 percent
of gross domestic product.”  Kraemer said that the priority some creditors have been
claiming, such as the  European Central Bank , is complicating the
ability of Greece to lower its borrowing costs and be able to
return to bond markets.  “More and more official creditors have been jumping the
queue and becoming so called preferred creditors, which means in
the case of a restructuring they do not participate,” he said.
For “the regular bond holders, the risk increases
significantly. That means that the investor will demand a higher
 interest rate  from Greece and that makes it harder for Greece
and other countries on the periphery to establish a sustainable
debt trajectory going forward.”  Monetary Union  Kraemer said that while making adjustments in a monetary
union is “more difficult,” it’s not an impossible task “if
the political preconditions and flexibility are there.”  European officials said this week that Greece must step up
efforts to tighten the budget and overhaul the economy to
prevent the second bailout from collapsing.  “Without a regime change in policy implementation and a
much broader political consensus in favor of painful but
necessary reforms, there is a high risk that the program
derails,” ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said.
“Political courage is needed more than ever.”  Asmussen’s comments were echoed by EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , who said that “challenges
remain” as Greece seeks to cut its debt to around 116 percent
of gross domestic product in 2020 from more than 160 percent of
GDP last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  