-- Greeks Embrace Potato as Symbol of Struggle to Survive Austerity
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-03-28T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/greeks-embrace-potato-as-symbol-of-struggle-to-survive-austerity.html
The potato, introduced to Greeks
after independence in the 19th century to bolster the diets of
the poor, is turning into a symbol of their latest struggle.  Farmers are mobilizing to sell their produce directly to
austerity-hit citizens, cutting out middlemen such as
supermarkets and grocers. On average, they sell a kilogram of
potatoes from the backs of trucks for about 33 euro cents (44
U.S. cents), or half what it costs in a store.  “Greeks find themselves in a situation where we don’t have
enough to survive,” Vasiliki Kladia, 43, unemployed for four
years with three children, said in the Athens suburb of Dafni
after placing her order. “There are no jobs anywhere. Wages and
pensions are very low and everyone is in debt.”  Nowhere in  Europe  is experiencing the impact of measures to
reshape national finances more than Greece, the epicenter of the
region’s debt crisis. The government has committed to more than
33 billion euros of spending cuts and tax increases announced
over the past two years, as its part of a deal with European
partners to keep the country afloat and in the euro.  As the economy endures its fifth year of recession,
measures include property taxes paid through utility bills, an
additional 12 percent reduction in pensions and salaries for
state workers this year and a 22 percent cut in the minimum wage
to 683 euros a month. Earlier this month, Greece completed the
biggest-ever debt swap with holders of its bonds.  ‘Recession Fatigue’  “There is great recession fatigue in  Greece  and the social
cost is very high,” Stathis Kalyvas, professor of political
science at  Yale University , said in an interview from the U.S.
“The population will tough it out. There is a solid majority in
favor of remaining in the euro.”  Dafni, a municipality of 35,000, is one of dozens helping
its residents save money by connecting residents with farmers to
get cheaper potatoes. In less than a week, more than 2,500
people came to the local government building in the town to
place their orders for 75 tons, or three truckloads, Mayor
Michalis Stavrianoudakis said.  The sales have proliferated since February as
municipalities put up posters and word spread among Greeks on
the Internet and through local news reports.  “People can’t hold out for very long, especially when new
austerity measures now are implemented,” Stavrianoudakis said
during a March 14 interview in Dafni. “The success of the
program has led to people asking if we can do the same for olive
oil and even for lamb, which is traditionally eaten at Easter.”  18-Wheeler Trucks  In another suburb, hundreds of people lined up in the
blistering sun in the parking lot of the Peristeri Exhibition
Center to pick up their orders after two 18-wheeler trucks from
northern Greece arrived with more than 60 tons of produce.  “If we all start buying straight from the farmers, without
middlemen, they will eventually lower their prices,” said
Ioannides Kyriakos, a 72-year-old pensioner who was hauling two
bags to his car. “It will continue. Today its potatoes,
tomorrow it will be rice and the next day it will be olive
oil.”  The “potato movement,” as it’s known in Greece, began in
early February in the north of the country and spread to
municipalities and on private websites. In Dafni, a 20-kilogram
sack of spuds costs 6.50 euros and people can order up to twice
that amount through the municipality.  “The majority of the people haven’t got the money to buy
whatever they need because they keep cutting pensions, wages,
everything,” said Leonidis Gialamas, 68, a pensioner in Dafni.
“Nobody knows what will happen.”  Record Unemployment  Greece’s gross domestic product shrank 7.5 percent in the
fourth quarter, compared with a year earlier, according to the
Hellenic Statistical Authority. Unemployment in December rose to
a record 21 percent and reached 51 percent for young Greeks.  Greek police reported March 11 that robberies and thefts
rose by an average 10 percent with many of the incidents
involving small amounts of money or property that police refer
to as crimes of “emergency or survival.”  Eighty-eight percent of Greeks said their economic
situation worsened in the past two years, according to a poll by
Pulse RC published March 15 in the Pontiki newspaper. The survey
was of 1,212 eligible voters.  “If they think rationally, they do prefer a lowering of
their  living standards  than the other options, which would be
Greece sliding into a third-world country situation,” said
Dimitris Sotiropoulos, associate professor of political science
at the  University of Athens .  Guarded Spuds  The potato was introduced in Greece by the first head of
state, Ioannis Kapodistrias, after he became leader in 1827 as
the country won independence from the Turks, said Sakis Gekas,
assistant professor of modern Greek history at  York University 
in Toronto. Greeks celebrated independence day on March 25.  Legend has it that Kapodistrias ordered the first delivery
on Greek soil to be kept under guard to pique the interest of
the local population and add it to their diets as the country
recovered from war.  Less than 200 years later, the potato is again playing a
role during tough economic times. “Patatas” are now roasted in
olive oil, lemon and oregano, as fried wedges or used in
moussaka, a layered dish of egg plant, minced meat and béchamel
sauce.  “The potato movement has received some momentum,
reflecting the needs of people not just to circumvent
oligopolies and mark-ups from middlemen and large supermarkets
but also to save money in these difficult times,” Gekas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in  Athens  at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  