-- Greece Bailout Seen in Debt With Junk Grade: Euro Credit
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 2012-03-28T11:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/greece-bailout-seen-in-debt-with-junk-grade-euro-credit.html
Greek voters are unlikely to give
any party a workable majority in elections as soon as next month,
jeopardizing austerity policies on which bailout funds depend.  Opinion surveys show as many as eight parties may win seats
in the 300-member legislature. Antonis Samaras’s New Democracy
leads with about 20 percent of the vote.  “All polls suggest the Greek elections won’t lead to a
majority one-party government,” said Athanasios Vamvakidis,
head European currency strategist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  London . “Without a strong government in Greece that
can implement the program, a disorderly default that could lead
to euro exit remains a possibility.”  The rate on  government bonds  maturing in February 2023
climbed 122 basis points to 19.67 percent since the close on
March 12, the day the securities started trading after the
biggest-ever sovereign debt restructuring. Yields for Portuguese
bonds due in October 2023 were at 11.44 percent, while the rate
for Irish securities maturing in March 2025 was 6.97 percent.
Like Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland required rescue funds from the
European Union and  International Monetary Fund .  Italy auctioned 8.5 billion euros ($11.3 billion) of
Treasury bills at the lowest rate in more than a year on
optimism that the euro debt woes are easing. Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said in  Tokyo  today that he doesn’t expect the
“flames of crisis” to return as nations implement closer fiscal
cooperation and seek to boost the region’s bailout funds.  Austerity Steps  In Greece, the pending election comes during a fifth year
of economic contraction. The  unemployment rate  was at a record
20.7 percent in the fourth quarter. More than half of young
Greeks are out of work, and pensions and wages are being lowered.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos ’s interim government has
announced austerity measures equal to 20.6 billion euros, or 10
percent of gross domestic product, in 2012, according to the
Bank of Greece.  No formal date has been set for  Greece ’s elections, with
April 29 or May 6 seen by political leaders as most likely.
 Standard & Poor’s  said March 15 it rated Greek securities CCC,
its fourth rank above default, because of questionable growth
prospects, a weakening political consensus and a “still large”
debt burden.  Greece’s ratio of debt to GDP will fall to 116 percent in
2020 from 165 percent in 2011, assuming the country’s program to
overhaul the economy is implemented, according to the IMF, which
is providing 28 billion euros to the second 130 billion-euro
rescue package.  Rescue Package  Political risks contribute to making the nation “accident
prone,” the IMF said in a March 16 report. “Greece has little
if any margin to absorb adverse shocks or program slippages,”
it said.  Greece sparked the region’s crisis when former Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  revealed in October 2009 that the
country’s deficit was twice what the previous government had
reported and four times the limit allowed for countries using
the euro. Papandreou was forced out last November and replaced
by Papademos’s caretaker government.  The EU approved the second Greek bailout on March 14 after
politicians agreed to spending cuts and structural changes such
as a reduction in the minimum wage, and private bondholders
agreed to erase 100 billion euros from the nation’s 206 billion
euros of investor-held debt.  World War II  New Democracy , the party run by 60-year-old Samaras, the
former foreign minister, is the most popular among voters, three
opinion polls showed on March 23. A survey of 1,011 people by
Kapa research found that ND’s support fell to 18.1 percent from
21.4 percent in January due to the emergence of the anti-
austerity Independent Greeks, led by former ND lawmaker Panos
Kammenos, which received 7.2 percent.  Kammenos, who announced the establishment of his party in
the town of Distomo, the site of Nazi atrocities during World
War II, was expelled from ND for opposing the Papademos
government.  The Kapa poll showed that the Socialist Pasok party, led by
former Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, was second after ND
with 14.3 percent. In the 2009 elections, Pasok got 44 percent.
Pasok is losing voters to the Democratic Left party headed by
Fotis Kouvelis, who polls list as the most popular politician.
In addition, a group of Pasok lawmakers split off from the party
this month to form a new group.  Samaras, who wants elections to be held once the
international financing is assured, has said he aims to win
outright and govern without a coalition. Venizelos has said he’s
open to cooperating with ND in a new government.  Pasok Poll  Losses for ND and a weak showing for Pasok would leave such
a coalition with a slim majority, facing anti-bailout parties on
both sides of the house. Most Greeks, or 38.4 percent, see the
dilemma in the election as being about whether they accept terms
of the bailout accord, according to the Kapa poll. Another 31.7
percent said the main issue is whether Greece will remain a
member of the 17-nation euro region.  Of 1,003 people polled by MRB for the Real News newspaper,
76.3 percent wanted to retain the euro as the country’s currency.
Of 1,012 people surveyed by Marc for Ethnos newspaper, 75.8
percent said they prefer to stick with the euro.  “Without a regime change in policy implementation and a
much broader political consensus in favor of painful, but
necessary, reforms, there is a high risk that the program
derails,” ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said in
comments prepared for a European Parliament panel in Brussels
yesterday. “Political courage is needed more than ever.”  Euro Fate  Pacific Investment Management Co., which runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, said it’s “cautious” on euro-area
government debt even after the Greek debt restructuring because
risks remain that Greece will leave the single-currency area.  “If there is no majority for a continuation of austerity
in Greece, the specter of a Greek exit from the euro might well
resurface,”  Joachim Fels , chief economist at Morgan Stanley,
wrote in a note to clients on March 25.  For Greece, “a euro exit will be a national tragedy,”
said Vamvakidis of Bank of America. “For the rest of the  euro
zone , it will be a severe negative shock at least in the short
term as the rest of the periphery is still at its early stages
of the adjustment process, while the euro zone’s firewall
remains underfunded.”  Polls show a growing number of Greeks want to vote now,
dashing hopes among European policy makers that Papademos, once
vice president of the  European Central Bank , will be able to
push through the necessary economic reforms. In  Italy , Monti, a
former European commissioner, was installed in November as head 
of a non-elected government to implement a fiscal plan for the
region’s second-most indebted nation.  “Ideally, Greece would have followed the example of Italy
and allow a government of technocrats to implement the program,
postponing the elections for at least a year,” Vamvakidis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens
at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  