-- Gross to Change Ticker Symbol on Month-Old ETF to ‘BOND’
-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2012-03-28T13:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/gross-to-change-ticker-symbol-on-month-old-etf-to-bond-.html
Bill Gross , manager of the world’s
biggest mutual fund, is changing the ticker symbol on his month-
old  Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund (TRXT)  to BOND as he seeks
to popularize the ETF among individual investors.  Pimco Total Return ETF was listed on the NYSE Arca exchange
on March 1 under the ticker TRXT. The symbol BOND wasn’t
available when Pimco first requested it during the application
process, Gross said in a telephone interview from his office in
 Newport Beach ,  California . The firm was notified two weeks ago
that it became available, Gross said.  Pimco’s new vehicle, designed to blend the trading
flexibility of ETFs with Gross’s bond-picking prowess, seeks to
tap interest from investors for a segment that has attracted
less than 0.5 percent of the $1.13 trillion in U.S.-registered
ETF assets as of Jan. 31, according to the  Investment Company
Institute . The Pimco Total Return ETF, whose symbol will change
on April 4, has gathered $257 million since its inception,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There was no hesitation at all in changing the name to
BOND once we knew it was available,” Gross said. “We want to
be a household name and this seems like a great ticker to be
able to do that.”  Bragging rights to memorable ticker symbols are migrating
to ETFs as money managers vie to stand out in an industry that
has grown to 1,155 offerings in the U.S., according to the
Washington-based ICI. The iShares Barclays U.S. Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities Fund, the biggest fixed-income
ETF in the U.S., has the ticker  TIP (TIP) , and the symbol for the
Vanguard Total Bond Market ETF is  BND. (BND)  The Market Vectors
Agribusiness ETF goes by the moniker  MOO. (MOO)   ‘Well-Timed’ Investments  The Pimco Total Return ETF advanced 1.4 percent through
March 26, compared with the 0.5 percent decline in the Vanguard
Total Bond Market ETF, which tracks the Barclays Capital
Aggregate Bond Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Gross’s $252 billion Total Return mutual fund, which uses a
similar strategy to the ETF, has declined 0.2 percent in the
same period.  Gross said the ETF has benefited from “well-timed”
investments over the past month in agency mortgages, such as
those backed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , and holdings in U.S.
bonds such as Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPs.
The fund has 60 percent of its assets in agency mortgages and 15
percent in Treasuries, he said. The fund has 10 percent in non-
agency mortgage bonds and another 10 percent in corporate fixed
income, according to Gross.  “We’ve done better than the market, and better than Total
Return, as a function of timing,” Gross said in the interview.
“We have a big overweight in agency mortgages, but that was
more a function of flows at the time and we’ll diversify it over
time,” he said, referring to the movement of money into the
fund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  