-- Gucci Accuses Guess of Massive Design ‘Knock Off’ Scheme
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-03-28T20:43:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/gucci-accuses-guess-of-massive-design-knock-off-scheme.html
Gucci America Inc., the maker of
luxury clothing and accessories, told a federal judge that
 Guess? Inc. (GES) ’s products infringe Gucci’s trademarked designs.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin today began conducting
a trial without a jury on Gucci’s infringement claim in
 Manhattan .  Gucci, a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , sued in 2009 claiming
that Los Angeles-based Guess was selling items in stores and
online with logos that are “studied imitations of the Gucci
trademarks.” The trademarks include a green and red stripe
design, a square G, the designer’s name in flowing script and a
diamond pattern with repeating interlocking G’s, according to
Gucci’s court filings.  “It’s about a massive, complicated scheme to knock off
Gucci’s best-known and iconic designs,” Louis Ederer, Gucci’s
lawyer, told the judge today. The company claims that
$221 million worth of Guess products infringed Gucci designs.  Guess said in court papers that Gucci can’t claim
infringement because it “sat on its rights” for at least seven
years before suing. Guess also said Gucci’s surveys failed to
prove that consumers would be misled by the designs.  Daniel Petrocelli , a lawyer for Guess, said in his opening
remarks that of 1,495 Guess products Gucci claimed were
infringing, 99 percent “could never be confused with Gucci.”  “The numbers don’t add up,” Petrocelli said. “If there
was a scheme, it failed miserably.”  Guess Customers  He said many Guess products sell for less than $100 and are
geared toward young women who can’t afford  luxury goods  like
Gucci’s, which can sell for thousands of dollars.  Gucci is seeking monetary damages and other assessments
totaling more than $124 million, according to court papers.  Defendants also include Marc Fisher Footwear, Guess’s
exclusive licensee for footwear, the Max Leather Group and  Swank
Inc. (SNKI)   “There was neither an intent to copy nor an intent to
deceive,” Darren Saunders, a lawyer for Marc Fisher, said in
his opening remarks today.  The trial is expected to last at least two weeks.  PPR fell 2 percent to 130.5 euros in Paris Stock Market
trading. Guess dropped 1.4 percent to $31.36 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange  composite trading.   The case is Gucci America v. Guess Inc., 09-4373, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  