-- Libor Review Panel Includes Banks Probed for Manipulation
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-03-28T12:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/libor-review-panel-includes-banks-being-probed-for-manipulation.html
The British Bankers’ Association
said a panel of lenders will review the London interbank offered
rate, including some firms being probed for allegedly rigging
the benchmark.  The review, the second in four years, will include  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the
London-based lobby group said in a statement today. The three
banks have all previously disclosed they are the subject of
regulatory probes over the possible manipulation of the rate,
the basis for $360 trillion of securities worldwide.  The BBA is under pressure to find an alternative way to
calculate the measure, or cede control of it as regulators probe
whether banks lied to hide their true cost of borrowing and
traders colluded to manipulate the benchmark.  Terry Smith , chief
executive officer of interdealer broker  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR) , said
in an interview this month there had been too great “a
breakdown in trust” for banks to continue policing the rate.  It’s “more foxes charged with regulating the henhouse,”
said  Tim Price , who helps oversee more than $1.5 billion at PFP
Group LLP, an asset-management firm in London.  Angela Knight , the former Conservative lawmaker and
Treasury minister who is now chief executive officer of the BBA,
didn’t return a phone call from Bloomberg News seeking comment.
Officials at HSBC and RBS declined to comment, while a spokesman
at Barclays didn’t return a telephone message.  ‘Continuing Evolution’  “The BBA, the contributing banks and users of the rate are
committed to the continuing evolution of Libor so that it adapts
to meet the changing market and user requirements and general
expectations,” the lobby group said.  The steering group will consider what financial instruments
should be included for the purposes of defining the rate as well
as code of conduct for all contributors, according to the BBA.
The steering committee will also discuss whether to revise the
“statistical underpinning” of Libor submissions, the BBA said.  Libor is generated through a daily survey of banks
conducted on behalf of the BBA by  Thomson Reuters  Corp. in which
firms are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from
another for 15 time periods, from overnight to one year. A
predetermined number of quotes are excluded and those left are
averaged and published for individual currencies before noon.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Steering Committee  Other members of the BBA steering committee include Zurich-
based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , London-based  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  and Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange. Other unidentified contributors to Libor and
users of the benchmark will also be asked to participate in the
review, the BBA said.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, the U.K. Treasury
and the  Bank of England  will participate in the committee’s work
and be kept informed of their efforts, the BBA said.  Barclays said in a March 9 statement that regulators may
recommend legal proceedings against it as part of their probes
into possible manipulation of  interest rates . Edinburgh-based
RBS has dismissed employees amid investigations into Libor,
while HSBC is among at least seven banks being examined as part
of a probe into whether traders sought submissions that would
benefit their interest-rate derivative positions.  Questions about the accuracy of Libor were first raised by
the Bank for International Settlements, the central bank for
central banks, in a March 2008 report that indicated lenders
were “wary of revealing” information that could signal they
were struggling to borrow funds during the global credit crunch.  Three months later, the BBA later increased the number of
banks that contribute to Libor and said it would require lenders
to justify any discrepancies between their rate submissions with
those of competitors. Banks that repeatedly proposed rates out-
of-line with rivals would be removed from the process, the BBA
said at the time. The changes were the first since 1998.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  