-- Court Considers Health Law Fate If Coverage Rule Voided
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-03-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/high-court-considers-fate-of-health-law-if-coverage-rule-voided.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  today will
consider how much of President Barack Obama’s health-care law
must be thrown out if the justices decide Congress can’t require
Americans to buy medical insurance.  The debate on so-called severability took on added
significance after questions from justices yesterday indicated a
majority might strike down the insurance requirement. Today’s
session will conclude three days of hearings, six hours in all,
the longest in 44 years.  The impact of the coverage mandate on the rest of the law
is among the most important issues for the health-insurance
industry. If the court strikes down the requirement, insurers
want the justices to toss out provisions that forbid them from
refusing coverage or charging higher premiums to people with
pre-existing conditions.  Invalidating only the individual mandate would be the
“worst-case scenario” for insurance companies, said Paul Heldman, a health-policy analyst at Potomac Research Group in
Washington. “That would create an unstable market for insurers
in which they would be stuck covering the most expensive people
while leaving the healthier people off the insurance rolls.”  In an afternoon session today, the justices will consider a
challenge by 26 states that object to a section of the law that
expands the federal-state  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  health-insurance program for
the poor.  ‘Fundamental’ Change  Questions from the bench during yesterday’s hearing on
mandatory insurance coverage indicated the justices may split 5-
to-4, with the court’s five Republican appointees joining to
overturn that part of the law.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy , who most often occupies the
court’s ideological middle ground, said that by requiring
Americans to take unwanted action, the law “changes the
relationship of the government to the individual in a very
fundamental way.”  The Obama administration needs support from at least one
Republican appointee on the nine-member court to uphold the 2010
law. Four of them -- Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices
Antonin Scalia,  Samuel Alito  and Kennedy -- interrupted U.S.
Solicitor General Donald Verrilli repeatedly yesterday as he
pressed his case for upholding the law.  “I don’t think the challengers could have hoped to have
had a better day, and I don’t think the government realistically
could have had a more distressing day,” said  Tom Goldstein , an
appellate lawyer whose Scotusblog website tracks the court.
Bloomberg Law sponsors the blog.  Revamping an Industry  The health law would extend coverage to 32 million people
who lack insurance by 2016, and revamp an industry that accounts
for 18 percent of the  U.S. economy , in part through the coverage
mandate.  The court hasn’t overturned legislation with such sweeping
impact since the 1930s, when it voided parts of  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s New Deal, the package of economic programs enacted
in the 1930s in response to the Great Depression.  The justices probably will rule in late June, months before
the November election. A ruling against the measure would give
ammunition to Obama’s Republican challengers, who have said the
law should be repealed.  This morning’s hearing will review a decision by an
Atlanta-based federal appeals court that found the health-
insurance mandate unconstitutional and ruled that the rest of
the law remains valid. None of the parties to the case wants the
Supreme Court to follow suit.  Pre-Existing Conditions  The government, agreeing with the  insurance industry , says
if Congress can’t make everybody have coverage, the justices
should toss out sections of the law known as the guaranteed-
issue and community-rating provisions. Those sections say
insurers must issue policies and set rates without regard to
pre-existing health problems.  Without mandatory insurance rules, the government says
those provisions would create an industry “death spiral,” in
which only patients with costly health conditions would obtain
insurance. That would lead to higher premiums, which would
prompt healthy policyholders to drop coverage, causing more rate
increases, the government says.  “Premiums would increase significantly under that
scenario, and the availability of insurance would decline --
exactly the opposite of what Congress intended,” Verrilli
argued in court papers.  Insurance industry groups, in a court brief, said Congress
structured new policy requirements in a “package deal” with
mandatory coverage.  Industry Position  America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group in
 Washington , and the Chicago-based Blue Cross Blue Shield
Association, which didn’t take a position on the insurance
mandate’s constitutionality, argued that the guaranteed-issue
and community-rating rules aren’t practical by themselves.  “Congress would not have intended those insurance-market
reforms to operate on their own, without the vital
counterbalance of the minimum individual coverage mandate there
to prevent the skyrocketing premiums that would otherwise
arise,” the industry groups’ brief said.  The states, and a small-business group that sued to
overturn the health-care law, say the court should invalidate
the entire statute if it decides the mandatory insurance section
is unconstitutional.  The law “is a delicate balance of inextricably intertwined
provisions, none of which can survive without the act’s core
components,” the states’ lawyer,  Paul Clement , argued in court
papers.  Appeals Court Ruling  Because none of the participants supports the appeals
court’s conclusion, the Supreme Court appointed an outside
lawyer, H. Bartow Farr III, to argue that the rest of the
statute -- including the guaranteed-issue and community-rating
sections -- should be left in force even if the justices strike
down the individual mandate.  Those provisions “were put in place specifically to open
the health insurance market to millions of people who had been
unable to acquire affordable coverage because of their poor
health,” Farr argued in a court brief.  If one part of the law is found to be unconstitutional,
Farr said, “the court should have clear evidence” before
presuming that Congress would want any other section
invalidated. “There is no such evidence here,” he said.  A 2010 Supreme Court ruling suggests the justices won’t be
eager to strike down the rest of the statute, even if a majority
declares the mandate unconstitutional. In that case, the court
left intact an auditing industry oversight board, while voiding
a provision that insulated its members from being fired.  ‘Problematic Portions’  “Generally speaking, when confronting a constitutional
flaw in a statute, we try to limit the solution to the problem,
severing any problematic portions while leaving the remainder
intact,” Chief Justice Roberts wrote in his majority opinion
for the 5-4 court. His statement in part quoted an opinion
written by Justice Sandra Day O’Connor in a 2006 abortion case.  In the afternoon argument, the Medicaid issue may be an
uphill fight for the states. No lower court judge has accepted
their contention that the law unconstitutionally coerces the
states into spending their own tax dollars against their will.  The health law’s Medicaid expansion is designed to cover 17
million uninsured people by extending eligibility to those with
incomes up to 138 percent of the federal poverty line. States
that don’t comply with the new expansion would lose all or part
of their share of federal Medicaid funding.  The issue is an important one to  managed-care  companies
with large Medicaid businesses.  Rising Shares  Shares of St. Louis-based  Centene Corp. (CNC)  have almost
doubled, and those of  Wellcare Health Plans Inc. (WCG)  of Tampa,
 Florida , have more than doubled since Obama signed the law in
March 2010  on the expectation that states with rising caseloads
will turn to them to help control program spending.  “The overwhelming consensus among investors is that the
expansion is likely to be upheld,” said Heldman, the analyst.
“If there’s any reason to believe that the conventional wisdom
was wrong after the oral arguments on Wednesday, that would put
heavy pressure on Medicaid managed care stocks and also probably
hospitals as well.”  To get the federal portion of Medicaid funding, states must
abide by the rules of the health-care program for the poor or
receive waivers.  The Supreme Court in the past has given Congress broad
latitude to place conditions on federal funds. In 1987, the
court upheld the use of federal highway dollars to induce states
to raise the drinking age to 21.  ‘Coercive’ Congress  The states in the health-care case point to the 1987
majority opinion’s statement that “in some circumstances the
financial inducement offered by Congress might be so coercive as
to pass the point at which pressure turns into compulsion.”  The states say that’s what has happened with the health-
care law. They contend the federal government is depending on
increased Medicaid participation to help meet the requirement
that tens of millions of people get insurance.  “Congress created a mandate for all individuals to obtain
insurance while providing no alternative to Medicaid for the
most needy to obtain the mandated insurance,” Clement argued in
court papers. “A program that is necessary for the satisfaction
of a mandate is not voluntary.”  The Obama administration counters that the federal
government would pay the entire cost until 2017, when states
begin contributing a share that will eventually rise to 10
percent.  “The extension of Medicaid eligibility in the Affordable
Care Act is neither unprecedented nor likely to impose
significantly onerous burdens on the states,” Verrilli argued
in court papers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  