-- Highland Capital Chief Tells Divorce Judge He’s Insolvent
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-03-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/highland-capital-chief-tells-divorce-judge-he-s-insolvent.html
Highland Capital Management LP
Chief Executive Officer James Dondero testified in a divorce
proceeding that he’s insolvent under Texas family law, if not
according to normal accounting rules.  Dondero, 49, told Texas state court Judge David Lopez in
 Dallas  yesterday that the 2008 financial crisis took his debt-
investing firm “to a state of insolvency and we’ve been
juggling liquidity since that.” Highland Capital assets under
management fell to $23 billion by Jan. 1 from $39 billion at the
end of 2007.  “The last three, four years have been negative to the tune
of hundreds of millions of dollars,” Dondero said. The money
manager said his annual income is “a million, two.”  Highland is the largest manager of collateralized loan
obligations in the U.S. by dollar amount, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. In 2008, the Dallas-based firm had to suspend
investors’ withdrawals from two  hedge funds  as a result of the
credit crisis, resulting in litigation with investors and banks.  Marilea Lewis, a lawyer for his wife, Becky, told the court
that a 2010  tax return  showed Dondero’s adjusted gross income to
be more than $36 million.  Dondero said in an interview during a break in the hearing
that his net-worth calculation takes into account contingent
liabilities such as pending litigation.  ‘Lot of Lawsuits’  “In family court, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan would be
insolvent because of all the litigation they’re involved in,”
he said in the interview. “We’re involved in a lot of lawsuits
as well.”  He said family court accounting didn’t follow the same
generally accepted accounting principles used by businesses. He
and Highland are solvent on a GAAP basis, Dondero said.  “Highland and James Dondero are solvent,” the company
said in an e-mailed statement. “The legal wranglings of a
family law proceeding have no bearing on the financial
wherewithal and continued success of Highland.”  The company had positive net investor inflows of $1.4
billion last year, has opened an office in  Seoul  and has moved
to new headquarters in Dallas, according to the statement.  Dondero testified that he filed for divorce in September
after a six-year marriage. The couple have two daughters, ages 3
and 6, he said. Becky Dondero is seeking enforcement of a
prenuptial agreement guaranteeing her half of the couple’s
community property, capped at $5 million.  Spousal Support  Becky Dondero testified that her husband hadn’t paid
$104,000 she said she is currently owed under the agreement.
Lopez is being asked to decide whether James Dondero must pay
her $20,000 a month in spousal support and interim attorney
fees. The judge adjourned the hearing without ruling.  Patrick Daugherty, a former senior portfolio manager at
Highland who quit in October, testified that he met with James
Dondero for drinks last month.  “He told me his plan was to get his net worth down and pay
her as little as possible,” said Daugherty, who was called to
the stand by Becky Dondero.  Richard Lee, a partner at Deloitte Financial Advisory
Services LLP, testified for James Dondero. He said he was hired
to evaluate Dondero’s net worth as it applied to the prenuptial
agreement as of September 2011.  ‘Substantially Negative’  “Mr. Dondero’s net worth was substantially negative as of
Sept. 20,” Lee said.  Ike Vanden Eykel, James Dondero’s attorney from KoonsFuller
PC in Dallas, and Lewis, of Godwin Ronquillo PC, both told the
judge that the  money manager  has produced financial statements
saying he has a net worth of negative $50 million.  The lawyers declined to comment after the hearing.  At least eight investors have sued Highland on grounds that
the firm deceived them about the health of the hedge funds and
the rate of redemptions. The plaintiffs included the Houston
Municipal Employees Pension System and the Mary E. Bivins
Foundation, an Amarillo, Texas-based senior citizens charity.  Most of the lawsuits have been settled or dismissed.
Highland has said it paid no compensation.  Highland has also traded litigation with Barclays Plc,
Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and UBS AG.  Highland has yet to lose a case, Dondero said in the
interview.  The case is In the Matter of the Marriage of IC and QC,
DF11-16417-Z, Dallas County,  Texas , District Court, 256th
Judicial District (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  