-- Illinois Joins States With Biggest Debts Gauged by Fitch
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-03-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/illinois-joins-states-with-biggest-debts-gauged-by-fitch.html
Illinois (STOIL1)  joins  Connecticut (STOCT1)  and
 Hawaii (STOHI1)  among U.S. states with the largest debt burdens relative
to residents’ personal income, when pension obligations are
added, according to new measurements from  Fitch Ratings .  The figures “provide a more complete comparative indicator
of long-term burdens” by combining each state’s net tax-
supported debt with unfunded pension obligations, according to a
Fitch report released today. The median value for all states
measured is 6.9 percent of personal income, or more than double
the 3.1 percent rate for levy-backed debt.  “Fourteen of the 43 states rated by Fitch have a combined
liability greater than 10 percent,” Douglas Offerman and other
Fitch analysts in New York said in the study. “States with the
highest combined metrics, including Hawaii,  Illinois ,
Connecticut, and  Kentucky , have seen credit deterioration in
recent years reflecting in part their liability burdens.”  The Fitch analysis pushes  California , ranked ninth-highest
with a tax-supported debt ratio of 5.8 percent of personal
income, to 15th at 8.9 percent with pension obligations. The
Golden State’s general-obligation bonds are rated A- by Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch, seventh-highest and the lowest among rated
state debt. Illinois, which Fitch scores one step higher at A,
jumps to second place at 25 percent from eighth, at 6.2 percent.  Rankings Little Changed  Connecticut and Hawaii both fund local school capital and
teacher pensions, boosting their obligations, the analysts said.
Hawaii’s combined ratio is about 26 percent of personal income,
the highest value among rated states, compared with 9.2 percent
for tax-supported debt, second highest.  Connecticut  ranked third
at almost 23 percent, followed by Kentucky at about 22 percent.  Massachusetts (STOMA1) , which tops debt rankings at about 10 percent
before pensions are added, falls to a sixth-highest 18 percent.
Ranked without retirement obligations, Connecticut is second at
9.3 percent of income, followed by Hawaii at 9.2 percent.  Tennessee (STOTN1)  has the lowest combined amount, at 2 percent of
personal income, followed by  Iowa , 2.2 percent,  Idaho , 2.5
percent, and  South Dakota , 2.6 percent, according to the report.
The four were among the 10 with the smallest tax-supported debt.  In assessing state pension obligations, Fitch analysts
assumed a 7 percent rate of return on invested assets, rather
than the 8 percent average used by most major statewide plans,
according to the report. That produced larger retirement
obligations for states except Indiana and  Virginia .  The company won’t use the new measurements to evaluate
local government tax-supported debt because of insufficient
data, the analysts said in the report. The new figures also
aren’t expected to lead to state rating changes, they said.  Once state and local governments implement new pension
accounting standards from the  Governmental Accounting Standards
Board  later this year, Fitch analysts plan to revisit their
measurements. They called today’s study an “interim” analysis.  “Debt and pensions are fundamentally different types of
obligations, and the combined metric is inherently more
variable,” the analysts said in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  