-- India Court Orders Pollution Agency on Sterlite Time Extension
-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-03-28T10:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/india-court-orders-pollution-agency-on-sterlite-time-extension.html
India ’s top court today ordered the
Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board to decide on giving more time
to  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT)  to comply with emission
standards at its copper smelter in the southern state.  The Board has four weeks to decide on allowing more time to
the company, the nation’s largest copper producer, to dispose of
gypsum at its Tuticorin plant, Supreme Court Judges H. L. Dattu
and Anil Dave said today in an order. The company had sought an
extension of a May 30 deadline to clear the copper-refining
waste.  The Madras High Court on Sept. 28, 2010 ruled Sterlite’s
400,000 metric-ton smelter should be shut for breaching
environmental standards. The company challenged the decision in
the top court in October. India is tightening rules to protect
ecologically sensitive regions, prevent illegal mining and
safeguard the resources and livelihood of the people living
around mines and factories.  Shares of Sterlite, owned by billionaire  Anil Agarwal , fell
2 percent to 109.65 rupees at close of trade in Mumbai. The
shares have risen 22 percent this year, compared with an 11
percent gain in the benchmark Sensitive Index.  The court granted an interim extension to run the plant
until June 30, the order said. The court will hear the final
arguments by July, the order said.  On Oct. 11, the court had asked the pollution control
authority to issue directions to the copper smelter to implement
environmental improvements. The court had earlier ordered the
board to issue notice to the company to comply with emission
standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  