-- Instant Tax Service, Franchisees Accused of Fraud by U.S.
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-28T21:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/instant-tax-service-franchisees-accused-of-fraud-by-u-s-1-.html
ITS Financial LLC, the Dayton,
Ohio-based Instant Tax Service franchiser and franchisees were
accused of fraud by the U.S.  Justice Department .  The department today said it filed federal lawsuits against
ITS operators in Indianapolis,  Chicago , Las Vegas and Kansas
City, Kansas, claiming they intentionally prepare and file
fraudulent tax returns with the aim of maximizing both customer
refunds and their own preparation fees.  “The government claims these fees are outrageously high --
for example up to $1,000 for preparing tax returns in as little
as 15 minutes -- and are often not disclosed to customers” in
advance, the Justice Department said a press statement
announcing the filings.  “ITS Financial knew of illegal activity within its
franchises but took no meaningful steps to stop it,” the U.S.
alleged in a fifth complaint, filed today at the federal court
in Dayton. It seeks court orders barring the franchiser and each
franchisee from continuing in the tax preparation business.  According to the ITS  website , the company was founded in
2004 by Chief Executive Officer Fez Ogbazion and has grown to be
the fourth-biggest U.S. tax preparer, with locations in 34
states.  Ogbazion is named as a defendant in the Dayton-filed
complaint. Legal department officials at ITS’s headquarters
weren’t immediately available to comment on the complaints.  That case is U.S. v. Ogbazion, 12-cv-95, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  Ohio  (Dayton). Other cases are U.S.
v. Ghebremichael, 12-cv-2282, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Illinois  (Chicago); U.S. v. Franklin, 12-cv-394,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Indiana
(Indianapolis); U.S. v. Tewolde, 12-cv-516, U.S. District Court,
District of Nevada (Las Vegas) and U.S. v. Tsehaye, 12-cv-2183,
U.S. District Court, District of  Kansas  (Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  