-- Iran Nuclear Talks to Resume in April Backed by Erdogan
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-28T13:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/iran-nuclear-talks-to-resume-in-april-backed-by-erdogan.html
Iran’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said today that negotiations over the country’s
controversial nuclear program will resume next month.  Salehi, who spoke to reporters as he welcomed Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  in Tehran, said that April 13 has
been set as the date for the next nuclear talks, and the
location will be announced “in days.”  Iran, at loggerheads with the U.S. and its allies over its
nuclear activities, is coming under increasing pressure with the
piling up of international economic, financial and energy
measures against it. A European oil ban on Iranian crude oil
imports is set to start on July 1.  Speaking at a joint press conference with Vice President
Mohammad Reza Rahimi today, Erdogan said that “so long” as
Iran’s nuclear energy projects has peaceful purposes, “no one
has the right to impose sanctions,” Turkey’s state-run Anatolia
news agency reported.  Turkey  is keen to bring a “positive contribution” to the
process, Erdogan said according to Anatolia. Turkish officials
have earlier offered to host the talks.  During his two-day trip, Erdogan will also meet with
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Parliamentary Speaker  Ali Larijani , the official  Islamic Republic News Agency  reported.  The U.S. and the EU accuse Iran of seeking to develop
atomic weapons under cover of its nuclear program. Iran rejects
the claim, saying it needs the technology to secure energy for
its growing population and for medical research.  World Powers  Iran last held nuclear meetings with world powers in Turkey
in January 2011. The talks with the so-called P5+1 broke down
without any commitments to hold future negotiations. The 5+1
countries are the  United Nations Security Council ’s permanent
members -- the U.S., the U.K.,  China , France and Russia -- plus
Germany.  Erdogan met with President Barack Obama on March 25 in
Seoul, where he attended a summit meeting on nuclear security.
Erdogan told the U.S. leader about his Iran travel plans and
said he would press the Iranian government to halt its support
for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, U.S. Deputy National
Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  said.  Salehi said today that his country and Turkey have
“differences” on Syria though they are working on reaching
common ground, according to IRNA.  Erdogan is heading a delegation that includes Foreign
Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  as well as Turkey’s energy minister,
economy minister and minister of environment and urban
development,  Iran ’s state-run  Fars  news agency reported. Erdogan
will be traveling to the northeastern city of Mashhad late
today, the Iranian state-run  Mehr  news agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  