-- Iran’s Centrifuge ‘Workshops’ Complicate Raid Planning
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-03-28T19:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/iran-s-centrifuge-workshops-add-to-difficulties-facing-israel.html
Iran ’s “workshops” for making
nuclear centrifuges and components for the devices are widely
dispersed and hidden, adding to the difficulties of a potential
military strike by Israel, according to a new report by U.S.
congressional researchers.  Neither Israel nor the U.S. is certain of the locations of
all such facilities, analysts at the  Congressional Research
Service  wrote in the report obtained today. The analysts cited
interviews with current and former U.S. government officials
familiar with the issue who weren’t identified.  Israel’s capability to halt or set back  Iran’s nuclear
program  through a military strike has been central to the debate
over whether Israel should undertake such a mission alone. While
President  Barack Obama  has urged more time for economic
sanctions to work, Israeli officials led by Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  and Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  say it may
soon be too late to prevent Iran from developing the capability
to produce a nuclear weapon.  The possibility of dispersed facilities complicates any
assessment of a potential raid’s success, making it “unclear
what the ultimate effect of a strike would be on the likelihood
of Iran acquiring nuclear weapons,” the report found.  A U.S. official said in April 2011 that there “could be
lots of workshops’ in Iran,” the authors said. Last month, a
former U.S. government official with “direct experience” in
the issue told the researchers that “Iran’s centrifuge
production is widely distributed and that the number of
workshops has probably multiplied ‘many times’ since 2005
because of an increase in Iranian contractors and subcontractors
working on the program.”  Left Intact  “An attack that left Iran’s conversion and centrifuge
production facilities intact would considerably reduce” the
time Iran would need to resume its nuclear work, said the
congressional researchers led by Jim Zanotti, a Middle Eastern
affairs specialist. He wrote the report with analysts  Kenneth Katzman , Jeremiah Gertler and Steven Hildreth.  Israel, the U.S. and European allies say they are concerned
that Iran may begin trying to produce the highly enriched
uranium needed for a nuclear weapon. Iran says its nuclear
program is intended solely to generate power and for medical
research. Centrifuges spin at high speeds to separate uranium
isotopes.  Michael Hayden , a former director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, said in January “that neither the U.S. nor
Israel knows the location of all key Iranian nuclear-related
facilities,” according to the congressional researchers.  Six Months  Assessments vary on how much impact a military attack would
have on Iran’s centrifuge facilities. An executive branch
official who wasn’t named told the research service last month
that Iran doesn’t have enough spare centrifuges or components to
install new devices immediately, the authors wrote. A former
official said the same day that Iran probably could rebuild or
replicate most centrifuge workshops within six months, the
researchers said.  Nuclear inspectors for the  International Atomic Energy
Agency  have sought for years to regain access to centrifuge
workshops.  “The agency’s knowledge of Iran’s workshops has
deteriorated since Iran ended this access in early 2006,” the
researchers wrote.  The IAEA wrote in a November 2007 report that the agency’s
knowledge of Iran’s program was “diminishing” because of
restricted access to centrifuge workshops, even though Iranian
answers about its past centrifuge programs were “consistent”
with inspectors’ findings.  Bunker-Buster Bombs  The Congressional Research Service report outlined some of
the challenges Israel would confront in planning an attack.  Iran’s above-ground facilities at Esfahan and Arak could be
hit using a variety of weapons, the researchers said.  The commercial enrichment facility at Natanz, said to be
buried 26 feet (8 meters) underground, could be attacked with
U.S.-supplied bunker-buster bombs. The laser-guided, 2,000-pound
GBU-27 can penetrate as much as six feet of reinforced concrete
and the 5,000-pound GBU-28 is capable of piercing 20 feet of
concrete, the CRS researchers said.  Israel  doesn’t have the largest U.S. bunker-buster bomb,
the 30,000-pound Massive Ordnance Penetrator, which can be
carried only on the B-2 stealth bomber.  ‘Unique Challenge’  The deeply buried site at Fordo “offers a unique
challenge,” according to the report. “Israel’s current earth-
penetrating munitions may be ineffective,” it said. Analysts
have said Fordo, built into a mountain, is 295 feet underground.  It may not be necessary to destroy a facility to disrupt
its operations, the researchers said.  Centrifuges require an “enormous degree of precision to
work and even a relatively minor shock or other event can
destroy a centrifiuge’s utility,” according to the report.  At Fordo, “assuming that munitions would not be able to
penetrate the mountainous terrain over the facility, the
question would be how well the centrifuges have been isolated
from shock and the possible blast effects of an attack on the
facility’s entrance,” the report found.  Reconstitution Concerns  Centrifuge production facilities are important “because
that’s where the reconstitution of the program begins” after an
attack, said Peter Crail, a specialist in the spread of nuclear-
weapons technology at the Arms Control Association policy group
in  Washington .  Iran probably would kick out United Nations inspectors
after a strike and may move directly to enriching uranium to
weapons-grade, a step the Iranians have avoided thus far, Crail
said today in an interview.  That would let Iran’s scientists build a few thousand
centrifuges rather than the tens of thousands it’s producing
now, and set up a new enrichment facility dedicated to weapons-
grade uranium rather than trying to rebuild an existing plant
such as the one at Natanz should it be destroyed, he said.  “At some point they are going to reconstitute the
program,” Crail said. “It’s really just a question of can they
do it within a year or two or is it going to take them a little
bit longer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  