-- Loeb Says Yahoo Was ‘Absurd’ to Reject Him as Board Member
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-03-28T21:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/third-point-says-yahoo-was-absurd-to-reject-loeb-as-director.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  investor  Daniel Loeb ,
who is lobbying to gain seats on the board, lashed out at the
 Internet company  for spurning him as a director, saying it was
operating in an “illogical Alice-in-Wonderland world.”  Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson  told Loeb he
wasn’t named a director because he “would not be additive to
the board” and would be “conflicted” because he’s a large
shareholder, according to an open letter Loeb sent to Thompson.
Earlier this week,  Yahoo (YHOO)  announced it was adding three new
directors -- a group that didn’t include Loeb or any of his
nominees.  “Only in an illogical Alice-in-Wonderland world would a
shareholder be deemed to be conflicted from representing the
interests of other shareholders because he is, well, a
shareholder too,” Loeb, CEO of New York investment firm  Third
Point  LLC, said in the letter. “This sentiment further confirms
that Yahoo’s approach to board representation is ‘shareholders
not welcome.’”  Thompson, who took charge in January, shook up the  board 
amid mounting pressure from investors to make changes at the
struggling company. Third Point, which owns about 5.8 percent of
Yahoo, wasn’t satisfied with the move and is pushing ahead with
plans to wage a proxy fight. The firm is seeking a shareholder
vote on a slate of four new directors, including Loeb.  Board Negotiations  Yahoo (YHOO)  said earlier this week that the board had offered to
add one of Third Point’s nominees,  Harry Wilson , and another
member that both sides could agree to. Loeb rejected the
proposal and refused to back down from the dispute unless he
himself was named a director, Yahoo said.  “Yahoo has been moving aggressively to intensify its focus
on delivering  shareholder value ,” the Sunnyvale, California-
based company said today in a response to Loeb’s letter.
“Unfortunately, Mr. Loeb rejected our efforts to bring Third
Point’s perspective into the boardroom through the offer of two
board seats. Nevertheless, the board made clear to Mr. Loeb that
it remains open to hearing Third Point’s ideas and to working
constructively with Third Point, as with all of its
shareholders.’”  Yahoo reached out to Third Point on the nominees to avoid
the “cost and distraction that inevitably accompanies a proxy
fight,” the company said earlier this week. Still, the  board 
determined that other nominees were more qualified than Loeb to
be a director, Yahoo said.  Third Point remains willing to work with the company,
according to today’s letter from Loeb.  “By seeking four seats, Third Point does not look to
control the board, and any individual voice in the room would be
only one of 11 or 12,” Loeb said. “It is absurd to assert a
‘conflict’ that would render a board member unqualified based
either on ownership or a sense of urgency to repair a company
that has been -- by your own admission -- languishing for
years.”  Yahoo shares  fell less than 1 percent to $15.32 today. The
stock has declined 5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  