-- Israel’s Kadima Party Chooses Ex-Army Head Mofaz as New Leader
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-03-28T06:42:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/israel-s-kadima-party-chooses-ex-army-head-mofaz-as-new-leader.html
Israel ’s main opposition party,
Kadima, elected Shaul Mofaz, a former army chief and defense
minister, as its new leader over incumbent Tzipi Livni in a
primary vote yesterday.  Mofaz won with 62 percent against Livni’s 37 percent, with
41 percent of the party’s membership voting, the Kadima
spokesman’s office said in an e-mailed statement today.  Livni had succeeded  Ehud Olmert  as prime minister and
Kadima head in 2008 after his resignation in a corruption
scandal. Livni led Kadima in the 2009 national elections in
which the group won 28 seats in parliament, the most of any
party.  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Likud party took one less seat and
was able to form a coalition government.  “I intend to win in general elections and turn Netanyahu
out of office,” Mofaz said today on Israel Radio. He would
pursue “more serious efforts to attain peace in our region,”
he said.  Livni and Mofaz have criticized Netanyahu as not being
flexible toward talks with the Palestinians. A poll published by
the Haaretz daily on March 8 showed Likud winning 35 to 37
seats, about three times as many as Kadima under the leadership
of either Livni or Mofaz. Elections must be held by November
2013.  Mofaz, 63, was born in  Iran  and immigrated with his family
to Israel in 1957. In 1998 he become the military’s chief-of-
general-staff, and in 2002 was appointed defense minister in the
Likud-led government of then-Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.  As defense minister, Mofaz oversaw the withdrawal of all
troops and Jewish settlements from the  Gaza Strip  in 2005, an
operation that drew criticism from many in the Likud party.
Mofaz quit Likud with Sharon later that year to establish
Kadima.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 