-- History Forecasts CAC 40 Gain in Month to French Election
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-03-29T09:04:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/history-forecasts-cac-40-rally-in-the-month-to-french-election.html
France ’s  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  may rally in
the month leading up to the country’s presidential election in
May at a rate three times the average, if history is a guide.  The gauge has risen an average of 2.1 percent in the month
preceding the final voting in the past eight election years back
to 1965, surpassing the 0.7 percent increase in the monthly
rolling average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
NYSE Euronext. The index has dropped 2.8 percent on average in
the month following the election, the data show.  Investors including Jerome Forneris of Banque Martin Maurel
and Arnaud Scarpaci of Agilis Gestion SA, who are both buying
French shares with earnings most closely tied to the economy,
say they expect stocks to advance regardless of whether
incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy  or Socialist Francois Hollande is
favored to win. Voters will cast ballots on April 22 for the
first round and on May 6 for the final vote.  “The candidates have programs with good promises,” said
Forneris, who helps manage $11 billion at Banque Martin Maurel
in Marseille. “We buy the program and then after the election,
we sell on the news. After the election, the market often falls.
Promises often aren’t kept or the president says he can’t carry
out certain things right away.”  In the month before Sarkozy was elected in 2007, the CAC 40
climbed 5.8 percent, the most before a presidential vote since
 Francois Mitterrand  won a second term in 1988, when the index
advanced a record 11 percent in the prior month, according to
Bloomberg and Euronext data. The index advanced 1.6 percent in
the month following Sarkozy’s appointment, the data show.  Opinion Polls  Hollande would win the second round 54 percent to 46
percent for Sarkozy, according to an Ifop poll for Paris Match
published on March 23.  Both candidates want to increase taxes to cut the deficit
and to impose fees on financial transactions. Hollande says
he’ll meet Sarkozy’s goal of cutting the deficit to 3 percent of
gross domestic product by next year from 5.3 percent last year.
He says he wants to create a government bank to finance small
businesses and to target support for specific industries rather
than an across-the-board cut in employers’ contribution to
state-managed family allowances.  Sarkozy is proposing a 13-billion euro ($17.3 billion) cut
in payroll charges to be funded with a higher value added tax,
to boost French competitiveness after the country’s trade gap
widened to a record 69.6 billion euros last year.  The CAC 40  rallied  8.6 percent this year through yesterday,
beating the 8 percent advance for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) .
The French equity gauge was up 23 percent from its almost 2 1/2-
year low on Sept. 22. It fell 0.1 percent to 3,427.44 as of
10:39 a.m. in Paris today.  Loading Up  “The electoral system pushes candidates to elaborate on
their economic projects,” said Emmanuel Soupre, who helps
oversee $5.5 billion at Neuflize Private Assets in Paris. “That
creates optimism. It’s not quantifiable. It is about the
psychology of the market.”  The benchmark index sank 17 percent last year, as concern
grew that the European debt crisis would hurt financial
companies such as  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole (ACA)  SA,
the nation’s second- and third-largest banks, respectively.
Societe Generale lost 57 percent in 2011 and  Credit Agricole 
slid 54 percent for the third- and fourth-biggest declines in
the index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Martin Maurel’s Forneris, who says the CAC 40 may gain 4 to
5 percent from now through mid-April, started buying cyclical
stocks about a month ago expecting them to double the index’s
increase. His recent purchases include Societe Generale, PSA
Peugeot Citroen and  Legrand SA. (LG)   Growth Stocks  “There is a lot of liquidity out there and the environment
is improving,” he said. “The gain can only come through with
the help of financial stocks.”  Societe Generale has soared 33 percent this year after the
 European Central Bank ’s long-term refinancing operation lifted
lenders across the region.  Peugeot (UG) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
carmaker, jumped 20 percent and Legrand, the world’s largest
maker of wiring devices, increased 11 percent.  Still, some investors say any movement in the CAC 40 prior
to elections is unlikely to be attributed to national politics.  “There isn’t much correlation left between the CAC 40 and
the election,” said Louis de Fels, a Paris-based  money manager 
at Raymond James Asset Management International, which oversees
$35 billion worldwide. “Because of globalization, indexes
depend on world events now.”  Carmaker  Renault SA (RNO)  and Alcatel-Lucent, the Paris-based
networking-equipment maker, have posted the two biggest rallies
among all CAC 40 stocks so far this year, gaining 49 percent and
46 percent, respectively.  Scarpaci of Agilis Gestion in Paris, which oversees about
$84 million, recently bought shares of  Alstom SA (ALO) , saying
industrial shares will benefit from contract wins no matter who
is elected. Alstom, the third-largest power-equipment maker, is
up 26 percent this year.  “During the electoral period, there is optimism about
political change that will impact growth,” Scarpaci said.
“Cyclical stocks can lead the index higher.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 