-- Italy Sells Bills at Lowest Since 2010 as Crisis Concerns Ease
-- B y   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 3 5 2 6 4 1 ]   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   [ ]
-- 2012-03-28T11:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/italy-sells-bills-at-lowest-since-2010-as-crisis-concerns-ease.html
     March 28 (Bloomberg) -- Italy  auctioned 8.5 billion euros
($11.3 billion) of Treasury bills at the lowest rate in more
than a year as optimism that the euro-region’s debt crisis is
easing shored up demand for new debt.  At the auction today, the Rome-based Treasury sold 8.5
billion euros of six month bills at 1.119 percent, the lowest
since September 2010. Italy will sell as much as 8.25 billion
euros of five- and 10-year bonds tomorrow.  The euro area’s woes are “almost over” after a slow
initial response by policy makers, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said in  Tokyo  today. Monti said he doesn’t expect “flames
of crisis” to return as euro-zone nations implement closer
fiscal cooperation and seek to boost the region’s bailout funds.  The Italian auction came as European leaders move closer to
an agreement to boost the limit on rescue lending as they seek
to build a firewall against contagion after  Greece  restructured
its debt. Leaders are confident the extra capacity plus more
than 1 trillion euros pumped into the financial system by the
 European Central Bank  will down borrowing costs of the country’s
hardest hit by the crisis.  “When Monti makes these remarks he’s clearly speaking as a
politician and not as an economist,” said Nicola Marinelli, who
oversees $153 million at Glendevon King Asset Management in
 London . “He’s trying to spread his optimism to capitalize on the
success of his reforms, but he’s aware that Italy can return to
same situation seen last summer in less than two weeks if the
government loses its political majority or these reforms are
watered down in parliament.”  Market Gains  Monti’s optimism mirrors that of other European leaders.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said yesterday that the crisis
is ebbing and her country’s borrowing costs will probably rise
as its status as a haven wanes.  Stocks have risen on optimism the global recovery will be
sustained, with the U.S. jobless rate dropping, the ECB stepping
up liquidity support and euro-region leaders sealing a second
Greek bailout package. The Stoxx Europe 600 is up almost 9
percent this year, while the MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 12
percent and is headed for the biggest quarterly gain since the
three months through September 2009.  Borrowing Costs  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond was down 5 basis points
to 5.069 percent at 12:47 p.m. in  Rome , pushing the difference
with similar-maturity German debt to 319 basis points.  That yield has fallen by more than 2 percentage points
since Monti took over in November as his efforts to consolidate
public finances and spur economic growth, coupled with the ECB
lending convinced investors to return to Italy.  Monti is visiting Japan and  China  this week, seeking to
boost trade with major Asian economies and shore up confidence
in Italy’s ability to tame the nation’s 1.9 trillion-euro debt,
Europe’s second biggest. The premier is implementing a 20
billion-euro package of spending cuts and tax increases to
eliminate the  budget deficit  by 2013 and boost an economy that
has trailed the euro-region average for more than a decade.  Monti predicted a continued rally in Italian bonds, saying
a solution to Greece’s challenges is almost accomplished, Spain
is employing discipline and Italian actions have helped stop
deterioration in  Europe ’s woes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  