-- Japan Urges Cooperation, Dialogue With China on Rare Earths
-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-03-28T06:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/japan-urges-cooperation-dialogue-with-china-on-rare-earths-1-.html
Japan , the world’s biggest importer
of rare earths, wants international cooperation for alternatives,
conservation, diversification and recycling and to continue
dialogue with China to secure stable global supply.  “The supply chain of rare-earth related products is
connected globally,” Keiro Kitagami, vice minister at the
 Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry , said at the EU-Japan-
U.S.  conference  on critical materials in  Tokyo  today. “Problems
with rare earths are a common global challenge.”  The 17 chemically similar metallic elements are used in
applications ranging from wind turbines to guided missiles and
hybrid car batteries. The conference comes two weeks after the
U.S., the European Union and Japan filed a complaint at the
 World Trade Organization  on March 13 about Chinese limits on
exports.  China , which accounts for at least 90 percent of global
supplies, has curbed output and exports since 2009.  “Through this trilateral workshop, we can recognize the
importance of broader international cooperation among consumer
countries such as EU, the U.S. and Japan and resource countries
such as Canada and  Australia ,” Kitagami said. Japan, the U.S.
and  France  are major importers from China and produce
intermediate materials or products using rare earths, he said.  China’s export controls on raw materials are aimed at
protecting resources and the environment, Shen Danyang, a
spokesman for the Ministry of Commerce, said on March 15. Such
controls conform to WTO rules, he said.  China Dialogue  “It is also important for all of us to continue dialogue
with China,” Kitagami said. “We are ready to cooperate with
China in environmental protection, if this indeed is the real
reason for reducing exports.”  Japan’s trade ministry also provides financial support to
rare earth recycling projects and supports the development of
new mines and refineries outside China, Kitagami said.  “Although the consumption rate of rare-earth elements used
in areas such as next-generation automobiles and wind power
plants, has been decreasing, the total amount of consumption is
forecast to increase due to worldwide growth of green
industries,” he said.  The U.S. Energy Department said in January that limited
supplies of five rare-earth minerals -- dysprosium, terbium,
europium, neodymium and yttrium -- pose a threat to increasing
use of clean-energy technologies such as wind turbines and solar
panels. While prices of rare earths fell in the second half of
2011, they remain volatile, leading some companies to search for
ways to consider reducing reliance on the minerals, the Energy
Department said.  Demand for rare earths may rebound following a 25 percent
slump in prices this year, Morgan Stanley said on March 5. That
would benefit producers of the metals such as  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) ,
which owns the largest rare-earth deposit outside of China,
located near Mountain Pass,  California .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  