-- Japan’s Retail Sales Beat Forecasts as Confidence Returns
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-03-29T02:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/japan-retail-sales-beat-forecasts-as-consumer-confidence-returns.html
Japan ’s retail sales rose more than
economists forecast in February, indicating that  consumer
confidence  is returning as reconstruction demand boosts the
world’s third-biggest economy.  Sales (JNNETYOY)  increased 3.5 percent from a year earlier, the
biggest advance since Aug. 2010, the Trade Ministry said in
Tokyo today. The median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 1.4 percent increase. From a month
earlier, sales gained 2 percent.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbing to pre-earthquake
levels and a government subsidy for buyers of fuel-efficient
cars are aiding domestic demand, while declines in the yen have
helped exporters. Gross domestic product may expand an
annualized 1.7 percent this quarter after a 0.7 percent
contraction in the final three months of last year, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “Today’s report adds to evidence that Japan’s economy will
return to growth this quarter,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist
at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “Consumer spending will likely hold
steady, supported by reconstruction demand and the government’s
subsidy program.”  Today’s gains in year-on-year retail sales were magnified
by the leap year that provided more shopping days in February
compared with last year, Kato said. Still, the overall trend of
retail sales is strong, she said.  Auto Sales  Sales of automobiles advanced 21.4 percent, the biggest
contributor to the gain in overall sales, today’s report showed.
Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest seller of gasoline-
electric autos, forecasts sales in its home market will grow 30
percent from a year earlier to 2.32 million units on higher
demand for a new small Prius model and its other hybrids after
the Japanese government introduced the incentives.  The Japanese government began waiving some taxes and
offering rebates for certified low-emission vehicles in
December, allocating 300 billion yen ($3.8 billion) in the
fiscal budget. Eligible consumers will be exempt from paying the
3 percent purchase tax, the 2,500 yen per half-ton duty and
receive a rebate, according to the nation’s transport ministry.  “The eco-car subsidy has made a big difference to spending
on autos,” David Rea, an economist at London-based Capital
Economics Ltd., said before the report. “As the outlook starts
to brighten, we’ll see  consumer spending  rising further.”  Consumer Confidence  A consumer confidence index is back at pre-quake levels and
next week’s Tankan index of corporate sentiment may show that
large manufacturers are less pessimistic, a Bloomberg News
survey indicates.  Shares in  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , which opened the world’s
largest Uniqlo clothing store this month, said March 2 that
same-store sales at its Uniqlo Japan outlets rose 2.3 percent in
the September-February period on strong sales of winter
clothing.  Seven & I Holdings Co. (3382)  Ltd., a convenience store
chain, will make a record full-year operating profit of about
290 billion yen, the Nikkei newspaper reported March 16, without
stating where it obtained its information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  