-- Jefferies Said to Hire Epstein From BNP to Expand in ETF Trading
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-03-28T15:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/jefferies-said-to-hire-epstein-from-bnp-to-expand-in-etf-trading.html
Jared Epstein, the former head of
flow credit trading at BNP Paribas SA, has been hired by
 Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  to trade fixed-income exchange-traded
funds, according to people familiar with the decision.  Jefferies has decided to expand into exchange-traded funds
tied to debt, with Epstein being brought in to help build the
business, said one of the people, who asked not to be named
because the decision hasn’t been made public. The New York-based
firm offers its clients market-making services in equity
exchange-traded funds, according to its website.  The funds are gaining in popularity with individuals as the
 Federal Reserve  says it will keep benchmark  interest rates  near
zero until at least late 2014, As of Feb. 23, exchange-traded
funds for speculative-grade bonds were drawing the biggest
inflows on record from investors seeking access to higher-
yielding assets. Investors have bought $6 billion of investments
this year in the securities that track  junk-bond indexes , about
a third of all the money moving into high-yield funds this year,
according to a March 23 JPMorgan Chase & Co. report.  Richard Khaleel, a Jefferies spokesman, declined to
comment. Epstein didn’t respond to voicemails and text messages
sent to his mobile phone.  Epstein, who was appointed as head of flow credit trading
at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  in June 2009, previously worked for eight years
at Morgan Stanley, where he was a managing director in market-
making and proprietary trading, according to his BNP Paribas
biography. Earlier, he worked for Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
in structured credit trading. Megan Stinson, a spokeswoman for
BNP Paribas in  New York , yesterday confirmed Epstein’s
departure.  Flow credit trading is the business that serves as a
middle-man on the most liquid types of credit, compared with
proprietary trading or structured transactions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net 
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 