-- Jefferson’s Hildene Says S&P Ratings for Bank CDOs Are Too Low
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-03-28T18:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/jefferson-s-hildene-says-s-p-ratings-for-bank-cdos-are-too-low.html
Hildene Capital Management LLC, a
hedge fund with 24 percent annual returns since 2008 from wagers
on a type of bank bonds, says  Standard & Poor’s  ratings of the
debt are too low.  Brett Jefferson, who founded the firm in 2007, says the
credit-rating company is using a “ludicrous” methodology for
assessing TruPS CDOs, which are collateralized debt obligations
backed by trust-preferred securities. S&P ranks most of the
bonds as speculative grade, forcing the smaller banks that own
them to hold extra capital or sell at a loss, according to
Hildene, which manages about $400 million.  As the mortgage bubble popped, Congressional investigators
blamed S&P, a unit of New York-based  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , for
inflating its grades on securities backed by mortgage bonds,
allowing investors to amass debt that turned out to be toxic.
Now, as Jefferson sees it, S&P is roiling the $53 billion market
for the bank debt CDOs with overly pessimistic grades.  “The S&P securitization group’s negligence is creating an
iron grip on capital that is preventing recovery for these
organizations,” Jefferson wrote in a letter dated March 23 to
Henry Albulescu, an S&P executive who helps grade the bonds.  80% Failure Rate  By Hildene’s calculations, S&P’s ratings for the TruPS CDOs
imply that about 80 percent of banks in the U.S. will fail over
the next 20 years.  “It makes no sense,” Jefferson said in a telephone
interview. “They refuse to answer any questions.”  Hildene Capital invests in the securities, so it would
probably profit if their ratings were raised and that increased
demand for them. Jefferson said he last spoke with S&P’s
analysts in December.  Ed Sweeney , an S&P spokesman, said that the analysts
responsible for the ratings weren’t available for comment on
Hildene’s concerns. Albulescu didn’t respond to messages seeking
a response.  “Even a substantial improvement in the credit quality of
the assets held by trust preferred CDOs would not result in
significant upgrades,” Albulescu wrote in a report dated March
16. “We have not seen significant improvement in the credit
quality of the small banks.”  S&P gives lower ratings to 87 percent of 180 TruPS CDO
securities that also have scores from Moody’s Investors Service,
according to data provided by Hildene. In 53 cases, S&P grades a
bond CCC+ or lower, which means “currently vulnerable” to
default, while Moody’s rates it investment grade.  Discrepancy  “For ratings-sensitive investors such as banks and
insurance companies, it’s quite painful to hold CCC assets,”
said Ratul Roy, a structured credit analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
 New York .  The bonds are similar to other complex investments devised
by Wall Street banks that took pools of assets such as mortgages
and sliced them into pieces, many of which got top credit
ratings. In this case, the assets were TruPS, securities
typically issued by banks that counted as capital for regulatory
purposes because they rank between common stock and senior debt
in a bankruptcy.  The prices of TruPS CDOs have climbed since Hildene started
investing in them. Senior first-priority bonds are generally
trading at more than 50 cents on the dollar now, compared with
about 40 cents in 2009, according to Citigroup’s Roy.  Between 2000 and 2007, Wall Street bankers created 108
TruPS CDOs, helping community banks raise billions of dollars of
capital at low cost, researchers at the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  wrote in a  paper  last year. Many of those same
banks also invested in such deals, a decision that backfired
when the mortgage market crashed and  bank failures  escalated.  Revised Methodology  In July 2008, S&P announced that it was considering
downgrading all TruPS CDOs, saying the financial crisis made it
more likely that banks would defer payments. Ratings for the
bonds plunged, with some downgraded from AAA to CCC. That forced
some banks and insurers to sell the securities or hold more cash
to back them, and cut the amount of money hedge funds could
borrow against them. Ratings that are too low are as important a
problem as those that are inflated, according to  Gene Phillips ,
a director at New York-based consulting firm PF2 Securities
Evaluations Inc.  “It actually forces some people, some funds, some banks,
to realize a loss, even when it’s fictitious,” Phillips said in
a telephone interview. “That’s a real frustration, especially
if they’re wrong.”  One reason S&P’s ratings are so low is that the company
treats any bank that is deferring payments on its TruPS as
defaulting, Jefferson said. Issuers of the securities can delay
payments for five years and can make up the missed coupons
later. S&P also doesn’t disclose its grades for the small banks
whose securities are included in the CDOs, he said.  Bank Failures  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.’s confidential list of
“problem” banks -- those deemed to be at greater risk of
collapsing -- fell for a third straight quarter to 813 from 844,
the agency said last month. There were 18 failures in the three-
month period that ended Dec. 31, bringing the year’s total to
92, compared with 157 in 2010.  Banks that issued securities included in the CDOs defaulted
at about a 10 percent rate from 2007 to 2011, double the 5
percent rate for all lenders insured by the FDIC during the
period, according to the Philadelphia Fed paper. TruPS are rated
lower than bonds issued by the banks would be because they rank
lower in bankruptcy, Albulescu wrote in the March 16 report.  Default Probabilities  The banks that issued the securities “tend, on average, to
be smaller and less capitalized than the majority of the FDIC-
insured banks, and therefore, generally more likely to
defer/default,” Albulescu wrote.  On TruPS CDOs also rated by Moody’s, S&P’s grades are about
six levels lower on average, the difference between CCC and BB,
according to the Hildene data. The biggest discrepancy is 13
levels, such as on the most-senior portion of a CDO issued in
2004 called Trapeza CDO VI, which is graded Aa3 by Moody’s and
CCC+ by S&P, the data show.  “Yes, there can be differences of opinion,” Jefferson
said. “If one person is rating something AAA and another person
is rating it BB+, somebody’s right and somebody’s wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  