-- JetBlue Case Shows Airline-Pilot Health Checks Not 100%
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-29T17:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/jetblue-case-shows-airline-pilot-health-checks-not-100-.html
U.S. aviation regulators rely on
airline pilots to disclose mental-health treatment when they
undergo medical screening as often as once every six months.  Still, it’s relatively easy for pilots -- including Clayton
Osbon, the JetBlue captain who was locked out of the cockpit by
his co-pilot and tackled by passengers March 27 after becoming
erratic -- to conceal psychological issues,  Richard Jennings , a
doctor on the faculty at the University of  Texas  Medical Branch
in Galveston, said in a phone interview.  “To a large degree, the aviation medical examiner has to
depend on the honesty of the aviator,” said Jennings, who is
authorized to perform pilot exams by the  Federal Aviation
Administration . “It’s just a snapshot.”  Pilots must disclose “mental disorders of any sort;
depression, anxiety, etc.,” according to an exam form supplied
by the Federal Aviation Administration yesterday. They must say
whether they’re using medications or have neurological
disorders.  While the system may be flawed, overhauling it to more
closely examine mental health isn’t warranted, Farhad Sahiar,
director of aerospace medicine at the Wright State University
Boonshoft School of Medicine in Dayton,  Ohio , said in a phone
interview.  The additional workload on physicians wouldn’t be worth the
small number of unstable pilots it would identify, said Sahiar,
a doctor who performs pilot exams for the FAA.  No U.S. Deaths  The stakes are already high for pilots who volunteer any
mental health issues, Chesley “Sully” Sullenberger III said
today in an interview on Bloomberg Television.  “If we make it more punitive, we’ll drive people
underground,” said Sullenberger, the retired  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC)  pilot who safely crash-landed a crippled jet into  New
York ’s  Hudson River  in January 2009.  There’s never been a U.S. airline passenger death
attributed to a pilot health issue, physical or mental, Jennings
said.  “This is probably not because we are so smart as
doctors,” he said. “Certainly pilots have heart attacks in
flight. But what are the chances of two people having a medical
episode that threatens passengers? It’s that second pilot that’s
critical and it always has been.”  The FAA is conducting a “full investigation” of the
JetBlue incident, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  Osbon remains in a medical facility in Amarillo, Texas,
where the co-pilot diverted the plane and landed safely, said
Jenny Dervin, a spokeswoman for New York-based JetBlue. Osbon
was charged by U.S. prosecutors yesterday with interfering with
the plane’s flight crew, which carries a maximum penalty of 20
years in prison and a $250,000 fine.  Psychological Questions  The FAA requires airline pilots to get a medical checkup
once a year until they reach 40 and twice a year after that.
Osbon passed his most recent exam in December, according to his
pilot license information on the FAA website.  Agency-approved medical examiners ask pilots about their
psychological condition, according to the FAA. Doctors may also
request a psychological exam if a pilot reports issues that
raise concern or displays unusual behavior, according to the
agency.  Lying on the FAA’s medical questionnaire is punishable by
as much as $250,000 in fines and five years in jail.  The  Air Line Pilots Association , the largest pilots’ union
in  North America , defended the FAA system in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “We are confident the FAA medical
standards are appropriate,” the Washington-based union said.  Depression Concerns  Family members, co-workers, random drug testing and airline
health programs form an important safety net to identify pilots
who are mentally unstable, Jennings said.  Those methods would be more reliable at detecting
potentially dangerous lapses in mental health even if more
extensive psychological exams were required, he said.  Regulators and doctors have wrestled with how to react to
research showing commercial pilots underreport depression,
Patrick Veillette, a corporate pilot who has written on the role
of pilot health and safety, said in an interview. The stigma of
having to admit they are suffering, combined with the threat of
being taken off the job, leads many pilots to deny they are
depressed, Veillette said.  The  FAA two years ago  began allowing airline pilots to take
psychiatric medicines such as Prozac provided they can show
after one year they are stable and healthy, Jennings said.  Veillette, citing his own examinations of thousands of
anonymous safety-related reports by corporate pilots to  NASA ,
said he’s found only a handful of incidents that describe mental
health issues.  “The aeromedical exams and questions have been very
effective at preventing these from happening in flight,” he
said.  Indonesia, Japan  The systems of vetting pilots around the world for mental
illness isn’t perfect, however. In at least three cases since
1982, accident investigators suspect that deranged pilots
intentionally downed airliners, killing a total of 345 people.
None of those cases involved U.S. pilots.  On Oct. 31, 1999, an Egyptair flight crashed in the
Atlantic Ocean off  Massachusetts  after the co-pilot shut off the
engines and dove, according to the U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board. All 217 people aboard died.  The co-pilot had been reprimanded days prior to the flight,
according to NTSB records.  A SilkAir flight in  Indonesia  crashed on Dec. 19, 1997,
after both of the jet’s flight recorders were disabled, killing
the 104 people aboard.  The NTSB, which was assisting Indonesian officials, issued
a report that said the steep dive was intentional and probably
caused by the captain.  A pilot on a Japan Airlines flight, who had suffered from a
psychological disorder, crashed his plane into Tokyo Bay on Feb.
9, 1982, killing 24 people, according to the
 AviationSafetyNetwork  website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  