-- JetBlue Pilot Faces Charges of Interfering With Crew
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-03-29T14:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/jetblue-pilot-in-rant-called-consummate-professional-.html
The  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  captain
whose erratic behavior spurred his co-pilot to bar the cockpit
door was charged with interfering with the plane’s flight crew
and was held for observation.  Clayton Frederick Osbon, 49, could be sentenced to as long
as 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine for his actions aboard
a New York-to-Las Vegas flight, U.S. Attorney Sarah R. Saldana
in  Dallas , said yesterday in a statement.  Osbon doesn’t have a date for a first court appearance in
Amarillo,  Texas , prosecutor Christy Lee Drake said by phone.  JetBlue has secured attorneys for Osbon and they are in
Amarillo, Jenny Dervin, an airline spokeswoman, said today. The
carrier earlier suspended Osbon from duty pending the conclusion
of an investigation, she said.  Osbon is being evaluated at a medical facility in Amarillo,
where the plane he was piloting on March 27 was diverted after
he turned off its radios, dimmed his monitors and told the first
officer on board that “we need to take a leap of faith,”
according to court documents.  After the plane left John F. Kennedy International Airport,
Osbon “started trying to correlate completely unrelated numbers
like different radio frequencies, and he talked about sins in
 Las Vegas ,” according to court filings. “At some point, Osbon
told the first officer, ‘We’re not going to Vegas.’ He then
began giving what the first officer described as a sermon,”
according to the filing.  Wrestled to Floor  Flight 191’s co-pilot locked out Osbon when he left the
flight deck, prosecutors said. Passengers wrestled him to the
floor after he shouted and banged on the cockpit door, the
 Federal Aviation Administration  said. He was yelling about
Jesus, Sept. 11, Iraq, Iran and terrorists, prosecutors said.
The jet landed safely in Amarillo.  Allison Steinberg, a spokeswoman for JetBlue, said Osbon is
a flight standards officer for the New York-based airline, who
instructs, evaluates and mentors officers on the airline’s twin-
engine Airbus SAS A320s.  A phone number listed for Osbon in Savannah,  Georgia ,
wouldn’t accept messages.  The airline declined to release further personal details on
Osbon or the co-pilot who diverted the plane to Amarillo,
assisted by an off-duty JetBlue pilot. The crew of Flight 191
was given time off, said Steinberg, declining to elaborate.  JetBlue Chief Executive Officer Dave Barger said in an
interview on NBC’s “Today” show that the airline will review
its pilot screening process, adding that he is “very confident
in our procedures and the industry’s procedures.”  Medical Checkup  FAA rules require that airline pilots under 40 receive a
medical checkup once a year and older ones every six months,
according to the agency’s website. The exam includes questions
about mental health.  The A320 was about halfway into the journey of about 2,250
miles (3,620 kilometers) and cruising at about 34,000 feet when
the incident occurred, based on  data compiled  by
FlightAware.com, a real-time flight tracking site. On board were
135 passengers and five crew members.  “It seemed like something was off with him,” Gabriel
Schonzeit, a Flight 191 passenger, said in a  video  posted on the
website of the Amarillo Globe-News newspaper. “Within a short
period of time, he started screaming about al-Qaeda and a bomb
on the plane and Iraq and  Iran  and how we’re all going down.”  As the co-pilot declared a medical emergency and diverted
to Amarillo, the plane descended more than 28,100 feet in about
13 minutes, more than twice as fast as the approach that would
have been used to Las Vegas, the data show.  ‘Need Authorities’  “We’re going to need authorities and medical assist to
meet us at the airplane,” Flight 191 told Amarillo air traffic
control in a recording posted on the website LiveATC.net  Law enforcement officials “secured the pilot without
incident” after landing, the FAA said in a statement.  The plane landed in Amarillo at about 10:11 a.m. local
time. It left New York at 7:28 a.m.  The case is U.S. v. Osbon, 2:12-MJ-22, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Amarillo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  