-- Harrisburg Receiver Calls for State-Federal Investigation
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-29T19:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/judge-strips-harrisburg-agency-of-control-over-incinerator.html
Harrisburg (9661MF) ’s receiver requested
state and federal probes of “possible illegal activities” in
financing a waste-to-energy incinerator overhaul that pushed
 Pennsylvania ’s capital into insolvency.  In letters sent yesterday to U.S. Attorney  Peter J. Smith 
in Harrisburg and Pennsylvania Attorney General Linda Kelly,
David Unkovic, the city’s state-appointed receiver, cited an
audit that said municipal officials and advisers “knew or
should have known that, at a minimum, there was substantial
risk” the plant wouldn’t produce enough revenue to cover costs.  “If there is a possibility there has been illegal things
going on, it’s not my job to make that determination, so I
decided to ask the authorities to investigate,” Unkovic said
today in an interview in his office. The audit was released in
January for the Harrisburg Authority, which oversees the
incinerator run by a unit of  Covanta Holding Corp. (CVA)   Heidi Havens, a spokeswoman for Smith, and Nils
Frederiksen, a spokesman for Kelly, declined to comment on the
request for examinations of the plant’s financing.  Unkovic, who has proposed selling the incinerator to help
pay off more than $300 million in related debt owed by the city,
said a March 22 court decision to strip control of the plant
from the authority also prompted his letters. Under the order,
another receiver will be appointed to oversee the facility.  Incinerator Receiver  The ruling by county Judge Todd A. Hoover approved a
request by creditors, Dauphin County, of which Harrisburg is the
seat, and Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., a bond-insurance
unit of  Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  The county and the insurer had
covered incinerator debt payments the city skipped and sued to
recoup their money.  The new receiver probably won’t interfere with Unkovic’s
effort to solve the financial crisis in Harrisburg, Hoover said
in the ruling, made public March 27. Unkovic has proposed
selling or leasing other municipal assets to cover the city’s
debt, which is five times its general-fund budget.  “I was very concerned about the effect of this order by
Judge Hoover to put back the incinerator to parties who caused
the massive debt,” Unkovic said.  He characterized the deals to fund an overhaul and
expansion of the incinerator as a “joint venture” between the
city, county and bond insurer.  ‘Risky’ Venture  “It was a risky joint venture, and they all knew it was a
risky venture,” Unkovic said.  Ashweeta Durani, a spokeswoman for Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Assured, didn’t have an immediate comment on Unkovic’s remarks.
Amy Richards Harinath, a Dauphin County spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Harrisburg’s City Council also has called for a federal
probe of the incinerator financing. Smith, in a Feb. 21 response
to council President Wanda Williams, said the request was under
review and that the audit had been forwarded to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Unkovic’s request brings greater weight to the council’s
efforts since “he’s been entrusted by the governor to do the
right thing,” Councilman Brad Koplinski said. “If he believes
a federal investigation is appropriate, we fully echo that and
appreciate the backup.”  Missed Payments  The city of 49,500, where 30 percent live in poverty,
announced March 9 it would miss $5.27 million in general-
obligation bond payments due March 15.  Unkovic is awaiting proposals to buy or lease the city’s
parking facilities and the operations of its water and sewer
system, as well as the incinerator.  “I’m proceeding with this process,” he said today.  Elisa Barsotti, a New York spokeswoman for  RBC Capital
Markets , a unit of Royal Bank of Canada, declined to comment on
Unkovic’s request for investigations. The bank was described in
the January audit as involved in numerous financial analyses for
the authority.  Representatives of two other firms identified in the audit
as financial advisers also didn’t respond to requests for
comment. Sandra Sosinski, a spokeswoman for Philadelphia-based
Public Financial Management Inc., didn’t reply to an e-mail
seeking comment. A message left at Investment Management
Advisory Group’s Pottstown, Pennsylvania, office yesterday
didn’t produce a response.  Bruce Barnes, president of Harrisburg-based Milt Lopus &
Associates Inc., another of the advisers, declined to comment.
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman in  Washington , declined to
comment.  The receiver case is TD Bank NA, v. The Harrisburg
Authority, 2010-CV-11737, Court of Common Pleas, Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia
at   rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 