-- Justices Suggest Parts of Health-Care Law May Be Dropped
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-03-28T22:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/justices-suggest-other-parts-of-health-law-may-be-thrown-out-1-.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices
indicated during three days of arguments that they may reject
the centerpiece of President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul
-- its requirement that Americans obtain insurance -- and bring
down other parts of the law with it.  The court concluded its hearings today on Obama’s signature
domestic achievement, designed to extend health coverage to 32
million people. After casting doubt yesterday on the insurance
mandate’s survival, they tangled on the final day over the
consequences such a ruling would have.  “My approach would say, if you take the heart out of the
statute, the statute’s gone,” Justice  Antonin Scalia  said.  The 2010 health-care law revamps an industry that accounts
for 18 percent of the  U.S. economy . The court hasn’t overturned
legislation with such sweeping impact since the 1930s. The
justices heard more than six hours of arguments starting March
26.  Questions from the bench during yesterday’s hearing on
mandatory insurance coverage indicated the justices may split 5-
to-4, with the court’s five Republican appointees joining to
overturn that part of the law.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy , who most often occupies the
court’s ideological middle ground, said that by requiring
Americans to buy something, the law “changes the relationship
of the government to the individual in a very fundamental way.”  Rest of the Law  Today the court addressed what should happen to the rest of
the law if the insurance mandate is thrown out.  Justices across the ideological spectrum expressed interest
in overturning at least the provisions that require insurers to
cover people with pre-existing conditions. The Obama
administration and the  insurance industry  say those rules are so
closely linked to the mandate that they can’t remain without it.  The justices were divided on whether to go further and
throw out everything that remains of the health-care law if they
void the mandate. The court’s four Democratic appointees urged a
limited ruling and the Republican appointees offered various
levels of support for toppling the remaining provisions.  In a separate session today, the court heard arguments on
the law’s expansion of the  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  program for the poor.
Justices appointed by Democrats defended Congress’s power to
expand Medicaid, while those appointed by Republicans expressed
support for the argument made by 26 states that they would be
unlawfully coerced into participating in the expansion.  Ruling in June  The justices probably will rule in late June, months before
the November election. A ruling against the measure would give
ammunition to Obama’s Republican challengers, who have said the
law should be repealed.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Managed Health Care
Index of 12 insurance companies rose 0.33 percent at today’s
close as the broader  S&P 500 Index  declined.  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of U.S.
health-care companies is rising as investors hedge against
potential declines when the court rules.  Credit-default swaps linked to hospital operators HCA
Holdings Inc.,  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  and  Community Health
Systems Inc. (CYH)  are poised for the biggest monthly increase since
September, climbing an average 82 basis points to 598 basis
points, according to data provider CMA.  Supporters and Opponents  The courtroom today was crowded with spectators. Outside,
supporters and opponents rallied. “Liberty yes, Obamacare no!”
some chanted, as others fired back, “We love Obamacare!”  The government and the insurance industry say that if
Congress can’t make everybody have coverage, the justices should
toss out sections of the law that say insurers must issue
policies and set rates without regard to pre-existing health
conditions.  Without mandatory insurance, the government says those
provisions would create an industry “death spiral,” in which
only patients with costly health conditions would obtain
insurance. That would lead to higher premiums, which would
prompt healthy policyholders to drop coverage, causing more rate
increases, the government says.  Insurance industry groups, in a court brief, said Congress
structured new policy requirements in a “package deal” with
mandatory coverage.  ‘Sharp Dividing Line’  Justice  Elena Kagan , an Obama appointee, today pointed to
congressional findings supporting that argument. She said there
is a “sharp dividing line” between those insurance provisions
and other parts of the law, including the insurance exchanges
that would be created so people without employer-provided
coverage could buy policies.  Kagan suggested she would oppose overturning the entire
law, saying, “half a loaf is better than no loaf.”  Several justices disagreed on how the court could be most
deferential to Congress. Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  said that
perhaps the court should excise the mandate, if it’s found to be
unconstitutional, and let Congress sort out the next step.  “The bottom line is: Why don’t we let Congress fix it?”
Sotomayor asked.  Kennedy questioned whether it would be a “more extreme”
exercise of judicial power to strike down some of the statute
rather than all of it. Invalidating only the mandate would
“impose a risk on insurance companies that Congress had never
intended,” he said.  Black-Lung Benefits  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg
and  Stephen Breyer  said the law includes items, such as
reauthorizing black-lung benefits and an Indian health-care
measure, that aren’t related to the insurance mandate.  “Why make Congress redo those?” Ginsburg said. It would
be better to let Congress decide “whether it wants them in or
out,” she said.  Paul Clement , the lawyer for the 26 states challenging the
health law, argued that the court should invalidate the entire
statute if it decides the mandatory insurance section, which he
called “the very heart of this act,” is unconstitutional.  The mandate and the insurance coverage rules are connected
to insurance exchanges that would be created so people without
employer-provided insurance could buy coverage, he said. Those,
in turn, are related to tax benefits for employers that offer
insurance to their workers, he said.  Invalidating only the individual insurance mandate would be
the “worst-case scenario” for insurance companies, said Paul Heldman, a health-policy analyst at Potomac Research Group in
 Washington . “That would create an unstable market for insurers
in which they would be stuck covering the most expensive people
while leaving the healthier people off the insurance rolls.”  Medicaid Program  In an afternoon session today, the justices considered a
challenge by states to the expansion of the federal-state
 Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  health-insurance program for the poor.  The health law’s Medicaid expansion is designed to cover 17
million uninsured people by extending eligibility to those with
incomes of as much as 138 percent of the federal poverty line.
States that don’t comply with the new expansion would lose all
or part of their share of federal Medicaid funding.  “Can you conceive of any state saying no” to additional
federal Medicaid funds, Scalia asked U.S. Solicitor General
Donald Verrilli, who defended the measure. “And if you can’t,
that sounds like coercion,” Scalia said.  Ginsburg said she couldn’t recall a “federal program
struck down because it’s so good it becomes coercive to be in
it.”  Withholding Money  Breyer minimized concerns by the states that the federal
government is coercing them. He said the government has for
years had the discretion to withhold Medicaid money if states
don’t follow the rules, and the health-care law doesn’t change
that power.  During yesterday’s arguments on mandatory insurance
coverage, questions from the bench indicated the justices may
split 5-to-4, with the court’s five Republican appointees
joining to overturn that part of the law.  The Obama administration needs support from at least one
Republican appointee on the nine-member court to uphold the 2010
law. Four of them -- Roberts, Scalia,  Samuel Alito  and Kennedy -
- interrupted Verrilli repeatedly yesterday as he made his case
for upholding the law.  An Atlanta-based federal appeals court found the health-
insurance mandate unconstitutional and ruled that the rest of
the law remains valid.  The health-care cases are  National Federation of
Independent Business  v. Sebelius, 11-393;  Department of Health 
and Human Services v.  Florida , 11-398; and Florida v. Department
of Health and Human Services, 11-400.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  