-- Justices End Historic Three Days of Debate on Health-Care Law
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-03-28T21:05:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/justices-end-historic-three-days-of-debate-on-health-care-law.html
 The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  left the
fate of President Barack Obama’s health-care law in doubt after
concluding three days of arguments.  The justices indicated that they may throw out other parts
of Obama’s signature domestic achievement if they strike down
its core requirement that Americans obtain insurance or pay a
penalty. The justices also considered whether Congress had the
power to expand the Medicaid insurance program for the poor as
part of the law.  Here’s a sample of the justices’ comments during more than
six hours of arguments over three days that began March 26, the
most in any case in the last 44 years. Justice  Clarence Thomas 
asked no questions, as is his practice.  Anthony Kennedy:  “By reason of this court, we would have a new regime that
Congress did not provide for, did not consider. That, it seems
to me, can be argued at least to be a more extreme exercise of
judicial power than striking the whole thing.”  “The government is saying that the federal government has
a duty to tell the individual citizen that it must act. And that
is different from what we have in previous cases, and that
changes the relationship of the federal government to the
individual in the very fundamental way.”  Stephen Breyer:  “If we look back into history, we see sometimes Congress
can create commerce out of nothing. That’s the national bank,
which was created out of nothing to create other commerce out of
nothing. I look back into history, and I see it seems pretty
clear that if there are substantial effects on interstate
commerce, Congress can act.”  Samuel Alito:  “If the $350 billion from the individual mandate were to
be lost, what would happen to the  insurance industry , which
would now be in the hole for $350 billion over 10 years?”  “Congress can force people to purchase a product where the
failure to purchase the product has a substantial effect on
interstate commerce, if what? If this is part of a larger
regulatory scheme? Was that it? Was there anything more?”  “Today you are arguing that the penalty is not a tax.
Tomorrow you are going to be back and you will be arguing that
the penalty is a tax.”  Ruth Bader Ginsburg:  “Why should we say it’s a choice between a wrecking
operation, which is what you are requesting, or a salvage job?
And the more conservative approach would be salvage rather than
throwing out everything.”  “People who don’t participate in this market are making it
much more expensive for the people who do; that is, they will
get, a good number of them will get services that they can’t
afford at the point where they need them, and the result is that
everybody else’s premiums get raised? It’s not your free choice
just to do something for yourself. What you do is going to
affect others, affect them in a major way.”  “This is not a revenue-raising measure because, if it’s
successful, nobody will pay the penalty, and there will be no
revenue to raise.”  Elena Kagan:  “The question is always, does Congress want half a loaf?
Is half a loaf better than no loaf? And on something like the
exchanges, it seems to me a perfect example where a half a loaf
is better than no loaf.”  “All these uninsured people are increasing the normal
family premium, Congress says, by a thousand dollars a year.
Those people are in commerce. They are making decisions that are
affecting the price that everybody pays for this service.”  John Roberts:  “Can the government require you to buy a cell phone
because that would facilitate responding when you need  emergency
services ?”  Antonin Scalia:  “My approach would say if you take the heart out of the
statute, the statute’s gone. That enables Congress to do what it
wants in the usual fashion. And it doesn’t inject us into the
process of saying, ‘This is good, this is bad, this is good,
this is bad.’”  “The federal government is not supposed to be a government
that has all powers; it’s supposed to be a government of limited
powers. And that’s what all this questioning has been about.
What is left? If the government can do this, what else can it
not do?”  Sonia Sotomayor:  “There is government compulsion in almost every economic
decision because the government regulates so much. It’s a
condition of life that some may rail against, but.”  “We’re going to tie the hands of the federal government in
choosing how to structure a cooperative relationship with the
states. We’re going to say to the federal government, the bigger
the problem, the less your powers are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  