-- Kim Lobbies for World Bank Job as Nigerian Mounts Challenge
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-03-28T18:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/kim-lobbies-for-world-bank-job-as-nigerian-mounts-challenge.html
Jim Yong Kim, the U.S. candidate to
head the  World Bank , started a global tour to garner support
among developing nations as Nigeria’s finance minister mounted a
challenge for the leadership of the poverty-fighting lender.  Kim, 52, left Washington yesterday for a two-week trip to
cities including Addis Ababa,  New Delhi  and Brasilia to seek
advice about priorities for the bank, which lent $57 billion
last fiscal year. Nigeria’s Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said she is
“reaching out” to build support outside Africa.  “I’ll bring unique advantages of knowing the strengths and
the weaknesses of the institution as well as being somebody
who’s actually managed a complex economy in a developing
country,” Okonjo-Iweala, 57, a former managing director at the
bank, told reporters in Abuja, the Nigerian capital.  The comments by Okonjo-Iweala highlight the differences
between her resume and Kim’s. Kim, the president of  Dartmouth
College  and an expert in HIV/AIDS, hasn’t worked in areas such
as economic policy and financial markets.  Kim’s “main strength is that he’s passionate about
development,” said  Arvind Subramanian , a senior fellow at the
Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington and
a former assistant director of research at the  International
Monetary Fund . Still, “his qualifications are a bit narrow for
the job,” he said. “Someone who comes to the bank has to be
much more than a health economist or a health person.”  American Monopoly  Okonjo-Iweala’s bid challenges the American monopoly of the
job under an informal agreement that also gives the leadership
of the IMF to a European. The U.S. is the largest single
shareholder in both institutions, founded at the end of World
War II.  Kim, who was born in  Seoul  and grew up in  Iowa , would be
the first Asian-American to head the bank. A doctor by training,
he would represent a break from the financiers and bureaucrats
who have run the lender, and his Korean heritage offers a bridge
to developing nations. He was nominated last week by President
 Barack Obama  to replace Robert Zoellick, whose five-year term
ends in June.  The third candidate is former Colombian Finance Minister
Jose Antonio Ocampo. In a phone interview today, Ocampo said
that he and Okonjo-Iweala have a chance to win if the selection
“respects the rules of being an open, transparent process based
on merit.”  “Maybe it will not change this time,” he said. “But in
that case we’re putting up the fight so that that system will be
changed forever.”  Broad Support  U.S. Treasury  Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said yesterday
he expected Kim’s candidacy would “command broad support around
the world.” He said Kim has “has consistently advocated for
sustainable growth with the benefits more broadly shared across
society.”  Kim was head of the Department of Global Health and Social
Medicine at  Harvard Medical School  and also served as director
of the  World Health Organization ’s HIV/AIDS department. In 1987,
he co-founded Partners in Health, a nonprofit organization that
has opened clinics in countries including Haiti and  Peru .  Kim’s global tour will also take him to Seoul,  Tokyo ,
Beijing and Mexico City, the U.S. Treasury said in a statement.
He will meet heads of state and finance ministers to get their
views on priorities for the bank and assess how it can best
“promote growth, combat poverty, and create jobs in developing
nations.”  Developing Countries  “I want to hear from  developing countries , as well as
those that provide a big share of the resources to development,
about how we can together build a more inclusive, responsive and
open World Bank,” Kim wrote in a newspaper op-ed piece released
by the Treasury today.  He said he would continue giving emerging markets more
voting power at the bank if he is elected.  While his credentials may help the bank improve its health
programs, Kim lacks experience in promoting economic growth, a
key to reducing poverty, according to Uri Dadush, director of
international economics at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in  Washington  and a former World Bank
director of economic policy.  “There are two big avenues of work in the World Bank,”
Dadush said. “One is health and education, which is the social
side. The second is growth. The World Bank has to be primarily,
in my view, about growth because without growth you cannot
develop health and education.”  Health, Social  Health and social projects accounted for almost 16 percent
of total loans to governments last year, up from 9 percent in
2006. That compares with 14 percent for energy and mining loans
and 20 percent for transportation.  The bank’s expertise ranges from infrastructure to  climate
change  as it seeks to attract clients that get an easier access
to private capital.  The bank’s private-sector unit, the International Finance
Corporation, offers advice on the business climate and takes
stakes in companies and financial institutions. Last month it
invested $5 million in a Pakistani rice exporter to help it
increase its production capacity.  While Kim hasn’t given detailed plans for the bank, a book
he co-edited in 2000 suggests that not everyone benefits from
economic growth.  Robust Growth  “The idea that robust economic growth will automatically
lead to a better life for everybody is comforting,” he and
fellow authors wrote in the introduction to “Dying for
Growth,” which focuses on the health of the poor.
“Unfortunately, it is also wrong.”  The books says it presents “evidence that the quest for
growth” in gross domestic product “and corporate profits has
in fact worsened the lives of millions of women and men.”  Nigeria ’s Okonjo-Iweala led efforts to replenish a fund
that lends to poor countries while she was at the World Bank as
a managing director from 2007 to 2011.  At yesterday’s news conference, she said she would deal
with “problems of both human and physical infrastructure that
is confronting many countries today,” including climate change.  She said she sees the bank as “an institution that is
swifter and nimbler, in terms of tackling what I consider the
key singular most difficult problem confronting both developing
and emerging market countries, which is  job creation ,
particularly for youth.”  Nigerian President  Okonjo-Iweala left her position at the bank in mid-August to
work for Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan as finance
minister of sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-largest economy. She
supported Jonathan’s move to partially remove a subsidy on
gasoline, which the president said fueled corruption.  While Nigeria’s economy grew estimated at 7.3 percent on
average between 2004 and 2010, according to IMF estimates, its
 unemployment rate  rose to 23.9 percent in 2011 from 19.7 percent
in 2009, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 