-- Kimberly-Clark, RDA Micro, Facebook: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/kimberly-clark-rda-micro-facebook-intellectual-property.html
Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) ’s Kimberly-
Clark Worldwide Inc. sued Valor Brands LLC for patent
infringement.  The lawsuit, filed March 26 in federal court in  Green Bay ,
 Wisconsin , accused Valor and Puebla, Mexico-based Grupo P.I.
Mabe SA of infringing four patents related to disposable
training pants.  Kimberly-Clark, based in Dallas, has filed at least five
infringement suits over disposable diapers since 2009, and is
the defendant in several other cases.  Valor, based in Alpharetta, Georgia, is accused of selling
and distributing infringing training pants under the
“Roundy’s,” “Meijer” and “DG Toddler” names. Mabe
manufactures the training pants.  In dispute are patents 6,307,119, issued in October 2001;
6,318,555, issued in November 2001; 6,491,165, issued in
December 2002; and 7,021,466, issued in April 2006.  Kimberly-Clark claims it has been damaged by the sale of
infringing products and seeks money damages, litigation costs
and attorney fees. Claiming the infringement is deliberate, the
company asked that the damages be tripled.  Valor didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment on the lawsuit.  Kimberly-Clark is represented by  Daniel T. Flaherty  and
 Anthony S. Baish  of  Godfrey & Kahn SC  of  Milwaukee .  The case is Kimberly-Clark Worldwide Inc., v. Valor Brands
LLC, 1:12-cv-00298-WCG, U.s. District Court, Eastern District of
Wisconsin (Green Bay).  RDA Microelectronics Buys Coolsand IP Assets for $46 Million  RDA Microelectronics Inc. (RDA) , a Shanghai-based designer of
semiconductors, acquired the baseband  intellectual property 
assets of  Coolsand Holding Co. (COOLSANZ)  for $46 million.  Coolsand will receive $20 million in cash and 15 million
RDA shares, according to a joint statement. Both companies are
owned by affiliates of Warburg Pincus LLC.  RDA said the acquired IP will help it increase the silicon
content in each handset and expand its product offerings.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademarks  Facebook User Agreement Hints at ‘Book’ Trademark Application  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which operates the world’s biggest social-
networking site, may be planning to register “book” as a
trademark.  The Menlo Park, California-based company is making a change
in the  newest version  of its statement of rights and
responsibilities to which users must agree.  Under the “protecting other people’s rights sections,”
users must agree not to use the company’s copyrights or
trademarks. The agreement lists trademarks and includes “book”
among the terms.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , Facebook doesn’t have an application to register
“book.” The only pending application for the term was filed in
July 2011 by Peg Perego SpA of Arcore,  Italy , a maker of baby
carriages.  Facebook officials didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mailed request for comment on the potential trademark
application.  Trayvon Martin’s Mother Applies Applies for ‘Trayvon’ Trademarks  The mother of the 17-year-old boy shot and killed by a
member of a neighborhood watch committee in Sanford,  Florida , is
seeking trademarks that include her son’s first name.  Sabrina Fulton of Orlando, Florida, filed two applications
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office March 21 to register
“I am Trayvon” and “Justice for Trayvon.”  Her son Trayvon Martin died Feb. 26 after being shot by
George Zimmerman. According to news accounts, Martin was
unarmed. President  Barack Obama  addressed the killing, saying
“If I had a son, he’d look like Trayvon.”  The applications were filed on Fulton’s behalf by  Kimra
Major-Morris  of  Major-Morris Law , also in  Orlando . According to
the applications, Fulton plans to use the marks for digital
materials related to her son.  Maori Artists’ ‘Toi Iho’ Trademark Gets New Administrator Group  A new organization has been established to manage a  New
Zealand  trademark to be used by Maori artists, the Rotorua Daily
Post  reported .  The “Toi Iho” mark for Maori artwork was initially
managed by Creative New Zealand, which divested it in 2009, and
now will be administered by the new organization, called TIKI,
according to the newspaper.  Artists who wish to use the mark will have to prove their
heritage as indigenous Maori, according to the Daily Post. The
mark will cover the visual arts, performance, music, drama and
literature, the Post reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Telefonica’s O2 ISP Must Give Subscriber Data to Pornographer  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s Telefonica O2 UK Ltd. unit must hand over
personal details of 9,000 of its broadband subscribers to a
maker of adult films, the U.K.’s Telegraph newspaper reported.  While the high court authorized the release of information
as in a copyright-infringement dispute, it said the filmmaker’s
plan to demand 700 pounds ($1,118) from each of those accused of
unauthorized file-sharing was “unsupportable,” according to
the Telegraph.  The demand letter from the filmmaker Golden Eye
International may cause the recipients “unnecessary distress”
because it could be read as a threat to make their names public,
the court said and the Telegraph reported.  The court rejected other applications seeking personal data
from O2 subscribers in favor of Golden Eye because it will
pursue the alleged illegal downloaders on its own rather than
passing on the data to a third-party enforcer, according to the
newspaper.  Zee TV Drops Copyright Case Against  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Star ( India )  Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (Z) ’s Zee TV unit withdrew a
copyright-infringement lawsuit against News Corp.’s Star (India)
TV and television producer Gajendra Singh, the Times of India
 reported.   The suit, filed five years ago, was related to shows based
on the Indian musical word game Antakshari that were similar to
a show running on Zee TV since 1993, according to the newspaper.  In 2007, the court found there had been “passing off” and
ordered a Star (India) version off the air, the Times reported.  Hungary Panel Blames University in President Plagiarism Case  A commission charged with examining allegations that
Hungarian President  Pal Schmitt  plagiarized his doctoral
dissertation blamed the university for overlooking similarities
with previous works.  The probe was started after local news website HVG.hu
reported on Jan. 11 that Schmitt copied word for word about 180
pages in his 215-page thesis from Bulgarian sports researcher
Nikolay Gueorguiev. The news website Index later reported that
other paragraphs were plagiarized from another work.  The commission set up by  Semmelweis University  confirmed
that 180 pages of Schmitt’s 1992 thesis were “partially
identical” to Gueorguiev’s work, according to excerpts of the
report posted on the Budapest-based university’s website
yesterday. Schmitt made no direct references to his sources in
the text and used no quotation marks, footnotes or endnotes to
identify borrowed passages, the commission said in the report.  The university “made a professional mistake by not
discovering the identical text in time and made the author
believe that his dissertation met the standards,” the
commission said.  A spokeswoman for Schmitt declined to comment on the
commission’s report, asking not to be identified citing the
policy of the presidential office.  In an interview with public radio station MR1-Kossuth in
January, Schmitt denied the plagiarism accusation, saying he
used a total of 21 sources in his work.  Hungary’s ruling Fidesz party, of which Schmitt, 69, is a
former vice-president, said it regards the matter as “closed”
after the commission’s report, spokeswoman Gabriella Selmeczi
said in an e-mailed statement.  Former prime minister Ferenc Gyurcsany, a member of the
opposition Democratic Coalition party, said the findings “will
make Schmitt’s moral downfall even more obvious than before, if
that’s at all possible.”  Hungary’s prime minister has the bulk of executive power,
while the president’s role is largely ceremonial. Schmitt’s
responsibilities include signing bills into law, with the option
of sending legislation back to lawmakers for reconsideration or
to the  Constitutional Court  for a legal probe.  Righthaven Defendant Seeks Appeal Dismissal for Non-Prosecution  A defendant in a lawsuit brought by Righthaven LLC, the Las
Vegas-based organization set up to enforce the copyrights of
Stephens Media Group’s newspapers, asked a U.S. appeals court to
dismiss the case.  Realty One Group Inc. , a Las Vegas real-estate brokerage,
was among the targets of more than 200 infringement lawsuits
filed by Righthaven. The cases largely stalled after courts
expressed skepticism about whether Righthaven had standing to
pursue the claims. Some cases were dismissed outright and
attorney fees were awarded to the defendants.  Righthaven didn’t pay the fees, so courts awarded some of
the copyrights it sought to enforce to defendants, court records
show. The Righthaven domain name was put up for auction and the
company’s chief executive officer is now practicing law with a
Detroit-based firm.  In the Realty One case, the brokerage was accused of making
an unauthorized reproduction of a news story about  Fannie Mae ’s
“First Start” program and posting it on the company’s website.  Last year, Righthaven appealed an adverse ruling it
received in the case. On March 23, Realty One filed a motion
asking the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  to dismiss the
lawsuit, citing what court rules call “a failure to
prosecute.” Righthaven didn’t file an opening brief on Feb. 10
as directed by the court’s schedule and hasn’t requested an
extension, Realty One said.  Realty One is represented by  Todd William Baxter  and  Anne
Elizabeth Padgett  of Fresno, California-based  McCormick,
Barstow, Sheppard, Wayte & Carruth LLP .  The appeal is Righthaven LLC v. Realty One Group Inc., 11-
15714, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The lower
court case is Righthaven LLC v. Realty One Group Inc., 2:10-cv-
01036-LRH-PAL, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las
Vegas). For more copyright news, click here  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  