-- Knicks’ Stoudemire Will Miss Two to Four Weeks With Back Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-28T14:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/knicks-stoudemire-to-miss-two-to-four-weeks-due-to-back-injury.html
New York  Knicks All-Star forward
Amar’e Stoudemire will be out two to four weeks with a bulging
disk in his lower back as the team tries to make the National
Basketball Association playoffs.  Stoudemire, who missed a win against the  Milwaukee Bucks  on
March 26, will return to New York from Miami today after getting
a second opinion on his injury. Both doctors agreed he should
undergo non-surgical treatment and rehabilitation, including an
epidural, the Knicks said in a statement.  The Knicks have a 25-25 record and are in eighth place in
the NBA’s Eastern Conference, where the top eight finishers make
the playoffs. If Stoudemire is out for four weeks, he could miss
the rest of the regular season, which concludes for the Knicks
on April 26 in  Charlotte .  New York has a 6-1 record this season without Stoudemire,
who is averaging 17.6 points and eight rebounds a game, and is
19-24 when he’s in the lineup.  While the Knicks have a better record when Stoudemire
hasn’t played, AccuScore projections give the team a 54.3
percent chance of making the postseason without him. If
Stoudemire plays, the Knicks have a 64.4 percent chance getting
in the playoffs, according to AccuScore, which predicts the
results of U.S. sports events through simulations that take into
account hundreds of variables, including injuries.  A 10-year NBA veteran, Stoudemire is averaging fewer than
20 points a game for the first time since his rookie season. The
six-time All-Star has averaged 21.6 points and 8.8 rebounds over
his career with the Knicks and Phoenix Suns.  The Knicks have 16 regular-season games left and play
tonight at home against the  Orlando Magic .  New York also played two days ago without point guard
Jeremy Lin because of a sore left knee. Lin, who is averaging
14.6 points and 6.1 assists, said he’s day-to-day and won’t play
again until he’s fully recovered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  