-- Kozeny Won’t Be Sent to U.S., U.K. Privy Council Rules
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-03-28T17:29:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/kozeny-won-t-be-extradited-to-u-s-u-k-privy-council-rules-1-.html
Viktor Kozeny , the Czech-born
businessman wanted in the U.S. where he’s accused of
orchestrating a massive bribery scheme, won’t be extradited to
New York from the Bahamas, the U.K.-based Privy Council ruled.  The Privy Council, the final court of appeal for some
British Commonwealth countries, today affirmed a 2010 ruling by
a Bahamas court refusing extradition. Kozeny, dubbed “the
Pirate of  Prague ” in media reports, has been sought by U.S.
prosecutors since 2005. He also faces unrelated fraud charges in
the  Czech Republic .  “We have prevailed on all points,” Kozeny, 48, said today
in an interview from the Bahamas, which he hasn’t left since
1999.  The unanimous ruling by the five-judge council probably
eliminates any chance that Kozeny will be returned to the U.S.,
where he faces federal charges for organizing a 1998 scheme to
bribe government officials in Azerbaijan in return for rights to
buy Socar, the state oil company.  Federal prosecutors in  New York  said he paid millions of
dollars and promised billions more to spur the sale. A U.S.
businessman, Frederic Bourke, is fighting his 2009 conviction on
charges that he conspired with Kozeny. Socar was never sold.  Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in New York, declined to comment on the ruling.  Privy Council  The Privy Council said in a 22-page decision that it lacked
jurisdiction to hear the case. It said Kozeny may not be
extradited for bribery crimes that “would not constitute
offenses against the law of the Bahamas if they took place
within the Bahamas.”  The panel didn’t rule on the merits of the U.S. bribery
case. The appeal of the prior extradition ruling was pursued by
Bahamas prosecutors and supported by U.S. authorities.  Kozeny says the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which
outlaws bribes to non-U.S. officials for business, didn’t cover
him. U.S. prosecutors say the law applies to Kozeny, who brought
American investors into the deal.  After the charges were unsealed in 2005, Kozeny spent 19
months in a Bahamas prison before being released to his family’s
seaside estate, from where he’s fought extradition.  Benjamin Brafman , a New York lawyer who represents Kozeny
in the U.S., said he doubted Kozeny would ever face charges in
New York “unless he decides to come back.” The U.S. case is
pending.  Feeling ‘Truly Vindicated’  Kozeny today expressed gratitude toward his lawyers and
said he “felt truly vindicated” by the ruling. “They said
it’s not a crime in the Bahamas,” he said. “They said it’s not
a violation of the code over here.”  Kozeny, who may still face arrest if he leaves the Bahamas,
said he will leave it to his lawyers to seek resolution of the
charges. “At the most,” he said, the case should be settled
with a “$10,000 civil violation.”  “This is obviously not a transaction that I would think
about coming close to or repeating,” he said. Still, “it’s not
much different from what happens all over the world.”  “It’s very painful to be accused that you crossed the line
when you didn’t,” he added.  New York State prosecutors separately have accused Kozeny
of stealing hundreds of millions of dollars from his U.S.
investors in the  Azerbaijan  deal. Czech prosecutors have
presented evidence to a court trying Kozeny in absentia on
charges of embezzling $1.1 billion from mutual funds he
established in the Czech Republic in the early 1990s.  A U.S. federal appeals court in December upheld Bourke’s
conspiracy conviction. He has asked the Court of Appeals in
 Manhattan  to reconsider and remains free pending the outcome.  The U.S. case is U.S. v. Kozeny, 05-cr-00518, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The U.K. case
is Superintendent of Her Majesty’s Foxhill Prison and the
Government of the U.S. v. Kozeny, No. 73 of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  