-- Kuehne & Nagel Fined With Panalpina for EU Freight Cartels
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-28T20:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/kuehne-nagel-fined-with-panalpina-for-eu-freight-cartels-2-.html
Kuehne & Nagel International AG (KNIN)  and
 Panalpina World Transport Holding Ltd. (PWTN)  were among companies
fined 169 million euros ($225.6 million) by European Union
regulators for price fixing of freight-forwarding surcharges.  Kuehne & Nagel units were fined 53.7 million euros and
Panalpina 46.5 million euros, the European Commission said
today.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , Apollo Management LP’s Ceva
Group Plc,  UTi Worldwide Inc. (UTIW) ,  Expeditors International of
Washington Inc. ,  Nippon Express Co. (9062) ,  Agility (AGLTY)  and  DSV A/S (DSV)  were
also punished by the EU for operating four separate cartels from
2002 to 2007, the Brussels-based agency said.  “Because the businesses that used freight forwarders to
import and export goods are numerous, the negative consequences
on the whole economy are very clear,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters. “Ultimately the
final consumer of the goods transported may also have to pay
higher prices.”  Freight forwarders fixed prices for fees charged on goods
sent on important trade routes between the EU and the U.S. and
Asia, according to Almunia. They agreed on a “peak season”
surcharge in the run-up to Christmas, he said. Other fees
covered export charges introduced by the U.K. and the U.S. and
extra costs when Chinese currency appreciated against the  U.S.
dollar  in 2005.  ‘Gardening Club’  Almunia said the companies were “fully aware” of their
illegal actions and tried to conceal them by describing their
contacts as a “gardening club.” They used code names based on
vegetables such as asparagus and baby courgettes. They also used
a Yahoo! Inc. e-mail account to discuss rates, the EU said.  Deutsche Post AG, based in Bonn, and its subsidiaries DHL
and Exel received immunity from fines after informing regulators
about the cartel, according to the company and the EU.  Deutsche Bahn  AG and its Schenker and Bax units, Ceva,
Agility and  Japan ’s Yusen Air & Sea Service Co. received fine
reductions for cooperating with regulators. Units of  Kintetsu
World Express Inc. (9375) , Toll Global Forwarding Ltd. and Hellmann
Worldwide Logistics also were fined.  Freight forwarding involves organizing the transportation
of goods along with related activities such as  customs
clearance , warehousing and ground services.  ‘Incorrect’ Legal Conclusions  Kuehne & Nagel said it would consider appealing the fine to
the EU courts because regulators hadn’t “correctly investigated
the facts” and drew “significantly incorrect factual and legal
conclusions,” according to a statement from company Chairman
Karl Gernandt.  Panalpina “has so far made no provision for the penalty of
46.5 million euros as it was not in a position to predict the
outcome of this proceeding,” the Basel, Switzerland-based
company said in an e-mailed statement. The infringements
“likely did not affect prices paid by Panalpina’s customers.”  UPS “has concerns about the decision in this inquiry which
dates back to 2007,” Peggy Gardner, a spokeswoman for the
company in Atlanta, said in an e-mailed statement. “We will
decide on next steps, including a possible appeal.”  DSV, based in Copenhagen, plans to seek reimbursement of
its 379,000 euro-fine from the former owners of the French unit
that was targeted, it said in a statement. DSV took over the
unit when it bought ABX Logistics Worldwide SA from  3i Group Plc (III) 
and partners in 2008. Legal expenses exceeded the fine, said
Jens Lund, DSV’s chief financial officer, in a telephone
interview.  Compliance Programs  Deutsche Bahn will study the EU’s decision before deciding
on any appeal, said Bernd Weiler, a spokesman based in Berlin.
The company has implemented compliance programs since the
actions took place more than five years ago, he said.  UTi “believes that neither it nor its subsidiaries
violated European competition rules” and is evaluating a
possible appeal of its 3 million-euro fine to the EU courts,
Jeff Misakian, UTi’s global vice-president for  investor
relations , said in an e-mailed statement.  Agility will “carefully consider” the EU’s decision to
fine two of its units a combined 4.96 million euros, Sara
Grindler, a spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mail. The
Kuwait-based transport company “cooperated fully” with the EU
probe and “attaches great importance to ensuring full
compliance” with antitrust rules.  Ceva didn’t respond to a calls and an e-mail seeking
comment. Nippon Express, Hellmann, Toll and Kintetsu didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment.  Regulators in 2010 sent formal antitrust complaints to
about 47 companies and affiliates across  Europe , the U.S. and
 Asia  over alleged price fixing in freight forwarding. The probe
began in October 2007 when the commission raided the offices of
Kuehne & Nagel and Panalpina.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 