-- N.J. Revenue Drop May Sap Christie Surplus, Analyst Says
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-03-28T16:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/n-j-revenue-drop-may-sap-christie-surplus-analyst-says.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie ’s $32.1 billion spending plan might produce a deficit
by the end of next fiscal year if revenue falls short of his
targets, the Legislature’s chief finance officer said.  Christie’s fiscal 2013 budget projects a year-end balance
of $300 million, or 0.9 percent of expenditures,  David Rosen ,
budget analyst for the nonpartisan Office of Legislative
Services, told lawmakers. Revenue may be $392 million less than
Christie’s targets as income-tax collections fall short, Rosen
predicted.  “A budget that anticipates a surplus of less than 1
percent while relying on revenue forecasts that fall at the
higher end of the likely range might raise some concerns,”
Rosen told the Assembly Budget Committee today.  Rosen projected total revenue growth of 6.5 percent for
fiscal 2013, which starts July 1, while Christie’s plan counts
on a 7.3 percent gain, the most since before the recession began
in December 2007.  Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said yesterday that
Christie’s administration sticks by the higher revenue targets.
Bonuses and “non-salary” income will rise during the economic
expansion, he said during a Senate Budget Committee hearing.  “Although we are by no means out of the woods, the
governor’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2013 reflects the
fact that, together, we have begun to stabilize our finances,”
the treasurer said. He is scheduled to appear before the
Assembly Budget Committee later today.  State Surplus  The Christie administration’s projected 0.9 percent surplus
is “low by historical standards for  New Jersey ,” Rosen said in
a report released yesterday. Since 1983, the state’s actual
surplus has exceeded 2 percent of the budget in all but three
fiscal years, according to the report.  Rosen based his calculation of the state’s year-end balance
solely on the difference between his and the administration’s
revenue forecasts.  “All other things being equal, the lower OLS revenue
estimates would produce a year-end deficit of $236.9 million,”
Rosen said in his report.  New Jersey’s constitution requires a state budget that
balances revenue and spending. A year-end deficit would force
the governor and lawmakers to raise revenue or cut spending to
close the gap.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  