-- MTN Promised Iran Money, UN Votes for Phone Deal: Rival
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-03-29T16:38:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/mtn-promised-money-weapons-un-votes-in-iran-rival-says.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , Africa’s largest
wireless operator, bribed officials, arranged meetings between
Iranian and South African leaders, and promised Iran weapons and
United Nations votes in exchange for a license to provide
mobile-phone service in the Islamic Republic,  Turkcell Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  alleged in a lawsuit.  Turkcell, which initially was awarded the Iranian mobile-
phone license, sued its Johannesburg-based rival yesterday in
federal court in  Washington  for $4.2 billion in damages. The
suit includes numerous alleged internal MTN memos that detail
the company’s efforts to win the Iranian business after losing
the bid to Turkcell in February 2004.  “Upset by the loss of the open competition, MTN sought to
obtain illegally what it could not obtain through honest
competition and thereafter embarked on a premeditated program of
corruption through bribery and trading in influence,” the
complaint states.  The license tender was “the largest new international
telecommunications opportunity in the world and was known to
involve the largest single investment opportunity into  Iran 
since the 1979 Revolution,” according to the complaint prepared
by  Patton Boggs LLP (1211L) , a Washington-based international law and
lobbying firm.  MTN said today it will oppose the claim. “MTN continues to
believe that there is no legal merit to Turkcell’s claim and no
basis for such claim to be brought before a U.S. court,” the
company said in a statement.  ‘Project Snooker’  MTN  dropped  1.5 percent to 137.40 at the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg today. The stock has declined 4.4 percent  this
year , giving MTN a market value of 258 billion rand ($33
billion). Turkcell, based in Istanbul, slipped 0.9 percent.  In the memos attached to the complaint, MTN codenamed the
effort “Project Snooker,” and described payoffs to Javid
Ghorbanoghli, then Iran’s deputy foreign minister, dubbed
“Long-J” in the memos, and Yusuf Saloojee, South  Africa ’s
ambassador in Tehran at the time, who was codenamed ‘Short-J.’’
The men were paid $400,000 and $200,000 respectively, according
to the complaint.  In a Sept. 21, 2005, memo attached to the lawsuit, then-MTN
Chief Executive Officer  Phuthuma Nhleko  wrote that “Project
Snooker still presents one of the most significant ‘virgin’
mobile opportunities in the world.” MTN signed agreements with
Iran that week “under duress” in order to “book our place at
the foot of the mountain,” he wrote according to the memo.
Nhleko didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment left
with his personal assistant in his Johannesburg office today.  Abstained From Vote  MTN prevailed upon the South African government to abstain
from three votes on Iran’s nuclear energy program at the  United
Nations ’  International Atomic Energy Agency  in Vienna in 2005
and 2006, according to the complaint. The Iranian communications
ministry allegedly told MTN it was withholding its license until
it saw how  South Africa  voted at an upcoming IAEA meeting.  South Africa’s representative to the IAEA, Abdul Minty,
abstained from an IAEA vote on Iran on Nov. 24, 2005. The
license was delivered three days later, the complaint states.  Helicopters, Sniper Rifles  According to the complaint, MTN in August 2004 struck a
deal with Ali Shamkhani, who was then Iran’s defense minister,
to facilitate South African military cooperation and the
delivery of defense equipment, including Denel AH-2 Rooivalk
helicopters, encrypted military radios, sniper rifles, G5
howitzer artillery weapons, cannons, armored personnel carriers
and radar technology. The list was set in a 2004 memorandum of
understanding, which wasn’t included with the suit, according to
the complaint.  MTN officials, including Nhleko, used their personal
relationships with South Africa’s minister of defense at the
time,  Mosiuoa Lekota , to promise delivery of the elicit arms and
technology in exchange for the license, the court papers allege.
“This equipment was unavailable to Iran through legitimate
means because of U.S. and international restrictions at the
time,” Turkcell said in the papers. Lekota didn’t immediately
respond to a message left on his mobile phone seeking comment
today.  Legitimate Channels  MTN executives and the Iranian officials came to call the
shopping list by the codename “The Fish,” according to the
complaint.  Much of the equipment on the list wasn’t available to Iran
through legitimate channels because of U.S. and international
restrictions, the complaint alleges.  While MTN had promised Iran it could deliver South African
military aid, no arms sales took place, angering Iranian
officials, Turkcell claimed.  Turkcell’s complaint cites violations of the Alien Tort
Statute, a 1789 law that gives U.S. courts jurisdiction in some
instances to consider claims by foreigners for illegal conduct
that occurred in another country. The law is usually cited in
human rights and torture cases.  The U.S. Supreme Court is considering a case brought by a
group of Nigerians seeking damages under the statute, claiming
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  helped their government commit torture and
murders in the early 1990s. The company argued that corporations
can’t be sued under the law. Four federal appeals courts have
permitted corporations to be sued under the Alien Tort Statute,
the Nigerians argued.  Attempted Extortion  On March 12, MTN issued a statement accusing Turkcell of
attempted extortion and saying Turkcell threatened a lawsuit
alleging improper payments to an Iranian and a South African
official. MTN said at the time that any such suit would lack
merit.  MTN also said that U.S. courts would not have jurisdiction
over any such a case because the “accusations involve conduct
alleged to have taken place in South Africa and Iran, and have
no connection to the  United States .” MTN said it established a
committee of non-executive directors to investigate Turkcell’s
allegations.  The claims against MTN also include aiding and abetting
violation of U.S. treaties, tortuous interference with a
contract, defamation and breach of contract related to a
confidentiality agreement that Turkcell says MTN violated.  Khamenei’s Envoy  A “highly confidential” March 25, 2007 alleged memo to
MTN’s chief executive from its representative in Iran, Chris Kilowan, recounts Saloojee’s description of visits to South
Africa by top Iranian officials on behalf of Supreme Leader
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.  Khamenei dispatched  Ali Larijani , then the secretary of
Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, to remind Thabo Mbeki,
South Africa’s president at the time, “that certain defense-
related promises were made by the South African Minister of
Defense in 2004 in exchange for which MTN was allowed to replace
Turkcell in the Irancell consortium,” according to the memo.  The same memo reports that Manouchehr Mottaki, who was then
Iran’s foreign minister, was sent by Ahmadinejad to “get a
direct answer” from Mbeki about South Africa’s alleged promises
to sell arms to Iran. Mbeki “would not like to be drawn into
the matter,” his spokesman Mukoni Ratshitanga said today by
mobile phone.  ‘Defense Cooperation’  Mottaki “reiterated their understanding that MTN was
allowed to replace Turkcell in exchange for defense
cooperation,” Kilowan wrote in the memo attached to the
complaint.  In addition, the suit alleges that former South African
trade unionist Irene Charnley, then a senior executive at MTN,
arranged meetings for Iranian officials with the South African
president and defense minister in 2004 and 2005, when MTN was
trying to wrest the license from Turkcell.  Charnley also tried to facilitate a meeting between Iranian
officials and Denel (Pty) Ltd, a South African government-owned
defense company in late 2004, according to a fax she allegedly
sent an Iranian official.  Efforts to reach Charnley yesterday at Smile Telecoms
Holdings Ltd., a Mauritius-based company, were unsuccessful. She
didn’t respond to a text message sent to her mobile phone and a
call seeking comment today.  Clayson Monyela, a spokesman for the South African
Department of International Affairs and Cooperation, declined to
comment on the lawsuit.  Unavailable to Comment  Repeated calls to the Iranian Interests Section in
 Pakistan ’s embassy in Washington weren’t answered. No one was
available to comment after two phone calls were put through to
the office of Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Ramin
Mehmanparast and Minister of Communication and Information
Technology Reza Taghipour. Thursday is the start of the weekend
in Iran.  No one answered the phone after hours yesterday at the
South African embassies in Muscat, where Saloojee is now
ambassador to Oman, or in Vienna, where the IAEA is located.  Lanny Davis , a Washington lawyer and former special counsel
to President  Bill Clinton  who said he represents MTN’s law firm,
declined to comment yesterday. Davis referred calls to Tim
Coleman, a Washington lawyer at  Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer (1002L) 
LLP, who said he couldn’t immediately comment because he hadn’t
seen the complaint.  Iran’s Parliament  Turkcell’s agreement suffered a setback in 2005 when Iran’s
parliament ordered the company to reduce its stake from 70
percent to 49 percent, deeming that foreign control of the joint
venture was a threat to Iran’s security. Turkcell eventually
agreed, and later paid the license fee in September 2005,
according to the lawsuit.  Turkcell claims that Iran continuously changed its terms,
opening the way for MTN to replace the Turkish company in the
deal.  As part of the new deal, MTN, which controlled only 49
percent of the Irancell consortium, agreed to pay the
capitalization costs, taxes and license fees owed by the Iranian
shareholders, as well, the complaint alleged. The payments,
including $88 million in capitalization costs, were allegedly
disguised as loans that “MTN knew at the time would not be
repaid.”  MTN Iran Division  MTN’s Iran division, known as MTN Irancell, contributed 5
billion rand in revenue in the first six months of last year, or
about 9 percent of MTN’s sales, and 2.1 billion rand in earnings
before taxes, interest, depreciation and amortization, according
to MTN company figures.  MTN is planning 1.3 billion rand in  capital expenditures  in
Iran, up from 1.2 billion rand last year, according to company
figures. MTN had 33.3 million subscribers in Iran as of Sept.
30, and is budgeting for 4 million new customers in Iran this
year, the company said this month.  Turkcell says MTN’s business dealings in the U.S. are
“extensive,” giving the U.S. court so-called personal
jurisdiction over the company. Turkcell cites MTN’s roaming
agreements with U.S. cellular carriers such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  T-
Mobile USA Inc. (166783Q) , the sale of airtime at 7-Eleven stores, and
collaboration with Facebook and contracts with  Intel Corp .,
Microsoft Corp. and Cisco Systems as evidence.  Turkcell also says that one of MTN directors lives in the
U.S.  The case is Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS v. MTN Group
Ltd, 12-cv-479, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  