-- Nevada Divorce Ranch Has Haircuts with Benefits: Review
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-03-28T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/nevada-divorce-ranch-has-haircuts-with-benefits-review.html
Courage is contagious in
“ Regrets ,” Matt Charman’s affecting, if slow-moving drama at
the  Manhattan Theatre Club .  It’s 1954 and three men are living in cabins near remote
Pyramid Lake,  Nevada . They’re staying at least six weeks to
satisfy the state’s residency requirement for a quickie divorce.  Bullying out-of-work store detective (Lucas Caleb Rooney)
likes to quiz the others about their favorite meals and the most
annoying habits of their soon-to-be exes.  He’s joined by a former high school teacher who ghostwrites
student exam papers (Brian Hutchison) and skillfully reads
faces; and a henpecked pet shop owner (Richard Topol) who yearns
for marital reconciliation.  Enter a tall, evasive 18-year-old from  Los Angeles  (Ansel
Elgort), a refugee from the film business. Strikingly young to
be divorcing, he’s well-read, principled and protective of
gorgeous 21-year-old Chrissie (Alexis Bledel). She has been
circulating through the group offering haircuts and more
intimate services.  An unexpected intrusion brings out the best in all the men,
cleverly mixing the personal and political. But even with
Carolyn Cantor’s assured direction, the play drags. Most of it
takes place outdoors, with Ben Stanton’s superb lighting
conveying time of day.  The acting is generally splendid, particularly Adriane
Lenox as owner of the “divorce ranch.” A high school student
in his first professional stage role, Elgort is a magnetic
presence destined perhaps for the multiplex. At a recent
critics’ preview, he was still finding the shades of his
character.  A young Briton, Charman has been produced at the  National
Theatre  and elsewhere in  London . “Regrets” marks a promising
 New York  debut.  Through April 29 at 131 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-
581-1212,  http://www.nycitycenter.org .
Rating: **  (Philip Boroff is a writer for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:  Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 