-- New Apple TV Hints at Jobs’s Vision: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-03-28T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/new-apple-tv-hints-at-jobs-s-vision-rich-jaroslovsky.html
All but lost amid the hoopla of its
latest iPad, Apple also released a new version of Apple TV, the
$99 streaming-video set-top box that the late  Steve Jobs  used to
call “a hobby.”  While a marked improvement over its predecessor, its chief
significance may be what it suggests about the much-rumored
plans to deliver, sometime this year, a “real” Apple TV -- the
kind with its own screen.  I’ve long agreed with those who say Apple must invade the
TV market to maintain its phenomenal growth. Jobs may have as
well: Walter Isaacson, in his best-selling biography, quoted him
saying he had “finally cracked” the challenge of creating “an
integrated television set that is completely easy to use.”  The company has already pretty much nailed the set-up part.
The new Apple TV, a black square roughly the size of a hockey
puck, has just two wires to worry about: the power cord, and a
cable connecting it to a high-definition port on your
television. (It also has optional ports for a hard-wired
Internet link and for connecting the unit to a home-theater
audio system.)  Just seven minutes after I removed the shrink-wrap, I was
watching a video. It would have been faster if I had shorter
log-ins for my ITunes Store account and Wi-Fi network.  User Interface  The box sports a revamped user interface, which has  drawn
criticism  from some Apple purists, but I found it useful for
browsing through the thousands of movies and TV episodes on the
iTunes Store.  I could quickly scroll by category and genre, and
selections began playing within moments. (How quickly, of
course, depends on the speed of your Internet connection.) I
also had instant access to all the content I previously
purchased on other Apple devices.  My main beef with the interface, one that will have to be
solved in any fully integrated Apple set, was the painful search
process when using the included three-button remote control.  It required me to laboriously enter my search term by
scrolling through a grid of letters, choosing one at a time,
until what I was looking for showed up on an ever-changing list
of possible matches.  The process is much easier if you have an iPhone, iPad or
iPod touch and download Apple’s free Remote app, which lets you
simply type your query on your device. But not every viewer of
an Apple-branded set might have an Apple mobile device -- or
have it handy.  More for Siri  What if you could simply tell your TV what you wanted to
watch, and it understood and fetched it? The technology already
exists in  Siri , the iPhone 4S virtual assistant. Implementing it
in a future Apple-branded television would eliminate the current
complications without the need for a full-scale keyboard, which
was one of the things that sunk  Logitech (LOGN) ’s Google-based adapter.  The new Apple TV’s biggest change from the previous model
is a boost in video quality to 1080p from 720p. As a practical
matter, this means it’s now approaching the quality of a Blu-ray
player -- without, of course, the hassle of managing Blu-ray
discs. A  Wallace & Gromit  film downloaded from iTunes looked
spectacular on my 1080p TV, as did photos streamed from my
computer and movies from  Netflix. (NFLX)   Apple as Gatekeeper  Speaking of which, you can now sign up for, access and pay
for a Netflix account using your Apple ID. That doesn’t sound
important, but it could be another indicator of Apple’s approach
to building a full-scale television: setting itself up as the
gatekeeper, just as it does on its iOS devices. After all,
almost the entire appeal of  Amazon.com (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire tablet is
in how much content is available seamlessly with a single Amazon
log-in.  There are many ways to access Internet video these days.
Most new TVs offer ways to connect, though some require an
extra-cost adapter and suffer from jumbled interfaces. Game
consoles like  Microsoft (MSFT) ’s Xbox have morphed into home-
entertainment portals. And, most notably, the  Roku 2 XD  offers
Apple-like simplicity and video quality, plus many more content
sources and a lower ($80) price.  But if you’re already committed to the Apple universe of
devices and content -- or want to get ready for the integrated
set that might be coming -- the little Apple TV is a good
choice.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 