-- Newcrest Mining Has ‘Room’ to Pay More Dividends, BlackRock Says
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-03-28T13:31:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/newcrest-mining-has-room-to-pay-more-dividends-blackrock-says.html
Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) , Australia’s
largest gold mining company, is in a position to boost its
dividend, a move that may “appease” investors, according to
largest shareholder  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   Newcrest has dropped 13 percent in Sydney trading in the
past six months, compared with an 8.5 percent gain in the
benchmark  index . “Short-term challenges” at projects including
the Lihir mine in  Papua New Guinea  have resulted in missed
targets at the asset that Newcrest bought in 2010, Catherine Raw, a BlackRock fund manager, told reporters in  Hong Kong .  “Newcrest is in a difficult situation because it made a
lot of promises on the Lihir acquisition and they are not being
delivered,” Raw said. “We’ve tried to persuade them to pay the
interim dividend, but they don’t like to do that. There is room
for maneuver there to appease the market.”  Newcrest has three-year dividend growth of 47 percent,
according to  data compiled  by Bloomberg. The company has a 12-
month net dividend yield of 1.06 percent, the data show. The
gold miner may declare a 20 Australian-cent (21 U.S.-cent)
dividend in August, according to Bloomberg dividend forecasts.  “Newcrest on a payout ratio pays quite a good dividend
relative to the gold sector as a whole,” Raw said. “But they
have very low gearing, very strong cash flows.” The company’s
growth profile makes it attractive, she said. Raw helps manage
the $14 billion World Mining Fund at BlackRock, which holds 12.6
percent of Newcrest, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Two calls to Melbourne-based Newcrest outside normal
business hours went unanswered.  “Newcrest is a fantastic long-term hold,” Raw said. “We
see it as very high quality, delivering lower-than-average cost
growth into a high gold-price environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 