-- News Corp. Said to Plan U.S. Sports Network to Rival ESPN
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-28T20:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/news-corp-said-to-plan-u-s-sports-network-to-rival-espn.html
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  is
taking steps to start a national U.S. sports network on cable
television aimed at challenging  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN,
according to people with knowledge of the situation.  News Corp. is assembling the required rights from pay-TV
carriers and sports organizations, said the people, who
requested anonymity because talks are private. While a final
decision to move forward hasn’t been made, the company is
considering converting its Fuel action-sports network to the new
channel, two of the people said.  With a national network, Fox would join  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC
Sports Network and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s CBS Sports Network in taking on
the dominant ESPN. News Corp. last year secured rights to the
Pac-12 Conference and Big-12 Conference games and owns 20
regional sports networks. The company in October won TV rights
to soccer’s  World Cup  in 2018 and 2022.  “The success of all these networks will depend on the
quality of their sports rights,” David Joyce, an analyst at
Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in an interview. “There’s
been a lot of competition for those rights and that’s driven up
costs.”  ESPN is well-positioned to withstand competition because of
its rights for Monday Night Football and national baseball and
basketball games, Joyce said.  A national sports channel can capture higher affiliate fees
from pay-TV providers such as Comcast and DirecTV, according to
research firm SNL Kagan. ESPN will command $5.06 per subscriber
per month this year, the most of any cable channel, SNL Kagan
estimates.  Dodgers Sale  That would help pay for sports rights that are growing ever
more expensive. Fox, for example, holds rights to broadcast  Los
Angeles  Dodgers games through next year, and exclusive
negotiating rights to renew through late this year. The price is
likely to go up with the team’s planned sale, for a record $2
billion, to a group led by basketball hall of fame player Magic Johnson and Guggenheim Partners Chief Executive Officer  Mark Walter .  Fuel, a 24-hour action-sports network that carries mixed-
martial arts fights, is available in 36 million U.S. homes,
according to Fox.  In addition to Fox Sports Net regional channels and Fuel,
News Corp. owns motor-sport network Speed, available in 78
million homes, the Fox Soccer Channel, the Big Ten Network, a
partnership with the college sports conference, and Fox College
Sports, consisting of Pacific, Central and Atlantic regional
networks. News Corp. also shows games on broadcast television
through Fox Sports.  Leverage the Channel  To compete with ESPN and NBC Sports, Fox will need to make
an attractive offer to sports organizations and teams, said  Neal Pilson , president of Pilson Communications and former head of
 CBS Sports .  “The way you do that is you give a new sports property
exposure on the Fox broadcast network and then you put other
games on the new channel,” Pilson said. “You leverage the
broadcast channel to get product on the cable channel.”  The new channel could begin service by the end of this
year, one person said. The effort is being led by David Hill,
the chairman of Fox Sports, one person said.  News Corp., based in New York, has clearance from some
carriers, including DirecTV, the biggest U.S. satellite
television provider, two people said.  Lou D’Ermilio , a spokesman for Fox Sports, declined to
comment, as did Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for El Segundo,
California-based  DirecTV. (DTV)   News Corp. fell 2.5 percent to $19.74 and Disney dropped
1.5 percent to $43.51 at the close in New York. DirecTV added
1.3 percent to $48.83.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  