-- Murdoch’s News Corp. Denies Pay-TV Piracy Reports
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-29T03:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/news-corp-piracy-claims-are-serious-australia-says.html
Rupert Murdoch’s  News Corp. (NWSA)  denied
reports that a pay-TV software maker it co-owned was involved in
piracy aimed at toppling rivals as politicians called for an
investigation of the allegations.  The News Corp. subsidiary, NDS, set up a unit in the
mid-1990s to hack smartcard codes and leak them online, giving
viewers free access to competitors’ programs, the Australian
Financial Review newspaper  reported  March 28. The report, which
cites internal documents and e-mails, echoes a report on the
unit by the BBC’s Panorama program this week.  “The BBC’s Panorama program was a gross misrepresentation
of NDS’s role as a high quality and leading provider of
technology and services to the pay-TV industry, as are many of
the other press accounts that have piled on -- if not
exaggerated -- the  BBC ’s inaccurate claims,”  Chase Carey , News
Corp.’s president, said in an e-mailed statement.  The allegations increase pressure on  James Murdoch , the
deputy chief operating officer of News Corp. and chairman of
U.K. pay-TV company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , as he
seeks to move on from the phone-hacking scandal at News Corp.’s
British tabloid unit. Murdoch, 39, was a non-executive director
of NDS when the alleged smartcard hacking took place.  “If these allegations are true they mark a sinister new
low in the hacking scandal,” said U.K. lawmaker  Tom Watson ,
who’s on a parliamentary committee preparing a report about News
Corp.’s handling of the phone-hacking probe. Britain’s media
watchdog Ofcom “has a duty to investigate,” he said.  ‘Fit and Proper’  Murdoch, the son of Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , has already
faced calls from investors to step down from News Corp.’s board
and resign from his role at BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV
company. The BBC said there’s no evidence he was aware of the
NDS scheme.  Ofcom, the regulator, is currently evaluating whether James
Murdoch is “fit and proper” to hold a broadcast license on
behalf of BSkyB, in which News Corp. has a 39 percent stake.
Ofcom said yesterday it will consider all relevant evidence. The
phone-hacking scandal prompted News Corp. to close the News of
the World tabloid in July and drop its 7.8 billion-pound ($12.4
billion) bid for full control of BSkyB.  “If the allegations are proven, then it makes a mockery of
the regulations that protect viewers,” said  Mark Lewis , a
lawyer for victims of News Corp.’s phone hacking who testified
before the parliamentary committee. The claims “stretch the
definition of ’fit and proper,’” under U.K. law, he said.  ‘Factual Inaccuracies’  News Corp.’s Australian unit, News Limited, said in a
statement the Australian Financial Review’s report is “full of
factual inaccuracies, flawed references, fanciful conclusions
and baseless accusations which have been disproved in overseas
courts.”  The piracy hurt News Corp.’s rivals in  Australia  and
Britain, helping to ruin one of them, the news reports said.
Both reports said NDS initially aimed to detect fraud and to
fight piracy against News Corp.’s own pay-TV offerings, and only
later began to promote and facilitated piracy.  The BBC “seriously misconstrued legitimate activities we
undertake in the course of running an encryption business,” Abe
Peled, the executive chairman of NDS, wrote in a letter to
Panorama.  The documentary relied on “manipulated e-mail chains” and
took e-mails out of context, Peled said in the letter provided
by News Corp.  Australia’s Communications Minister Stephen Conroy said
today that any allegations of criminal activity should be
referred to the Australian Federal Police for investigation.  The allegations may complicate a proposed takeover of
 Austar United Communications Ltd. (AUN)  by Foxtel, 25 percent-owned by
News Corp. The deal, if approved by Australia’s competition
regulator, would create the country’s largest pay-TV provider.  Pay-TV Competition  The BBC said NDS paid a hacker to crack the pay-TV
technology of British rival ITV Digital and leak the codes
online, contributing to the company’s collapse in 2002. At the
time, ITV was threatening pay-TV revenue at BSkyB, BBC said.  “NDS has consistently denied any wrongdoing,” News Corp.
spokeswoman Miranda Higham said March 26. A federal jury and
appeals court that heard similar allegations “rejected” the
claims, as did the  U.S. Department of Justice , she said.  NDS, now co-owned by London hedge fund Permira Advisers
LLP, is being sold to  Cisco Systems Inc., (CSCO)  the largest maker of
equipment for  computer networks , for $5 billion.  “Recent media allegations date back over 10 years and
predate Cisco’s involvement with NDS,” Jim Brady, a spokesman
for  San Jose , California-based Cisco, said in a statement.
“Given we remain separate companies, it would be inappropriate
for Cisco to comment further.”  Lawsuit Resolved  Vivendi Universal SA’s Canal Plus unit sued NDS in the U.S.
in 2002 over the same allegations and eventually resolved the
lawsuit by selling an Italian business to News Corp.  U.S. satellite-TV broadcaster Dish Network Corp. accused
NDS in court arguments in 2008 of hacking the security code of
its access cards and causing at least $90 million in damages.  NDS, which provided encryption technology for Dish rival
DirecTV Group Inc., was accused in that case of recruiting
satellite-TV hackers and pirates to crack codes. A jury in
 California  found that NDS wasn’t liable for a 2000 Internet post
with information on how to hack Dish’s cards.  The internal e-mails cited by the Australian Financial
Review are from a stolen hard-drive that was used as evidence in
Echostar’s pay-TV piracy trial against News Corp. in a U.S.
court, NDS spokeswoman Amy Lucas said yesterday in an e-mail.  EchoStar and Dish became separate companies in 2008 when
EchoStar Communications Corp. changed its name to  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH) , focusing on satellite TV, and spun off EchoStar Corp.  James Murdoch has given up several influential positions
following the phone-hacking scandal where journalists
intercepted the mobile-phone voice mails of politicians,
celebrities and victims of crime to get scoops.  Murdoch Exits Sotheby’s  Auction house Sotheby’s said March 16 that Murdoch will
leave its board. He resigned from the board of London-based drug
maker  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in January and stepped down as
executive chairman of News Corp.’s U.K. unit, News
International, last month.  News Corp. has said James Murdoch will focus on his main
job as deputy chief operating officer to oversee the company’s
international television operations.  The younger Murdoch’s future at BSkyB also hinges on a
report that U.K. lawmakers are preparing on the phone-hacking
scandal following testimony he gave the committee last year that
was later contradicted by former subordinates.  Lawmakers began the inquiry in July after Murdoch said
Parliament had been misled about the extent of phone hacking
during a previous probe in 2009. It has questioned him twice for
the new report, once alongside his father Rupert, News Corp.’s
81-year-old chief executive officer.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  