-- Nike Sues Reebok Over Use of Tebow’s Name on Jets Clothes
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-28T16:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/nike-sues-reebok-over-use-of-tim-tebow-s-name-on-jets-clothing.html
Nike Inc. sued  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s Reebok
International over its use of quarterback  Tim Tebow ’s name on
 New York  Jets-related clothing, days before Nike is to become
the official supplier of licensed National Football League
apparel.  Reebok, whose licensing agreement with the NFL ends March
31, illegally tried to capitalize on Tebow’s March 21 trade from
the  Denver Broncos  to the Jets to sell Tebow-related shirts and
other clothes, Nike said in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in  Manhattan . Nike claims it, not Reebok, has
rights to use Tebow’s name.  Nike, the world’s biggest sporting-goods company, is
seeking an order barring Reebok from selling the Tebow items,
plus unspecified damages. The company claims Reebok is
improperly taking away sales that Nike would otherwise make when
it begins its five-year contract with the NFL April 1.  “The opportunity to sell the first Tebow-identified Jets
apparel is a unique and short-lived opportunity,” Nike said in
its complaint. “It is unlikely that a consumer who purchases an
unauthorized Tebow-identified NFL jersey or t-shirt from  Reebok 
this week will purchase an authorized Tebow jersey or t-shirt
from Nike the following week.”  An Adidas spokesman, Jan Runau, didn’t immediately reply to
a voice-mail message seeking comment on the suit. Joanna Hunter,
an NFL spokeswoman, said the league didn’t have an immediate
comment on it.  Tebow Mania  Tebow, 24, helped lead the Broncos to the National Football
League playoffs after taking over as the team’s starting
quarterback last year.  Tebow, a Christian who prays on the field after his team
wins, was named the most popular professional athlete in the
U.S. in an ESPN poll this year. His Broncos jersey was the
second-highest selling of all NFL players last season, Nike said
in the complaint. Public reaction to Tebow’s sudden popularity
has been called “Tebow mania.”  According to Nike, a representative of Tebow notified
Reebok that it was using his name without authorization and
demanded it remove Tebow clothing from stores.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the NFL Players
Association, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking
comment. Jimmy Sexton, Tebow’s agent, didn’t immediately return
a phone message.  Nike said it plans to introduce its new line of uniforms
for all 32 NFL teams at an event in New York April 3.  The case is  Nike Inc. (NKE)  v. Reebok International Ltd., 12-
cv-2275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  