-- Nokia Recruits Vespa Rider in Race Against Androids in China
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-03-29T12:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/nokia-recruits-vespa-rider-in-race-against-androids-in-china.html
Adam Guli, a 35-year-old social
media entrepreneur who commutes across Beijing on a Vespa
scooter, is giving  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  a ride in its race against Android
handsets and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone in  China .  With a directory of a million restaurants, clubs and other
consumer businesses in the country, Guli’s  Let’s Powwow  is among
content providers Nokia is counting on to attract users in the
world’s biggest wireless market. Espoo, Finland-based Nokia is
paying the two-year-old startup to create a Windows Phone
application that Guli says is on a recommended software list as
Nokia’s Lumia handset made its debut in China.  “We have, I’m quite sure, the largest force of people who
work with developers here in China over any of the other
ecosystems,” Nokia Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop said
yesterday in Beijing, where he unveiled versions of Lumia based
on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s software. “We have been focused on making
sure the locally relevant applications get a lot of attention.”  As many as 140 million smartphones will be sold in China
this year, an increase of more than 80 percent, pushing the
country past the U.S. as the world’s largest market for the
devices, according to researcher Gartner Inc. Local directory
services integrated with maps are among applications that may
give Lumia phones an edge and justify a higher price,
particularly in sprawling cities such as Beijing.  Nokia  declined  1 percent to 4.09 euros as of 3:42 p.m. in
Helsinki, paring the gain this year to 8.5 percent.  ‘Up For Grabs’  “In China, the game is far from over,” said Derek Ling,
who runs  Tianji , China’s biggest professional networking site
with 9 million users. “The iPhone is not nearly as dominant in
China as it is in the U.S.” Apple has been “having difficulty
negotiating the right terms with the biggest provider in China,
which is  China Mobile (941) , so everything is up for grabs.”  Nokia yesterday showed versions of Lumia 800 and Lumia 610
to run on China Telecom Corp.’s network. It’s also working on
phones for networks operated by China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd. and
China Mobile Ltd.  Nokia and Microsoft said this week they will offer grants
for Windows Phone app startups through  Finland ’s Aalto
University. “We’re doing the same type of thing here in
China,” Elop said.  Nokia and Microsoft yesterday announced a developer program
called Be Top to help developers create applications for Windows
Phone users in China. The program has a budget of 5 million yuan
($794,000), Anna Shipley, a Nokia spokeswoman, said by e-mail.  Dianping, Jiepang  Under the agreement with Let’s Powwow, data about
restaurants and clubs will be pushed to Nokia’s map database for
use in other apps, Guli said after an evening ride in Beijing,
where his company is based.  Nokia gained access to geographic databases for China when
it  acquired  mapmaker Navteq in 2008.  Location-based apps already in the Windows Phone
Marketplace include  Dianping , a city directory that has coupons
and supports check-ins; and check-in service  Jiepang .  Jiepang has a new version using Nokia maps that will be
exclusive on Lumia phones, said Leo Lee, a spokesman.  Android phonemaker  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , working with
the three major carriers in China, was the country’s leading
smartphone supplier in the fourth quarter with a 24.3 percent
share, according to Gartner. Nokia was second with 19.6 percent,
while Apple had 7.5 percent.  Renren, Sina  “Nokia faces very stiff high-quality competition including
local phone makers who offer a mobile experience plugged into
all sorts of services,” said Benjamin Joffe, who runs strategy
consulting firm  Plus Eight Star  in Beijing. “So it depends how
good an integration they can do with services like social
networks and e-commerce.”  China’s biggest social media platforms already support
Windows Phone.  Renren Inc. , a social networking service, is
listed on the Windows Phone Marketplace, as is Sina Corp.’s  Sina
Weibo , a microblogging service, and the  QQ  instant messaging
system from Tencent Holdings Ltd.  Renren and Sina have worked with phone maker  HTC Corp. (2498)  to
offer handsets with preloaded apps and in some cases special
buttons to access the services, while companies such as Xiaomi
Corp., which sells high-end handsets running a customized
version of  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android for less than half the price of
an iPhone 4S, aim to make money later on software and services.  ‘Last Shot’  Windows Phone integrates social networking with the user’s
contact list and photos, providing live updates to the screen.
With Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.’s websites blocked in China,
Nokia will need deeper integration with Chinese social
networking applications to make the most of the platform’s
evolving abilities.  Windows Phones from all manufacturers had a  1.9 percent 
smartphone market share in the fourth quarter, according to
Gartner, compared with more than 50 percent for Android and
nearly a quarter for the iPhone.  “Windows Phone is Nokia’s last shot if they want to
maintain their smartphone share in China,” said C.K. Lu, a
Taipei-based analyst with Gartner.  China was still Nokia’s biggest market last year, even as
revenue for the greater China region, which includes  Hong Kong 
and  Taiwan , fell 18 percent as users were attracted to cheap
Android smartphones competing against mid-priced Nokia devices.  Nokia will need smartphones priced as low as $150 to
compete, Lu said. The company announced the 189-euro ($252)
Lumia 610 in February and it is Nokia’s cheapest Windows Phone.
The price for the China version of the 610 hasn’t been revealed.  “Right now both the iPhone and Android have such great
momentum and Windows Phone is really swimming upstream and they
have a lot to prove,” said Ling, who hasn’t yet committed to a
Windows Phone app. “Ultimately we follow where the users are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  