-- Nokia to Sell Lumia on Multiple Chinese Networks, Elop Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-28T12:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/nokia-to-sell-lumias-on-multiple-chinese-networks-elop-says.html
  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  will sell its Lumia
Windows Phones for multiple networks in China, Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop said.  Nokia announced versions of its Lumia 800 and Lumia 610
handsets to run on  China Telecom Corp. (728) ’s network based on the
so-called code division multiple access standard, and it is also
working on products for standards used by  China Unicom Hong Kong
Ltd. (762)  and  China Mobile Ltd. (941) , Elop said.  “It’s obviously a very important date in our largest
market,” Elop said in a telephone interview today from Beijing.
“As we did in the U.S. in terms of targeting very specific
capabilities for the U.S. market, we’re very excited to show
today the same type of approach to China.”  Nokia is bidding for a share of what will soon be the
world’s largest smartphone market as Chinese consumers shift
from older feature phones. The ability of the  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
software to integrate social networking platforms including
Renren Inc. services,  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s QQ and Sina
Corp.’s Weibo, as well as Nokia’s maps, will help the company
stand out against competition from Apple Inc.’s iPhone and
handsets running Google Inc.’s Android, Elop said.  “Our goal is to do as well or better than we’ve done in
this market historically, noting however that this is a time of
transition,” Elop said. “It’ll be a significant effort, it’ll
take some time to do but we clearly have very large aspirations
for our future in China.”  Nokia rose  3.6 percent  to 4.14 euros at 2:35 p.m. in
Helsinki trading.  Mapping Capability  China accounted for  21 percent  of Nokia’s devices and
services revenue last year.  “The experience on Lumia is very distinct from the
experience being offered by Android,” Elop said, citing the way
social networking software shows updates on the home screen.
“We have unquestionably the best collection of mapping and
navigation capabilities in this country because we’ve had
licenses to do these services jointly with a Chinese company for
a number of years.”  Sami Sarkamies, an analyst at Nordea Bank, said in an e-
mailed report that “today’s announcements should guarantee
strong quarter-on-quarter momentum for Windows Phones in the
second quarter.”  ‘Competitive System’  The world’s most populous nation was still Nokia’s biggest
market last year, even as revenue for greater  China  fell 18
percent as users were attracted to cheap Android smartphones
competing against mid-priced Nokia devices. Nokia ended the year
with a 12.7 percent total market share in the fourth quarter,
just ahead of Samsung at 12.2 percent, said Sandy Shen, a
Gartner Inc. analyst.  “Today is a big day for mobile consumers in China that
will mean improved choice,” China Telecom Chief Executive
Officer Wang Xiaochu said. “Besides Android and Apple we now
have another competitive system.”  The Nokia Lumia 800C will be available “very early” in
April for 3599 yuan ($571) and the Lumia 610C in the second
quarter at a price to be disclosed later, Elop said. During the
second quarter, the 900, 800, 710 and 610 will be available for
China Unicom’s network, which uses a slightly different
standard, WCDMA. The company is also working on devices for the
TD-SCDMA standard used by China Mobile.  China Mobile  “We are working closely with all three operators in
China,” Nokia Executive Vice President of Sales Colin Giles
said. “We see China Mobile as a very important partner for us
and will look at ways we can develop more devices for them.”  The iPhone isn’t available with a service contract on the
China Mobile network and the company’s TD-SCDMA mobile broadband
network is incompatible with the device. China Mobile has 15
million iPhone users on its 2G and Wi-Fi networks, the company
said this month.  Nokia unveiled the Lumia at the site of the Yongdingmen
city gate built during the Ming Dynasty in 1553 and rebuilt in
2005.  “Like Yongdingmen, Nokia has a long and symbolic history
and in recent years we’ve had to embark on a reconstruction of
our own,” Elop said at a press briefing.  The company will promote the Lumias at 200,000 retail
outlets in China, Giles said. He revamped Nokia’s sales
operations in China after a build-up of inventory at resellers
helped trigger a profit warning in May.  Microsoft Relationship  “We’re very focused on making sure that the new
distribution systems are properly aligned with the product
launches, that people are ready for the new launches, that
pricing levels are stable, that inventory levels are correct,
that people are making money with our products,” Elop said.
“Substantial portions” of the marketing budget in China are
earmarked for Lumia, he said, without giving amounts.  Nokia lost more than 60 billion euros in market value since
the introduction of the iPhone as it failed to keep up with
newer touchscreens.  Last year, Elop announced Nokia would adopt Microsoft’s
Windows Phone as its main smartphone software, retiring its
Symbian and MeeGo platforms. He brought out four models starting
in October, and made deals for the handsets with  more than 80
carriers  including AT&T Inc. and Vodafone Plc. The Microsoft
relationship is still a partnership, Elop said in the interview.  “There’s no discussion about mergers or anything like
that,” Elop said in the interview.  China Factories  Chinese customers bought 77 million smartphones last year,
about as many as Nokia sold worldwide, according to Gartner.
That’s set to rise to 140 million this year, passing the U.S.,
the Stamford, Connecticut-based researchers said.  Nokia has two factories in China and research units that
are working on adding smartphone-like capabilities to its low-
end phones as well as adapting Lumias for China. Nokia’s planed
factory in  Vietnam  isn’t intended to take volumes from China,
Elop said in the interview.  “As new product lines ramp up we expect Vietnam to help us
distribute to various regions of the world where we need to
extend our supply chain,” he said.  --Diana ben-Aaron, Ed Lococo. Editors: Robert Valpuesta, Kim McLaughlin, Kati Pohjanpalo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  