-- North Korea’s Cyberwarfare Strength Grows, General Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-03-28T01:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/north-korea-s-cyberwarfare-strength-grows-general-says.html
North Korea ’s military has been
increasing its ability to launch cyber attacks against American
and South Korean forces, the top U.S. commander in the region
said.  “North  Korea  employs sophisticated computer hackers
trained to launch cyber infiltration and cyber attacks,” Army
General James Thurman, the commander of U.S. Forces Korea, said
in testimony prepared for a congressional hearing today in
Washington. “Such attacks are ideal for North Korea” because
they can be done anonymously, and they “have been increasingly
employed against a variety of targets including military,
governmental, educational and commercial institutions.”  Thurman’s presentation for the House Armed Services
Committee’s annual regional overview presented a starker
appraisal of North Korea’s threat to  South Korea  and to U.S.
forces than did his predecessor, U.S. Army General Walter Sharp,
in testimony last year. Sharp didn’t cite cyber attacks as part
of the North Korean arsenal, and Thurman spoke of continued
improvements in conventional weaponry.  North Korea can attack  Seoul  “and can deliver both high
explosive and chemical munitions with little or no warning,”
Thurman said. The regime in Pyongyang also continues to improve
“the capabilities of the world’s largest special operations
force, which includes 60,000 soldiers trained in a variety of
infiltration methods,” he said.  Satellite Plans  The North Korean government has announced plans to launch a
satellite between April 12 and April 16, which coincides with
the 100th anniversary of the April 15 birthday of the country’s
founding leader,  Kim Il Sung . U.S. officials consider the launch
a test of a missile that could deliver a nuclear warhead.  President  Barack Obama  visited Seoul over the weekend for a
two-day summit aimed at securing the world’s nuclear stockpiles
to keep fissile material out of the hands of terrorists. Obama
also went to the Demilitarized Zone and peered through
binoculars into North Korea.  Thurman said in his testimony that more than 70 percent of
North Korea’s combat power “is arrayed within 90 miles of the
DMZ” (145 kilometers.)  Thurman said North Korea appears to be undergoing a
leadership transition “without discernible internal
challenges,” as new leader Kim Jong Un remains focused on
“continuity and consolidation of power.”  “There are no indications the regime will depart
significantly” from the rule of his late father,  Kim Jong Il ,
the commander said, echoing the prevailing view of U.S.
intelligence.  Facing Seoul  Even in the face of “enormous economic hardship,” North
Korea “continues improving its ability to attack the Republic
of Korea’s center of gravity, Seoul,” Thurman said.  North Korea threatens the city of 24 million with “a mix
of conventional artillery, multiple rocket launchers and
ballistic missiles -- a significant percentage of which are
protected in positions dispersed across the western half of the
Korean peninsula,” he said.  “If employed, even a limited attack could cripple the
economy and panic the populace,” Thurman said in the prepared
testimony.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  