-- North Sea Leak May Deny Brent Crude Relief From Libya’s Return
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-28T08:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/north-sea-leak-may-deny-brent-crude-relief-from-libya-s-return.html
The halt of  Total SA (FP) ’s Elgin
platform in the North Sea after a gas leak may deny the Brent
crude market the relief that was set to come with resurgent
Libyan oil exports, according to BNP Paribas SA.  Total said yesterday it would take at least six months to
drill an emergency well to staunch escaping gases unless the
matter resolves itself in a matter of days. Royal Dutch Shell
Plc shut down the neighboring Shearwater field after a two-mile
exclusion zone was declared. The Elgin-Franklin fields off the
coast of  Scotland  provide about 15 percent of the Forties blend,
one of the crudes used to price the Dated Brent benchmark for
more than half the world’s oil.  Brent crude prices, which would have been tempered by
increasing shipments from  Libya , are more likely to maintain a
structure signaling limited prompt supply as a result of the
North Sea oil field halts, BNP Paribas said. Immediate supplies
have been costlier than later deliveries, a market structure
known as backwardation, since mid-January.  “This throws an interesting spanner in the works of those
who were thinking that the front end of the Brent curve would
soften as a result of the return of Libyan oil,”  Harry Tchilinguirian , the London-based head of commodity markets
strategy at BNP Paribas, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“The likelihood is that Brent retains its backwardation despite
the full return of light Libyan oil on the market.”  Backwardation to Widen  Brent for settlement in May, at $124.78 a barrel, is 69
cents more expensive than those for June settlement, according
to data from the ICE Futures Europe as of 8:14 a.m. in London.
The backwardation between first- and second-month Brent
contracts has averaged 52 cents this year.  The front month’s premium may increase, according to
 Olivier Jakob , managing director at consultants Petromatrix GmbH
in Zug,  Switzerland .  “In the high price environment that we are currently in,
you don’t want to lose any local production,” said Jakob.
“Brent has stayed in backwardation and this is going to push it
further.”  The Elgin-Franklin disruptions come after the deferral of
Forties cargoes as a result of a platform upgrade at Nexen
Inc.’s Buzzard oilfield, which is the biggest contributor to the
Forties blend, Tchilinguirian said.  Buzzard Issues  “Absent the outages at the Buzzard field or at Elgin, we’d
have expected a softening of the backwardation in the Brent
curve,” he said.  The Elgin-Franklin fields produced a daily average of
61,386 barrels of condensate in November, according to the most
recent government data. The Buzzard field as an output capacity
of about 200,000 barrels a day.  “The outage at Elgin may compound strength afforded to the
Brent complex by issues we’ve seen at Buzzard, notably a further
deferral of cargoes,” according to Tchilinguirian. “There’s
potential for a steepening backwardation in Brent should we get
additional cargoes deferred on top of those that have already
been deferred at the Buzzard field.”  The disruption may also temporarily widen the price
difference between  North Sea  Brent and the U.S. benchmark crude,
West Texas Intermediate, according to  Roy Jordan , a consultant
at Facts Global Energy Inc. in London. Brent was $18.25 a barrel
more than WTI today.  “It could very well widen Brent-WTI, but in time other
things will be more significant,” said Jordan. “It’s possible
it will affect the Brent price because it’s a contributor to the
Forties blend, but more because of a knee-jerk reaction than a
considered view of its importance.”  Total is the operator of Elgin-Franklin. Other shareholders
are Eni SpA, BG Group Plc, EON AG, Exxon Mobil Corp., Chevron
Corp, Dyas AS and Summit Petroleum Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  