-- NYSE to Move Derivatives Clearing, Keep LCH for Equities
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-03-28T15:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/nyse-to-move-derivatives-clearing-keep-lch-for-equities.html
NYSE Euronext plans to spend $85
million moving clearing for  London  derivatives trades to its own
clearinghouse, while retaining the services of LCH.Clearnet
Group Ltd. for cash equities transactions.  NYSE Liffe Clearing, a central counterparty to all trades
on the London-based Liffe futures market, will be operational by
the summer of 2013, the exchange said in a statement today. it
will shift clearing for derivatives traded in Amsterdam,
Brussels, Lisbon and Paris to the U.K. capital in the first
quarter of 2014. The company previously said it would build two
clearinghouses: one in London and one in Paris.  NYSE is implementing a standalone strategy after its merger
with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  was blocked by European regulators in
February. NYSE delayed its clearing plans as  Deutsche Boerse 
owns its own clearinghouse and routes all trades through its own
services in a so-called vertical silo.  “All derivatives clearing will be done in London, which
could raise the eyebrows of French regulators,” Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank said today. “NYSE’s
ambitions to clear over-the-counter derivatives might suffer due
to its late entry. Also, in its pursuit of a vertical structure,
it could struggle to garner the vital broker support.”  Derivatives Competition  NYSE operates the New York Stock Exchange, bourses in
Paris, Lisbon, Brussels and Amsterdam and Liffe, Europe’s
second-largest derivatives market. Exchanges are jostling to
offer post-trade services as regulators in Europe and the U.S.
push brokers to process OTC derivatives through a clearinghouse.  The exchange has been looking at clearing its own
derivatives since 2008 when Liffe renegotiated its post-trade
contract with LCH.Clearnet,  Europe ’s largest clearinghouse,
incurring a $335 million charge. NYSE began the process to
protect its European derivatives business after brokers
including UBS AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. held talks on
starting a rival derivatives exchange to Liffe, dubbed Project
Rainbow, and approached LCH.Clearnet to act as clearinghouse.  CME Group Inc., Deutsche Boerse’s Eurex and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc., rival derivatives exchanges, all
have vertical clearing models. Chicago-based CME and Atlanta-
based ICE also have clearinghouses in Europe while  London Stock
Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  has agreed to buy a majority stake in
LCH.Clearnet.  “NYSE’s priority is to protect its European derivatives
franchise via a vertical silo,” Berenberg’s Perrott said today.  Cost Savings  The exchange said it will spend about $85 million over the
next two years and expects annual net cost savings of about $30
million.  LCH.Clearnet has agreed to sell a majority stake to LSE,
which wants to compete with NYSE in derivatives trading. Ian Axe, LCH.Clearnet’s chief executive officer, said this month
that he wants  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  to remain an owner and client.  “LCH.Clearnet will work collaboratively with NYSE
Euronext, clients, market participants and regulators to ensure
a smooth transition and continuation of clearing services,” Axe
said in a separate statement today. “We wish NYSE Euronext
every success in its clearing strategy and look forward to
continuing to serve NYSE Euronext as a key long-term client and
clearing member in cash equities.”  Merger Blocked  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire its New York-based rival
in a deal valued at $9.5 billion in February 2011. The European
Commission said the merger would have led to a “near monopoly”
in European exchange-traded derivatives and any savings would
“not be substantial enough to outweigh the harm to customers
caused by the merger.”  Rejection by European regulators means NYSE needs new ways
to cut costs and expand. NYSE is resuming a buyback, focusing on
its clearing strategy for Europe and looking for other merger
opportunities, Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  said
last month.  Clearinghouses act as central counterparties for every buy
and sell order executed by their members, protecting them if
other traders default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  