-- Obama Is a Loser Who Wins, Like FDR in 1936
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-03-28T23:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/obama-is-a-loser-who-wins-like-fdr-in-1936.html
The loser wins. That’s the way it
can go in presidential elections. Especially when the ballot
involves a likable incumbent who happens to be failing when it
comes to his task of helping the  U.S. economy .  In the case of President Barack Obama’s campaign for re-
election, the loser the president most resembles is the one he
evokes with his radio addresses: the great radio president,
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt . Roosevelt came into office in 1933 on
a ticket of recovery. Neither employment nor the stock market
returned to pre-crash levels by 1936. Yet Roosevelt won that
year, taking all but  two of 48 states .  A side-by-side comparison of presidential records and the
campaigns of 1936 and 2012 suggests how Obama might fare, too --
minus the landslide part. The resemblance starts, of course,
with the poor quality of the underlying economy in those first
four years.  The U.S. grew from 1933 to 1936, but neither the stock
market nor the unemployment levels got back to where they had
been at the market crash in 1929. Today, our data also sketch
recovery, but neither the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  nor
employment is back to pre-crash levels.  The second feature Obama and Roosevelt share is bad policy.
More than anything else, the post-2008 economy has required a
stable environment where the government stays out of the way.
Whether in the automobile industry, in health care or in
housing, this administration has preferred to jump in.  Propping Up Prices  People buy and sell when they know that the market sets
prices, however low (houses) or high ( interest rates ) those
prices turn out to be. The Obama administration opted to serve
consumers by  keeping home prices up  and pressuring the Fed to
keep interest rates down. No one knows what the true price of
houses or money is.  The result is our “count me out” problem; businesses that
could hire are not doing so; companies that invest would invest
more if the market were predictable. A similar “count me out”
culture prevailed in the late 1930s. A “ capital strike ” was what
Roosevelt crossly labeled it. The third similarity is that both
candidates are especially ready to assign blame somewhere else.  To the quiet concern of his credentialed advisers, Obama
 recently pointed  at machines and globalization to explain our
troubles, saying that “if you look at the trend lines,
essentially what’s happened is that because of automation,
because of globalization, you had a lot of manufacturing move
out of the  United States ,” he said.  Roosevelt likewise took out his frustrations on automation.
Many  New Deal  works programs emphasized jobs over productivity.
This drove some of his  credentialed staff  crazy. Once Rexford
Tugwell, one of his closest advisers, even ribbed the president
about a construction project where men used shovels, instead of
tractors. If the purpose was jobs, why not use spoons?  Why the victory, then or now? The first is the sympathy
vote. Voters were down, and they identified with a president who
was embattled; Roosevelt, not a businessman but a lawyer after
all, managed to make a dragon of business and the economy when
the true cause of the downturn’s duration was policy.  Roosevelt also achieved the astounding feat of convincing
voters that patience was necessary even though, in his first
campaign, he had made speed of change the central issue: the New
Deal plan offered in 1933 was not the “100 Months,” it was the
 Hundred Days .  Obama, too, draws sympathy, partly because economics is
not his main area, either. The president also seems able to
convince voters that long-term improvement will substitute for
his early promise of instant delivery. Back in 2008, Obama often
cited Roosevelt’s speedy legislation. His administration
encouraged people to liken its fast work to Roosevelt’s Hundred
Days.  Patience Required  Now, however, the president talks patience, as in Atlanta
 this month . “So here’s the thing, though -- this is not a three-
year project. This is an eight-year project. So I need you one
more time, too.”  Other advantages for the president? Backloading. The worst
pain resulting from administration policy is backloaded to occur
after November 2012, when tax increases come and  Obamacare  takes
hold. Roosevelt signed Social Security into law in 1935. But
only in 1937, after Roosevelt won, did the government levy the
new  payroll tax . Then there is spending. Roosevelt spent
systematically. Each interest group -- labor, senior citizens,
farmers -- got a break. Almost every county was rewarded with a
federally subsidized building.  Obama, too, came out spending, starting with the original
stimulus outlay, and kept doing so. The spending is the
anesthesia that makes you forget the disease.  Stock-Price Fallacy  A final force in play, subtle but important, might be
called the “country as stock” fallacy. In the world of stocks
and bonds, we are accustomed to looking at snapshots: how much a
stock price increased over a year. That’s because we can buy or
sell the stock in a year’s period. The same snapshot habit has
carried over to analysis of gross domestic product.  Under Roosevelt, the U.S. economy grew more than 10 percent
some years. Great, and better than under  Ronald Reagan . But  GDP (GDP) 
is not a stock. You don’t buy or sell it. Most people in the
1930s had stakes in the economy that dated back to the 1920s. So
only a return to 1920s levels held real value.  What matters when it comes to GDP is not just the growth
rate, it’s the basis. Gross domestic product is back, more or
less, if you reckon it some ways, which means that’s one area
where Obama is doing better than Roosevelt before his second
election. Which, of course, improves the incumbent’s chances of
re-election. In other words, we may well witness the triumph of
hope over experience.  If Roosevelt is a guide, it’s probably not good politics
for this president to make that distinction the topic of a radio
address.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The editors on  Medicare’s payment board .
 Ezra Klein  on mandates, taxes and  saving Obamacare.   Caroline
Baum  on the  national-debt time bomb . Robert H. Gertner on the
 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau . Oleg Kashin on  Russia’s
protest problem .  Steven Greenhut  on  Californians for higher
taxes .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 