-- Obama Administration Backs Embattled Lawyer in Health-Care Case
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-03-28T15:54:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/obama-administration-backs-embattled-lawyer-in-health-care-case.html
The Obama administration said it
has full confidence in U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli
after he was challenged by  Supreme Court  justices during his
defense of the president’s health-care law.  “Mr. Verrilli is an extraordinarily talented advocate who
possesses a sharp mind, keen judgment, and unquestionable
integrity,” White House Counsel  Kathryn Ruemmler  said in an e-
mail. “He ably and skillfully represented the United States
before the Supreme Court yesterday, and we have every confidence
that he will continue to do so.”  Ruemmler’s statement was reported earlier by Politico.  Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia,
Samuel Alito and Anthony Kennedy repeatedly interrupting
Verrilli yesterday during the second of three days of arguments
in the case brought by opponents of the law.  Roberts directed three-quarters of his approximately 20
questions to Verrilli on a provision of the law requiring
Americans obtain health insurance or pay a penalty.  In several instances, the court’s Democratic appointees,
including Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and  Sonia Sotomayor ,
jumped in to bolster Verrilli’s case.  Tom Goldstein, an appellate lawyer whose Scotusblog website
tracks the court, said after “one stumble out of the gate” at
the beginning of his argument, Verrilli withstood intense
questioning from the four Republican-appointed justices.  ‘Genuinely’ Trusted  Verrilli “brought to the argument his status as really one
of the small handful of lawyers the Justices genuinely trust
after decades of hearing him argue,” Goldstein wrote. Bloomberg
Law sponsors the blog.  Verrilli, as a private attorney and in government, argued
before the Supreme Court 17 times prior to this week’s health-
care case, according to  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department
spokeswoman.  President Barack Obama nominated Verrilli, 54, as solicitor
general in January 2011 to succeed  Elena Kagan , who the
president named as associate justice of the Supreme Court.  He previously served as deputy counsel to Obama and as
associate deputy attorney general in the  Justice Department .  Verrilli is a graduate of  Columbia Law School , where he
served as editor-in-chief of the Columbia Law Review. He was a
law clerk to Justice William Brennan and taught constitutional
law as an adjunct professor at Georgetown University Law Center
for more than 15 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  