-- Obama Holds Lead Over Romney in Three ‘Swing’ States, Poll Says
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-03-28T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/obama-holds-lead-over-romney-in-three-swing-states-poll-says.html
President  Barack Obama  runs ahead
of Republican front-runner  Mitt Romney  in two states critical to
deciding the U.S.’s November election and leads by a lesser
margin in a third, according to a poll that says Obama is
benefitting from a recovering economy and support among female
voters.  The “swing-state poll” for  Quinnipiac University  shows
Obama ahead of Romney by 7 percentage points in Florida, 6
points in  Ohio  and 3 points in  Pennsylvania . In a comparable
survey released in early December, Romney led Obama by 3 points
in Florida and 1 in Ohio, while the Pennsylvania figures were
the same -- the president up by 3.  The current poll also provided fodder for the Romney
campaign’s argument that the former Massachusetts governor would
be a stronger opponent for Obama than the other leading
contender in the Republican race,  Rick Santorum .  The survey shows Obama leading Santorum by 13 points in
Florida, 7 points in Ohio and 7 points in Pennsylvania, which
the Republican represented for 16 years in the House and Senate.  The three states combined have 67 of the 270 electoral
votes needed to win the White House. Ohio has been carried by
the winner of every presidential election since 1964, and
Florida sided with a loser only once over that period -- in 1992
when it backed then President  George H.W. Bush  over Democrat
 Bill Clinton .  Optimism on Economy  While about two-thirds of poll respondents in all three
states said the economy is in a recession, about six in 10 said
that it’s  recovering .  “The biggest reason for the president’s improving
prospects probably is the economy,” Peter A. Brown, assistant
director of the Hamden, Connecticut-based Quinnipiac polling
institute, said in a statement.  Obama is “on a roll in the key swing states,” Brown said,
while cautioning the election is still seven months away.  A sign of Obama’s potential weakness is that in each of the
three states slightly more respondents disapprove than approve
of the job the president is doing. In  Florida (BEESFL)  and  Ohio (STOOH1)  the
numbers are the same: 49 percent give Obama a negative rating
while 47 percent rate him positively. In  Pennsylvania (BEESPA) , 50
percent disapprove of the president’s job performance while 45
percent approve.  The poll buttresses concerns among some Republicans that
the focus in the party’s race on issues, including employer-
provided contraceptive coverage, may have taken a toll on
Romney.  Gender Breakdown  While Obama ran about even with Romney among men in the
three swing states, the president is ahead among women by
margins ranging from six to 19 points, the survey showed. Women
accounted for 53 percent of voters in the 2008 presidential
election and they gave Obama 56 percent of their votes,
according to exit polls.  The poll sketched out a swing-state electorate motivated
primarily by issues related to the economy.  About nine in 10 respondents in all three states said the
economy was “extremely important” or “very important” in
determining their vote. About eight in 10 answered the same
about unemployment and the 2010 health-care overhaul that is
before the U.S. Supreme Court.  About two-thirds of those surveyed said  gasoline prices 
were extremely important or very important to their vote, though
most don’t blame Obama for rising fuel costs.  Voters “blame the  oil companies  and oil-producing
countries for the rise in gasoline prices and only about one in
six voters blame them on President Obama,” Brown said.  Social Issues  Social issues are far less important to swing-state voters
than economic matters. In none of the three states did a
majority of poll respondents say that issues including abortion
and same-sex marriage were extremely important or very important
in their voting decisions.  “Despite the focus on social issues such as same-sex
marriage and women’s reproductive health, these issues are lower
priorities for the voters,” Brown said.  Romney is the likely Republican nominee because he has
accumulated more than twice as many national convention
delegates as Santorum, according to the Associated Press tally.
The two, along with U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  and former U.S.
House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , next square off in April 3
primaries in Wisconsin, Maryland and  Washington , D.C., with
Romney favored in all three.  The Quinnipiac survey interviewed 1,228 voters in  Florida ,
1,246 voters in Ohio and 1,232 voters in Pennsylvania from March
20-26 using land lines and cell phones. The sampling margin of
error for each state is plus-or-minus 2.8 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  