-- Obama Power-Plant Rule Signals Demise of ‘Old King Coal’
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-28T15:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/obama-power-plant-rule-signals-demise-of-old-king-coal-1-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposed
carbon-dioxide rules for  power plants  effectively prohibit new
coal power plants, buttressing a shift away from a  power source 
that fueled the Industrial Revolution to cheap natural gas.  Obama’s Environmental Protection Agency proposed the first
limits on greenhouse-gas emissions from U.S. power plants
yesterday, setting a standard natural-gas facilities can meet. A
new coal plant would need carbon-capture technology, which
industry advocates say isn’t available at competitive rates.  With natural gas at decade-low prices, no new coal plants
are being built, with or without the EPA rules, according to the
agency’s analysis. For critics, from mining companies and
utilities to coal-country lawmakers, the rules are the latest in
a string of EPA regulations they say are meant to put the  fossil
fuel  out of business.  “This EPA is fully engaging in a war on coal,” West
Virginia Democratic Senator  Joe Manchin  said in a statement.
“This approach relies totally on cheap natural gas and we’ve
seen that bubble burst before.”  “It might sound good now, but what happens if those prices
go up?” Manchin added.  Coal Jobs  Coal, cleaved from the mountains of West Virginia and other
Appalachian states for more than a century, had provided as much
as half the electricity in the U.S. in recent years and more
than 86,000 mining jobs. The boom in natural gas extracted by
hydraulic fracturing is already cutting into coal’s primacy,
pushing coal generation to less than 40 percent of power
produced at the end of 2011, the lowest level since 1978.  The EPA rule “captures the end of an era,”  Michael Brune ,
the executive director of the  Sierra Club , said in an interview.
“The market has been moving in this direction significantly in
the last few years.”  The proposed nationwide standard is the first of its kind
issued by the EPA for carbon dioxide. With the failure of
Congress to cut carbon emissions, agency actions are seen by
environmental groups such as the Sierra Club as the best chance
to combat global warming.  ‘Old King Coal’  “If old King Coal isn’t dead already, he’s certainly
teetering toward life support,” said  Frank O’Donnell , president
Clean Air Watch in  Washington .  Carbon-dioxide emissions since the Industrial Revolution
have led to a warming of the earth’s temperature in the past 50
years, threatening to cause extreme weather, drought and coastal
flooding, according to the U.S.  Global Change Research Program .  The  rules  will permit emissions from new power plants at
1,000 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour, about the
level for a modern gas facility, according to the EPA. It
applies to new plants, not existing ones.  Yesterday’s proposal will now be open to public comment,
and revision by the agency before taking effect. EPA
Administrator Lisa Jackson yesterday didn’t commit to a deadline
for issuing the regulation, and whatever final rule comes out
could be challenged in the courts. EPA measures issued last year
on pollution of mercury and sulfur dioxide from coal plants face
legal challenge.  Congress may also pass legislation to overturn the rule,
Representative  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican, said today at a
hearing in Washington.  Emissions Falling  Carbon emissions  from energy in the U.S. probably will stay
below the record level of 6 billion metric tons set in 2007 for
the next 23 years, the U.S. Energy Information Administration
predicted Jan. 23, the first time it forecast a long-term
reduction. That’s an 8 percent cut in its forecast issued just
last year, reflecting the increase in natural gas use.  Building a new gas plant already makes more economic sense,
 Hugh Wynne , a New York-based utility analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in a telephone interview.  Generators have announced the retirement of about 33
gigawatts of coal-fired generation, or about 10 percent of the
total of 344 gigawatts of coal capacity, Wynne said. About 15
new coal plants are already cleared for construction, and if
construction begins within a year they won’t need to comply with
the new rules, according to the EPA.  “This is the tail end of coal generation build-out,” said
Teri Viswanath, the director of commodity markets strategy at
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  in  New York . “The ones we are getting today --
that is going to be the last hurrah for coal-fired generation.”  Concerns About EPA  Representatives of the coal industry and some lawmakers are
worried that may be the case, not because of the market but
because of the EPA.  “You are not admitting the burden that exists on coal-
fired generation today” from the mercury and sulfur rules last
year,  Illinois  Republican  John Shimkus  told EPA Assistant
Administrator Gina McCarthy at a hearing today. “You all are
just killing us in southern Illinois.”  In addition to the air-pollution rules, the EPA has
regulations in the works on water use by power plants and on the
disposal of coal ash.  “Our concern is that EPA is making national  energy policy 
through the development of environmental standards that force
generators to select a single source of fuel,”  Pat Hemlepp ,
spokesman for Columbus, Ohio-based  American Electric Power (AEP)  Co.,
the largest owner of coal-fired generation, said in an e-mail.  This specific greenhouse-gas rule, which only applies to
future plants, is unlikely to have an impact on their coal
facilities, he added.  Regulatory Uncertainty  “The uncertainty caused by these regulations could result
in the loss of thousands of Ohio jobs and will increase
electricity rates for families during tough economic times, in
return for less reliable power,” Ohio Republican Senator Rob
Portman said in an e-mailed statement.  While the EPA said that it has no plans to pursue a similar
regulation on existing plants, lobbyists for companies such as
Southern, which owns three of the top 10 plants for emissions of
carbon dioxide, say they aren’t sure agency will stop with this
first step.  “We have little confidence that the administration will
adhere to this view, particularly after the election is over,”
 Scott Segal , a lobbyist at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP in
Washington who represents companies such as Southern Co., said
in a statement.  And he said the rule may have an unlikely impact.  “Coal may instead be exported and used overseas, thus
eliminating any supposed environmental benefit while retaining
tremendous energy cost, job loss, and squandered energy security
here at home,” Segal said.  Coal exports reached 107 million tons in 2011, the most in
two decades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  