-- Lobster Dessert, Bland Short Ribs Mar Pricey New Jungsik
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/lobster-dessert-bland-short-ribs-mar-pricey-new-jungsik.html
When Seoul’s Jungsik opened a New
York spinoff late last year, the prix fixe menu was $125, the
same price as the three-Michelin starred Eleven Madison Park.
Bold move.  I recall a relatively empty dining room in September.
Jungsik quickly balked, sort of, lowering its five-course menu
with lobster to $122, a paltry $3 discount. Not bold enough.  The bland, buillon-poached crustacean sits in a puddle of
butter and cream finished with raspberry coulis, and that’s
exactly what it tastes like. Lobster dessert.  To be fair, non-lobster diners get a slightly steeper $10
break, down to $115. Three dishes without dessert cost $80.  But prices aren’t necessarily the chief issue here.  New Yorkers  have open minds and deep wallets when food,
whether traditional or inventive, is immaculate. That explains
why a $100 Korean-fried chicken lunch in the East Village books
up 30-days out.  You can assemble a lovely enough meal at Jungsik if you
choose carefully. Still, the restaurant isn’t operating at the
level of other ambitious spots serving better fare for less.  Wagyu Expect?  Take galbi, South Korean short ribs. They reach their apex
at the Michelin-starred Danji, where a soy-sugar marinade
renders the beef into tender, sweet bliss ($14). Here, the
forgettable Wagyu version is covered in a one-note sauce, the
final savory course in a dinner for two that cost over $450
after wine, tax and tip.  Jungsik  redeems itself with “red pepper soy” black cod.
The fish rivals the best miso-marinated versions around town
(sorry, Nobu), with silky flesh that dissolves in the mouth like
meringue.  Foie gras aficionados will dine well too, as chef Jung Sik
Yim coats the soft mousse with apple gelee for delicate acidity.
He also folds the duck liver into an arborio risotto. All the
flavors pop and the result tastes expensive and delicious.  Quiet Camp  You will eat these dishes in peace. The owners have
invested in a civilized environment, with cushy white
banquettes, sedate brown walls, tablecloths and a rotating
display of Korean art (a hat tip to  Chanterelle , famous for
displaying menus illustrated by  Chuck Close ,  Julian Schnabel  and
others in these same quarters).  Indeed, Jungsik can seem a bit too tranquil. The bar is
often empty because there’s no real bar dining, and you can’t
order a la carte. That needs to be fixed. (And will be,
management tells me, with a la carte dining in the offing.)  With prix-fixe affairs, guests surrender the right to order
just a dish or two in exchange for committing to a composed
meal. But at Jungsik, the odds almost work against you, with
multiple dishes that disappoint.  Dinner might begin with excellent amuses: Bulgogi beef
sliders, squid-ink chips and smoked potato soup thick enough to
qualify as a dip. These ought to be consumed with good
Champagne, like toasty  Chartogne-Taillet  Cuvee St. Anne ($25).  Too bad those who go for the $75 beverage pairing get a
cheap American sparkler instead (Schramsberg Blanc de Blancs).  The evening then might progress with a ho-hum zucchini
salad, overcooked noodles in anchovy broth, flimsy ciabatta with
no crackle or crunch and, finally, a gritty, wintery pumpkin
panna cotta -- even though it’s already spring.  That’s all a heck of a penalty to pay for the stellar meat
course: Confit pork belly, perfectly crisped and salted with soy
foam, or perhaps the rare duck for two. Pair the former with an
aromatic Muscat from  Spain  ($12), while the bird begs for a
jammy  Mitolo Cabernet  ($17).  It’s a shame that a set menu causes anyone to miss out on
Jungsik’s sweet uni with salty kimchi rice or spicy kalguksu, a
garlicky and homey soup, an instant and soothing relief for any
cold. With hit-or-miss food, the high prices and set menus will
keep diners away, regardless of income.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: $80 for three courses, $115 for five courses. ($7
lobster supplement.)  Sound Level: Pleasantly bustling, around 70 decibels.  Date Place: Yes, though the long menu can last three-hours.  Inside Tip: Great strawberry cremeux for dessert.  Special Feature: Try the YuGin, a yuzu and gin cocktail.  Back on My Own Dime: When there’s bar dining.  Jungsik is at 2 Harrison Street, at Hudson Street.
Information: +1-212-219-0900;  http://jungsik.kr .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 