-- Ohio Fund Said to Agree to $240 Million Office Purchase
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-03-28T22:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/ohio-fund-said-to-agree-to-240-million-office-purchase.html
A fully leased  San Francisco  office
building is set to be sold for about $240 million in the
priciest deal on a per-square-foot basis since the 2007 peak,
according to a person familiar with the transaction.  The State Teachers Retirement System of Ohio agreed to buy
Foundry Square I from AREA Property Partners in a deal scheduled
for completion in mid-April, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the sale isn’t done. The 334,000-square-
foot (31,000-square-meter) Class A building, occupied by money
manager  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , whose lease expires in 2023, is located
in San Francisco’s South of Market area.  Rents are climbing in San Francisco, where growing
technology firms are leasing space, causing office vacancies to
fall. The price for Foundry Square, one of three buildings in a
complex at First and Howard streets south of the financial
district, works out to about $719 a square foot. That’s the
highest since  Alexandria Real Estate Equities Inc. (ARE)  paid $650 a
foot last year for a two-building complex in Mission Bay, data
from broker  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  show.  “This just shows the heightened demand for tech-oriented
buildings,” said Colin Yasukochi, a Jones Lang LaSalle research
director.  Foundry Square IV  A second building in the complex, known as Foundry Square
IV, is being marketed by Sacramento, California-based Palmer
Capital Inc.,  David Smith , a partner at the real estate firm,
said last month. The property has 233,000 square feet of space
and is fully leased to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which has sublet the
building, according to Jones Lang.  San Francisco’s citywide office vacancy rate was 14.7
percent in fourth quarter, the ninth-lowest among 79
metropolitan areas surveyed by  Reis Inc. (REIS)  Asking rents in South
of Market gained 22 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier to $46 a square foot, the biggest increase since 2000,
according to Jones Lang.  Telephone calls seeking comment from AREA Property Partners
and Nick Treneff, a spokesman for the State Teachers Retirement
System of Ohio, weren’t returned.  The agreement was disclosed in a Deutsche Bank note earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  