-- Oil Falls for First Time in Four Days After Supply Gain
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-28T19:57:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/oil-falls-for-first-time-in-four-days-after-u-s-supply-g.html
Oil dropped for the first time in
four days after the U.S. Energy Department said inventories
climbed the most in 20 months and as Western nations considered
releasing crude from strategic reserves.  Futures fell 1.8 percent as the government said  supplies 
rose 7.1 million barrels to 353.4 million last week, the largest
increase since July 2010. French Industry Minister Eric Besson
said the U.S. proposed releasing oil from strategic reserves. A
White House official said no decision has been made.  “It’s clear that the market is adequately supplied,” said
Frank Verrastro, director of the energy and national security
program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in
 Washington . “The chatter about a reserve release appears to be
an attempt to talk down the market.”  Crude oil for May delivery declined $1.92 to $105.41 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since March 22. Prices are up 6.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement dropped $1.38, or 1.1 percent,
to end the session at $124.16 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract’s
 premium  to West Texas Intermediate crude traded in New York
increased to $18.75 from $18.21 yesterday. Brent is up 16
percent in 2012.  Strategic Reserve  U.S. officials said a release from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve was possible as crude stockpiles neared a  10-year
seasonal high . The weekly increase was more than twice the gain
of 2.55 million that was the median of 12 analyst responses in a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The balance is trending to a surplus, a pretty
significant surplus,” said  Sarah Emerson , managing director of
Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts .  The French government welcomed a U.S. proposal to release
fuel, Besson said today in Paris after a cabinet meeting.  France 
is waiting for an International Energy Agency report on supplies
before making a decision, Valerie Pecresse, France’s budget
minister, said at a later press conference.  The Obama administration hasn’t decided whether to release
oil or made a proposal to allies,  Josh Earnest , deputy White
House press secretary, said in Washington. Charles McConnell,
acting assistant secretary for fossil energy, said yesterday
that the U.S. may use the reserve.  The IEA, the energy adviser to 28 countries, coordinated
the release of reserves last year after shipments from  Libya 
were disrupted.  ‘Huge Build’  “It’s mostly the talk of the SPR that’s really had most of
the effect on the selloff and then there’s the huge build in
inventories that’s exacerbated it,” said Fred Rigolini, vice
president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  Stockpiles rose as  oil imports  surged 13 percent to 9.27
million barrels a day in the seven days ended March 23, the
Energy Department report showed. Shipments have arrived at an
average rate of 8.9 million barrels a day over the past year.  “This was a huge build, bigger than anyone expected,”
said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh Trading Group
in New York. “It looks like the crude price has seen its top
for quite a while.”  Gasoline inventories  declined 3.54 million barrels to 223.4
million last week, the department said. Supplies of  distillate
fuel , a category that includes heating oil and diesel, fell
711,000 barrels to 135.9 million.  Refinery Capacity  Refineries (DOEPPERC)  operated at 84.5 percent of capacity, up from
82.2 percent the prior week, the report showed. The gain came as
refining capacity dropped. Capacity on the East Coast, known as
 Padd 1 (DOEPOPP1) , plunged 27 percent to 1.19 million barrels a day, the
report showed.  “When U.S. inventories are climbing more than 7 million
barrels, it doesn’t sound like we’re burning through a lot of
crude here,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Futures have gained this year because of concern that
Western sanctions aimed at halting  Iran’s nuclear program  will
disrupt Middle East supplies.  Iran  has threatened to shut the
 Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s
oil, in response to an embargo on its exports.  “The fundamentals aren’t tight,” Emerson said. “I can
see prices trending below $100 without a resolution of the Iran
situation. We would easily be back in the $80s if the Iran issue
were resolved.”  Iran Talks  Iran will meet with representatives from the U.S. and five
other countries for talks concerning its nuclear program on
April 14 in Istanbul, the first such negotiations in almost 15
months, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a senior
European Union diplomat it didn’t name.  “We have a very specific rumor of talks between Iran and
Western states,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in  New York . “The geopolitical  risk premium 
in the oil is being reduced as a result.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 511,070
contracts as of 3:07 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 403,832
contracts yesterday, 36 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  