-- Oil Trades Near One-Week Low on Stockpile Gain, Reserves
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-29T07:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/oil-trades-near-one-week-low-on-stockpile-gain-reserves.html
Oil traded near the lowest close in
almost a week in  New York  after stockpiles surged in the U.S.,
the world’s largest crude consumer, and Western countries
discussed tapping emergency reserves.  West Texas Intermediate futures were little changed after
falling 1.8 percent yesterday as an Energy Department report
showed crude inventories rose the most since July 2010. The U.S.
proposed a release from strategic reserves, French Industry
Minister Eric Besson said. A White House official said no
decision has been made. There is “no rational reason” for
prices at current levels and  Saudi Arabia  would like to see them
fall, the kingdom’s Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said.  “We’ve had a weak demand scenario for some time in the
U.S.,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC
Markets Asia Pacific Pty in Sydney. “Any actual release of
strategic reserves would probably take us below $100 a barrel
for West Texas.”  Crude for May delivery was at $105.32 a barrel, down 9
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 3:09 p.m. Singapore time. It dropped yesterday to $105.41,
the lowest settlement since March 22. Prices are 6.6 percent
higher this year and set for a second quarterly gain.  Brent oil for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $124.28 a barrel, up 12 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of $18.96 to
the West Texas grade. The gap was $18.75 yesterday, the widest
based on closing prices in almost two weeks.  Technical Breach  Oil may extend losses in New York after settling below its
middle Bollinger Band yesterday, signaling a breach of technical
support, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lower
Bollinger Band, representing the next support level, is around
$103.45 a barrel today and coincides with a Fibonacci
retracement indicator on the weekly chart. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near technical-support levels.  U.S. crude stockpiles rose  7.1 million barrels  in the week
ended March 23 to 353.4 million, the highest since Aug. 26, the
Energy Department report showed. Supplies were forecast to
increase 2.6 million barrels, according to the median estimate
of 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Imports climbed 13
percent, the most in four months.  Gasoline inventories fell 3.54 million barrels to 223.4
million and supplies of distillate fuel, a category that
includes heating oil and diesel, declined 711,000 barrels to
135.9 million, according to the report.  Strategic Reserves  France  is waiting for a report from the  International
Energy Agency  on inventories before deciding on releasing fuel
from emergency stockpiles, Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said
yesterday. The IEA, the energy adviser to 28 countries,
coordinated the sale of 60 million barrels of crude and refined
products last year after supplies from  Libya  were disrupted.  The Obama administration hasn’t made a decision and no
specific action has been proposed, according to  Josh Earnest ,
deputy White House press secretary. The option “remains on the
table,” he said.  Oil has gained this year on speculation Western sanctions
aimed at halting  Iran’s nuclear program  will disrupt Middle East
shipments. Negotiations on the nuclear program will resume next
month, the Persian Gulf nation’s Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said yesterday.  “It is the perceived potential shortage of oil keeping
prices high, not the reality,” al-Naimi said in an editorial
published in the Financial Times, echoing comments he made to
reporters on March 20. “There is no lack of supply. There is no
demand which cannot be met.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  