-- Olympics Leader Rogge Defends London Games on Ticket Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-28T12:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/olympics-leader-rogge-defends-london-games-on-ticket-sales.html
The president of the  International
Olympic Committee  has backed  London  2012 organizers against
accusations by regional authorities of covering up how many
tickets have been sold to the general public.  The organizing committee is “a transparent company,”
Jacques Rogge said at a press conference with U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  and committee chairman Sebastian Coe.
Organizers, running a series of test events, are working out
exactly how much space in arenas is available for seating before
they release ticket distribution details, Rogge said.  They are also waiting for the draw for the Olympics soccer
tournament, which will have a “major effect” on how many
members of the public buy tickets, Rogge said.  Earlier this month, Dee Doocey, chairwoman of the  London
Assembly ’s Economy, Culture and Sport Committee, accused the
organizing committee of “obsessive secrecy” after declining to
give a breakdown of the number of tickets sold at what price
until the Games are over.  So far, local organizers have sold 7 million tickets for
the Olympic and  Paralympic Games , with another 4 million tickets
left to sell before the July 27 opening ceremony.  Rogge is visiting London for the final time to inspect the
sites before the opening ceremony on July 27.  “We are confident that we will have a great Games,” Rogge
said outside No. 10 Downing Street, the Prime Minister’s
official residence in London.  Cameron said London would host “greatest show on earth”
and that the Games have re-generated east London -- where the
Olympic Park is based -- and are boosting sports participation
across the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  