-- Mona Lisa’s Twin Adds Intrigue to Louvre’s Leonardo Show
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-03-28T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/mona-lisa-s-twin-adds-intrigue-to-louvre-s-leonardo-show-review.html
Leonardo da Vinci is a gold mine.  After the blockbuster show last fall at the National
Gallery in  London , the  Louvre  has come up with a sort of sequel.  The centerpiece of the exhibition is “The Virgin and Child
With Saint Anne,” Leonardo’s last, unfinished masterpiece from
the Paris museum’s own holdings.  This painting has been freshly restored, not without
controversy: Two experts resigned from the advisory committee
supervising the restoration. Although they kept mum in public,
it has been assumed that they found the cleaning too aggressive.  The museum disagrees: “The very gentle cleaning,” a wall
text says, “has revealed a painting of vivid and cold hues and
has brought the splendid lapis lazuli blue and purplish red back
to life.”  Depending on your taste, you’ll either miss the hazy warmth
of old or admire the fresh colors.  Leonardo’s picture is surrounded by about 130 works --
sketches and drawings from the master’s hand, paintings and
sculptures by Raphael, Michelangelo, Pontormo and other artists
who were inspired by it.  Family Scene  The most relevant piece is the so-called Burlington House
Cartoon, a huge charcoal drawing by Leonardo on loan from the
U.K.  National Gallery . It depicts Saint Anne, her daughter the
Virgin Mary and the infant Jesus in a different posture: Instead
of stroking a lamb, Jesus reaches out for another child, young
Saint John the Baptist.  Other preparatory drawings come from the  Royal Collection
at Windsor Castle  and the  British Museum .  The history of the painting is no less enigmatic than Saint
Anne’s smile, which recalls the Mona Lisa. Giorgio Vasari, the
art historian, wrote that Leonardo exhibited a sketch of the
scene at a Florentine convent yet never got around to executing
it in oil.  This could only mean that the painting was by somebody
else, a conclusion seemingly corroborated by the fact that, when
it was first cataloged, it was in Paris, not at the Chateau de
Fontainebleau, residence of Leonardo’s patron, King Francois I.  Only in 1876, when the diary of Antonio de Beatis,
secretary to a traveling cardinal, came to light, did the doubts
vanish: In 1517, during a visit to Amboise, where Leonardo spent
the last years of his life, he had shown his guests three
paintings, including “Saint Anne.”  A recently discovered note by Agostino Vespucci, a
Florentine chancellery official and cousin of the explorer,
revealed that the notoriously slow Leonardo already had been
working on the painting in 1503.  Prado’s Mona  One of the many studio works in the show is a copy of the
 Mona Lisa  from the  Prado . Recent research has corrected the
received wisdom that ascribed it to a later period. It now turns
out that the copy was painted at the same time as the original.  The assistant -- perhaps Leonardo’s lover Salai (Gian
Giacomo Caprotti), who also painted a nude version of the Mona
Lisa -- seems to have finished it even before the master. Some
details in the background were later modified on the original.  The show closes with a book, the French edition of Sigmund Freud’s essay “Leonardo da Vinci: A Memory of His Childhood.”
Analyzing “Saint Anne,” Freud thought he had discovered a
hidden image in Mary’s garment -- the same bird, he said, that,
in the child’s dreams, opened his lips with its tail, a sure
sign of homosexuality.  “Saint Anne,  Leonardo da Vinci ’s Last Masterpiece,” which
is supported by Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA, opens today at
the Louvre and runs through June 25. Information:
 http://www.louvre.fr  or +33-1-4020-5317.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 