-- Hong Kong Government Wins Maid Residency Ruling Appeal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-28T03:35:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/hong-kong-government-wins-maid-residency-ruling-appeal.html
Hong Kong ’s government, facing
calls to limit strains on the city’s health and social services,
won an appeal against a ruling that would have cleared the way
for foreign maids to seek permanent residency.  An immigration ordinance which prevented the helpers from
applying for the status is constitutionally valid, Chief Judge
Andrew Cheung wrote in a judgment issued today by the Court of
Appeal.  The lower court’s decision in September would have allowed
117,000, or a third of the maids working in the former British
colony, to apply. That polarized public opinion, with political
parties warning an influx might add to the burden on resources
in the Chinese city of 7.1 million.  Maids are in the city “to meet society’s acute demand for
domestic helpers which cannot be satisfactorily met by the local
labor market,” Cheung wrote in his judgment. “Their stays in
Hong Kong are highly regulated so as to ensure that they are
here to fulfill the special, limited purpose for which they have
been allowed to come here in the first place, and no more.”  Foreign domestic helpers have residence restrictions and
can’t accept other jobs. The law mandates a minimum monthly wage
of HK$3,740 ($482). In 2004, maids contributed HK$13.8 billion
to the economy, or one percent of Hong Kong’s output, according
to a report by the Asian Migrant Centre, a non-governmental
organization.  “The government should be very pleased with the verdict,”
said Joseph Wong, a visiting professor in public administration
at  City University  of Hong Kong. “If the foreign maids feel
this decision is unfair, they can still appeal this ruling.”  Immigration Rights  Philippine-born Evangeline Banao Vallejos, who has lived in
the former British colony for 25 years, brought the challenge
against her rejected residence application. Her lawyer, Gladys
Li, argued that other expatriates such as bankers and cooks
could gain right of abode after seven years. Li also said
restricting maids from applying for residence doesn’t fall
within the government’s right to control immigration.  In February, the government challenged the September ruling
made by Judge Johnson Lam, with its lawyer  David Pannick  telling
the city’s Court of Appeal that lawmakers must be able to define
residency requirements in the self-administered Chinese region.  “It is a fundamental principle in international law that a
sovereign state has the power to admit, exclude and expel
aliens,” Cheung wrote in his judgment today. He upheld Lam’s
earlier ruling that the case isn’t about discrimination.  Legal Right  Permanent-resident status confers a legal right to live in
the city without a visa, take any jobs, study, or establish a
business. The resident has access to benefits such as public
housing and social security, and can vote. Most of the helpers
in the city are from the  Philippines  and  Indonesia .  The  Liberal Party  and the leader for New People’s Party,
Regina Ip, have previously called on the government to consider
seeking an interpretation of the Basic Law by  China ’s Standing
Committee of the National People’s Congress over the case.  The Basic Law is the de-facto constitution that Hong Kong
adopted after the British handed the city back to China in 1997.
The special administrative region was guaranteed an independent
judiciary for 50 years under the “one country, two systems”
framework.  The case is  Vallejos Evangeline Banao and Commissioner of
Registration, CACV204/2011 in Hong Kong’s Court of Appeal.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Hong Kong at  llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  