-- Hong Kong Bourse Plans $380 Million Upgrade to Technology
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-03-28T20:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/hong-kong-bourse-plans-380-million-upgrade-to-technology.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
will spend HK$3 billion ($386 million) on technology upgrades
over three years to boost trading speeds and expand its
derivatives business amid increased competition from regional
exchanges, the bourse operator announced today.  The world’s largest bourse by market value is calling the
technology initiative, which will also offer connections to
mainland Chinese markets, Orion, after the constellation also
known as the hunter. ABN Amro Bank’s clearing unit and Credit
Suisse Group AG’s foreign-exchange unit are among 22 founding
tenants of a new co-location center, which will allow traders to
put their servers in the same place as the bourse’s for faster
access.  After $32 billion in exchange mergers globally have failed
in the past year, exchanges are turning to technology and new
product offerings to remain competitive both in their own
markets and globally.  Hong Kong  is focusing on connectivity and
product mix instead of speed for development because a local
transaction tax discourages high-frequency trading.  “The exchanges are responding to the increased competition
in the global capital marketplace,” Joseph Sarcona, head of
electronic trading for Asia-Pacific at Morgan Stanley in Hong
Kong, said in a telephone interview. “The Hong Kong exchange
may not have local competitive pressures, but by modernizing
their infrastructure they want to do their part in maintaining
Hong Kong’s status as  Asia ’s international financial hub.”  Other Exchanges  Other exchange companies in the region are seeking ways to
compete. Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc., which announced in
November a bid to merge with its smaller Osaka rival, unveiled
its Arrowhead trading platform in 2010 that can process a trade
in 2 milliseconds.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , whose bid for  Australia ’s main
bourse operator was blocked by Canberra lawmakers last year, has
the even faster Reach, a system that can process transactions in
90 microseconds, making it the fastest in the world. A
microsecond is one millionth of a second and a thousandth of a
millisecond.  “If you are complacent, if you think no one else is going
to take your market share, if you think no one else will break
into your market, you will be at the mercy of history,” Charles Li, Hong Kong Exchanges chief executive officer, told reporters
yesterday in Hong Kong. The bourse chose the name Orion because
it is one of the brightest star groupings, visible from almost
anywhere on the planet. “We wanted to be like the hunter, stay
hungry, stay ahead.”  High Frequency  Most other exchanges have set up faster trading platforms
and co-location centers to cater to high-frequency trading,
which uses algorithms to analyze markets and execute orders
quickly and in high volumes.  Hong Kong has focused on connectivity to other markets and
ease of trading for smaller brokers as its status as a statutory
monopoly prevents local competition within the special
administrative region. The city’s stamp duty, which charges per
transaction, prices high-speed strategies out of the market as
they need to buy and sell high volumes in a short amounts of
time.  In the  data center , exchange officials have been courting
data and technology vendors, clearing companies, foreign-
exchange platforms and telecommunications providers so that any
trader firm coming in can use its own systems, or use those
already in place.  Ryan Wuebbels, head of relationship management at the
exchange, said the bourse’s  Tseung Kwan O Industrial Estate  data
center has reached a “critical mass” with the 22 firms that
have reserved space in the data center. It will house companies
with the technology to execute every level of the trade life
cycle from data dissemination to clearing and settlement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  