-- Online Poker Defendant Campos Pleads Guilty to Misdemeanor
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-03-28T21:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/online-poker-defendant-campos-pleads-guilty-to-misdemeanor-1-.html
Former SunFirst Bank official John
Campos, charged with six felonies for allegedly processing
payments for illegal Internet poker sites, pleaded guilty to a
misdemeanor banking charge.  Campos, 58, a former part-owner and vice chairman of the
 St. George , Utah, bank, entered his guilty plea in a hearing in
 Manhattan  federal court today. U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan ,
declined to accept the plea, asking prosecutors why he should
approve a deal under which Campos would face no more than one
year in prison.  “Why should I do that?” Kaplan asked. Campos was set to
go on trial before Kaplan starting April 9.  Kaplan said he will decide whether to accept the plea after
reviewing a probation report on Campos and considering arguments
by the government in favor of the arrangement. He set June 27 as
a possible sentencing date.  In the plea a deal, the defendant and prosecutors agreed
that federal sentencing guidelines call for him to get zero to
six months in prison, according to Campos’s lawyer,  Frederick Hafetz . Campos would also consent to an order by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. barring him from working at a bank
again.  Kaplan, who isn’t bound by the sentencing guidelines,
wouldn’t be able to sentence Campos to more than the one-year
maximum sentence for the misdemeanor.  Campos is one of 11 people charged last April, among them
the founders of Pokerstars, Full Tilt Poker and  Absolute Poker .
Prosecutors from the office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
Manhattan claim the three companies illegally circumvented a
2006 law that bars banks from processing payments to offshore
gambling websites.  The case is U.S. v. Tzvetkoff, 10-CR-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  