-- Algeria Court Fines Orascom Telecom Unit About $1.3 Billion
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-03-28T17:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/orascom-telecom-says-algeria-court-fines-unit-about-1-3-billion.html
Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE) , North
Africa’s biggest mobile phone company, said an Algerian court
fined its unit Djezzy about $1.3 billion for violations of
foreign exchange regulations.  Orascom said its unit plans to appeal the ruling, which
temporarily would halt implementation of the judgment, according
to a statement on the company’s  website .  Orascom and  Algeria  have been locked in an ownership
dispute over Djezzy since early 2010. The Algerian government
agreed to pay $6.5 billion to buy 51 percent of Djezzy, Reuters
reported today. An adviser to the Algerian Finance Minister said
he had no information about the deal when contacted by Bloomberg
for comment. Orascom Telecom’s press office said it didn’t have
any information on the deal. The Egyptian exchange said it was
seeking an explanation from Orascom.  “The court ruling is fact and it’s negative for the
company while the Algerian government’s offer to buy Djezzy
hasn’t yet been confirmed,” Amr El-Alfy, deputy director of
research at Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage Co.,
said by telephone. “It’s still not clear whether the
government’s offer applies to 100 percent or 51 percent of
Djezzy shares.”  Shares of  Orascom Telecom were unchanged at 4.14 Egyptian
pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. They were suspended for
most of the trading day pending the release of news. The London-
traded shares surged as much as 25 percent before erasing gains
and losing 3.9 percent to $3.37 at the close.  Link to Company News: ORTE EY <Equity> CN   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  