-- Orders for Durable Goods in U.S. Show Sustained Demand: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-28T15:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/orders-for-durable-goods-in-u-s-increased-2-2-in-february.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
for  durable goods  rose in February for a fourth month in the
last five, signaling manufacturing will remain a source of
strength for the expansion.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
advanced 2.2 percent, less than projected, after a revised 3.6
percent decline in January, data from the Commerce Department
showed today in Washington. Orders  excluding transportation 
equipment increased 1.6 percent, in line with the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  The report also showed a gain in orders for capital goods
that may point to a pickup in corporate spending after a first-
quarter slowdown tied to the December expiration of a tax
incentive. At the same time, cooler profit growth and slowdowns
in  Europe  and  China  may keep investment from climbing as fast as
earlier in the expansion.  “Business spending will remain a key driver of the  U.S.
economy , not to the same extent as last year, but still a
positive force,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO
Capital Markets in Toronto, who accurately forecast the February
gain in orders. “No doubt corporate-profit growth will slow
this year compared with last.”  Economists projected a 3 percent gain in durable-goods
orders, according to the Bloomberg News survey median. Estimates
of 83 economists surveyed ranged from a drop of 1.4 percent to
an increase of 6.4 percent. Excluding transportation, orders
were forecast to increase 1.7 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,403.42 at 11:47 a.m. in  New York  on declines in oil producers
after the government reported a bigger-than-forecast increase in
crude supplies.  U.K. Disposable Income  Elsewhere, Britons’ disposable income dropped 1.2 percent
last year, the biggest decline since 1977, when the Labour
government in power at the time sought to cap income growth in
an attempt to bring down inflation. The report from the  Office
for National Statistics  also showed that the U.K. economy shrank
0.3 percent in the fourth quarter.  In the U.S., chief executive officers said they plan to
increase  capital spending  and hiring over the next six months as
they turned more optimistic about the economy.  The Business Roundtable’s economic outlook index increased
to 96.9 in the first quarter from 77.9 in the previous three
months, the Washington-based trade group reported today.
Readings greater than 50 are consistent with economic expansion,
and this quarter’s measure is the highest since April-June 2011.  Production ‘Tight’  “A lot of our production is tight,” Michael DeWalt,
director of  investor relations  at Peoria, Illinois-based
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , said at a March 6 industrial conference in New
York. “We have very long lead times on some products. For large
mining trucks, we’re taking orders now into 2014 the business is
so strong.”  Unfilled orders for non-defense capital goods minus
aircraft climbed 0.7 percent after a 0.8 percent increase that
shows demand may be sustained, today’s report showed.  Recent “better news” on the economy has included a
“slight bit of encouraging news here and there in the housing
market” as well as strength in manufacturing, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week said in response to audience
questions following a speech in Arlington, Virginia.  February orders for U.S. durable goods were boosted by
demand for transportation equipment, which climbed 3.9 percent
and was led by a 6 percent advance in civilian aircraft orders.
Boeing Co., the largest U.S. aircraft maker, said it received
237 orders last month, up from 150 in January.  Auto Demand  Bookings for automobiles and parts increased 1.6 percent,
the most since October. Cars last month sold at the fastest pace
in four years, led by Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain
from  General Motors Co. (GM)  Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a 15
million annual rate, the strongest since February 2008,
according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Today’s report showed bookings for non-defense capital
goods excluding aircraft -- a proxy for business investment in
items such as computers, engines and communications gear --
increased 1.2 percent.  Shipments of those goods, used in calculating gross
domestic product, increased 1.4 percent in February after
falling 3 percent.  Business spending  on equipment and software climbed at a
4.8 percent pace in the final three months of 2011 after a 16.2
percent surge in the prior quarter, according to Commerce
Department data on GDP. So-called core equipment purchases rose
at a 1.1 percent annual rate over the latest three months.  “That strongly suggests the first-quarter growth rate of
business investment in equipment and software will be similarly
lackluster,”  Paul Ashworth , chief U.S. economist for  Capital
Economics  in Toronto, said in a note to clients. “Thankfully,
the survey evidence points to a pickup in business investment
growth in the second quarter.”  Orders for communications equipment advanced 11.2 percent
in February, the most since June 2011, today’s report showed.
Bookings for computers and electronic products climbed the most
since December 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  