-- Morgan Stanley’s Jennings Asks Court to Dismiss Stabbing Case
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/morgan-stanley-s-jennings-asks-court-to-toss-stabbing-case-1-.html
The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  U.S. bond-
underwriting chief accused of stabbing a New York cab driver
over a fare,  William Bryan Jennings, asked a Connecticut judge
to dismiss the prosecution because the alleged victim
contradicted himself in statements to the police, a defense
lawyer said in a filing.  The motion to dismiss the case was filed yesterday in state
court in Stamford, Connecticut, said Jennings’s lawyer, Eugene
Riccio, who provided a copy. It couldn’t be immediately
confirmed in court records.  “The motion speaks for itself,” Riccio said in a phone
interview. “There are serious deficiencies in the application
for the arrest warrant.”  Jennings, 45, is accused of attacking the driver, Mohamed
Ammar, on Dec. 22 with a 2 1/2-inch blade and using racial slurs
after a 40-mile ride from New York to the banker’s home in
Darien,  Connecticut .  Ammar, 44, a native of  Egypt  and a U.S. citizen, said
Jennings called him an expletive and said, “I’m going to kill
you. You should go back to your country,” according to the
police report.  Jennings faces assault and hate-crime charges, which each
bring a maximum sentence of five years in prison. He’s also
charged with not paying the fare, a misdemeanor. He pleaded not
guilty March 9.  Steven Weiss, a prosecutor in the office of the state’s
attorney, didn’t immediately return a call for comment on the
filing.  False Statements  The case should be dropped because the arrest warrant
contains false statements and omissions that “seriously
undermine” Ammar’s credibility, according to the filing.  Jennings said Ammar told police the night of the incident
that it occurred in or near the driveway of Jennings’s $3.4
million home, and that he drove away with Jennings in the car
and was then able to dial 911, according to the filing. A week
later, the driver said the stabbing happened after he had driven
off to find police and that they were on Route 1 in Darien,
according to Jennings’s filing.  “These locations are at least a mile apart,” according to
the filing. “The affidavit did not disclose this
inconsistency.”  Ammar didn’t mention to police the night of the incident
the derogatory remarks attributed to Jennings, according to the
filing. He first mentioned the remarks a week later, it said.  Taxi Fare  Ammar told police the night of the incident that the ride
would cost “over $100” and later said he and Jennings had
agreed on a $204 price, according to the filing.  Ammar told police that before they left for Connecticut, he
showed Jennings the  New York  City  Taxi & Limousine Commission’s 
rate book listing the fare at $204. Jennings said he didn’t
discuss the fare and he assumed the cost would be $125 to $150,
which is what Morgan Stanley’s car service charged, according to
police. He had never taken a yellow cab home before, he said.  The arrest affidavit also said Jennings told police “he
had been drinking throughout the day,” which he said in the
filing is “wantonly false.” He didn’t drink any alcohol until
5 p.m., when he hosted a charity auction. After that event, he
attended a Morgan Stanley holiday party at a boutique hotel,
which is where he hailed the cab.  The arrest affidavit also omits information showing that
after demanding $294 Ammar “unlawfully restrained” Jennings by
driving away with him in the car, to the point the banker feared
he was being taken back to  New York City , Jennings said in the
filing. The filing includes a Feb. 15 letter from Riccio to
Darien police requesting Ammar be arrested for “unlawful
restraint” and “reckless endangerment.”  Lie Detector  Ammar didn’t tell police that he tried to follow Jennings
after he escaped from the cab and his statements were
inconsistent about where and when the banker tried to do that,
according to the filing.  Jennings didn’t refuse to take a lie-detector test because
his lawyer saw “no benefit” in it as police said, according to
the filing. He was originally told that polygraphs would be
administered to both men, and when he learned Ammar wouldn’t be
sitting for one and that police were unwilling to agree to drop
the case if Jennings passed the test, the banker then declined
to take one, according to the filing.  A lawyer for Ammar, Hassan Ahmad of  Manhattan , declined to
comment on the motion to dismiss.  Cut His Hand  Jennings flagged Ammar down in front of Ink48, a hotel on
Manhattan’s West Side, sometime before 11 p.m. after the banker
said his car service didn’t appear, according to the police
report.  The banker said he never stabbed Ammar, according to his
police statement. He told police the driver cut his hand trying
to grab the knife from him, which he said he wielded because he
feared he was being abducted. Ammar denied that he tried to take
Jennings back to New York.  He turned himself two weeks later after a vacation in
 Florida , and was charged with second-degree assault, theft of
services and intimidation by bias or bigotry. He said he never
threatened to kill Ammar or told him to go back to his country.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, said March 2 that Jennings has been put on leave.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut ( Stamford ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 