-- OTP Set for Second Monthly Drop as Hungary Aid Talks Delayed
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-03-28T15:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/otp-set-for-2nd-monthly-drop-as-hungary-disputes-aid-conditions.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, headed for a second month of declines on speculation the
country will face further dispute with international lenders on
the conditions of starting bailout negotiations.  The shares fell 1.9 percent to 3,820 forint at the end of
trading in Budapest. That brings the stock’s decline this month
to 4.5 percent, following a 0.4 percent drop in February.  The  International Monetary Fund  says Hungary’s government
is aware of conditions for starting bailout negotiations and
must make the next move, Vilaggazdasag reported, citing Iryna
Ivaschenko, the IMF’s country representative. Ivaschenko’s
comments at a university event in Budapest yesterday contrasted
with statements from the government saying the Washington-based
lender still needs to clarify what Hungary must to do to start
talks, the newspaper said.  “Each side is waiting for the other one to make
concessions,”  Akos Kuti , head of research at Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., and colleagues wrote in a research report
today. “The longer the drama continues the less satisfied
investors become.”  European Union concerns about the independence of the
Hungarian central bank can be “considered solved,”  Peter
Szijjarto , Orban’s spokesman, said in an e-mail today, adding
that Hungary wants to start talks on a loan “as soon as
possible.”  European stocks declined for a second day as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned that a U.S. economic
recovery isn’t assured, and American orders for durable goods
rose less than expected.  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 292.56 per euro.  Investors may not take the government’s words “as
gospel,” Tim Ash, chief emerging markets economist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in an e-mail today. “The
market will await any confirmation from the European Commission
and the  European Central Bank ” on the changes to the central
bank law, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  