-- House Republicans Unveil Budget Proposal With Tax Cuts
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/house-republicans-unveil-budget-proposal-with-tax-cuts.html
A $4 trillion deficit-reduction
plan modeled after the one written by the heads of President
Barack Obama’s debt commission is headed for a U.S. House vote
more than a year after the deficit panel folded.  A bipartisan group of lawmakers has resurrected the
Simpson-Bowles plan and will offer it this week when lawmakers
consider competing budget plans for the coming fiscal year.  “The budget debate so far has been completely partisan,
and our proposal is the only one with support from both
parties,” said Representative Jim Cooper, a Tennessee Democrat.  Ohio Republican Steve LaTourette, another House cosponsor,
said: “I’m tired of passing bills in the House, watching them
die in the Senate and pretending that counts as success.
Americans want us to work together like adults.”  Lawmakers will consider seven budget proposals this week,
including one written by House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan . Among the others are plans from Democratic leaders, the
Congressional Black Caucus, the Republican Study Committee and
the Congressional Progressive Caucus.  The administration’s debt commission deadlocked in late
2010, so the plan written by former Senator  Alan Simpson  and
President  Bill Clinton ’s former chief of staff, Erskine Bowles,
was never put to a vote in Congress.  Not all of the plan’s supporters said they think it should
be put to a vote. Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad ,
who has worked privately to build support for Simpson-Bowles,
said election-year pressures would force many lawmakers to vote
against the plan, which in turn could make the proposal harder
to resurrect later.  Best Chance to Succeed  “If we really want Simpson-Bowles to succeed -- which I
do -- what is the timing that gives the best chance of
succeeding?” said Conrad, a North Dakota Democrat. “It needs
to be a vote after the election. I think a vote before the
election might actually hurt the chances.”  Asked whether he thought putting the plan to a vote now is
a good idea, Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, said,
“Time will tell.” He said “it would be great to have more
time to build the case” though “I also understand the
frustrations of continuing to wait.”  Cooper said: “It’s never a good time to bring this up.”  “When is an ideal time to bring up something like this? I
wish it had been brought up a year ago,” he said. “Lots of
folks have paid lip service to bipartisanship. This is a chance
for them to prove it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  