-- House Passes Curbs on FCC Power to Set Merger Conditions
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/house-passes-curbs-on-fcc-power-to-set-merger-conditions.html
The Republican-controlled  House of
Representatives  passed legislation that would limit the Federal
Communications Commission’s authority to pursue concessions from
companies seeking approval to merge.  The measure won approval yesterday in a largely party-line
vote, 247-174, over objections from President Barack Obama’s
administration. Under the bill, the FCC would be barred from
imposing or accepting conditions on companies that aren’t
related to a proposed merger.  “They hold you hostage,” Representative Greg Walden, an
Oregon Republican, said of the commission while speaking in
favor of the bill on the House floor. “This is good, solid
government-reform legislation.”  A  House Energy and Commerce Committee   report  accompanying
the bill said the FCC has sought concessions that are outside of
its authority to approve mergers, and that companies have
proposed unrelated concessions to try to improve their chances
of gaining agency consent.  For example,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable company,
voluntarily agreed last year to follow Internet-traffic rules
set by the FCC as it sought agency approval to buy  NBC
Universal .  The bill would require the commission to conduct a detailed
survey of the communications industry before making decisions
that could increase costs for businesses or consumers.  The agency would have to “identify a market failure or
consumer harm and conduct a cost-benefit analysis” before
adopting rules with an economic impact of more than $100
million, the report said.  Opposed by Democrats  Democrats including Henry Waxman of  California  opposed the
bill and said it wouldn’t be considered by the  U.S. Senate .  “This is not process reform but a fundamental assault on
the FCC’s authority to protect the public interest,” said
Waxman, the senior Democrat on the Energy and Commerce
committee.  The Senate has no plans to take up the measure, Jena Longo,
a spokeswoman for Senator  Jay Rockefeller , the West Virginia
Democrat who is chairman of the  Senate Commerce Committee , said
in an e-mail.  The Obama administration opposes the bill, according to a 
statement  from the Office of Management and Budget. The
legislation “would limit the ability of the Federal
Communications Commission to exercise its statutory duty to
protect the public interest in its review of transactions
affecting the vital communications industry,” according to the
OMB.  ‘Public Interest’  The administration said the bill could limit the ability of
the FCC and the  Justice Department  to work together on
telecommunications matters. The measure doesn’t further the
administration’s goals of ensuring that agency decisions are
“open, transparent, well-founded, and protective of the public
interest,” according to the statement.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  House Republicans  and Democrats adopted several amendments
before the bill’s passage. An amendment from Representative
Mario Diaz-Balart, a Florida Republican, would make the FCC’s
handling of freedom of information requests more transparent.  Another amendment, from Representative Al Green, a Texas
Democrat, clarifies that the FCC would not be impeded from
notifying the public during emergencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  