-- House, Senate Extend U.S. Highway Programs Through June
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-03-29T19:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/house-schedules-vote-on-highway-bill-to-avert-federal-furloughs.html
House and Senate lawmakers voted to
extend U.S. highway programs through June 30, averting a
shutdown of construction projects and the furlough of 3,500
federal-government workers.  Both chambers acted today to head off the lapse of federal
highway programs on March 31. Lawmakers are scheduled to wrap up
legislative business this week before taking a spring recess.
The temporary measure now goes to President  Barack Obama  for his
signature.  Road projects in every U.S. state would have been affected
if Congress failed to act by March 31. The U.S. would have been
forced to stop collecting all but 4.3 cents of the 18.4 cents-
per-gallon federal tax on gasoline, putting further strain on
the Highway Trust Fund, which pays for highway and transit
projects.  Most Democrats said a vote on a two-year, $109 billion
highway plan, passed by the Senate March 14 and blocked in the
House, would give states and localities more certainty.  “This extension kicks the can down the road,” said
Representative Nick Rahall of  West Virginia , the top Democrat on
the House transportation committee. “It fails to rebuild
America just as the construction season begins.”  The administration earlier today pressed for passage of the
longer-term Senate bill, which passed with the support of 22
Republicans.  ‘Band-Aids’  “It is not enough for us to continue to patch together our
nation’s infrastructure future with short-term band-aids,”  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said in an e-mailed
statement. “States and cities need certainty to plan ahead and
America’s construction workers deserve the peace of mind that
they won’t have to worry about their jobs every few months.”  Congress’s struggles to agree on a multiyear bill have
drawn out so long that the  Highway Trust Fund , which pays for
highway and mass transit projects, is almost insolvent. Its
highway account may be unable to meet its obligations as soon as
October, the  American Association  of State Highway and
Transportation Officials said Jan. 31 in a report analyzing
 Congressional Budget Office  data.  The fund’s finances have declined as cars have become more
fuel-efficient and Americans drive less because of higher
gasoline prices, according to the U.S. Transportation
Department.  Projects at Risk  The  Federal Highway Administration  and the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration would be “in complete shutdown,”
and all reimbursements to states for construction projects or
safety programs would stop if lawmakers failed to act, the
Transportation Department said earlier this week.  If the highway administration shut down, states could lose
reimbursements of $10 million to $12 million a day, said Jack Basso, director of program finance and management at the
Washington-based American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials.  About 3,500 workers at the highway administration, motor
carrier administration and the  National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration  would be furloughed without an extension,
according to the Transportation Department. In past government
shutdowns, furloughed employees have later collected back pay.  The Senate bill is S. 1813 and the House bills are H.R. 7,
H.R. 4276, H.R. 4281 and H.R. 4239.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  