-- House’s Cummings Seeks Interviews With Ex-NLRB Members in Probe
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-03-28T17:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/house-s-cummings-seeks-interviews-with-ex-nlrb-members-in-probe.html
Representative  Elijah Cummings ,
senior Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, asked chairman  Darrell Issa  to interview two former
National Labor Relations Board members who allegedly obtained
nonpublic information from  Terence Flynn  before he was appointed
to the board.  Cummings, of Maryland, made the request to Issa, a
California Republican, in a letter dated today released in an e-
mail from his office.  A memorandum last week by David P. Berry, the NLRB’s
Inspector General, accused Flynn of ethical breaches. Flynn,
while an NLRB lawyer last year, passed information on board
deliberations to Republican Peter Schaumber, his boss until
August 2010 and now a labor adviser to Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , according to the report. Flynn also
shared information with Peter Kirsanow, another former member
working for the  National Association of Manufacturers .  Flynn, one of three appointments Obama made while the
Senate was in recess in January, on March 26 said he had done
nothing improper. He rejected a call from the AFL-CIO that he
quit.  “Given our committee’s oversight of NLRB, I request that
the committee conduct transcribed interviews of former board
members Peter Schaumber and Peter Kirsanow to determine to what
the extent they may have used the information they obtained for
their private benefit or to advance their clients’ business
interests,” Cummings said in the letter.  Cummings also urged Issa to ask the former board members
for all documents showing their communications with Flynn since
leaving the agency.  Republicans and groups including the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce have criticized the board for actions they said favor
unions, such as a suit filed against aerospace giant  Boeing Co. (BA) 
last April for opening a plant in South Carolina, where it’s
illegal to require employees to join a union. Obama’s decision
to bypass Senate confirmation on Jan. 4 and appoint Flynn, a
Republican, and two Democrats, to keep the board functioning,
has prompted legal challenges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  