-- Lloyd’s of London Struggles to Raise Rates After Worst Year
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-03-28T10:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/lloyd-s-of-london-reports-first-loss-since-hurricane-katrina-1-.html
Lloyd’s of London , the world’s
oldest insurance market, is struggling to raise premium rates
even after the worst year for natural catastrophe claims on
record, Chief Executive Officer Richard Ward said.  Lloyd’s posted a pretax loss of 516 million pounds ($823
million) in 2011, compared with a 2.2 billion-pound profit in
2010, it said today in a statement. The loss is the biggest
since the terrorist attacks on  New York  in 2001 and the first
since 2005, when  Hurricane Katrina  struck  New Orleans .  Lloyd’s insurers are seeking to boost premium rates after
earthquakes in  Japan  and  New Zealand , windstorms in the U.S. and
flooding in Thailand cost insurers about $105 billion last year.
That made 2011 the industry’s most expensive year on record,
surpassing the $101 billion paid out in 2005, according to
 Munich Re . Lloyd’s lost 103 million pounds in 2005.  “Rates will need to increase to be able ensure that
insurers over the length of the cycle are able to deliver a
sustainable profit,” Ward said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. “It won’t happen across all classes.”  Insurers including  Amlin Plc (AML)  and  Catlin Group Ltd. (CGL)  said in
February rates may rise between 4 percent and 17 percent as a
result of the losses. Ward said these rises are not enough.  “I am disappointed that, given the exceptional level of
catastrophes in 2011, insurance rates have not responded more
positively,” Ward said. “These events demonstrate the need for
the industry to show discipline in terms of pricing.”  Little Changed  Premiums for property treaty policies, which typically
cover assets against catastrophes outside the U.S., and U.K.
motor policies rose in the “low double digits” this year
compared with 2010, according to Finance Director Luke Savage.
Energy coverage was up 7 percent while aviation, marine and
casualty rates were little changed, he said.  Lloyd’s paid out 1.07 pounds in claims for every pound it
took in premiums last year, compared with 93 pence in 2010, it
said in the statement. That’s in line with U.S. property and
casualty insurers and Bermudian reinsurers, it said.  Typically when insurers make losses their capital is
eroded, meaning they have to take less risk and raise prices in
the following years. It’s proving difficult to raise prices
because the industry is awash with excess capital, Savage said
in a telephone interview.  “So long as there remains a significant amount of excess
capital it’s hard to see rates turning across the board,”
Savage said. Weak returns elsewhere in the economy mean property
and casualty insurance is still seen as an “attractive” sector
to invest, leading to high capital reserves and low rates, he
said.  The market’s central assets, a reserve for insurers who
fail to meet claims, rose 0.5 percent to 2.39 billion pounds
during 2011, Lloyd’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 