-- Pearson Skips University to Hunt for Deals in Africa
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-29T07:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/pearson-skips-university-to-hunt-for-deals-in-africa.html
Pearson Plc (PSON)  Chief Financial Officer
Robin Freestone, with 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) to spend
on deals this year, is studying new takeover targets amid
sluggish funding for publicly funded schools and universities.  The company is seeking to buy for-profit education
companies in markets such as  India ,  Brazil  and  China  as well as
websites and software that help people acquire new skills,
Freestone said in an interview in Bloomberg’s London office.  “The fast growing part of the education market globally at
the moment is people training to do a specific job and that can
be a construction worker, an accountant, a lawyer, a financier,
someone who wants to work in the hotel industry,” Freestone
said yesterday. “The growth in that part of the market is
running at about twice the level of students going into
university currently.”  Pearson, which makes most of its revenue from education
offerings in the U.S., needs to make up for a slowdown in its
traditional markets as North American education sales shrank by
2 percent last year. Freestone, 53, says he wants to make
London-based Pearson the “biggest and the best education
company in the world and that can’t just involve being big in
America.”  Pearson’s international education business, which grew 15
percent by sales and adjusted operating profit last year,
accounted for almost a quarter of the 5.9 billion pounds in
annual revenue.  Low-Cost Schools  One of Pearson’s target markets are low-cost, for-profit
schools in places such as India and  Africa  where local schools
might be of lower quality. In  Kenya , where a laborer makes about
$2 a day, children can be sent to a school, where Pearson is a
co-investor, for $4 a week, Freestone said.  “There are similar models like that in India, but to make
any money at that, you have to have volume,” he said. One of
the ways the company plans to expand in these areas is through
acquisitions, he said.  Pearson’s education and professional sales grew 4.3 percent
to 4.4 billion pounds in 2011. The FT Group, which includes the
Financial Times, a stake in the Economist, investor-focused
trade magazines and related businesses, grew 6 percent to 427
million pounds.  The stock dropped 0.3 percent to 1,196 pence in  London  as
of 8:40 a.m. The shares have gained 9.7 percent in the last 12
months while the U.K. FTSE benchmark dropped 2.2 percent.  Pearson, which also owns the Penguin book publisher, has
sold some of its non-education businesses in the past two years,
including researcher IDC and a 50 percent stake in FTSE
International Ltd., which publishes the FTSE 100 Index.  Not For Sale  Still, the FT, the pink-paged financial newspaper that
traces its origins to two English papers formed in the 1880s, is
not for sale and never has been, Freestone said.  The Financial Times makes Pearson more sensitive to
downturns in the economy and the company should try to sell the
asset within three years, Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Claudio Aspesi  wrote in a note to investors in January.  The company is focusing on digital and for-profit schools
as traditional education is subjected to budget cuts. Schools in
 North America  are delaying orders of textbooks and Pearson said
in its annual report that it anticipates lower college
enrollments this year.  Acquisition Targets  Pearson typically considers 25 to 30 acquisition targets at
any time, Freestone said. The company spent almost 900 million
pounds on 10  deals  last year and has the headroom to do more
than that this year, he said.  Recent acquisitions include Schoolnet, which collects data
on student performance, and home-schooling service Connections
Education as well as Chinese test-preparation company Global
Education and Technology Group.  Deals this year will probably be “small” to develop fast-
growing niche markets as the market is dominated by only a few
companies, he said. The top four companies in U.S. education
services account for 90 percent of the market, he said.  “More of that size spreads the risk,” Freestone said. He
declined to comment on specific targets and the number of deals,
comparing dealmaking to waiting for buses.  “You go for six months and you can’t find anything and
then three come along in the space of a week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  