-- Philippine Bonds Rise on Failed Treasury Auction; Peso Steady
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-03-28T09:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/philippine-bonds-rise-on-failed-treasury-auction-peso-steady.html
Philippine bonds gained after the
government rejected all bids at an auction of seven-year bonds
yesterday to prevent yields rising. The peso was little changed.  The coupon on the new seven-year debt would have risen to
5.25 percent had the Bureau of the Treasury accepted the bids
for the 9 billion pesos ($210 million) of debt on offer, auction
results showed. The Treasury sold seven-year bonds at an average
yield of 4.504 percent in February. Inflation remains manageable
and is expected to stay within target this year, Bangko Sentral
ng Pilipinas Governor Amando Tetangco said today.  “The Treasury’s intent to cut down the supply of debt and
manage yields was exemplified by the rejection of all bids
yesterday,” said Jan Briace Santos, a fixed-income trader who
helps manage the equivalent of $16 billion at BPI Asset
Management Inc. in  Manila . “That was a positive signal that
they’ve got enough funds for now.”  The yield on the 5.875 percent bonds due March 2032 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.95 percent as
of 5:13 p.m. in Manila, according to Tradition Financial
Services. The peso closed little changed at 42.93 per dollar,
prices from Tullett Prebon Plc showed. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, rose 15 basis points to 5.90 percent.  The  Philippines  will probably reduce the amount of
securities it offers at weekly auctions in the three months
starting April after raising a record amount from debt sold to
individuals last month, Treasurer  Roberto Tan  said March 26.  The government auctioned 9 billion pesos each week in the
first quarter as it sought to raise 117 billion pesos to finance
its  budget deficit . The Southeast Asian nation sold a record
179.8 billion pesos of 15- and 20-year retail bonds in February.
The Bureau of the Treasury will announce its second-quarter
borrowing plan this week.  Consumer prices  in the Philippines, which imports most of
its energy needs, rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier in
February, the smallest increase since September 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  