-- Pimco’s Gross Says Fed to Shift Operation Twist to Mortgages
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-03-28T17:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/pimco-s-gross-says-fed-to-shift-operation-twist-to-mortgages.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said the  Federal Reserve  will probably shift focus to
mortgage securities to keep borrowing rates low when its so-
called Operation Twist program ends in June.  It will be a “twist on another twist going forward,”
Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said from Pimco’s
headquarters in  Newport Beach ,  California , during an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week unemployment
remains too high, the U.S. economic recovery isn’t assured and
policy makers don’t rule out any further options to boost
growth, including additional debt purchases. Investor
expectations for more monetary stimulus declined after Fed
policy makers raised their assessment of the economy March 13.  “The Fed is outcome oriented,” Gross said. “And what he
said on Monday in terms of the employment picture basically
suggested that, up until now we’ve done very well in terms of
reducing unemployment but it will be a tougher row to hoe
going forward.”  The central bank is pursuing a maturity-extension program
announced in September to replace $400 billion of short-term
debt in its portfolio with longer-term securities. The Fed
 purchased  $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative
easing that have become known as QE1 and QE2 as part of its
efforts to support the world’s biggest economy.  Sterilized Twist  What the Fed will “try to do is twist in the mortgage
market; basically buy current-coupon mortgages in agency space,
3 percent and 3.5 percent coupons,” Gross said.
“And basically twist by repoing out the Treasuries they
currently own in short-term space.”  A so-called sterilized version of debt purchases would
involve the Fed buying longer-term debt while draining cash from
the banking system through the repurchase agreement market,
preventing a rise in bank reserves. This option may allow the
central bank to take further action to bolster growth while
containing investors and political leaders’ concern the actions
might threaten future inflation.  Repos are transactions used for short-term funding,
typically involving the sale of U.S. government securities in
exchange for cash, with the debt held as collateral for the
loan. In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to its counterparties.  Buying Mortgages  Pimco’s $252 billion Total Return Fund reduced holdings of
Treasuries last month for the first time since February 2011,
when it cut its stake in the securities to zero.  Gross lowered the proportion of U.S. government securities
in the fund to 37 percent of assets from 38 percent in January,
according to a report on the company’s  website . He raised
mortgages to 52 percent from 50 percent.  The Total Return Fund has earned 2.9 percent for investors
this year, beating about 97 percent of its competitors,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund has gained 0.1
percent over one month, topping 80 percent of rivals, the data
show.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.35 trillion of assets as of September.  The five-year notes that Russia plans to sell offer more
value than U.S. Treasuries of the same maturity, Gross said.  Russian Debt  “At 230 basis points over the U.S. five-year, that’s an
attractive situation,” Gross said. “It’s a BBB+ type of
security in terms of sovereign space. Obviously it has a history
of default -- 10 to 11 to 12 years back. But we think at these
spreads, and with the situation currently, it’s an attractive
situation compared to U.S. Treasures.”  The Russian government is issuing $2 billion of five-year
bonds at 230 basis points over U.S. Treasuries, $2 billion of
10-year bonds at a spread of 240 basis points and $3 billion of
30-year bonds at 250 basis points, said a banker with knowledge
of the deal who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t yet public. The yield spread on a 2044 bond
for similarly rated  Mexico  is 150 basis points and 131 basis
points for  Brazil ’s note due in 2041.  The last time Russia issued 30-year notes was in August
2000, two years after its $40 billion domestic debt default. The
sale will be the biggest among emerging markets since Qatar
issued $7 billion of bonds in November 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  