-- Polarized Wisconsin Digging in for Official Start of Walker War
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/polarized-wisconsin-digging-in-for-official-start-of-walker-war.html
Thirteen months after the first
yard signs demanding Governor  Scott Walker ’s ouster were driven
into frozen turf, his survival has become a national Republican
cause as  Wisconsin (STOWI1)  prepares for what may be the third
gubernatorial recall vote in U.S. history.  The 44-year-old first-term governor has laid the foundation
for his campaign through cable news appearances, out-of-state
fundraisers and television ads defending a bill he signed
curtailing unions that represent public employees. On March 30,
election officials will decide whether voters get the chance to
throw him out on June 5.  In mid-January, Walker’s critics turned in 931,000 petition
signatures -- including those of 29 circuit court judges --
seeking a vote on his removal. That’s far more than the 540,208
required, and Walker has said he won’t go to court to stop a
vote. The  Wisconsin Democracy Campaign  has estimated spending on
the election will be $60 million to $80 million, double the
outlay on the 2010 governor’s race.  “I can’t think of anything that is the equivalent of
this,” said  Charles Franklin , a political scientist who runs
the Marquette University Law School Poll. “It’s just stunning
that it’s kept people so engaged for 12 months.”  A recall might break single-party control of Wisconsin,
where Republicans also hold both houses of the Legislature. Only
two U.S. governors have been recalled:  Gray Davis  of  California 
in 2003, and  Lynn Frazier  of  North Dakota  in 1921.  Weighing Walker  Walker’s prospects of becoming the third are in the
balance. Marquette released a survey yesterday showing the state
split almost down the middle.  Walker leads, 47 percent to 45 percent, in a hypothetical
matchup with Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, whom Walker defeated
in the 2010 governor’s race. Facing former Dane County Executive
Kathleen Falk, who has said she will run, Walker is ahead, 49
percent to 45 percent. The poll had a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.8 percentage points.  Walker’s opponent may be chosen in a May 8 primary.  While 18 states let citizens force recall elections of
public officials,  Wisconsin  has in the past year embraced the
right as if it were an exciting new hobby.  Nine votes on state senators of both parties were held in
July and August, and two lost their seats. Recall votes on four
more -- all Republicans -- will be held June 5. One, Pam Galloway, announced her resignation after the election was
certified.  Taking Names  On March 30, the  Government Accountability Board , a
nonpartisan panel of former judges, will rule not only on
Walker, but on the sufficiency of 842,860 signatures collected
for a vote on Republican Lieutenant Governor Rebecca Kleefisch.  The recall drumbeat began in February 2011 after Walker
pushed through the Legislature restrictions on collective
bargaining that cover most public employees. Unions said the
rules were meant to break their power, while Republicans said
they gave local governments tools to remain solvent.  Weeks of demonstrations dominated Madison, the capital.  The debate has expanded beyond collective bargaining and
now includes Walker’s $800 million cut in school aid and a
district attorney’s investigation into former aides who served
Walker while he was  Milwaukee  County’s executive. That probe has
led to charges that the aides performed political work on
government time. Although Walker has said he doesn’t believe he
is a target of the investigation, he has established a fund for
legal expenses.  Wisconsin at Work  The central message of Walker’s defense of his governorship
is that his fiscal overhaul is working, helping the state to
recover from the longest recession since the Depression. He
promised that the state would get 250,000 new private-industry
jobs in his first term.  Although the state’s unemployment rate has declined since
Walker took office, to 6.9 percent in January from 7.7 percent a
year earlier, Wisconsin lost 12,500 nonfarm jobs last year,
including both public and private positions,  according to  the
 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  However, the state ranked fifth-worst on the Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States index from January 2011, when
Walker took office, through that year’s third quarter, the most
recent data.  The Legislative Fiscal Bureau reported Feb. 9 that the
state has a budget deficit of $143.2 million.  Blinking Slogan  There is little ambiguity in opinions about Walker, polls
show. From Milwaukee, where blue-and-white “Recall Walker” and
“I Stand with Walker” yard signs define the debate, to small
towns where neighbors know who stands where, the ouster campaign
has sucked up nearly all the political oxygen.  In the central Wisconsin town of Portage, visitors are
greeted by Jim Porter’s blinking sign in the yard in front of
his small yellow house: “Reunite Our State. Recall Walker.”  Porter is a corrections officer at the Columbia
Correctional Institution, a maximum security prison, and is
staunch in defense of public employees.  “Walker and his cronies have demonized us very
effectively,” Porter said.  Downtown, Laurie Krueger runs a jewelry store with her
husband, John, and said Walker “did what had to be done.”  “A lot of people really feel what he did was good,” she
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  