-- Pope’s Cuban Mission Leads Some Exiles in Miami to Soften Stance
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-03-28T14:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/pope-s-cuban-mission-leads-some-exiles-in-miami-to-soften-stance.html
The Roman Catholic Church’s
campaign for change in Cuba may not have led President Raul Castro’s government to weaken the power of the communist party,
though it has convinced some Cuban Americans to call for an end
to the U.S. embargo they once tenaciously backed.  Carlos Saladrigas, who was smuggled out of Cuba at the age
of 12 before making his fortune as chairman of Miami-based
Vincam Group Inc., will be in Havana’s Revolution Square today
to listen to  Pope Benedict XVI  deliver a message of gradual
change.  The visit comes 14 years after Saladrigas led a group of
Cuban Americans that blocked Bishop Thomas G. Wenski of
 Orlando ’s plans to take a cruise ship of Catholics from  Florida 
for Pope John Paul II’s visit to Cuba. Later, sensing the impact
the 1998 papal visit had on Cubans he softened his stance.
Today, he is one of about 800 pilgrims accompanying Wenski, now
Archbishop of Miami, to hear Benedict celebrate Mass.  “It wasn’t an overnight epiphany but it got me thinking,”
Saladrigas said in an interview outside Havana’s cathedral
yesterday. “It was the realization that a policy that focuses
exclusively on damaging the regime, even when it costs us
collateral damage to the people, not only is it unethical, it’s
counter-productive.”  U.S. sanctions imposed in 1962 make it illegal for
Americans to buy Cuba’s famed cigars and impede U.S. companies
such as Coca Cola Co. from gaining a foothold on the island of
11.2 million people.  During his 1998 visit,  John Paul II  called on the world to
open up to Cuba and Cuba to open up to the world, a sentiment
echoed by Benedict during his current tour of the island.  Peter Pan  Saladrigas, 63, was smuggled out of Cuba in 1961, one of
14,000 children taken out of the island in the early 1960’s as
part of the U.S. government’s Peter Pan project to help resettle
opponents of the communist regime. His parents followed him a
year later.  “It marked me in a very significant way,” Saladrigas
said. “It is ironic that the Pedro Pan generation -- the
generation that most deeply suffered from the division of the
country -- is probably set to be the bridge generation that
brings things back.”  The U.S. banned exports to Cuba in 1960 and imposed a full
trade embargo in 1962 after  Fidel Castro  seized American
properties and sided with the  Soviet Union  during the height of
the  Cold War .  “I was very much in favor of a policy cocktail of
sanctions and isolation,” Saladrigas said. “That has been the
formula for many years and used to be the required creed in
Miami.”  Mixed Results  The church’s attempt to bridge the political divide in Cuba
and win greater economic, political and spiritual freedom on the
island has met with mixed results. The Cuban church came under
criticism after it stood by as Castro’s government rounded up
more than 70 dissidents last week and helped evict protesters
seeking refuge in a church.  Benedict has refused to meet with the dissidents though he
has sympathized with the plight of the island’s inmates in
comments since arriving in Cuba March 26.  Saladrigas, who headed the employment outsourcing company
Vincam until it was bought by Automatic Data Processing Inc. for
$280 million 13 years ago, said that he understands the anger
dissidents and hard-line opponents of the Cuban regime feel.
Still, he said they’re not grasping the important role the
church is playing helping open up Cuban society.  “The church is finding new space for dialogue, for
reflection and for Cubans to come together to solve their own
problems,” Saladrigas said. “While the church is not a
political agent, it is becoming an interlocutory.”  Economic Opening  Since  Raul Castro  took over from his brother in 2006 and
began accelerating the pace of economic liberalization, the church
has been able to publish magazines that are critical of the
government. It also runs business courses, training some of the
500,000 state employees being laid off as part of the economic
overhaul that has also allowed Cubans to buy and sell property
for the first time since the 1959 revolution.  Before traveling to what pollsters call  Latin America ’s
least devout nation, the pope criticized Marxism as outdated and
urged Cubans to seek out new models.  That call for a change in ideology was rebuffed yesterday
after vice president of the Council of Ministers Marino Murillo
ruled out political reform while leaving the door open for
further economic adjustments.  “Cuba is in the process of carrying out the Cuban economic
model that will make our socialism sustainable,” Murillo told
reporters in  Havana  yesterday.  Cubans have a “long road” to travel and the church wants
to walk it with them, Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said
yesterday.  U.S. Sanctions  While the trade restrictions that were tightened by
Congress in 1996 have crippled Cuba’s economy, Saladrigas said
they’ve also prevented the island’s exiled community from
engaging with their homeland.  “I hear from many Cuban-American businessmen that the
theme emerging is that the embargo is turning out to be an
embargo on us,” said Saladrigas, who is co-chairman of the Cuba
Study Group, a Washington-based group that seeks to change U.S.
policy toward Cuba and encourage the adoption of a market-based
economy on the island. Ending the embargo is not about making
money, it is “about using our talent to help Cuba.”  The same message was transmitted by Wenski, who yesterday
in Havana urged Cubans to seek a “soft landing” away from the
“spent ideology” of Marxism.  If that happens, Saladrigas said he is ready to invest in
his former homeland.  “The question is when, at what time and under what
circumstances,” he said. “Those questions are not yet ready to
be answered.”  For now though he has his sights on a more immediate
objective: receiving a papal blessing today like the thousands
of other Cubans expected to pour into Revolution Square.  “It’s a little bit of my own personal redemption,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 