-- Pope Urges Greater Freedom Before Meeting Fidel Castro in Cuba
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-03-29T01:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/pope-speaks-for-dissidents-in-prayers-as-cuba-rejects-change.html
Pope Benedict XVI  met with Cuba’s
former President Fidel Castro after the pontiff called for
greater freedom for the Roman Catholic Church and warned against
fanatics during a three-day visit to the communist island.  The pope said that Cuba has opened up since his predecessor
John Paul II met with Fidel during a 1998 trip, allowing the
church to carry out “her essential mission” of expressing
faith. Authorities should continue the process, he said.  Celebrating Mass in Havana’s Revolution Square to a crowd
estimated by the Vatican at 300,000, Benedict said that both
Cuba and the world need change “but this will occur only if
each one is in a position to seek the truth.” While urging
Cubans to seek out “authentic freedom” he also criticized
“restrictive economic measures imposed from outside” in
reference to a half-century U.S. embargo against Latin America’s
sole dictatorship.  After the Mass, the pope met with Fidel Castro and his
wife. Castro asked most of the questions as the two spoke of
economic and environmental problems during their 30-minute,
discussion, Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said.  Expectations of the pope meeting Fidel had dominated his
three-day visit to Cuba, which came on the heels of a visit to
 Mexico , the largest Catholic nation in the Spanish-speaking
world.  “It was a cordial reception although less expansive or
enthusiastic than the one he received in Mexico,” Lombardi told
reporters.  “This doesn’t mean there was less sincerity and
perhaps underlines the fact that this is an event that’s even
more rare for the Cuban people than it is for Mexicans.”  ‘Fanaticism’  The pope in his homily yesterday cited a Biblical passage
in which men persecuted by a king preferred to face death rather
than betray their conscience. “There are those who wrongly
interpret this search for the truth, leading them to
irrationality and fanaticism,” he told the crowd, including the
communist party leadership.  His criticism of the U.S. embargo followed  John Paul II ’s
condemnation the same American policies and famous call that
Cuba should “open itself up to the world, and may the world
open itself up to Cuba.”  Benedict expressed support for political prisoners, and the
Vatican said that he raise humanitarian issues in a meeting with
President  Raul Castro . The U.S. State Department renewed
yesterday its request that the pontiff seek the release of
imprisoned American contractor Alan Gross, though it’s unknown
if the case was discussed.  Still, the pope refused requests for an audience from
dissidents who  Amnesty International  said were harassed and
arrested during the visit.  Door Open  The mass in Revolution Square “was beautiful but the pope
didn’t see the real Cuba,” said  Julio Cesar , 74, sitting on a
park bench in central  Havana  as the pope made his way to the
airport. “He should see how the poor live in Cuba. There’s no
work here.”  While Cesar said he appreciated the pope’s call for change,
he said he doubted it would materialize after a half-century of
single party rule.  Benedict’s visit re-enforced the important role being
played in Cuba by the church, which behind the scenes has pushed
along reforms to open up the economy like the decision last year
to allow Cubans to buy and sell property for the first time
since the 1959 revolution.  Securing political freedom has been more difficult,
however. Marino Murillo, vice president of the  Council of
Ministers , ruled out any political change during a press
conference with reporters this week.  Political Prisoners  During a Mass in Santiago de Cuba on March 26, security
guards pulled away a man who tried to approach the pope shouting
“down with communism.” Images broadcast on foreign TV networks
covering the visit showed him being hit in the face several
times by the crowd, once with a gurney by a man wearing a Red
Cross vest.  “Cuban human rights activists are facing a surge in
harassment in a bid to silence them during the pope’s visit,”
Amnesty said in an e-mailed statement, adding that 150
dissidents had been arrested by Cuban authorities during the
papal visit.  Religious Revival  Cubans have started returning to the pews after  Fidel
Castro  declared Christmas a holiday following the visit of John
Paul II to the once officially atheist nation.  Benedict asked Raul Castro to also make Good Friday a
holiday, Lombardi said. An official reply is expected to take
some time, he said.  Only half of Cuba’s 11.2 million people identify themselves
as Catholics compared with 85 percent in Mexico, according to a
2011 study by the Washington-based Pew Research Center’s Forum
on Religion and Public Life.  While the door is shut to political change, Murillo, the
architect of recent economic policies, said that Cuba has
studied the experiences of  China ,  Vietnam  and  Russia  to open
their economies with an eye to further changes.  “We’ve done it with the aim of learning and understanding
the economic concepts those countries have applied, which
doesn’t automatically mean we’re going to copy what others
did,” Murillo said.  Cuba’s gross domestic product expanded 2.5 percent last
year, according to the  United Nations ’ Economic Commission for
 Latin America  and the Caribbean, compared with 4.3 percent
 growth  for the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Havana at  cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 