-- Medicare Budget Debate Comes Down to Who Does Trimming
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-29T14:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/prescriptions-for-medicare-cuts-depend-on-who-does-the-trimming.html
This year’s debate over the future
of Medicare comes down to who wields the knife.  Both political parties are proposing to cut the $500
billion-a-year health-care program for the elderly. They
disagree as to how.  Republicans want to rely on the marketplace, saying
competition can be harnessed to drive down costs. Democrats say
a panel of experts, created in the Obama administration’s 2010
health-care overhaul, should decide how to wring savings from
the program.  “There is no dispute over endpoints; it’s all about how
you get there,” said former  Congressional Budget Office 
Director Douglas Holtz-Eakin. “Who do you trust to get you
there?”  The fight takes center stage as the U.S. House debates a
budget endorsing Republicans’ vision for the half-century-old
program. It will probably win adoption today after lawmakers
dispense with several competing plans.  A bipartisan budget proposal based on recommendations of
the heads of President Barack Obama’s debt commission was
defeated last night on a 382-38  vote . Just 22 Democrats and 16
Republicans voted for the plan, modeled on the Simpson-Bowles
deficit-reduction plan.  That’s barely one third of the lawmakers who signed a
letter in November urging a budget-cutting supercommittee to
adopt a plan similar to the one written by former Senator  Alan Simpson  and President  Bill Clinton ’s former chief of staff,
Erskine Bowles.  Election Debate  The House budget plan is certain to die in the Senate,
though it will continue to be debated in this year’s elections
with Democrats accusing Republicans of plotting to end Medicare
and Republicans casting the Democrats’ panel of experts as a
rationing board.  “If the Republicans in Congress -- and their amen corner
of Romney, Santorum and Gingrich -- if any one of them gets
their hands on the White House, the keys of the White House, I
promise you will see Medicare ended as you know it,” Vice
President  Joe Biden  said last week in  Florida .  The 60 Plus Association, an advocacy group representing
seniors, has begun targeting Democratic senators in re-election
races, including Jon Tester of  Montana , with a TV ad dubbing the
board a “Medicare IRS” that will “deny certain Medicare
treatments so Washington can fund more wasteful spending.”  Need to Cut  The fight obscures the fact that lawmakers of both parties
agree on the need to cut Medicare. The program is projected to
double in size over the next decade with annual costs reaching
$1 trillion by 2022.  Republicans, including House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , have been critical of Democrats for cutting $500 billion
from the program over a decade as part of their health-care
overhaul. Still, the House Republican budget written by Ryan
retains the cuts.  Lawmakers of both parties propose caps on total spending, a
fundamental change in how the open-ended program operates. They
even agree on the limit, with each party calling for capping
spending at economic growth plus a half percentage point.  Some details of their restructuring plans also are similar.
Obama would set up so-called exchanges -- essentially, a
marketplace -- where the uninsured younger than 65 could buy
health-care coverage. Ryan’s budget plan would set up a similar
structure, though for seniors.  Controlling Costs  “There’s more agreement here than meets the eye,” said
 Bob Bixby , head of the Concord Coalition, a Washington-based
group that advocates for a balanced budget.  Where the two sides differ, and vehemently, is how to
control costs.  The Republican plan would provide seniors with government
subsidies to buy private insurance or to participate in
Medicare, arguing that competition among providers would lower
costs. They point to the federal government’s prescription drug
program, which provides coverage through insurers competing for
seniors’ business and where costs have been 40 percent less than
anticipated.  “Why did Medicare Part D come in 41 percent below cost
projections?” asked Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican. “Because it
harnessed choice and competition. Name me another government
program that came in 41 percent below cost projections.”  Footing Bigger Bills  Democrats say that approach won’t work, predicting the
subsidies won’t keep up with rising health-care costs, leaving
seniors footing bigger bills or forgoing care.  “The health-insurance market has never provided affordable
care to seniors; that’s why Medicare was created to begin
with,” said Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the
top Democrat on the House Budget Committee. “The Republican
proposal places all the risks and costs of increasing health-
care prices on seniors.”  The reality is no one is sure what would happen. The
Congressional Budget Office, responsible for gauging the
potential effects on the plan, has said it can’t predict the
outcome because the Republican approach would be so novel.  Democrats favor a 15-member panel called the Independent
Payment Advisory Board that would be responsible for devising
ways to cut costs.  “Somebody gets to decide what health care is covered,”
said Senator  Patty Murray , a Washington Democrat. “Do they want
insurance companies making all the decisions?”  One Size Fits All  Republicans say the plan amounts to allowing the board to
impose its one-size-fits-all approach on millions of Americans.  “Our budget empowers 50 million seniors to choose a plan
that best suits their needs, rather than allow 15 unelected,
unaccountable bureaucrats to do so for them,” said
Representative  Tom Price , a Georgia Republican.  The board’s influence could be limited. No one has been
appointed to it yet, and the members must be confirmed by the
Senate. What’s more, the panel’s recommendations would take
effect only if lawmakers don’t block them.  So much of the dispute boils down to whom you trust, said
Marc Goldwein, policy director of the Washington-based Committee
for a Responsible Federal Budget.  “Either the government can do it or the private sector can
do it, but it’s going to happen,” he said. “Somebody has got
to make the decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  