-- Private Lenders Forgive Home Debt as U.S. Lenders Balk
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-03-28T17:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/private-lenders-forgive-home-debt-as-u-s-lenders-balk.html
Non-government holders of
delinquent mortgages are offering more payment plans with debt
forgiveness as  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  resist, according to
the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Principal reductions were granted in 8.5 percent of the
116,153 delinquent mortgages that received permanent
modifications in the fourth quarter, according to a report by
the unit of the Treasury Department. That’s up from 8.1 percent
in the prior three-month period. Debt forgiveness was included
in 16 percent of loans held by private investors, 25 percent of
loans held in bank portfolios and in none owned by the
government-run companies.  “Principal modifications can be a tool in the overall
arsenal,” Bruce Krueger, a senior mortgage expert with the
Comptroller’s office, said in a conference call with reporters
today. “It just makes sense for homeowners who have been
significantly underwater to take a principal writedown.”  Lenders have struggled to find ways to reduce losses as
12.1 percent of mortgages were  delinquent  or in foreclosure at
the end of last year, down from 12.4 percent a year earlier,
according to the Comptroller’s report. About 5 million
homeowners have lost their property through foreclosure or other
forfeiture actions since 2006, according to RealtyTrac Inc.  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, the mortgage financiers under
government conservancy since 2008, haven’t granted principal
reductions because it would cost the taxpayer-funded companies
almost $100 billion, Edward DeMarco, the acting director of the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , the U.S. agency overseeing the
mortgage companies, said in a Jan. 20 letter to Congress.  Principal Deferrals  Private investors may have acquired the mortgages at a
discount or been forced to write down the value of the loans to
comply with U.S. banking regulations, making it easier for them
to offer debt forgiveness, Krueger said.  Principal deferrals, which reduce payments by delaying
rather than forgiving debt obligations, were offered on 20
percent for loans held by  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , 26 percent by Fannie Mae,
30 percent by private investors and on 39 percent of mortgages
in bank portfolios.  “We haven’t been able to determine whether principal
reduction modification works better than principal deferral
modification,” Krueger said.  Delinquent loans that received payment reductions greater
than 10 percent have had a lower re-default rate than plans with
smaller discounts, Krueger said.  Short Sales Increase  The number of permanent modifications fell 44 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier and 16 percent from the
prior three-month period, according to the report. At the same
time, the number of homes seized through foreclosures rose 22
percent to 116,060 and the number of short sales, when lenders
agree to sell for less than the debt on the property, increased
29 percent from a year earlier to 63,257.  Owners of 768,773 homes had active mortgages modified under
President Barack Obama’s Making Home Affordable program as of
Jan. 31, the most recent data available from the Treasury
Department. That included 44,058 loans with principal
modifications, with a median debt reduction of $68,063. Almost
half -- 46 percent -- of all non-government loans that received
modifications in January came with principal reductions,
according to a March 2 report, reducing the median loan-to-value
ratio to 115 percent from 159 percent.  The Comptroller’s Mortgage Metrics report covers 31.4
million first-lien mortgages worth $5.4 trillion in outstanding
balances, about 60 percent of all first-lien mortgages in the
U.S. as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  