-- Puerto Rico $7.6 Billion of Electric Bonds Cut a Step
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-03-28T20:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/puerto-rico-7-6-billion-of-electric-bonds-cut-a-step.html
Puerto Rico Electric Power
Authority (27482MF)  had its rating cut one step by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited the issuer’s weakened liquidity and reduced
electricity demand.  The reduction to Baa1, third-lowest investment level, from
A3 affects $7.6 billion of debt outstanding, the rating company
in New York said today in a report. The grade also applies to
$475 million in revenue-refunding bonds to be sold next month.  The authority, overseeing the largest U.S. public power
system, plans to issue the new bonds as soon as the week of
April 9,  Jose Otero , vice president of financing for the
Government Development Bank, the commonwealth’s borrowing agent,
said by telephone from  San Juan . Proceeds will help finance
capital improvements as well as refund debt, according to
offering documents. Moody’s said the credit outlook is stable.  “The rating reflects the recent and forecasted weakened
credit metrics and liquidity, continued weakness in the
commonwealth’s economy as evidenced by reduced electricity
demand,” and continuing high oil prices, Moody’s analysts led
by Richard Donner said in the report. They said the utility
relies mainly on oil for generator fuel.  About 67 percent of the authority’s electricity is produced
by oil-fired plants, Otero said. He said that the utility is
working to diversify fuel types by converting generators to burn
natural gas.  Fitch Revision  Fitch Ratings  revised its outlook for the authority’s
credit to negative from stable today, citing “slimmer”
operating margins and  cash flow  in fiscal 2011, as well as
growing fuel costs and declining electricity usage. Fitch and
 Standard & Poor’s  have assigned BBB+ grades to the bonds to be
sold next month, both equivalent to the Moody’s level.  Another challenge confronting the utility is collecting
bills, the Moody’s analysts said, citing that as a “pressure on
cash flow.” However, they said, “legislative efforts should
reduce impact in future periods.”  A proposed measure would require the Management and Budget
Office to pay any unpaid electricity bills owed by commonwealth
agencies and departments, Otero said. The effect “will reduce
the accounts payable from the central government” and improve
the utility’s liquidity, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  