-- Rand Down as Copper Declines on Signs of Slowing Chinese Demand
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-28T06:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/rand-down-as-copper-declines-on-signs-of-slowing-chinese-demand.html
The rand fell for a second day as
commodities including copper fell on signs of slowing demand
from  China , the world’s biggest user of industrial metals,
putting pressure on currencies of commodity producers.  South Africa’s currency slid 0.4 percent to 7.6314 per
dollar as of 8:37 a.m. in Johannesburg, the worst performer of
16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg. The currencies of
 Australia ,  New Zealand  and  Canada  also weakened. The yield on
8.25 percent bonds due 2017 rose two basis points to 7.415
percent.  China’s copper demand based on trade data climbed 26
percent in January and February from a year earlier, down from
30 percent growth in December, Standard Chartered Plc said in a
report yesterday. Chinese demand may increase this year at the
slowest pace since the 2008 financial crisis, Wei Jianghong,
chairman of Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co., said this
month. Premier  Wen Jiabao  set a 2012 economic growth target of
7.5 percent this month, compared with an 8 percent goal over the
past seven years.  “The rand wouldn’t be quite as sensitive to that news as
the Aussie and the Kiwi, but it would warrant a bit of rand
weakness,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Johannesburg-
based Rand Merchant Bank, said by phone.  Copper for three-month delivery fell as much as 0.9
percent, its first decline in four days. Commodities including
metals account for 64 percent of South Africa’s exports,
according to government data. The nation has the world’s biggest
reserves of platinum, manganese and chrome.  Pension-Fund Policy  Earlier, Reuters reported that  South Africa ’s Government
Employees’ Pension Fund may invest about $22 billion of the $150
billion it manages outside the country, citing actuarial head
John Oliphant. That may add to rand weakness, Cairns said.  “There is little indication of how much of the additional
investment has already been done and how quickly the
diversification into foreign assets will take place,” he said
in a separate note to clients.  The rand has advanced 6 percent this year, heading for its
best first quarter since 2004. It declined 18 percent last year,
the second-worst performance by an emerging-market currency
after Turkey’s lira.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at  