-- RBS, UBS, Goldman, Health-Care Law, JPMorgan in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-28T12:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/rbs-ubs-goldman-health-care-law-j-j-jpmorgan-in-court-news.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
interest-rate traders were seated with one of the main rate
setters in its  London  office to share information, and discussed
rates on conference calls, a fired trader said.  Tan Chi Min, let go over accusations he manipulated the
London interbank offered rate, made the claims in court papers
filed with the Singapore High Court on March 23. Tan, who sued
RBS for wrongful dismissal, has accused the bank of using an
internal probe into Libor manipulation to find scapegoats after
condoning such behavior.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
attempted to manipulate rates including Libor, the basis for
$360 trillion of securities around the globe. The probes have
called into question whether the banks can be trusted to set the
rates with minimal regulatory oversight. Investigators have
sought information from lenders including RBS,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Deutsche Bank AG.  Paul White, RBS’s principal rate setter for yen Libor, and
Tan’s team in London were “specifically seated together” in
the London office to “facilitate the sharing of information and
workload,” Tan, the bank’s former head of short-term interest-
rate trading for the yen, said in court papers.  White, who was based in London, was also dismissed as part
of the bank’s Libor probe, two people briefed on the matter said
last month. He hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing by regulators.
Contact numbers for White couldn’t be located through the
Internet or directory assistance.  Patricia Choo, a Singapore-based RBS spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Tan’s claims. Tan’s lawyer Suresh Nair declined to
comment.  For more, click here.  UBS Wins Dismissal of Fraud Claim in HSH Nordbank Suit  UBS AG (UBS)  won dismissal of a fraud claim filed against the
bank by HSH Nordbank AG over losses on a collateralized debt
obligation linked to the U.S. subprime-mortgage market.  A  New York  state appeals court in Manhattan yesterday
dismissed the fraud claim against Zurich-based UBS, reversing an
October 2009 ruling by state Supreme Court Justice Richard Lowe
that allowed it to proceed.  The appeals court said HSH Nordbank, a regional German bank
that was bailed out during the financial crisis, was
“explicitly warned” of the risks in the transaction and could
have uncovered any misrepresentation by doing its own due
diligence.  “If we were to affirm the denial of the motion to dismiss
this fraud claim, we would be judging the sufficiency of a claim
asserted by a 140 billion euro commercial bank by a standard
more lenient than the one by which this court has judged similar
claims made by individual investors against their retail
brokers,” Justice David Friedman said in the ruling.  HSH Nordbank, based in Hamburg, sued UBS in February 2008,
accusing the bank of fraud, breach of contract and other claims
over losses on the investment, a CDO called North Street 2002-4.  HSH Nordbank said in the lawsuit that its predecessor,
 Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein (LSCH) , invested $500 million in the CDO
with UBS in March 2002. HSH Nordbank, which was created in June
2003 by the combination of  Hamburgische Landesbank (HLAB)  and
Landesbank Schleswig-Holstein, said it lost almost all of the
investment.  The case is HSH Nordbank AG v.  UBS AG (UBSN) , 600562/2008, New
York Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Gupta Denied Bid to Suppress Evidence of Rajaratnam Wiretaps  Rajat Gupta, the former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
accused of passing tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam, lost a bid to suppress government wiretaps caught on
Rajaratnam’s mobile phone.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York said March 26
that the wiretaps can be used for the same reason that U.S.
District Judge Richard Holwell allowed their use against
Rajaratnam at his trial.  “Gupta offers no arguments different from the arguments
Judge Holwell considered in the Rajaratnam case,” Rakoff said
in an order. “He argues instead that Judge Holwell’s
conclusions are in error. The court disagrees.”  Rakoff also granted Gupta’s lawyers two more hours to
question Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein 
under oath as part of a related U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission suit against Gupta and Rajaratnam. Rakoff is
presiding over both the criminal and civil cases.  Blankfein, a prosecution witness at the Rajaratnam insider-
trading trial, was questioned Feb. 24 as part of the parallel
SEC lawsuit.  SEC lawyers objected to questions asked by Gupta’s lawyer,
 Gary Naftalis , about the government’s preparation of Blankfein
for his testimony, citing a legal rule barring Gupta from
discovering information about its legal strategy and the thought
processes of its lawyers.  Gupta has pleaded not guilty. He faces as long as 20 years
in prison if convicted of any of the securities fraud charges
and as long as five years if convicted of conspiracy. He may be
fined as much as $5 million if convicted, prosecutors said.  He is scheduled to go on trial May 21.  U.S. v. Gupta, 11-907, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Wells Fargo Must Face Class Action Over Securities Lending  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  must face a group lawsuit by
institutional investors that claim the bank marketed a risky
securities-lending program as safe.  U.S. District Judge Donovan W. Frank in St. Paul,
Minnesota, certified the suit as a class action yesterday,
finding that common issues predominated, including whether Wells
Fargo “knew or should have known that the investments it
selected did not comport with investment mandates.” These
issues “will likely turn on substantially the same evidence for
the class as a whole,” Frank said in a 21-page decision.  The lawsuit, filed in 2010 by the City of Farmington Hills
Employees Retirement System, a Michigan pension fund, on behalf
of more than 100 other institutional investors, claimed breach
of fiduciary duty and fraud. The investors sought permission to
pursue the case against Wells Fargo as a group.  Wells Fargo “touted” its securities-lending program “as
a highly-secure way for its institutional clients to maximize
portfolio returns,” according to the complaint. Instead, the
pension fund said, “Wells Fargo invested a substantial portion
of the collateral in extremely risky securities.”  The investors also claimed that Wells Fargo concealed
investment performance from class members to prevent them from
exiting the securities-lending program.  Wells Fargo will “appeal the decision immediately,” Laura
Fay, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco-based company, said in
an e-mail. “Wells Fargo categorically denies the allegations
made in this lawsuit and will vigorously defend.”  The class action is City of Farmington Hills Employees
Retirement System v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 10-cv-04372, U.S.
District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  For more, click here.  Barnes & Noble Wins Dismissal of Four Directors From Lawsuit  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) , the biggest U.S. bookstore chain, won
a judge’s dismissal of four company directors alleged to have
unfairly sided with founder  Leonard Riggio  in the company’s $596
million buyout of his college-textbook firm.  Two other people named in a lawsuit, former directors
Lawrence S. Zilavy and Michael J. Del Giudice, must stand trial
along with the chairman and founder, Delaware Chancery Court
Judge Leo Strine ruled yesterday at a hearing in Wilmington.  Saying there was no evidence they acted in bad faith,
Strine dismissed independent directors Irene Miller, Margaret
Monaco and William Dillard II, along with Leonard’s brother,
Vice Chairman Stephen Riggio, who recused himself from the vote.  The Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System,
a holder of company common stock, sued the board Aug. 17, 2009,
contending officials violated their duties and wasted corporate
assets in the sale. The suit seeking damages was filed on behalf
of the company. A trial is tentatively set to begin June 18.  The independent directors “had a strong interest in making
sure Barnes & Noble didn’t overpay” for the college book firm,
and “you can’t be personally liable merely for casting a
vote,” defendants’ lawyer Kenneth Nachbar told Strine.  Directors were beholden to Leonard Riggio through long-term
associations, recognized his plans for transition to digital
readers and “knew Mr. Riggio was the godfather of all this
technology,” countered plaintiff’s lawyer Pamela Tikellis.  The investors argued that the board allowed Riggio to
dictate terms and timing of the 2009 buyout of Barnes & Noble
College Booksellers Inc. and didn’t force him to seek other
offers for the company to justify the purchase price.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment on the ruling in an e-mail message.  The case is In Re Barnes & Noble Stockholder Derivative
Litigation, CA No. 4813, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  SEC Sues Former United Commercial Bank Executive Cinderey  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission sued former
United Commercial Bank Vice President John Cinderey, accusing
him of creating false records tied to the defunct San Francisco-
based bank’s evaluation of loan risks.  United Commercial, a unit of  UCBH Holdings Inc (UCBHQ) ., was seized
by regulators in November 2009. It failed following the 2008
credit crisis and caused a $2.5 billion loss to the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s insurance fund, according to the SEC.
Cinderey, 64, was in charge of the bank’s commercial banking
division, the SEC said.  Cinderey, taking orders from his superiors during the
financial crisis, “misstated and omitted material information
in documents provided to the bank’s independent auditors,” the
SEC said in its complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
San Francisco. Cinderey “altered memoranda addressing the risks
associated with certain large loans and the potential losses the
bank faced from the loans,” which auditors relied on, according
to the complaint.  Three former executives at the bank were sued by the SEC
last year over claims they misled investors by concealing at
least $65 million in loan losses before the lender collapsed.  In its suit filed in October, the SEC claimed United
Commercial Bank’s chief executive officer, Thomas Wu, worked
with Chief Operating Officer Ebrahim Shabudin and senior officer
Thomas Yu to hide impaired assets from auditors, causing  UCBH
Holdings (UCBHQ)  to understate 2008 operating losses.  Cinderey’s lawyer, Mary McNamara, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cinderey,
12-01519, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Francisco).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Health Law Seen in Jeopardy After Justices Questioning  U.S. Supreme Court justices voiced skepticism about
President Barack Obama’s health-care law, hinting they might
strike down his biggest domestic achievement just months before
the election.  On the second of three days in the historic case, justices’
questions over the law’s requirement that Americans buy
insurance or pay a penalty indicated they might split 5-to-4,
with five Republican appointees banding together to topple the
law.  Justice Anthony Kennedy said the requirement to obtain
coverage is telling individuals they “must act.” Kennedy, who
most often occupies the court’s ideological middle ground, said,
“That changes the relationship of the government to the
individual in a fundamental way.”  Justice  Samuel Alito  called the penalties a “huge
subsidy” from young, healthy people who don’t want insurance to
those who need a lot of health care.  The law would extend coverage to 32 million people and
revamp an industry that accounts for 18 percent of the  U.S.
economy . The court hasn’t overturned a measure with such
sweeping impact since the 1930s, when it voided parts of
Franklin D. Roosevelt’s New Deal.  The court probably will rule in late June.  The Obama administration needs the vote of at least one of
the five Republican appointees on the nine-member court to
uphold the law.  Heading into yesterday’s session, Chief Justice John
Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia, Kennedy and Alito were the
most likely candidates, given their records. All four aimed
questions at U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, who argued
in the law’s defense.  For more, click here.  J&J Duped Arkansas Doctors Over Risperdal, Lawyer Tells Jury  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  officials repeatedly misled  Arkansas 
doctors about the safety of the antipsychotic drug Risperdal,
and the drugmaker should be held responsible for those
deceptions, a lawyer said.  J&J’s Janssen unit made misleading claims about Risperdal’s
health risks and effectiveness in a letter to more than 6,200
Arkansas doctors, violating the state’s deceptive-trade
practices law, one of the state’s lawyers told a jury in Little
Rock yesterday. Arkansas is seeking more than $1.25 billion in
penalties over the campaign.  “By the time this case is over, we will prove to you that
Janssen lied about Risperdal’s dangers just to make money,”
Fletcher Trammell, an attorney for Arkansas, told jurors in
opening statements in the state-court trial over J&J’s Risperdal
marketing tactics.  It’s the fifth jury trial over states’ claims that J&J, the
 second-biggest  maker of health products, hid Risperdal’s
diabetes risks and tricked Medicaid regulators into paying
millions of dollars more than they should have for the medicine.
J&J ended the most recent trial in  Texas  with a $158 million
settlement in January. The Texas settlement won court approval
yesterday.  J&J has said it provided proper warnings about diabetes
risks on Risperdal’s label and that U.S. regulators approved
those disclosures. Efforts to tie labeling claims to Medicaid
fraud should fail because “compliance with federal drug
labeling statutes and regulations is not a condition of payment
or participating in” a state Medicaid program, J&J said in a
July 2010 court filing.  Janssen didn’t engage in deceptive trade practices and
didn’t harm anyone, James Simpson, a company lawyer, told the
jury yesterday.  The case is State of Arkansas v. Ortho-McNeil-Janssen
Pharmaceuticals Inc., CV07-15345, Pulaski County Circuit Court
(Little Rock).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  J&J’s $158 Million Settlement With Texas Approved by Court  Johnson & Johnson and the state of Texas won court approval
of the company’s agreement to pay $158 million to settle claims
that the drugmaker fraudulently marketed its Risperdal anti-
psychotic drug.  J&J reached the settlement in January to resolve claims it
defrauded the state’s Medicaid program by promoting Risperdal
for uses not approved by U.S. regulators, including for children
with psychiatric disorders. The state also claimed the New
Brunswick, New Jersey-based drugmaker downplayed the health risk
of Risperdal.  Travis County District Judge John Dietz in Austin, Texas,
approved the settlement yesterday following a meeting in court
with lawyers. J&J and its Janssen unit denied any wrongdoing in
the final agreement.  “This settlement represents a resolution to claims brought
by the State in 2004 for alleged Medicaid overpayment during the
years 1994-2008, and will circumvent potentially lengthy and
costly appellate activities,” Teresa Mueller, a company
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Under the agreement, J&J and Janssen will pay $158 million,
with 40 percent going to the state, 31 percent to the U.S., 17
percent to whistle-blower Allen Jones, who brought the lawsuit,
and the rest to his attorneys, Tommy Jacks, one of Jones’s
lawyers, said in an interview.  Tom Kelley, spokesman for the Texas attorney general,
declined to comment on the breakdown. The state is getting a
larger share than initially expected, he said.  The settlement, reached during trial, was the first time
J&J and its Janssen unit settled a state’s claims over
Risperdal. The company lost jury trials in  South Carolina  and
Louisiana over Risperdal marketing. Opening statements in a
trial in Arkansas began yesterday.  The Texas case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288,
District Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  Soros Insider Trading Appeal Rejected by ECHR Grand Chamber  Billionaire investor George Soros lost a challenge to his
2002 insider trading conviction, with the  European Court of
Human Rights ’s Grand Chamber refusing to review whether France
had violated his rights.  The court’s Grand Chamber declined to hear Soros’s appeal
in a  statement  yesterday, without providing any reasoning.
Soros, 81, was convicted by Paris courts in 2002 for using
insider information about  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in his trading. He
argued that French market regulations weren’t clear enough to
hold him responsible.  As “a famous institutional investor, well-known to the
business community and a participant in major financial
projects,” Soros should have been “particularly prudent” in
ensuring he was obeying insider-trading laws, the Strasbourg,
France-based European court said in its October decision.  In the French case, Soros was ordered to repay 2.2 million
euros ($2.9 million) he’d made from the share purchase and
subsequent sale after judges found he’d acted with the knowledge
that the bank might be a takeover target.  While prosecutors filed criminal charges, French stock
market regulators didn’t pursue Soros, saying insider-trading
laws were too vague to determine whether he’d broken them.  Soros’s Paris lawyer,  Ron Soffer , declined to immediately
comment on the decision.  U.S. Seeks to Dismiss Convictions of Bribe Sting Defendants  U.S. prosecutors asked a judge to dismiss the convictions
of three men who pleaded guilty in a foreign-bribery sting, a
month after abandoning the case against 19 others charged in the
same alleged conspiracy.  The Justice Department, in a filing yesterday in U.S.
District Court in  Washington , said an earlier ruling by U.S.
District Judge Richard Leon throwing out conspiracy charges
against other defendants in the case should “apply equally” to
Jonathan Spiller, Haim Geri and Daniel Alvirez.  “The government has concluded that further prosecution of
the Gabon-related charges against defendants Spiller, Geri and
Alvirez is unlikely to be successful,” prosecutors said in the
filing.  Leon suggested at a hearing yesterday that he would grant
the request. He ordered the parties to submit additional filings
on how to dispose of the guilty pleas.  “I’m pleased to see the government made the right
decision,” he said.  At the request of prosecutors, Leon on Feb. 21 dismissed
the indictment accusing 19 security-industry officials of
planning to make payments to a federal agent posing as a
representative of the West African nation of Gabon to secure a
stake in a fake $15 million deal for weapons and security gear.  It was the first time the government used a sting operation
involving undercover techniques to charge violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The case was dropped after the
government failed to win convictions of 10 people who went to
trial.  “This outcome was the right thing to do by everyone’s
standpoint,” Alvirez’s lawyer, Asa Hutchinson, said in an
interview.  Geri’s lawyer, Eric Bruce of Kobre & Kim LLP, said in a
statement that “it would have been a grave injustice” for his
client “to be branded a felon as a result of this failed sting
operation.”  Spiller, in a statement, said he was glad “this painful
episode in my life is now over.”  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  U.S. Tax-Evasion Probes Said to Slow as Prosecutors Transfer  The U.S. Justice Department has lost almost 30 percent of
its tax prosecutors in the past month, slowing a U.S. crackdown
on offshore banks that enabled tax evasion, according to four
people familiar with the matter, Bloomberg News’ David Voreacos
reports.  Twenty-five of the 95 prosecutors in the tax division left
headquarters in Washington for six-month “details” with U.S.
attorneys around the country, and another three took permanent
assignments, according to the four people, who declined to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Many of the lawyers handled cases involving foreign banks
or financial advisers suspected of helping U.S. clients cheat on
taxes, the people said. The transfers came amid criminal probes
of at least 11 Swiss financial institutions, including Credit
Suisse Group AG, with the tax division leading or assisting each
prosecution.  “To move one-third of these people from that effort will
significantly compromise such enforcement at the very time it is
needed to deal with the huge amounts of offshore cases coming to
the tax division,” said Nathan Hochman, a former assistant
attorney general who oversaw the tax division under President
George W. Bush.  The prosecutors “have significant experience, training and
knowledge when it comes to the enforcement of tax laws
pertaining to overseas accounts,” said Hochman, now a partner
at Bingham McCutchen LLP in Santa Monica, California.  The division also investigates identity theft, illegal tax
shelters and other crimes, while approving every tax case filed
by the 94 presidentially appointed U.S. attorneys serving the
Justice Department around the country.  “Offshore non-compliance by U.S. taxpayers remains a top
priority for the Justice Department’s Tax Division,” said
Charles Miller, a Justice Department spokesman. “We will
continue to pursue those cases vigorously.”  For more, click here.  JPMorgan Promotes Biben to General Counsel for Consumer Banking  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. bank, elevated home-
lending general counsel Matt Biben to head legal strategy for
all of the firm’s consumer business.  Biben, who previously worked at  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. , will continue overseeing litigation and policy for
mortgages while supervising the bank’s legal teams for credit
cards, auto financing, student lending and consumer and business
banking, according to an internal memo sent to employees.  Madoff Trustee’s Ex-U.K. Lawyer Pleads Guilty to Expenses Fraud  A London lawyer who had represented the U.S. trustee
liquidating Bernard Madoff’s assets pleaded guilty to
fraudulently claiming 1.2 million pounds ($1.9 million) in
expenses from his law firm,  Hogan Lovells  LLP.  Christopher Grierson, a former partner at the firm in
London who advised on asset-tracing and fraud, admitted to 57
fake travel claims, the Crown Prosecution Service said in a
statement yesterday. He will be sentenced in May.  “Fraud is always a serious matter,” said Sue Patten, the
head of CPS’s Central Fraud Group. “Defrauding your employer or
otherwise abusing a position of trust, especially over a long
period of time, makes it particularly serious.”  Irving Picard , the U.S. bankruptcy court-appointed trustee
liquidating the accounts of Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, hired Grierson in 2009 to help recover Madoff
assets in  Europe . Grierson, who was charging as much as 610
pounds per hour, dropped the case in 2010 because of client
conflicts when his firm, then Lovells LLP, merged with
Washington-based Hogan & Hartson LLP.  No clients were affected by the fraud and Grierson repaid
the firm, Hogan Lovells said in May, when he was fired. The firm
conducted an internal investigation and referred the matter to
police and the Solicitors Regulation Authority, which oversees
lawyer conduct.  Chris Hinze, a spokesman for Hogan Lovells in London,
declined to comment further yesterday.  Tax-Lien Probe Wins Sixth N.J. Plea as Lawyer Admits Guilt  The owner of a  New Jersey  real estate company became the
sixth person to plead guilty in a federal antitrust probe,
admitting he conspired for a decade to rig auctions of municipal
tax liens throughout the state.  Robert E. Rothman, an attorney who owns Rothman Realty
Corp. in Englewood, New Jersey, pleaded guilty yesterday in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey. Rothman, 59, is the sixth
person to admit his role in the scheme and cooperate with a
growing investigation by the Justice Department’s antitrust
division.  Rothman admitted he helped eliminate competition from 2000
to 2009 by submitting collusive bids at auctions. The group
allocated “which tax liens each would bid on” and bought liens
at “collusive and non-competitive” rates, he admitted. If
liens were unpaid, their buyers could foreclose against the
property.  “The Antitrust Division’s investigation into municipal tax
liens is ongoing and active,” Sharis A. Pozen, acting assistant
attorney general, said in a statement. “The division will not
tolerate this kind of illegal conduct that harms distressed
homeowners.”  Rothman faces as many as 10 years in prison, although he is
likely to get far less time if prosecutors are satisfied with
his cooperation. U.S. District Judge Dennis Cavanaugh set
sentencing for July. He released Rothman on a $100,000 unsecured
bond.  Rothman’s attorney, Robert Cleary, the former U.S. attorney
in New Jersey, declined to comment on his client’s plea.  The case is U.S. v. Rothman, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 