-- Republicans Call for Congressional Probe of Student-Loan Program
-- B y   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/republicans-call-for-congressional-probe-of-student-loan-program.html
House and Senate Republicans asked
Congress’s investigative arm to examine the U.S. Education
Department’s student-loan program, saying the agency may not be
doing enough to help borrowers in default.  The Government Accountability Office should determine
whether the Education Department’s loan program is
“appropriately managing student debt,” according to a  letter 
sent yesterday to the  GAO  signed by six Republicans, including
 John Kline  of Minnesota, who chairs the House education
committee.  With $67 billion of  student loans  in default, the Education
Department has turned to private debt-collection companies to
chase borrowers. The contractors, paid on commission, are facing
growing complaints that they are violating federal laws by
insisting on stiff payments even when borrowers’ incomes make
them eligible for leniency, Bloomberg News reported March 26.  “We are increasingly concerned the department may not be
appropriately managing student debt, particularly when helping
borrowers who have defaulted on their loan payments,” the
Republicans wrote in the letter, which was also signed by
Michael Enzi of Wyoming, the ranking member of the Senate
education committee; Representatives Virginia Foxx of  North
Carolina  and  Judy Biggert  of Illinois; and Senators Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee  and  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma.  ‘Bureaucratic Problems’  The Republicans criticized “bureaucratic problems” after
the Obama administration’s decision in 2010 to eliminate a
program that let private lenders make student loans. The
government now originates all student loans itself. The
administration, citing the  Congressional Budget Office , said at
the time that the move would save the federal government $68
billion over 11 years.  The Education Department is “proud of the way we’ve
managed the program,”  Justin Hamilton , an agency spokesman,
said in a phone interview late yesterday.  The letter and a statement on the  House Education and the
Workforce Committee ’s website cited an unnamed borrower who
couldn’t rehabilitate his credit to take advantage of better
repayment options. The committee’s statement also cited the
Bloomberg News report.  The Republicans have asked the GAO to examine whether the
Education Department and collections contractors are informing
borrowers about various repayment plans and effectively helping
students rehabilitate defaulted loans. The GAO should also
examine how debt-collection companies are paid and whether they
are following the federal fair debt-collection law.  Debt-Collection Contracts  The Education Department has proposed requiring that debt
collectors automatically offer  payments based on income  to
defaulted borrowers who qualify. The agency is meeting this week
with industry, government and consumer representatives about the
regulation. The department has also said it is considering
changing the commission structure in its debt-collection
contracts.  “We’ve been taking a good, hard look at what we can do to
make sure that we are serving students well who have hit on hard
times,” Hamilton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  