-- RIM Aims to Avoid Fifth Sales Miss as CEO Seeks Rebound
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-28T20:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/rim-aims-to-avoid-fifth-straight-sales-miss-as-ceo-seeks-rebound.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , having
missed estimates for four straight quarters, is seeking to avoid
another disappointment tomorrow as investors look for signs that
its new chief’s turnaround plan is beginning to take hold.  RIM shares have tumbled 16 percent on average the day after
earnings since March 2011. Analysts  predict  the maker of
BlackBerry smartphones will say sales fell at the fastest pace
in a decade, causing the Waterloo, Ontario-based company to miss
its own forecast for the three months through March 3.  The quarterly results are the first for Thorsten Heins, the
German-born chief executive officer who took over in January and
has vowed to do something “dramatically different” to reverse
the sales slump. For now, Heins has to rely on an aging product
lineup to win back users lost to  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPhone and devices
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, before a new generation
of BlackBerrys makes its debut later this year.  “The competitive landscape is getting more and more
intense,” Jim Suva, a Citigroup Inc. analyst in  San Francisco 
who recommends selling RIM stock, said in an interview on the
“Bloomberg Surveillance” radio show. “We expect the outlook
to be pretty bad.”  Sales probably declined 19 percent to $4.51 billion last
quarter, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. On Dec.
15, RIM predicted $4.6 billion to $4.9 billion. Profit per share
excluding one-time items probably fell by more than half to 81
cents, the low end of RIM’s  forecast  of 80 cents to 95 cents.  RIM may also give a forecast for this quarter. Analysts
project further declines, with sales dropping to $4.26 billion
and earnings sliding to 66 cents a share.  Losing Business Users  The BlackBerry 7 models introduced last year before Heins
took over have struggled in the consumer market against the
latest iPhone and Android devices with larger screens and faster
Web browsers. RIM’s share of the U.S. market fell to 15 percent
in the three months through January from 17 percent a quarter
earlier, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Apple and Google increased
their combined share of the market to 78 percent, ComScore said.  BlackBerry is also hurting because more companies are
allowing employees to bring their iPhones to work and then add
security to the devices, rather than issuing BlackBerrys to
staff as they used to, Suva said.  Meanwhile rising sales of cheaper BlackBerrys in  Latin
America  and  Southeast Asia  aren’t enough to offset declines in
 North America . RIM’s share of the global smartphone market slid
to 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter from 14 percent a year
earlier, while Apple’s share rose to 24 percent from 16 percent,
according to research firm IDC.  New Prototypes  Heins has said he will hire a new chief marketing officer
to improve the BlackBerry’s image with consumers. He also said
he held talks to license RIM’s new BlackBerry 10 software to
handset and computer makers, stopping short of naming any.  Heins should focus on software licensing and leave the
hardware business to those who have performed better, like
Apple, said  Donald Yacktman , president of Yacktman Asset
Management.  “The value of an enterprise like this is its customer
base,” Yacktman said, referring to RIM’s 75 million subscribers
globally. “Going to an open architecture probably makes sense.
Let other people do the hardware.”  For now, getting RIM’s latest hardware into customers’
hands is the priority, Heins has said. RIM said last week that
software developers will get an early prototype of the
BlackBerry 10 phone in May to encourage them to build consumer
apps ahead of its official release in the latter part of 2012.  ‘So Cheap’  RIM shares have lost more than 90 percent since a 2008 high
and plunged 75 percent last year alone. They  fell  1.6 percent to
$13.67 at the New York close.  The decline has attracted some investors back to the stock.
Yacktman said his company added to its RIM holdings at the end
of last year because “at this price it was worth taking a
position because of potential outcomes.” His Austin, Texas-
based firm is RIM’s  seventh-largest  investor and bought 6.2
million RIM shares in the fourth quarter because “it’s so
cheap,” he said.  Meanwhile short-selling bets against RIM, which peaked at
an eight-year high last month, have declined more recently. In a
short sale, a trader borrows shares and sells them. If the price
drops, the trader profits by buying back the stock at a lower
price, repaying the loan and pocketing the difference.  The short interest on RIM’s U.S. and Canadian shares
dropped to 10.3 percent of RIM’s market value on March 26 from
12.2 percent on March 20, according to  Data Explorers , which
compiles securities-lending data to tally short selling daily.  “It is apparent that short sellers have covered their
positions in the immediate run-up to the results,” said Alex
Brog, a Data Explorers analyst in  London .  RIM meeting its own forecast or giving an outlook for this
quarter that is “less worse than expected” could be seen as
positive by investors, said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. who rates RIM the equivalent of a hold.  “Expectations are pretty low,” Wu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  