-- Road to Affordable Care Runs Through Medicare Pay Panel
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-28T23:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/road-to-affordable-care-runs-through-medicare-pay-panel-view.html
Nothing in the debate over health-
care reform is more depressing than the verbal attacks each
party lobs against the other for attempting to cut costs.  Republicans denounce President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable
Care Act for seeking to trim a few percentage points from
Medicare spending over the next decade -- out of $5 trillion. In
turn, Democrats deride Representative  Paul Ryan ’s plan, which
would create a  voucher-like program  enabling seniors to shop
among competing health plans, for ending Medicare as we know it.  Truth is, congressional inertia is the single-biggest
impediment to controlling health-care costs, which, in turn, are
the biggest driver of federal budget deficits. An existing
Medicare commission repeatedly offers cost-saving ideas, and
Congress repeatedly ignores them.  But tucked away in the Affordable Care Act is a promising
remedy, the  Independent Payment Advisory Board . It resembles the
existing Medicare commission, except its proposals for changing
the delivery of health-care services can’t be waved off so
easily. Unfortunately, Republicans and even some influential
Democrats are gunning for the board; the House voted last week
to abolish it. So much for countless hours of rhetoric about
trillion-dollar deficits.  The need for something akin to the IPAB will become even
more clear in 2014, when millions more Americans obtain health
insurance (unless, of course, the  Supreme Court  strikes down the
individual mandate). Economics 101 teaches us that sudden
increases in demand for doctor visits and procedures such as
MRIs and outpatient surgery will cause prices to jump, too.  State Experience  That was the experience in  Massachusetts , which adopted an
individual mandate under then-Governor  Mitt Romney  in 2006. The
state government’s annual health-care bill zoomed to $406
million last year from $33 million in 2005.  To avoid a similar escalation, the Affordable Care Act
calls for a full-time, 15-member panel of health experts to find
cost savings. Congressional Democrats and Republicans would
propose six members each, and the president would nominate the
other three. All would be subject to Senate confirmation.  Starting in 2015, the board would devise reforms to bring
Medicare, which is expected to cost $500 billion this year, in
line with spending targets. From 2015 to 2019, the target would
be based on inflation, measured by a blend of  Consumer Price
Index  and health-cost increases. After that, the formula would
tighten to economic growth plus one percentage point.  The panel can’t increase beneficiary copayments or
premiums, change eligibility rules, increase payroll taxes or
alter existing benefits. Instead, it must focus on reforming the
way health care is delivered and the incentives that drive
doctors and hospitals to pursue quantity over quality.  For example, when patients acquire in-hospital infections,
extending their stays and requiring additional treatments, IPAB
could reduce payments to the hospital. It could reward providers
for bundling care and billings, making it easier to coordinate
care for patients with, say, diabetes. And the board could align
reimbursement rates with health outcomes rather than paying fees
for service.  Although the board’s remit is to control Medicare costs,
whatever treatment practices become accepted in Medicare will
probably spread through the entire system. After all, one in
every $5 spent on health care in the U.S. is spent by Medicare.  Effective Automatically  IPAB proposals would take effect automatically, unless
Congress produced alternatives to save an equal amount or passed
a law of disapproval that the president signed. Ultimately,
inertia would play to IPAB’s advantage, with medical experts
taking action that lawmakers lack the expertise and political
will to take now. The board also would remove special-interest
lobbying from the picture -- no small achievement when more than
a half-trillion in spending is at stake.  It’s a big job, so it’s crucial that it be done right. Over
time, the independent board could become too powerful and
unaccountable. To reclaim some of its prerogative, Congress
should amend the act so that a simple majority in each chamber
could reject IPAB proposals. The act also prohibits IPAB members
from outside employment. Lawmakers should drop that requirement
to widen the circle of experts willing to commit to serving six
years.  The biggest challenge to IPAB could be more doctors
abandoning the Medicare program. Many physicians already refuse
to see Medicare patients because reimbursement rates are often
below those of private payers. The result could be rationing,
which the law expressly forbids, but which could result
indirectly if patients can’t find a doctor to see them.  Controlling costs will require a devilish balancing act
among practitioners who resist change, consumer demand and best
practices, and IPAB should experiment before imposing radical
changes systemwide. But given the devastating, and growing,
effects of Medicare spending on the federal debt, the U.S. can’t
afford not to have an IPAB. The board should be embraced, not
feared. It puts the affordable in the Affordable Care Act.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights:  Ezra Klein  on mandates, taxes and  saving
Obamacare.   Amity Shlaes  on  Barack Obama and FDR .  Caroline Baum 
on the  national-debt time bomb . Robert H. Gertner on the
 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau . Oleg Kashin on  Russia’s
protest problem .  Steven Greenhut  on  Californians for higher
taxes .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 