-- Romanian Central Bank to Cut Main Rate Fourth Time, Survey Shows
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-03-28T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/romanian-central-bank-to-cut-main-rate-fourth-time-survey-shows.html
Romania ’s central bank probably
will lower its main interest rate to a record low for a fourth
consecutive meeting as inflation slows and the economy threatens
to slip into a second recession.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei will cut its monetary policy
rate to 5.25 percent from 5.5 percent after dropping it a
quarter of a percentage point in each of the past three
sessions, according to the median estimate in a  Bloomberg survey 
of 18 economists. Thirteen predicted the quarter-point cut and
five forecast no change. A decision is expected after 11 a.m. in
Bucharest today and a briefing start at 3:30 p.m.  Romanian central bankers have been cutting borrowing costs
since November to shore up faltering growth and fend off the
effect of the European Union’s debt crisis, which reduced demand
for exports from eastern  Europe ’s main trading partners.  “We believe that real  interest rates  are too high for the
feeble economic outlook and a too-restrictive monetary policy
will depress domestic demand, the main growth driver after
exports were hit by falling orders from the EU,” UniCredit
Romania Chief Economist Dan Bucsa said in a note to clients
yesterday. “We believe that this easing cycle should take the
rate below 5 percent, but the National Bank is unlikely to cut
further if and when headline inflation rises towards 4
percent.”  Romania’s economy may contract for a second quarter at the
end of March and enter a technical recession for a second time
in two years after cold weather disrupted output, Finance
Minister Bogdan Dragoi said on March 9.  GDP Forecast  Gross domestic product may grow 1.5 percent in 2012 from a
year earlier, when the country exited its worst recession on
record, according to government forecasts.  The  inflation  rate dropped to 2.6 percent, a post-communism
low, in February from 2.7 percent in January, less than
economists estimated, as heavy snow and freezing temperatures
disrupted transport and supplies, limiting price decreases, the
 National Statistics Institute  said on March 12.  The central bank raised its 2012 inflation forecast on Feb.
7 to 3.2 percent this year, within its target range, compared
with a November forecast of 3 percent, because of potentially
higher food and energy prices, Governor Mugur Isarescu.  The bank met its inflation target for the first time in
five years in 2011, with the rate falling to a record-low 3.14
percent in December. The target range for this year is the same
as last year at between 2 percent and 4 percent.  -- With assistance from Barbara Sladkowska in Warsaw. Editors:
James M. Gomez, Alan Crosby  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  