-- Ryan Spending Plan Makes Republicans Pre-Sputnik
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/ryan-16-of-gdp-for-u-s-spending-makes-republicans-pre-sputnik.html
House Republicans  expect to adopt a
budget resolution this week that envisions eliminating most
federal debt by cutting government’s share of the economy to a
level not seen since 1951, before Medicare, Medicaid, the
Environmental Protection Agency and the space program.  Federal spending as a proportion of gross domestic product
would fall by one-third by 2050 to 16 percent from 24 percent in
2011, according to  calculations  by the non-partisan
 Congressional Budget Office . The last time it was at that level,
 Harry Truman  was president, and Nat King Cole ruled the pop
charts.  “You end up in a very different world than we’ve been used
to in the past 50 to 60 years,” said former CBO Director  Robert Reischauer . The blueprint, written by House Budget Committee
Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin , “would eliminate many of the
elements of government that people depend on and that people
want,” Reischauer said.  It raises no extra revenue and relies on spending
reductions alone to bring the budget into balance. Over the next
decade, it would cut $5.3 trillion in projected outlays, with
 food stamps , Pell college tuition grants,  farm subsidies  as well
as the operating budgets of most government departments slated
for major reductions.  Down Payment  And that would be just a down payment on the cuts to come.
The plan caps the growth of Medicare and reduces Medicaid.
Expenditures on everything else outside of Social Security and a
children’s health insurance program would be slashed to 3.75
percent of GDP by 2050 from 12.5 percent in 2011, the CBO said.
That category includes defense spending, which Ryan proposes to
increase next year and which has not been below 3 percent of GDP
since World War II.  If defense spending followed its historic pattern, much of
government -- national parks, the FBI, school lunches, border
enforcement and more -- would have to live on just .75 percent
of GDP in 2050, an eightfold cut from roughly eight percent last
year.  The CBO’s long-term projections show how hard it is to
balance the budget and reduce debt without increasing taxes. By
2050, the  Ryan plan  reduces the government’s outstanding
obligations to 10 percent of GDP, according to the budget
office. That would be the lowest level since World War I and
compares with 68 percent last year.  President  Barack Obama  has called for a “balanced
approach” to tackling government red ink that combines tax
increases with reductions in expenditures. The president’s  plan ,
though, reduces the 2013 to 2022 cumulative deficit by $3.3
trillion less than Ryan would. And by 2050, debt as a share of
GDP under Obama’s proposal would rise to a record 124 percent.  Republican Resolution  While the Republican resolution is certain to die in the
Senate, where Democrats have said they don’t intend to adopt a
budget plan this year, it is noteworthy because it represents
what Republicans say they would do over time if they won the
White House and gained full control of Congress.  Leading Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
praised the House budget outline, calling it an “excellent
piece of work” that is “very much needed.”  Maryland Representative Chris Van Hollen, the top Democrat
on the House budget committee, said in an interview that
Republicans are using “the argument of deficits to reduce the
government to the size that you could strangle it in a
bathtub,” referring to a vow by anti-tax activist  Grover Norquist  to do just that.  “By 2050, most of the federal government aside from Social
Security, health care and defense would cease to exist,” Robert Greenstein, president of the Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities in Washington, wrote in a March 20  report .  The
center advocates policies benefitting low-income families.  Necessary Step  Ryan defends his program as a necessary step to rein in
ballooning budget deficits before global investors lose faith in
the ability of the U.S. government to meet its obligations.  “The goal is to avoid a debt crisis,” he said in an
interview on  Capitol Hill . “What we’re trying to do is put the
country on a trajectory that is sustainable.”  He also said that it’s unfair to compare the range of
government services in his budget to current ones because those
will have to be slashed anyway in order to avoid financial
turmoil.  “To measure anything against today, and the world as we
know it, is an intellectually dishonest exercise because the
world as we know it is unsustainable because of the explosion in
debt,” he said.  In a press statement, Ryan contrasted his approach with
Obama’s, calling the president’s budget proposal
“irresponsible” and “a recipe for a debt crisis.”  Balancing the Budget  It’s rare for congressional budgets to address what might
happen after the first decade. Republicans were eager, though,
to show that they would at least put the government on the path
toward balancing the budget.  Still, they would take until 2040
to erase the annual deficit.  Some Republican lawmakers said they were unaware of the
long-term implications of their budget and added they had no
plans to squeeze much of the government out of existence.  “This is not some secret design to take away all
government,” said Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma
Republican who sits on the House budget panel. “There is a role
for the federal government; there should be a role for the
federal government.”  Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former CBO director who is now
president of the American Action Forum in  Washington , said it’s
ridiculous to judge this year’s budget proposal for what it
implies about the shape of government almost four decades from
now. “It’s not like you’re putting democracy on auto-pilot,”
said Holtz-Eakin, who was chief economic adviser to Republican
candidate  John McCain  in the 2008 presidential campaign.  Politically-Unpopular  Bob Bixby , head of the Concord Coalition, commended Ryan
for being willing to back politically-unpopular measures needed
to put government finances back into shape, including tackling
run-away health care spending.  “He’s been gutsy enough to put some bold ideas on the
table to not just halt the growth of the debt but to try to
bring it back down,” said Bixby, whose Washington-based non-
profit group advocates for balanced budgets.  Reischauer said that the Ryan plan goes too far in reducing
the debt. “The notion that you have to pay off all of the debt
is wonderful rhetoric but it is neither realistic nor
necessary.”  Just as important is what the government is doing with the
money that it borrows from investors, he said. If it’s using the
proceeds to help make the economy more efficient, that’s not a
concern, as it’s enhancing the country’s ability to pay back the
debt in the future.  ‘No Magic Number’  “There is no magic number” for what’s the best level of
the debt as a proportion of GDP, said  Donald Marron , who served
in the Bush White House and was acting CBO director in 2006.
What you want is for government to have liabilities that are low
enough that it can ramp up borrowing if needed in a crisis
without spooking investors, said Marron, who is now director of
the  Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center  in Washington.  “There is sort of an international standard,” for the
optimal level of government debt as a share of an economy, said
Marc Goldwein, senior policy director for the Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget, a non-profit advocacy group in
Washington. “Sixty percent or below, you’re in the safe zone.
Ninety percent or above, you’re in the danger zone.”  Research by  Carmen Reinhart  of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics and  Kenneth Rogoff  of  Harvard University 
found that countries suffer slowdowns in growth when debt tops
90 percent of the economy.  Revamp Tax Code  Ryan’s budget proposal, which would cut the debt to GDP
ratio to 53 percent in 2030, also includes a major revamping of
the tax code. It reduces the number of tax brackets to two from
six and the top rate to 25 percent from 35 percent.  The tax package is not intended to raise any additional
resources for the government. Federal revenues under the Ryan
proposal average 18 to 19 percent of GDP, in line with historic
norms.  Bixby said there’s no way that Congress is going to shrink
the size of government in the long run as much as is implied by
the Republican plan.  “That’s not going to happen,” he said, adding, “the Ryan
budget inadvertently demonstrates how unrealistic it is to talk
about a sustainable fiscal policy that doesn’t rely on some more
revenues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rich Miller  in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ,
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt in Washington at  choyt2@bloomberg.net  