-- Ryanair Loses EU Court Challenge Over Alitalia Rescue Loan
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-28T13:53:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/ryanair-loses-eu-court-challenge-over-alitalia-rescue-correct-.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  lost a court
challenge that may have forced  Alitalia SpA (AZA) ’s owners to repay a
300 million-euro ($401 million) loan from the Italian
government.  The European Union general court dismissed Ryanair’s case
and confirmed the European Commission’s approval of the sale of
Alitalia’s main assets to Compagnia Aerea Italiana, a group of
Italian investors, after the airline’s 2008 bankruptcy,
according to a statement from the Luxembourg-based tribunal.  CAI, including  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Atlantia SpA (ATL) , wasn’t
required to repay the state loan that the EU said was illegal
aid, the court confirmed.  Air France-KLM Group (AF) , Europe’s biggest
airline, bought 25 percent of Alitalia from CAI in 2009.  “The sale did not have the effect of circumventing the
obligation to recover the aid or of granting aid to the buyers
of  Alitalia ,” the court ruled.  Ryanair, based in Dublin, declined to immediately comment.
The ruling can be appealed to the region’s highest court.  Alitalia said in a statement that it isn’t liable for any
of the aid because it isn’t seen as a legal successor to the
airline that sought bankruptcy protection. It also said it paid
the market price for the carrier’s assets.  EU regulators previously said that new investors aren’t
responsible for paying back illegal state aid as long as they
purchase the assets at market price.  Ryanair partly won a court challenge last year over the
commission’s handling of complaints by the company against
alleged unlawful state aid by  Italy  to a number of competitors
including Alitalia. Ryanair has also sued regulators for failing
to investigate government aid to Alitalia.  The case is  T-123/09  Ryanair v. Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 