-- S&P Says Investors Shouldn’t Rely Only on Rating Letters
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-28T08:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/s-p-pressed-by-judge-on-rating-definition-in-trial.html
Standard & Poor’s  said 13
Australian townships that lost almost all of their A$17 million
($17.7 million) investment in derivative-linked notes shouldn’t
have relied just on the AAA rating issued by the U.S. company.  That’s exactly what S&P said in an accompanying report,
that you can’t rely on the rating as investment advice,  Steven
Finch , the company’s lawyer, said in closing submissions in
Federal Court in Sydney today. “We don’t put the ratings out in
three letters.”  The dispute over S&P’s letter ratings is part of the first
suit accusing the company of misleading investors with its
system for labeling a borrower’s creditworthiness, according to
IMF ( Australia ) Ltd., which is funding the litigation. Twelve
Australian townships, suing as a group, claim they lost A$15
million of A$16 million they invested in so-called Rembrandt
notes rated AAA by S&P. A 13th township sued separately after
losing more than 90 percent of its A$1 million investment.  Federal Court Justice Jayne Jagot, who will decide the
case, questioned S&P’s argument that ratings alone can’t be
relied on.  “So it’s meaningless,” Jagot said of the ratings.  “It’s not meaningless; it’s just attended by conditions
which say ‘you can’t sue me if you rely on it,” Finch said.  The towns claimed in court documents that they relied on
the AAA rating to make their  investment decision . Town officials
said during the trial they hadn’t read all of the accompanying
documents.  The towns failed to make responsible efforts to understand
the risks involved in investing in the notes, S&P said in
written submissions to the judge.  ‘You Can’t Sue’  “Seven of 13 councils didn’t read all of the report,”
Finch said. “Ten of 13 said they didn’t understand it and 11 of
13 said if they did, they wouldn’t have bought it.”  Finch said when S&P makes clear investors shouldn’t rely on
its advice, it has no duty of care to them.  “Once you’ve heard it, you can’t sue,” Finch said. “If
the wall of protection could be penetrated, then it would be, we
say, untenable to produce advice like that.”  Local Government Financial Services Ltd. , the municipal
adviser, also sued S&P, a New York-based unit of  McGraw-Hill
Cos. (MHP) , accusing the company of breach of duty and negligence in
giving the notes the highest investment rating. LGFS filed the
lawsuit after it was sued by the towns.  LGFS and the Australian townships also sued ABN Amro Bank
NV, which became the Australian affiliate of the  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , and manufactured the investments. ABN Amro
Bank said if it’s found liable, it will pursue a claim against
S&P to recover its losses.  ABN Amro Bank  LGFS and the towns claimed ABN Amro Bank was negligent in
passing on S&P’s AAA ratings to the municipal  investment adviser 
who sold the notes to the towns.                        ABN Amro Bank didn’t make any representations about the
reliability of S&P’s AAA rating, the bank’s lawyer  Ian Jackman ,
said in his closing statement.  LGFS had sought to find new investments to sell to
municipal councils as it competed for business in 2006 with
Grange Securities Ltd., which later became a unit of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  LGFS purchased A$45 million of the Rembrandt notes from ABN
Amro Bank, and resold A$18.5 million in 2006 and 2007, including
A$17 million to the Australian towns that sued in a bid to
recoup their losses, according to court documents.  As borrowing costs rose amid the most extreme financial
conditions since the Great Depression, the notes’ cash value was
exhausted and they were unwound in 2008, ABN Amro Bank said in
its written submissions. About 6.7 percent of the investors’
principal was returned, the bank said.  Dodd-Frank  U.S. lawmakers had accused ratings companies of mishandling
their assessments of mortgage-backed securities, at the heart of
the 2008 financial crisis, and Congress sought to reduce their
influence as part of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010.  S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating on Aug. 5.
Instead of eroding the value of  U.S. government debt , the rating
cut sparked financial market turmoil that made Treasuries and
the world’s reserve currency favorites among investors, with  10-
year note  yields dropping to a record low of 1.6714 percent just
seven weeks later.  The case is: Bathurst Regional Council v. Local Government
Financial Services Ltd. NSD936/2009. Federal Court of Australia
(Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  