-- San Francisco Film Festival Unveils Lineup, Serious to Quirky
-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 2012-03-28T19:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/san-francisco-film-festival-unveils-lineup-serious-to-quirky.html
The  San Francisco International
Film Festival  announced its lineup yesterday for the 55th
edition of the event, scheduling movies from almost everywhere
in the world except one place: Hollywood.  In addition to screening 72 features, 33 documentaries and
69 shorts, the longest-running film festival in  North America 
will present its director’s award to Kenneth Branagh, whose work
behind the camera ranges from Shakespeare’s “Henry V” to
“Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein” to 2007’s “Sleuth.”  The festival’s organizers at the San Francisco Film Society
are still recovering from the one-two punch of losing two
executive directors in the past year. Graham Leggat, who ran the
society for six years and expanded it to a year-round
programming body, died of cancer in August. His successor,
October Films co-founder Bingham Ray, died from a stroke in
January while attending the Sundance Film Festival in  Utah .  “It’s been a very challenging year for us,” said Rachel
Rosen, the society’s director of programming, at a news
conference yesterday. “The best revenge is to put on the best
festival we can for Graham and Bingham.”  The two-week event opens April 19 with a screening of
“Farewell, My Queen,” Benoit Jacquot’s portrait of Versailles
during the French Revolution, staring Diane Kruger as Marie
Antoinette and Lea Seydoux as her confidant.  Noir Coppola  Other high-profile features include  Francis Ford Coppola ’s
“Twixt,” a mystery yarn starring Val Kilmer, and Michael Winterbottom’s “Trishna,” a reworking of Thomas Hardy’s “Tess
of the d’Ubervilles” that’s set in  India .  Quirkier offerings range from “OK, Enough, Goodbye,” a
Lebanese comedy about a pastry shop owner who searches for a
substitute mother, and “Women With Cows,” a Swedish
documentary about two aging sisters and their four-legged
companions.  The broad-ranging documentary lineup includes portraits of
dissident Chinese artist Ai Weiwei, political wife Ethel Kennedy
(directed by her youngest daughter, Rory), legendary Vogue
magazine editor Diana Vreeland, architect and inventor
Buckminster Fuller, performance artist  Marina Abramovic  and
former National Hockey League star Chris “Knuckles” Nilan of
the  Montreal Canadiens .  The Nilan movie is directed by Alex Gibney, who won an
Academy Award in 2007 for “Taxi to the Dark Side,” about the
Afghanistan war.  The festival will present 31 features in the World Cinema
series, competitions for documentaries and for first- or second-
time directors, midnight screenings, panel discussions, lectures
and parties.  After it’s all over on May 3, the film society will focus
on finding a new  executive director . Pat McBaine, president of
the board, said yesterday that a search has begun and “we have
met with a few people.”  “Our primary goal is to deliver an outstanding festival,
then work on the search in May,” he said.  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen West in  San Francisco  at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  