-- Satyam Computer in Talks to Acquire Company in Europe
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-03-28T09:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/satyam-computer-in-talks-to-acquire-company-in-europe.html
Satyam Computer Services Ltd. (SCS) ,
which is being bought out by  Tech Mahindra Ltd. (TECHM) , is in talks to
acquire a company in  Europe  to strengthen the services it
provides the  aerospace industry .  The company is in an advanced stage of discussions for a
“major” purchase in aerospace, Lakshmanan Chidambaram, head of
 North America  at Satyam, said in a phone interview from  Boston 
yesterday. Satyam, 43 percent owned by Tech Mahindra, is
scouting for acquisitions and will spend as much as $150
million, he said.  Tech Mahindra Vice Chairman Vineet Nayyar said last week
the buyout of Satyam will propel them into the “big boys”
category, with 18 billion rupees ($353 million) of cash. Buying
a service provider to the aerospace industry will help cut
dependence on telecommunications customers, who will be the
biggest revenue contributor at the merged entity, according to
Ankita Somani, an analyst at Angel Broking Ltd. in Mumbai.  “They are trying to scale up their businesses in growing
verticals like manufacturing,” said Somani. “They want to
scale up their services so they can chase contracts which the
large cap information technology companies are chasing.”  Larger rivals  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  and Infosys
Ltd. are leading the hunt by Indian software companies as they
turn to acquisitions to expand into Europe, currently the
largest source of their revenue after the U.S.  ‘Next Level’  Companies in the telecommunications industry will
contribute 47 percent of revenue at the combined company after
Tech Mahindra and Satyam are merged, Chief Financial Officer
Sonjoy Anand said on March 21.  “We would make strategic acquisitions that help us get to
the next level, even in areas where we’re fairly established
like aerospace,” Chidambaram said. “There could be gaps --
either you organically improve it or you buy it out.”  Satyam, based in Hyderabad, will consider buying companies
that specialize in services for industries such as retail,
travel, logistics and consumer products, he said.  Shares of Satyam rose 0.1 percent to 77.15 rupees as of
2:59 p.m. in Mumbai trading. They have gained 18 percent this
year. Tech Mahindra rose 0.2 percent to 703 rupees and has
advanced 23 percent this year.  Tech Mahindra last week said it will buy Satyam in a stock
deal that values the target at 89.9 billion rupees. The
agreement ends a three-year process that began with the
government firing Satyam’s board after its founder chairman
revealed a 100 billion-rupee accounting fraud.  Worldwide spending on information technology services will
grow at a slower 3.1 percent pace this year, after climbing 6.9
percent in 2011, to an estimated $874 billion, researcher
Gartner Inc. said in January.  Satyam and Tech Mahindra are negotiating for 30 contracts
in the Americas, with the orders ranging from $25 million to
$200 million, Chidambaram said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  