-- Saudi Diplomat Kidnapped by Gunmen in Yemeni Port of Aden
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-03-28T15:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/saudi-diplomat-kidnapped-by-gunmen-in-yemeni-port-of-aden.html
Unidentified gunmen kidnapped
Abdullah al-Khalidi,  Saudi Arabia ’s deputy consul in the Yemeni
port city of Aden, the official Saudi Press Agency reported.  The Saudi diplomat was snatched early today by an armed
group at the front of his residence in Aden, the Riyadh-based
 news service  said, citing an unidentified Ministry of Foreign
Affairs official. An investigation has started and Saudi
authorities hold the abductors responsible for the safety of al-
Khalidi, the news service said.  Saudi Arabia, the Arab world’s biggest economy, helped
broker an accord to end popular unrest that led to Ali Abdullah Saleh stepping down as president in November. Yemen, bordering
Saudi Arabia and Oman at the southern tip of the Arabian
Peninsula, is now seeking to recover from protests that weakened
the central government’s authority and reduced oil production to
about half of its 250,000 barrel a day capacity.  The new Yemeni president, Abdurabu Mansur Hadi, visited the
Saudi capital of  Riyadh  this month and was welcomed by  King Abdullah , who told Hadi that his country would donate enough
fuel to Yemen to meet its needs for two months, Yemen’s state-
run SABA news agency said. The donation of 500,000 tons of fuel
products is valued at $600 million, SABA said.  Hadi was elected president of the Arab world’s poorest
country last month, replacing Saleh under the Gulf-brokered
plan. Hadi will run Yemen during a two-year transition in which
a new constitution is to be drafted and the army forces
restructured.  Iran Influence  Saudi Arabia, the world’s top oil exporter, vies with  Iran ,
the second-largest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, for influence in the  Middle East . The U.S.
sees Iran as trying “to exploit uncertainty and unhappiness in
countries of the region,” including Yemen, Assistant Secretary
of State for Near Eastern Affairs  Jeffrey Feltman  told reporters
today at the American Embassy in the Yemeni capital, Sana’a.  “We do view with concern reports of rising Iranian
influence in parts of Yemen,” Feltman said. “We are working
with the government of Yemen and our partners elsewhere in the
region to push back against Iranian interference where it
occurs.”  Saudi Arabia’s Sunni leaders have accused Shiite-ruled Iran
of provoking unrest in Bahrain and in Shiite areas in the
kingdom’s oil producing  Eastern Province . Iran has denied the
accusation and says Shiites in Saudi Arabia and Bahrain suffer
discrimination.  The kingdom lost more than 100 soldiers in a three-month
battle against Shiite Houthi rebels that ended in February 2010.
The Houthis, so-called because of the family name of their
leaders, began fighting the government in  Yemen ’s northern
province of Saada in 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a through the Dubai newsroom at 
   mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  