-- Scene Last Night: Yacht Club Trophies; Winston Prep Entry
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-28T14:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/scene-last-night-yacht-club-trophies-winston-prep-entry.html
The champion sailor Gary Jobson
began his tour of the  New York Yacht Club  last night in front of
the 45-ton fireplace in the model room.  In the library he stood near a 1650 model of a British
Second Rate, donated by Club Commodore J.P. Morgan shortly after
the club opened in 1901. (Morgan put up the land for the club
and chose the architect Whitney Warren to design it.)  There were silver trophies to admire and magazines for
yachtsmen to skim. It all seemed glamorous, unless you happened
upon the “State of Sea” card posted near the librarian’s desk,
depicting harsh conditions one can encounter at sea.  Guests on the tour also put things in perspective: They had
gathered to attend a fundraiser for  Rocking the Boat , which
teaches boat building to high-school students living in the
Bronx, and involves them in cleaning up the  East River .  “By building a boat, you learn problem solving and
teamwork,” said Frosty Montgomery, a Rocking the Boat board
member and a senior vice president at real-estate brokerage firm
Brown Harris Stevens. “It teaches a craft and shows you can do
something out of the box.’”  Back in the model room, the organization’s founder and
executive director, Adam Green, pointed to a beautiful wood boat
on display. It was a Rangeley Lake boat, designed to handle
storms in northern  Maine , and it was built by teenagers from
Hunts Point and environs.  ‘That’s Chiseling’  Nearby Greg Erlikhman, a high-school senior enrolled in
Rocking the Boat’s after-school program, held an iPad with
photographs of the boat-building process: “That’s chiseling,”
he said, “and here we are bending strips of wood for the boat’s
frame.”  Later Erlikhman explained his fascination with putting
things together.  “I was interested in Legos as a kid,” he said. “For a
career, I want to do civil engineering -- buildings, bridges,
roller coasters. And,” he added, “I’d like to build a boat for
myself one day and go sailing.”  Children’s Rights  File this one under “words not often uttered together”:
 Partnership for Children’s Rights  describes itself as a “not-
for-profit  law firm .”  “Not-for-profit, that’s right,” said the organization’s
founder and president, Warren J. Sinsheimer, at Brasserie last
night. “We don’t just use volunteers, we have a staff of paid
attorneys.”  The occasion was a cocktail party organized by his
granddaughters, Jamie and Susan Moser, to recruit young
professional supporters for the organization, which helps
disadvantaged  New York  City children gain access to special-
education services and Social Security disability benefits.  Natalie Diaz, 15, was able to enroll at Winston Preparatory
School with the help of the Partnership. At her former school,
she would get so stressed she pulled her hair out.  Now her day includes smaller classes and a one-on-one
session with a teacher.  “My life has changed a lot,” Diaz said. “Now I get the
help I need.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 