-- Senegal’s New Leader Faces Economic Challenge as Eurobonds Rally
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-03-28T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/senegal-s-new-leader-faces-economic-challenge-as-eurobonds-rally.html
Senegal ’s Eurobonds rallied when
President  Abdoulaye Wade  conceded defeat in the March 25
election. Now his successor, Macky Sall, must attract more
investment to fuel economic growth.  Senegal’s economy, the second-biggest in West  Africa ’s
monetary union, needs $1.5 billion from 2011 to 2015 to rebuild
its  energy industry , according to the  International Monetary
Fund . Last year, power cuts sparked violent protests and
prompted the government to bring in 150 megawatts of emergency
output, according to the IMF.  Sall, a 50-year-old geologist, “has a good understanding
of Senegal’s economic strengths and the need to focus on
investment in communications and energy infrastructure,” Anna
Osborne, senior analyst at Bath, U.K.-based Maplecroft, a risk
advisory company, said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Winner of 65.8 percent of the runoff votes, Sall will
become Senegal’s fourth president when he is sworn in next week.
Wade, 85, led the West African nation for 12 years and faced
protests last month after his bid for a third term in office was
approved by the  Constitutional Court . Sall rallied a coalition
of opposition support and civil-society groups to win the vote,
pledging “a new era” for Senegal, a nation that earns most of
its foreign currency from tourism and exports of fish.  After his win and Wade’s concession, the yield on the $500
million Eurobonds fell 56 basis points, the most since the debt
was sold in May, a day after the election and dropped 5 basis
points to 7.44 percent late yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Spending Questions  “While investors generally expected Macky Sall to win the
second round, there was some degree of uncertainty about the
political transition in the country,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-
markets strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in an e-
mailed note to clients yesterday. “Wade’s concession of defeat
even before the final results were released was probably not
fully priced in, which contributed to the gains.”  A former head of the state oil company, Petrosen, and mines
minister, Sall was Wade’s prime minister from 2004 to 2007. He
split with the president after raising questions about spending
on the 2008 Organisation of the Islamic Conference, which was
overseen by Wade’s son, Karim.  “He is clearly not afraid to tackle difficult issues, and
he has near universal goodwill in the country,” Jonathan Hyman,
Africa analyst with the London-based Economist Intelligence
Unit, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Economic Growth  Sall rallied 12 of the 14 presidential candidates that lost
in the first round of the election, as well as Y’en a Marre and
Mouvement 23, civil-society groups that organized anti-Wade
protests, which turned violent and left at least nine people
dead, according to  Amnesty International .  While the coalition helped Sall’s victory, he will face a
challenge of keeping it together, according to Gadio.  “Parliamentary elections scheduled for June could result
in a fragmented National Assembly where no single party has a
clear majority,” he said.  Sall will seek to resolve the conflict in the southern
Casamance region. His first foreign trip will be to neighboring
Gambia, which divides Casamance from the rest of Senegal,
according to Gadio. The Movement of Democratic Forces of
Casamance has been fighting for independence since 1982.  ‘Sumptuous’ Spending  During the presidential campaign, Sall pledged to boost
growth by attracting investors and curbing  government spending 
and corruption.  Senegal $13 billion economy needs to grow 7 percent a year,
he said in a Feb. 12 interview. The IMF forecasts expansion will
accelerate to 4.5 percent this year from 4 percent in 2011.  “If the budget is used for sumptuous spending like
monuments and highways, but the basic structures for development
are not made, of course growth is going to stay at a weak
level,” he said in the interview.  Sall promised to bring down food prices during his campaign
by cutting a value-added tax from 18 percent to 10 percent, said
Mamadou Alhadji Ly, an analyst at Dakar-based Consortium for
Economic and Social Research. He may recoup the loss by
increasing real-estate taxes, Ly said by phone from the city
yesterday.  He has also pledged to scrap a tax on incoming
international telephone calls, Ly said. Dakar-based  Sonatel SA (SNTS) ,
the biggest company listed on the regional West African stock
exchange in  Ivory Coast , said the tax may cut revenue by at
least 10 percent as callers turn to Internet-based
communication.  Senegal’s election, which the Economic Community of West
African States said was without any major obstacles, will “ease
concerns about the outlook for the democratic experience in sub-
Saharan Africa, a few days after a military coup in  Mali  ended
two decades of civilian rule,” said Gadio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  