-- Shemen Oil & Gas Sees $12.5 Billion Revenue From Israel Drilling
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-03-28T08:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/shemen-oil-gas-sees-12-5-billion-revenue-from-israel-drilling.html
Shemen Oil & Gas Resources Ltd. (SMOG) , an
Israeli explorer, expects to pump at least 125 million barrels
of crude over 10 years from its first wells off the country’s
Mediterranean coast.  Shemen is preparing to start drilling in August at a site
15 kilometers (9 miles) west of the port city of Ashdod, pending
Defense Ministry approval, according to Chaim Lebovits, whose
ACC International Holdings Ltd. is the company’s biggest
shareholder. The wells may generate $12.5 billion or more in
revenue based on an assumed oil price of $100 a barrel, he said.  “If, as we believe, we’re going to be able to do 5,000 to
7,000 barrels a day per well, it’s ‘bingo,’” Lebovits said in
an interview at his office in Petach Tikvah, a Tel Aviv suburb.
North Sea Brent, a European benchmark grade of crude, traded
yesterday in  London  at about $125 a barrel.  Israel, which imports almost all its oil needs, is setting
up a sovereign wealth fund that will be based on taxes from the
profits earned from gas produced at fields discovered in its
waters in 2009 and 2010. Shemen, which is exploring in an area
near Modiin-LP’s Gabriella prospect, had its  biggest gain  in Tel
Aviv trading on March 13 after energy consultants Netherland,
Sewell & Associates said Gabriella may be commercially viable.  Shemen will probably have to wait until November to learn
whether its drilling will yield the quantities of oil Lebovits
hopes for, Yaron Zer, an analyst at Clal Finance Brokerage Ltd.
in  Tel Aviv , said in a telephone interview.  ‘High-Risk Project’  “There could be a huge upside, but it’s also a high-risk
project so the results could be zero,” Zer said. Previous
efforts to tap the site failed because high pressure and
temperatures foiled the drilling, he said.  The Levant Basin, a triangular slice of the ocean floor
between Israel and Cyprus, may hold 122 trillion cubic feet of
gas, according to U.S. Geological Survey estimates. An Israeli-
U.S. group led by Houston-based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  discovered the
Tamar  gas field  in 2009 and the Leviathan deposit in 2010.
Shemen’s Chief Executive Officer Yossi Levy was previously CEO
of  Isramco Inc. (ISRL) , part of that exploration group.  ACC International owns 23.88 percent of Tel Aviv-based
Shemen.  Lebovits raised Shemen’s profile in Israel in December by
recruiting as chairman the retired general, Gabi Ashkenazi, who
was most recently the army’s chief of staff. Besides its stakes
in Shemen, the Hebrew word for oil, and  Rialto Energy Ltd. (RIA) , an
energy company based in  Australia , ACC is also the biggest
shareholder in  Brainstorm Cell Therapeutics Inc. (BCLI) , which is
developing a treatment derived from adult stem cells for
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  