-- Showtime Returns to L.A. With Magic’s $2.3 Billion Dodgers Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/showtime-returns-to-l-a-with-magic-s-2-3-billion-dodgers-deal.html
For  Los Angeles  Dodgers fans, it’s
not the record $2.3 billion bid that matters, it’s who made it.  The investors behind the winning offer for the bankrupt
Major League Baseball franchise include Earvin “Magic” Johnson Jr., the hall-of-fame Los Angeles Lakers guard, and  Peter Guber ,
chief executive officer of Mandalay Entertainment Group and the
producer of movies including “Rain Man.”  They are “big names in Los Angeles,” said Steven Travers,
the author of two books about the team, including 2009’s
“Dodgers Past & Present,” and a fan himself. “They have
panache. They present what the city of L.A. is: sports,
entertainment, Hollywood style.”  A sports franchise can boost a city’s image, and a high-
profile part-owner may even attract new businesses, according to
Kevin Starr, a historian at the University of  Southern
California  in Los Angeles. He said local ownership matters when
it comes to the storied baseball team, owned since 2004 by
Boston real-estate developer  Frank McCourt .  “You lose the Dodgers,” Starr said before the sale
announcement was made March 27, “you lose Los Angeles.”  Enthusiasts appeared to agree, celebrating online with
comments on the Dodgers’ Facebook page (“When I heard the news
last night it felt like Christmas Eve,” wrote one) and blogs
devoted to the team that moved to the nation’s second-largest
city from  Brooklyn  in 1958.  “As far as Magic being owner, I just want him to be
Magic,” wrote a blogger named Robert Timm, who runs
dodgerdugout.com. “I want L.A. to be cool again.”  ‘A New Chapter’  The investor group, Guggenheim Baseball Management LCC,
isn’t all homegrown. It includes Chicago-based Mark Walter, CEO
of Guggenheim Partners LLC, and  Stan Kasten , a former president
of the Atlanta Braves and Washington Nationals, who will move to
Los Angeles to run the Dodgers. Guber is co-owner of the
 National Basketball Association ’s  Golden State Warriors .  While Walter is the controlling partner, Johnson’s name has
star power. Mayor  Antonio Villaraigosa  called him “a great
community leader” and said his group’s purchase of the team
would be “an opportunity to write a new chapter.” Dodgers
outfielder Matt Kemp said on ESPN Radio that he was encouraged
because “Magic knows the team, and he knows L.A.”  The 52-year-old, who owns Beverly Hills-based Magic Johnson
Enterprises Inc., won five NBA championships with the Lakers in
the 1980s during what’s known as the “Showtime” era, for the
style of play on the court and the celebrities in the stands. He
quit playing in 1991 after disclosing he had HIV, returning for
32 games in 1996.  Paying Creditors  Johnson sold his minority stake in the Lakers two years ago
to billionaire Patrick Soon-Shiong, the richest man in Los
Angeles, according to the Los Angeles Business Journal, and a
member of a group that made a competing bid for the Dodgers.  The Dodgers sale must be completed by April 30, the day
McCourt is required under a settlement to pay his ex-wife, Jamie McCourt. He put the team into bankruptcy last June, and the
McCourts split up. They fought over the Dodgers and their six
homes, among other things, during divorce proceedings that
revealed they retained a $120,000-a-year hairstylist. The
settlement gave him the team, and she got $131 million.  He may collect more than $1 billion from the sale after
paying off Dodgers’ creditors and his ex-wife.  Under McCourt, who paid $430 million for the team, fans
complained management didn’t spend enough on free agents,
scouting and the farm system that develops talent. On opening
day last year, a San Francisco Giants fan suffered severe brain
injuries when he was beaten in the Dodger Stadium parking lot.
The Dodgers finished the season with the 13th-best winning
percentage out of the 30 Major League teams.  Six World Series  The Dodgers have won six  World Series , the last in 1988.
Five of them came in Los Angeles, where Duke Snider,  Sandy Koufax ,  Steve Garvey ,  Fernando Valenzuela  and  Kirk Gibson  led
them to championships.  The Johnson group’s bid price topped the previous record
amount for a major U.S. professional sports franchise: the $1.1
billion real estate developer Stephen Ross paid for the NFL’s
Miami Dolphins.  “I’m thrilled,” said Bert Fields, an attorney in Los
Angeles who represented Jamie McCourt in the divorce before
withdrawing last year. “I’m just happy there is someone there
who can put some money into the team.”  Time will tell whether the Dodgers with Johnson as part-
owner will sell more tickets, or bring more prestige to L.A.
sports, according to  David Carter , a principal with the Sports
Business Group consulting firm in Los Angeles.  “After the honeymoon,” Carter said, “they have to
deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  