-- Silver Lake Cutting Fees for Large Clients in Next Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-28T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/silver-lake-cutting-fees-for-large-clients-in-next-fund.html
Silver Lake , the largest
technology-focused private-equity manager, is cutting fees for
big clients as it seeks to raise as much as $10 billion for its
next buyout fund, according to a marketing document.  The fund, Silver Lake Partners IV LP, has a target of $7.5
billion, with the option of raising more, the firm told
prospective investors this month in the private-placement
memorandum, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News.
Silver Lake’s third flagship fund, which had the same initial
target, ultimately raised about $9.4 billion in 2007.  Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman for Silver Lake, declined to
comment.  Carlyle Group (CG) ,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and Warburg
Pincus LLC have also reduced fees or arranged special deals to
entice larger clients as buyout firms vie for a shrinking pool
of investor dollars. Silver Lake, based in  Menlo Park ,
 California , oversees more than $14 billion for clients including
the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers,
and the Washington State Investment Board.  The discount the firm is offering grows as a client’s
investment increases. The management fee will be as high as 1.5
percent for commitments of less than $250 million and as low as
1.375 percent for those putting up at least $500 million,
according to the document.  Silver Lake charged all clients a flat 1.5 percent for the
third fund.  The firm also will collect the standard 20 percent of
profits as a performance fee, known as carried interest.  Key-Man Clause  The firm won’t include co-founders David Roux and  Glenn Hutchins  as key men on the fund, according to the sales
document. The change is part of a leadership transition that
will see the two men, as well as co-founder Jim Davidson, reduce
their ownership stakes and play less active roles at the firm.  A key-man provision is a common feature in private-equity
investment contracts that governs what happens when personnel
considered essential leave a fund or change their role.  The clause names a newly formed five-member managing
committee, comprised of Davidson and four younger managing
directors: Egon Durban, Mike Bingle, Ken Hao and Greg Mondre.
All but Davidson are taking a bigger ownership stake in the
firm, two people familiar with the firm said in December.  A key-man event will occur if fewer than three of the five
are devoting “substantially all” of their work time to the
firm and making the funds under management their primary
business activity, according to the marketing memo. That would
cause the firm to suspend investments until a majority of
clients agree to resume commitments.  Fund Returns  Roux, a senior director, Hutchins, a managing director, and
Davidson, a managing partner and managing director, were listed
on the key-man clause for the firm’s last fund. The three men
founded Silver Lake in 1999.  The firm’s best returns have come from its $2.3 billion
debut fund, Silver Lake Partners LP, raised 13 years ago. The
fund produced a net multiple of 2.5 times invested capital and a
net internal rate of return of 25 percent as of Dec. 31,
according to the marketing memo.  Silver Lake Partners III LP generated a net multiple of 1.4
times invested capital and a net internal rate of return of 19
percent, according to the document. The third fund has
distributed about $5.4 billion in cash.  Skype Technologies SA has been the strongest investment
from the fund, producing a more than threefold profit for
investors when the video-chat company was sold to Microsoft
Corp. last year.  Groupon, Go Daddy  The third fund deployed more than $1.2 billion across six
companies in 2011. It invested $50 million in online coupon
provider  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , $358 million in Web registration and
hosting provider Go Daddy Group Inc. and $328 million in Chinese
Internet company Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.  Big private-equity investors are turning to separately
managed accounts to obtain cheaper fees and more control in
exchange for locking up their money for a decade or more.  New
Jersey  said in December it would put as much as $1.5 billion
into four custom funds to be managed by New York-based
Blackstone, which the state said will save about $120 million in
fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  