-- Some Justices Suggest Preserving Part of Health-Care Law
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-03-28T15:53:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/some-justices-suggest-preserving-part-of-health-care-law.html
Several U.S. Supreme Court justices
suggested they may leave much of President Barack Obama’s
health-care law intact even if they strike down its core
requirement that Americans buy insurance.  “The bottom line is, why don’t we let Congress fix it”
instead of throwing out the entire law, said Justice  Sonia Sotomayor  during the third and final day of arguments on the
health-care law.  Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,
in arguments still under way this morning, said the law includes
items, such as reauthorizing black-lung benefits and an Indian
health-care measure, that aren’t related to the individual
health insurance mandate.  “Why make Congress redo those?” Ginsburg said. It would
be better to let Congress decide “whether it wants them in or
out,” she said.  If the court strikes down the requirement to have health
coverage, insurance companies want the justices also to toss out
provisions that forbid them from refusing coverage or charging
higher premiums based on pre-existing conditions.  Justice Elena Kagan said there was a “sharp dividing
line” between those provisions and the other parts of the law.
She said the case may be one in which “half a loaf is better.”  Still, Justice  Anthony Kennedy  questioned whether it would
be a “more extreme” exercise of judicial power to strike down
some of the statute rather than all of it.  Added Significance  The debate on the rest of the health-care law took on added
significance after questions from justices yesterday indicated a
majority might rule against the insurance requirement.  The justices probably will rule in late June, months before
the November election. A ruling against the measure would give
ammunition to Obama’s Republican challengers, who have said the
law should be repealed.  The court hasn’t overturned legislation with such sweeping
impact since the 1930s, when it voided parts of  Franklin D. Roosevelt ’s New Deal, the package of economic programs enacted
in the 1930s in response to the Great Depression.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Managed Health Care
Index of 12 insurance companies declined 0.31 percent at 11:46
a.m. New York time.  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost to protect against losses on the debt of U.S.
health-care companies is rising as investors hedge against
potential declines when the court rules.  Credit-default swaps linked to hospital operators HCA
Holdings Inc.,  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  and  Community Health
Systems Inc. (CYH)  are poised for the biggest monthly increase since
September, climbing an average 79 basis points to 595 basis
points, according to data provider CMA.  Paul Clement , the lawyer for 26 states challenging the
health-care law, argued today that the court should invalidate
the entire statute if it decides the mandatory insurance
section, which he called “the very heart of this act,” is
unconstitutional.  The mandate and the insurance coverage rules are connected
to insurance exchanges that would be created so people without
employer-provided insurance could buy coverage, he said. Those,
in turn, are related to tax credits for employers that offer
insurance to their workers, he said.  Keeping parts of the law without the individual mandate
would leave a “hollow shell,” Clement said. “Whatever you do,
Congress is going to have options.”  Scalia Questions Clement  Justice  Antonin Scalia  said that under Clement’s argument,
if the court struck down even a minor provision that was
included to get particular lawmaker’s vote, “You’re telling us
that the whole statute would fall.”  “That can’t be right,” Scalia said. He said later that
whatever the court decides, it would “distort” the
congressional process.  If the court rules the individual mandate unconstitutional,
it would be faced with “a choice between a wrecking operation
or a salvage job,” Ginsburg said, adding that she would prefer
salvaging other parts of the measure.  Invalidating only the individual insurance mandate would be
the “worst-case scenario” for insurance companies, said Paul Heldman, a health-policy analyst at Potomac Research Group in
 Washington . “That would create an unstable market for insurers
in which they would be stuck covering the most expensive people
while leaving the healthier people off the insurance rolls.”  Today’s Session  In an afternoon session today, the justices will consider a
challenge by 26 states that object to a section of the law that
expands the federal-state  Medicaid (USBOMDCA)  health-insurance program for
the poor.  Questions from the bench during yesterday’s hearing on
mandatory insurance coverage indicated the justices may split 5-
to-4, with the court’s five Republican appointees joining to
overturn that part of the law.  The Obama administration needs support from at least one
Republican appointee on the nine-member court to uphold the 2010
law. Four of them -- Roberts and Scalia,  Samuel Alito  and
Kennedy -- interrupted U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli
repeatedly yesterday as he pressed his case for upholding the
law.  Extending Coverage  The health law would extend coverage to 32 million people
who lack insurance by 2016, and revamp an industry that accounts
for 18 percent of the  U.S. economy , in part through the coverage
mandate.  An Atlanta-based federal appeals court found the health-
insurance mandate unconstitutional and ruled that the rest of
the law remains valid. None of the parties to the case wants the
 Supreme Court  to follow suit.  The government, agreeing with the  insurance industry , says
if Congress can’t make everybody have coverage, the justices
should toss out sections of the law known as the guaranteed-
issue and community-rating provisions. Those sections say
insurers must issue policies and set rates without regard to
pre-existing health conditions.  Without mandatory insurance rules, the government says
those provisions would create an industry “death spiral,” in
which only patients with costly health conditions would obtain
insurance. That would lead to higher premiums, which would
prompt healthy policyholders to drop coverage, causing more rate
increases, the government says.  ‘Package Deal’  Insurance industry groups, in a court brief, said Congress
structured new policy requirements in a “package deal” with
mandatory coverage.  America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group in
Washington, and the Chicago-based Blue Cross Blue Shield
Association, which didn’t take a position on the insurance
mandate’s constitutionality, argued that the guaranteed-issue
and community-rating rules aren’t practical by themselves.  “Congress would not have intended those insurance-market
reforms to operate on their own, without the vital
counterbalance of the minimum individual coverage mandate there
to prevent the skyrocketing premiums that would otherwise
arise,” the industry groups’ brief said.  Because none of the participants supports the appeals
court’s conclusion, the Supreme Court appointed an outside
lawyer, H. Bartow Farr III, to argue that the rest of the
statute -- including the guaranteed-issue and community-rating
sections -- should be left in force even if the justices strike
down the individual mandate.  In the afternoon argument, the Medicaid issue may be an
uphill fight for the states. No lower court judge has accepted
their contention that the law unconstitutionally coerces the
states into spending their own tax dollars against their will.  The health law’s Medicaid expansion is designed to cover 17
million uninsured people by extending eligibility to those with
incomes up to 138 percent of the federal poverty line. States
that don’t comply with the new expansion would lose all or part
of their share of federal Medicaid funding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  