-- South Sudan Withdraws Its Forces From Oil-Rich Heglig Area
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-03-28T12:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/south-sudan-withdraws-its-forces-from-oil-rich-heglig-area-1-.html
South Sudan  and Sudan signaled an
easing of tension along their disputed border, with the south
saying it withdrew its forces from the oil-rich area of Heglig
and the north describing the area as “calm.”  “We are within our territory,” South Sudan’s government
spokesman, Barnaba Marial Benjamin, said by phone today from
Juba, the capital. Al-Sawarami Khaled, spokesman for Sudan’s
army in Khartoum, said, “It’s calm now and confrontations have
stopped since Monday.”  South Sudan said its troops pursued the Sudan Armed Forces
into the Heglig area and accused them of bombing its forces
along the border between the south’s Unity state and the north’s
Southern Kordofan state.  Clashes between the armies of the former civil war foes
along their common border prompted expressions of alarm from the
 United Nations Security Council , the U.S. and the  African Union .
The countries have been embroiled in disputes over oil, borders
and citizenship rights since the south gained independence in
July, assuming control of three-quarters of the formerly united
country’s crude output of 490,000 barrels a day.  The crude is pumped mainly by  China National Petroleum
Corp. (CNPZ) , Malaysia’s  Petroliam Nasional Bhd. (PET)  and India’s ONGC
Videsh Ltd.  Security Council President Mark Lyall-Grant said in a
statement yesterday that the body was “deeply alarmed” by the
border clashes and urged both sides to “exercise maximum
restraint.”  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  called the fighting
“deeply distressing” and urged both sides to work together to
halt the violence.  “We think that the weight of responsibility rests with
Khartoum, because the use of heavy weaponry, bombing runs by
planes and the like are certainly evidence of disproportionate
force on the part of the government in Khartoum,” Clinton told
reporters in  Washington  yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba at 
 jferrie1@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  