-- Spain Vows to Resist Strikers’ Demands to Reverse Labor Law
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-29T18:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/spanish-general-strike-looms-as-rajoy-cornered-by-deficit-crisis.html
Spain ’s government vowed to stick
to its labor overhaul, defying union leaders who threatened
further unrest after staging the first general strike since
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  took office three months ago.  Iberia , the Spanish unit of  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , canceled 65 percent of its flights, while
national power demand was about 17 percent below usual, grid
operator  Red Electrica Corp.  SA data showed.  Unions said 77 percent of workers took part, more than
during a walkout in 2010, even as the  People’s Party  government
said fewer workers stayed home than last time. Shops,
restaurants and banks in central Madrid opened as usual.  While Rajoy’s measures have angered unions and undermined
support for the party in a regional election on March 25, the
government is still struggling to convince investors it can cut
debt and reduce a 23 percent jobless rate. Spain’s extra
borrowing costs compared with  Germany ’s increased to the most in
more than three months today, surging 65 basis points from the
start of March.  “The reform agenda of the government is unstoppable,”
Labor Minister Fatima Banez told reporters in Madrid.  No Choice  Spanish 10-year bond yields rose to 5.46 percent, compared
with 5.33 percent yesterday. The Ibex 35 share index fell 0.9
percent, extending its loss for this year to 7.7 percent.  “If he gives in, the markets will punish Spain,” said
 Antonio Barroso , a political analyst at Eurasia Group in  London 
and a former government pollster. “Rajoy has his back against
the wall,” he said. “He has no choice.”  Union leaders said they would continue to fight the
government until it changes tack. The next date for protests may
be May 1, Ignacio Fernandez Toxo, secretary general of the
Comisiones Obreras union, told a news conference in  Madrid .  “Social conflict is going to rise,” he said. “We won’t
stop until the government substantially changes the reform.”  The government, in power since Dec. 21 and backed by the
biggest majority any party has enjoyed in Parliament since 1982,
presents its  budget  tomorrow. Rajoy has said the spending plan
will be “very austere” as the nation aims to slash its deficit
by a third even as the economy contracts.  Graffiti, Stickers  On average, 77 percent of Spaniards joined the strike, with
the rate rising to 97 percent among industrial workers, said
Candido Mendez, the head of the Union General de Trabajo. Among
central-government workers, 17 percent joined the strike, said
Cristina Diaz, a director general at the  Interior Ministry .  As protesters in Barcelona set fire to dumpsters, Diaz said
176 people were arrested by police across the country. Fifty-
eight police officers were injured in scuffles and 46 civilians
were hurt, she said.  After the working day, demonstrators marched towards Puerta
del Sol in Madrid in support of the strike. Shops, restaurants
and banks, their windows plastered with stickers reading
“closed for the strike,” opened as usual in central Madrid.  Pro-strike slogans were spray-painted on banks’ windows and
stickers obstructed cash machines. Piles of garbage were left
uncollected and union fliers covered the sidewalks. Police in
riot gear stood guard outside the headquarters of the ruling
People’s Party.  ‘Immense Majority’  CEOE, the business lobby, said while industrial workers
stayed home more than others, “the immense majority” of
Spaniards had gone to work. State broadcaster RTVE had a reduced
service, re-running old documentaries in place of its usual
breaking news service.  Flights in and out of the country were also disrupted.
 Barcelona , which drew 0-0 at Milan in a Champions League soccer
match last night, will remain in  Italy  until tomorrow to avoid
the effects of the strike, a team official said by phone.  At the last general strike in September 2010, which was
also called to protest changes to labor rules and austerity
measures, 72 percent took part, according to the unions. The
former Socialist government said the impact was “moderate,”
with participation rates ranging from 7.5 percent in the public
sector to 100 percent in the automotive industry.  The latest labor overhaul goes further than the attempt by
the Socialists to reduce the European Union’s highest jobless
rate, which amounts to 50 percent among young people. The bill
makes it easier to cut wages, reduces unions’ negotiating power
and allows for lower firing costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  