-- Staffing Stocks Poised to Outperform on U.S. Job Gains
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n ,   A n t h o n y   F e l d   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-03-28T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/staffing-stocks-poised-to-outperform-reflecting-u-s-job-gains.html
Shares of staffing and recruiting
companies are beginning to outperform as demand for U.S. labor
rebounds.  The newly-created  Bloomberg U.S. Employment Services Index (BNUSSTAF) 
-- comprising 17 companies including  Robert Half International
Inc. (RHI) , Insperity Inc. and  Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA)  -- has risen 48
percent since Sept. 22, 2011, compared with a 31 percent gain
for the  Russell 2000  Index of small-company stocks. This follows
almost nine months of underperformance, when stocks of these
businesses lagged behind the Russell 2000 by 28 percent.  The economy has added 734,000 temporary and permanent jobs
between December and February, the biggest three-month increase
since May 2010, based on Labor Department data. The pick-up has
been broad-based, which indicates a “firmer recovery” is
taking hold, said Gus Faucher, senior economist in Pittsburgh at
PNC Financial Services Group Inc.  “We are getting into that self-sustaining cycle, where we
have job gains driving income growth, driving further consumer-
spending growth, driving job gains,” he said.  Clients of Troy, Michigan-based Kelly Services are feeling
less pessimistic than they were a year ago, when many were
making plans in case sales “fell off a cliff,” President and
Chief Executive Officer  Carl Camden  said in a telephone
interview. Now, their outlooks are consistent with the  Federal
Reserve , which forecasts a pick-up in business activity in the
second half of the year, he said.  “Talking to our customers about their yearlong plans, I do
think we’re in a self-sustaining recovery,” Camden said.  ‘Welcome Development’  A “wide range of indicators” suggests the labor market
has been improving, “which is a welcome development indeed,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said March 26 at the National
Association for Business Economics annual conference in
Arlington, Virginia. One of these indicators -- applications for
unemployment-insurance payments -- fell by 5,000 in the week
ended March 17 to 348,000, the fewest in four years, according
to Labor Department data.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics’ employment-diffusion index
has been  above 50  for two years, which indicates more industries
are hiring than firing.  The continued positive trend is encouraging because jobs
data “affect sentiment for staffing stocks,” said Andrew Steinerman, an analyst in New York at JPMorgan. That’s because
their shares offer a “favorable combination” of secular and
cyclical growth, margin expansion and low valuations, he said.  ‘Substantial Discount’  Steinerman maintains an “overweight” recommendation on
 Menlo Park , California-based  Robert Half , which is trading at a
multiple of 1.06 times enterprise value to sales for the last 12
months. That is close to the 2001 recessionary trough and a
“pretty substantial discount,” he said.  Signs of “incremental improvement” in the U.S. labor
market “aren’t being accurately priced into the sector,” said
Jonathan Upton, investment strategist at Lamkin Wealth
Management. The Louisville, Kentucky-based investment company is
“bullish” about staffing, even as industries such as
technology and financial services have “garnered more attention
from investors recently,” he said.  The Bloomberg staffing index has yet to break through a so-
called double-top -- a relative high set in October and January
-- because “investors lack conviction in this sector right
now,” said Jim Stellakis, founder and director of research at
New York-based research company Technical Alpha. If the index
surpasses that relative peak, it may see an “accelerated move
higher,” he said.  Employment-Outlook Decline  One sign of uncertainty is a decline in the employment
outlook for the next six months. The share of Americans who say
there will be “more” jobs minus the share who say there will
be “fewer” fell to minus 1 percentage point in March, after
the first positive reading in a year for February, according to
data from the Conference Board, a New York research group.  The so-called temp-penetration rate -- the portion of
temporary workers relative to all employees on nonfarm payrolls
-- is more positive. It rose in February to 1.86 percent, the
highest since November 2007, the month before the recession
began, Steinerman said, citing Bureau of Labor Statistics data.
The rate is a “leading read” on labor demand and a “bullish
concurrent indicator” of the economy, he said.  Shares of staffing companies with domestic exposure are
generally “doing better” than those with more business in
Europe, said Tobey Sommer, an analyst in Nashville at SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Inc.  ‘Good Bet’  On Assignment Inc. (ASGN) , which generates about 95 percent of
revenue in the U.S. and specializes in technology, is attractive
because it’s exposed to the  U.S. economy  and segment investors
“want to be in,” said Sommer, who has a “buy” recommendation
on the Calabasas, California-based company.He has the same
recommendation on Insperity, based in Kingwood,  Texas , which may
be a “good bet on small-business job growth,” he said.  Small-business sentiment is rising, which Sommer said is
encouraging because these companies make up the largest portion
of the labor market. The National Federation of Independent
Business Optimism Index rose to  94.3 (SBOITOTL)  in February from 93.9 in
January, the sixth straight month of gains and second-highest
reading since December 2007, association data show.  This optimism was echoed at an annual staffing forum in
mid-March, where attendees said they were confident demand would
“remain solid this year,” Timothy McHugh, an analyst in
Chicago at William Blair & Co. wrote in a March 16  report .
Companies at the conference said January and February were
“strong months,” and some attendees said that weekly revenue
trends have ramped up recently, he wrote.  Conversion Rate  As companies begin to report earnings next month, Camden
said investors should pay attention to the so-called conversion
rate: temporary employees hired on a permanent basis. “Staffing
firms are seeing an increase in temp-to-perm conversion that is
typical at a second stage of a recovery,” he said.  Higher conversion rates would be a “bullish signal that
should bode very well for the industry,” Upton agreed.  Even so, the job market “remains far from normal,” and it
isn’t clear whether recent improvements “will be sustained,”
Bernanke said in Arlington. One interpretation of hiring growth
is that it “represents a catch-up from outsized job losses
during and just after the recession,” he said. “To the extent
that this reversal has been completed, further significant
improvements in the  unemployment rate  will likely require a
more-rapid expansion of production and demand from consumers and
businesses.”  Long Way To Go  Though there’s still a long way to go to prerecession
levels -- the U.S. has lost about 5.3 million jobs since nonfarm
payroll employment peaked in January 2008 -- “the economy has
definitely gotten past that weakness we had in the middle of
2011,” Faucher said.  Gross domestic product will expand 2.2 percent this year,
according to the median estimate of 70 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News from March 9 to March 13. That’s up from 1.7
percent in 2011 and is “conducive” to an industry that’s
already looking “very solid,” Steinerman said.  Even though the initial acceleration has been lighter than
previous recoveries, Kelly has seen a “small” rebound in
demand since Christmas, Camden said.  “All of the dominoes are falling in the correct order, but
they’re just taking longer to fall,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net 
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  