-- Strauss-Kahn’s Lawyers Argue for Immunity in Maid’s Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-03-28T22:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/strauss-kahn-s-lawyers-to-argue-for-immunity-in-maid-s-suit.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers
asked a Bronx judge to dismiss on diplomatic immunity grounds a
lawsuit filed by the hotel maid who accused the former
International Monetary Fund head of trying to rape her.  Lawyers for Strauss-Kahn, 62, said he was entitled to such
protection as head of the IMF and requested  New York  Supreme
Court Justice Douglas McKeon throw out the complaint. Attorneys
for Nafissatou Diallo, 33, the maid, said Strauss-Kahn is using
the argument as a delay tactic.  Amit Mehta, a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn, told the judge that
the complaint must be dismissed because he was entitled to
immunity when his attorneys were served with the lawsuit in
early August, while prosecutors still had his travel documents.
Mehta said Strauss-Kahn didn’t assert the privilege at the time
of his arrest in May because he had been “falsely accused.”  “It wasn’t in his best interest to raise a defense that
might seem purely procedural,” Mehta said. “It was in his
interest to fight the charges.”  Strauss-Kahn wasn’t entitled to immunity when his lawyers
were served with Diallo’s suit because he had already resigned
his position at the IMF, Douglas Wigdor, one of Diallo’s
attorneys, said in court today.  ‘Doesn’t Have Immunity’  “Strauss-Kahn doesn’t have immunity and Miss Diallo will
have her day in court,” Wigdor said. The motion to dismiss
“was filed to deny Miss Diallo a right to trial in this case
and to delay these proceedings.”  Strauss-Kahn was pulled off an  Air France (AF)  flight at  John F.
Kennedy International Airport  on May 14, arrested and charged
with trying to rape Diallo, 33, a housekeeper at the Sofitel in
midtown Manhattan. He resigned as head of the IMF four days
later. Diallo sued Strauss-Kahn on Aug. 8, seeking damages for
what her lawyer called “violent and deplorable acts.”  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. decided to drop
the criminal charges against Strauss-Kahn after concluding that
Diallo had lied about events surrounding the alleged attack. The
case was dismissed on Aug. 23.  The likelihood that Strauss-Kahn’s argument will prevail is
“slim to nil,” said Sarah H. Cleveland, a professor of human
and constitutional rights at  Columbia Law School  in New York and
an expert on international law.  ‘Tough Row to Hoe’  “He was a managing director of the IMF and there’s this UN
Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized
Agencies that would give diplomatic immunity to the head of a
specialized agency, but the U.S. isn’t a party to it,”
 Cleveland  said in a phone interview. “And so he has the
challenge of proving that absolute immunity for the heads of
specialized international organizations is a rule of customary
international law. And that’s a tough row to hoe.”  The  Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the
Specialized Agencies  is a November 1947 treaty that established
immunity for heads of agencies such as the IMF.  While the U.S. isn’t a party to the treaty, such immunity
has become “customary international law” because of acceptance
from countries that are members of the  United Nations , William P. Taylor III, one of Strauss-Kahn’s attorneys, said in court
documents filed in September.  ‘Absolute Immuity’  “Strauss-Kahn enjoyed absolute immunity under customary
international law not only while he was the head of the IMF, but
also for the period of time after he had resigned from his post
and was ordered to remain in the  United States  in his criminal
matter,” Taylor wrote.  The attorney argued that “Mr. Strauss-Kahn’s absolute
immunity persisted until he was able to leave the U.S., which
occurred only after plaintiff had filed and served this suit,
when the criminal charges against him were dismissed.”  Diallo’s lawyers have argued Strauss-Kahn isn’t entitled to
immunity under the treaty.  “Not only does that argument defy logic, defendant DSK
conveniently ignores the strict standards for application of
customary international law entirely, attempting to simply dupe
the court into finding customary international law based on
merely the number of states that have ratified” the treaty,
 Kenneth Thompson , an attorney for Diallo, wrote in a court
filing in October. “This argument misses the mark completely.”  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers will have a difficult time proving
that he was entitled to immunity since he failed to assert the
defense after he was arrested, said Paul Callan, a former
prosecutor in the Brooklyn District Attorney’s Office who
represented Nicole Brown Simpson’s estate in a civil case
against former pro football star  O.J. Simpson .  Simpson Liable  A civil jury found Simpson liable for the deaths of Nicole Simpson and her friend Ron Goldman after another jury acquitted
him of murder in the criminal case.  Strauss-Kahn told police he had diplomatic immunity when he
was first detained at the airport in New York, and declined to
assert the defense when he was interviewed by detectives later
that day,  Manhattan  prosecutors said in a court filing in June.
The IMF and the U.S. State Department said days after Strauss-
Kahn’s arrest that he wasn’t entitled to diplomatic immunity.  “He failed to assert diplomatic immunity at the time of
the criminal case,” Callan said in a telephone interview. “If
he indeed had it and asserted it he could have returned to
France immediately. Instead he did not assert it, so he’s facing
an argument that he’s waived his diplomatic immunity by failing
to assert it in the criminal case. I think that’s a very tough
argument for him to get around.”  1961 Vienna Convention  Diplomats are generally entitled to immunity in criminal
and civil proceedings while they are in their posts under
another  treaty , the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
Relations, to which the U.S. is a party, Cleveland said.  She said diplomats often face complaints from housekeepers
or employees alleging abuse or underpayment after they depart
their posts.  Diplomats have cited immunity to avoid criminal prosecution
in the past for cases such as drunk-driving or assault, as well
as to get out of paying parking tickets or rents on expensive
apartments in New York, Callan said.  One example of the intersection of diplomatic immunity with
the U.S. legal system is that of Gueorgui Makharadze, a former
Republic of  Georgia  diplomat who cited immunity after a 1997
high-speed drunk-driving car crash in  Washington  that killed a
16-year-old girl. Georgia later waived immunity for Makharadze,
who was convicted in the case and served more than five years in
prison.  ‘Not a Diplomat’  Strauss-Kahn “is not a diplomat and that treaty doesn’t
cover him,” Cleveland said. “So he’s essentially trying to
argue that a different treaty which we’re not a party to would
give him the same kind of immunity.”  McKeon, who said on March 26 he will issue a written
decision on the motion in about two to three weeks, said today
he will rule “expeditiously” on the request. McKeon, who has
been a New York City judge since 1989, said he’s never dealt
with the issue of diplomatic immunity in a civil lawsuit.  “It’s a rare issue for a trial judge to deal with,”
McKeon said in a phone interview earlier this week. “There are
relatively few cases out there considering the number of
diplomats around the world.”  In a separate case, Strauss-Kahn was charged by three
investigating judges in the northern French city of Lille with
procurement in a prostitution ring. The charge stems from a
probe into a prostitution ring linked to the Carlton hotel in
Lille, and investigators uncovered evidence that women had been
hired to travel as far as Washington to have sex with the former
IMF chief.  Legal in France  Paying for sex is legal in  France , while procuring
prostitutes for someone else isn’t. Under the French penal code,
procurement in the context of a prostitution ring can be
punished by as much as 20 years in jail and 3 million euros ($4
million). Henri Leclerc, an attorney for Strauss-Kahn, said the
charges are “non-existent crimes” under French law.  Kenneth Thompson, another one of Diallo’s attorneys, said
the developments in France are “being watched” as the maid’s
lawyers prepare for the civil case. Thompson declined to discuss
a possible settlement in the lawsuit with reporters after
today’s hearing, saying he plans to take the case to trial.  Diallo, a single mother who lives not far from the
courthouse where today’s hearing was held, has been “sitting at
home waiting to have her day in court,” Thompson said.  ‘Still in Pain’  “She is still in pain from the incident,” Thompson said.
“She is trying to put her life back together. She’s preparing
to get on the stand and tell the world what happened to her.”  The decision by New York prosecutors to drop the criminal
charges against Strauss-Kahn means that there is a “blank
slate” for the maid’s civil case, Callan said. Dismissal of the
charges by a jury or judge would have meant a “death knell”
for the lawsuit, he said.  While Strauss-Kahn’s argument that he is entitled to
immunity will likely fail, it’s not clear whether Diallo will be
successful with her lawsuit, Callan said.  “I still think Ms. Diallo has an uphill battle even in the
Bronx but she’s in a place and a venue that is generally very
very friendly to plaintiffs suing rich companies and
individuals,” Callan said. “I think she couldn’t be in a
friendlier jurisdiction to her cause. She’s got a tough case,
but she can win the case in the Bronx. And if she wins she’ll
get an enormous verdict.”  The case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New York
State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  