-- Swan Sees Limited Australia Revenue Boost From Recovery: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-29T04:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/swan-says-revenue-slump-makes-australia-surplus-harder-to-attain.html
Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan
warned a world economic rebound is unlikely to boost government
revenue much as he seeks to deliver the nation’s first budget
surplus since the global financial crisis.  “When it comes to the structural underpinnings of the
revenue base, we are in a tough new world,” Swan said in a
speech today in Sydney at a meeting of the Australian Business
Economists. “This is a crucial point: even if we were to
witness an enduring global recovery, we should not expect to see
a similar recovery in revenues.”  The threat to the global recovery from  China ’s growth
slowdown is adding pressure on budgets already strained by
Europe’s weaker expansion and elevated unemployment in the U.S.
Calls for fiscal austerity from Canberra to Brussels are being
met by growing opposition to tax increases and subsidy cuts,
putting more of the onus on monetary policy to stimulate demand.  “Australia’s drive for a surplus is more about politics
than economics,” said  Annette Beacher , the Singapore-based head
of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities Inc. The government
made the pledge at a time when the global outlook was stronger
and it’s now relying on the central bank to lower  interest rates 
to spur the economy, she said.  Swan said today the surplus will require spending cuts as
global financial turmoil and shifts in the tax base hurt revenue.
“A number of influences -- both contemporary and structural --
are combining to make that surplus much more difficult to
achieve,” he said.  ‘Dangerous Territory’  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , whose government is slumping
in opinion polls and faces an election next year, has pledged to
end four years of deficits in the fiscal year that begins July 1.
Her government is scheduled to release its budget plan May 8 in
Canberra, and Swan maintained that a surplus is “a vital
economic imperative.”  “They’re treading into dangerous territory here by saying
‘ok, we’ll keep our fiscal target in place and we’ll just leave
you to manage the rest of the economy,’” she said, referring to
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia.  Asian stocks declined today, the fourth drop in the past
five sessions and on course for its first monthly fall since
November.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  sank 0.8 percent as of 11:44
a.m. in  Tokyo . The Australian currency was the day’s biggest
loser against the  U.S. dollar , weakening 0.3 percent at 11:45
a.m. in Tokyo, and the yen’s 0.4 percent was the biggest gain
among 16 major currencies.  Japanese Consumers  In  Japan , retail sales rose more than economists forecast
in February, increasing 3.5 percent from a year earlier, a third
straight monthly rise, the Trade Ministry said in Tokyo.  South
Korea  returned to a current-account surplus in February as
exports rose amid signs of an improving U.S. economy and as the
euro-area debt crisis eased, a report showed.  Earlier in Wellington, a survey released by  ANZ National
Bank Ltd. (ANB)  showed New Zealand business confidence rose to a
seven-month high in March as risks of a global downturn eased
and amid signs of a domestic housing recovery.  Separate reports across  Europe  later today will probably
show U.K. house price gains slowed this month to 0.2 percent,
the increase in  Spain ’s consumer price index easing to 1.9
percent and the German  unemployment rate  holding at 6.8 percent,
according to Bloomberg News surveys of economists. A final
estimate on euro-zone  consumer confidence  is also scheduled to
be released.  U.S. GDP  In the U.S., a Commerce Department report may show fourth-
quarter gross domestic product grew at a 3 percent annual rate,
unchanged from a prior estimate, according to a survey of
economists. A Labor Department report may show initial claims
for unemployment benefits were little changed at 350,000 in the
week ended March 24, another survey showed.  Australia  was the only major industrial economy to avoid a
recession during the global downturn of 2009. Still, job growth
stagnated last year and, until two interest-rate cuts in late
2011, the central bank maintained the highest benchmark
borrowing cost in the developed world to temper inflation as a
mining investment boom accelerated.  Governments across the region are grappling with slower tax
revenue and trying to find ways to cut spending without
exacerbating elevated unemployment.  Japan will draft a stopgap budget for the first time in 14
years as the nation’s parliament struggles to pass a spending
bill before the new fiscal year starts on April 1.  Jakarta Rally  At least 3,000 Indonesian college students, members of
labor unions, non-government organizations and political parties
took to the streets in Jakarta this week to demonstrate against
a plan to raise the price of subsidized fuel by 33 percent.  India ,  Asia ’s third-largest economy, has missed its deficit
target three times in the past 10 years. Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee fell short of his revenue goal for the current fiscal
year as economic growth slowed and the government met only 35
percent of a program to raise 400 billion rupees ($8 billion) by
selling state assets. The government this month proposed a cap
of less than 2 percent of GDP in the next fiscal year on a
subsidy program that spans diesel to fertilizers.  Earlier this year,  Malaysia  raised sugar subsidies to
offset higher global prices and keep the cost low for consumers.  In Australia, Swan said subdued  consumer spending  and non-
mining industries that are suffering under the strength of the
Australian dollar are restraining tax receipts.  “So despite our strong fundamentals, heightened global
turmoil towards the end of last year has had a big impact on
government revenues,” he said. “And while the global economy
has shown recent signs of stabilization, and the news from the
 United States  has been positive, the threat of financial
contagion from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis does still
linger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  