-- Synnex Falls Most Since 2008 on Outlook: San Francisco Mo
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-03-28T20:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/synnex-tumbles-most-since-2005-after-forecast-trails-estimates.html
Synnex Corp. (SNX) , a provider of
technology and networking-equipment distribution services,
tumbled the most in more than three years, after the company’s
second-quarter revenue and profit forecasts trailed estimates.  The shares fell 13 percent to $38.18 at the close in New
York for the biggest one-day decline since Dec. 2008, following
the company’s forecast yesterday. Synnex, based in Fremont,
California, has  gained  25 percent this year.  Synnex, which counts  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Staples Inc. (SPLS) 
as  customers , benefited from increased demand for disk drives in
the past two quarters as flooding in Thailand disrupted global
supplies. Demand “leveled out after several months,” Thomas Alsborg, the company’s chief financial officer, said today in an
e-mailed statement.  Synnex “had greater inventory than others had in the
channel,” said Osten Bernardez, of Cross Research in
Livingston,  New Jersey . “They were able to price accordingly
for people who were buying hard drives,” said Bernardez, who
recommends holding the stock.  The company yesterday predicted revenue of $2.45 billion to
$2.55 billion for its fiscal second quarter ending May 31. That
compared to a median estimate of $2.6 billion from analysts in a
Bloomberg survey. Earnings per share will be 87 cents to 91
cents, the company said. Analysts in a  Bloomberg survey  had
predicted a median estimate of 95 cents.  Synnex’s rise this year indicates that the stock could have
“limited potential” for further growth, Richard Gardner, an
analyst with Citigroup Inc. in San Francisco, wrote in a
research note today. Gardner lowered his rating on Synnex to
neutral from buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in  New York  at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  