-- U.K. Supreme Court Says Insurers Should Pay Asbestos Victims
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-03-28T10:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/u-k-supreme-court-says-insurers-should-pay-asbestos-victims-1-.html
Thousands of workers who fell ill
from exposure to asbestos can receive compensation after the
U.K. Supreme Court ruled insurers should cover their claims.  The judges decided that employers’ liability insurance was
triggered the moment workers came into contact with hazardous
material, rather than years later at the onset of mesothelioma,
a cancer caused by asbestos inhalation.  “It would be remarkable if the insurers were not liable
under the policies,” said Justice Jonathan Mance, one of five
Supreme Court judges who dismissed the insurers’ appeal.  Companies including  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZO)  and  Amec Plc (AMEC)  and a group
of local governments and individual claimants have been trying
since at least 2006 to force four insurers, some of which are
insolvent, to pay compensation on claims arising from the point
at which workers inhaled the asbestos fibers.  “The result will be a relief to thousands of disease
victims and their families,” whose insurance claims have been
on hold because of the litigation, said  Leon Taylor , a lawyer at
 DLA Piper LLP (1191L)  who represented two insurers, BAI (Run Off) Ltd.
and Independent Insurance Company Ltd. Both companies are
insolvent and being wound down by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  “For the insolvent insurance companies involved, their
administrators and liquidators now have the judicial guidance
they needed to satisfy their obligations,” Taylor said in an e-
mailed statement.  Mesothelioma is a  lung disease  which kills about 3,000
people every year in the U.K. due to the common use of asbestos
materials as recently as the 1970s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  