-- U.K. Fuel-Tanker Drivers ‘Keen’ for Talks; No Strike Dates Set
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-03-28T12:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/u-k-fuel-tanker-drivers-keen-for-talks-no-strike-dates-set.html
Fuel-tanker drivers in the U.K.,
locked in a dispute over working conditions, are open to talks
and haven’t decided on dates for a strike, a labor union said.  “We’re keen to start negotiations with the companies,”
Alex Flynn, a spokesman for Unite, the country’s biggest trade
union, said today by telephone from  London . The workers deliver
fuel to gasoline stations run by companies including  BP Plc (BP/) ,
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)   Unite is seeking minimum standards for fuel distributors
over pensions, training, health and safety, pay and hours. The
union has asked the government to intervene to avoid industrial
action, it said yesterday in a website  statement . The Advisory,
Conciliation and Arbitration Service, or Acas, is now mediating.  “We are in urgent discussions with the parties involved on
an individual basis,” Clare Carter, a spokeswoman for Acas,
said today in an e-mail. “It is normal for us to do this to
establish the format for talks.”  About 2,000 drivers would join a strike, a union official
said on March 26. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today there
was “absolutely no justification” for the proposed stoppage.
He called on unions and employers to “sit down and discuss
these issues” and said the government is putting contingency
plans in place, including training soldiers to replace strikers.  The prime minister will chair a meeting of the government’s
“Cobra” emergency committee today to discuss contingency
planning, he told reporters in London. A strike could affect
supplies to 90 percent of Britain’s 8,706 fuel-station
forecourts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  