-- Britons See Disposable Incomes Plunge Most Since 1977: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-28T10:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/u-k-economy-shrinks-more-than-first-estimated-on-services-1-.html
Britons suffered the biggest drop
in disposable income in more than three decades last year in a
squeeze that may continue this year as energy prices increase.  Real household disposable income fell 1.2 percent, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. That’s the
biggest drop since 1977 when the then Labour government sought
to cap incomes growth in an attempt to bring down inflation. The
report also showed that the economy shrank 0.3 percent in the
 fourth quarter , more than the 0.2 percent contraction previously
estimated.  The Bank of England has said cooling inflation will ease
the squeeze on consumers this year and help the economy to
recover from the second half. While Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  raised the threshold before workers begin paying
income tax in his budget last week, any spending pickup may be
constrained by rising unemployment and higher gasoline prices.  “We expect that real incomes will fall again this year,
reflecting low nominal wage growth and little or no job
growth,” said  Michael Saunders , an economist at Citigroup Inc.
in London. “ Consumer spending  is likely to remain subdued for
several years.”  The drop in 2011 disposable income followed a 0.2 percent
decline in 2010, marking the first back-to-back fall in real
incomes since the early 1980s recession.  Consumer Spending  The ONS report showed  consumer spending  rose 0.4 percent in
the fourth quarter, less than the 0.5 percent previously
estimated. Real household disposable income fell 0.2 percent in
the quarter, the second successive quarterly decline. The
savings ratio -- the share of post-tax income put aside -- fell
to 7.7 percent from 7.9 percent.  While U.K. inflation has eased to 3.4 percent since
reaching 5.2 percent in September, that’s still above the  Bank
of England ’s 2 percent target. It’s also faster than wage
growth, which was 1.4 percent in the quarter through January.
Justin King, chief executive officer of  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the
U.K.’s third-largest supermarket owner, said on March 21 that
the “economic climate is likely to remain challenging.”  The statistics office also said services fell 0.1 percent
in the fourth quarter, with declines in all sectors except
government services. Services output was previously estimated to
be unchanged. Manufacturing fell 0.7 percent and total
industrial production declined 1.3 percent. Construction fell
0.2 percent, less than half the pace first thought.  A separate report showed the  current-account deficit 
narrowed to 8.5 billion pounds in the period.  Investment Incentive  With the government constrained by its pledge to rid
Britain of the bulk of its  budget deficit  by 2017, Prime
Minister  David Cameron  is counting on exports and investment to
drive the recovery.  The economy received a boost from net trade in the fourth
quarter. Business investment fell 3.3 percent, less than the 5.6
percent fall previously estimated. With prospects in the U.S.
and the euro region brightening, Osborne last week sought to
persuade companies to spend rather than hoard their surplus cash
by cutting the tax rates on corporate profits and high personal
incomes.  Recent figures suggest the economy returned to growth in
the first quarter, with the chancellor saying yesterday saying
Britain was now “in the recovery phase.” He used his March 21
budget to spur businesses to invest and hire by cutting taxes
for companies and high earners.  “Things are going to pick up in the first quarter,” said
 Brian Hilliard , an economist at Societe Generale SA in  London 
and a former Bank of England official. “The key aspect of GDP
this year is going to be its immense volatility.”  Euro-Area GDP  The pound stayed lower against the dollar after the report
and was trading at $1.5927 as of 11:16 a.m. in London, down 0.1
percent on the day. Gilts rose, with the yield on the 10-year
government bond down 1 basis point at 2.25 percent.  French  gross domestic product  rose 1.3 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, instead of the 1.4 percent
previously estimated, statistics office Insee said today. Its
estimate of growth from the previous quarter was unchanged at
0.2 percent.  Growth in the euro area has been constrained by the debt
crisis, which has undermined confidence and led to bailouts of
three nations. Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said today
that the region’s woes are “almost over” after a slow initial
response by policy makers, while German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
said yesterday that the crisis is ebbing.  Opportunities  Still, Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said the euro
region must still deal with underlying problems and that the
liquidity support from the  European Central Bank  has only bought
time.  “The difficulty is that windows of opportunity have been
created regularly for over two years, and nothing seems to have
gone through the window,” he said. “But hope springs eternal.
I don’t know whether they will take advantage of it or not.”  Asian policy makers are preparing to double a $120 billion
reserve pool to defend the region against shocks, reducing
reliance on traditional backstops such as the  International
Monetary Fund  as  Europe  saps resources. Officials meeting this
week will discuss boosting the so-called Chiang Mai Initiative
Multilateralization agreement, a foreign-currency reserve pool
created by  Japan ,  China ,  South Korea  and 10 Southeast Asian
nations that took effect in 2010, said Wei Benhua, director of
the fund’s surveillance unit in Singapore.  The financial crisis and Europe’s debt turmoil “show that
when markets become irrational or extremely volatile, countries
need all the resources they can get,” said Tai Hui, Singapore-
based head of Southeast Asian economics at Standard Chartered
Plc.  U.S. Durable Goods  U.S. orders for  durable goods  probably rebounded in
February as aircraft demand surged, economists said before a
report today. Bookings for goods meant to last at least three
years rose 3 percent after dropping 3.7 percent the prior month,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Excluding transportation equipment, demand climbed 1.7 percent
after falling 3 percent, economists projected.  The U.K. Treasury’s fiscal watchdog predicts Britain’s
economy will expand just 0.8 percent this year, with growth
stalling in the second quarter because of an extra public
holiday to mark Queen Elizabeth II’s 60 years on the throne.  With  U.K. unemployment  at a 16-year high and forecast to
rise further, two of the Bank of England’s nine policy makers,
David Miles and Adam Posen, wanted to increase stimulus this
month.  Osborne claimed vindication for his budget after
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  announced plans on March 22 to create more
than 1,000 jobs in Britain.  EnQuest Plc (ENQ) , a North Sea oil
company, said yesterday it will invest more in the U.K. after
Osborne promised to guarantee tax breaks for dismantling
platforms and developing new fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  