-- U.S. Heat Waves to Intensify From New York to Los Angeles
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-03-28T16:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/u-s-heat-waves-set-to-intensify-from-new-york-to-los-angeles.html
Heat waves are likely to intensify
and last longer from  California  to the U.S. East Coast as global
warming takes hold, according to the  United Nations ’s most
comprehensive report on extreme weather events.  Average wind speeds of hurricanes are likely to increase,
with projected sea level rises compounding the impact of surges
associated with the storms, the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change said in a 594-page report today that examines
weather impacts from  Alaska  to Africa and  Australia .  Coastal areas around the world, especially large cities and
small islands, are particularly vulnerable to the impact of
climate change and as much as $35 trillion, or 9 percent of
projected global economic output in 2070, may be exposed to
climate-related hazards in ports, the panel said. That may
increase the need for migration, according to the authors.  “The decision about whether or not to move is achingly
difficult and it’s one that the world community is going to have
to face with increasing frequency in the future,” Chris Field,
one of the report’s authors and a professor at  Stanford
University , said today on a conference call with reporters.  Sea-level rise may render parts of Mumbai uninhabitable
while other cities with the largest number of people threatened
by coastal flooding include Kolkata,  India , Rangoon in Myanmar,
Miami,  Shanghai , Bangkok and  Ho Chi Minh City , according to the
study.  U.S. Heat Wave  Economic losses from a 1-in-100-year flood in Mumbai could
triple to $2.3 billion by the 2080s, according to the research.
Sea-level rises and storm surges could combine to make coastal
portions of the Indian city uninhabitable, it said.  Mumbai needs “early warning systems,” IPCC Chairman
Rajendra Pachauri told reporters. “The drainage system is
terrible and one would need to create new infrastructure.”  While people in the developing world are likely to suffer
the most, developed countries will also be affected, and the
U.S. is no exception, according to the study, which presents the
background information to a summary published last year.  The U.S. has experienced a heat wave in March that’s seen
7,271 daily temperature records broken or tied from coast to
coast, according to the National Climatic Data Center. That
includes a March 22 record for  New York ’s Central Park of 78
degrees Fahrenheit (26 Celsius). The average monthly temperature
in the park was 51.2 degrees through yesterday, 9.4 degrees
above normal and 0.1 degree above the record from 1945.  Today’s study said with “high confidence” that heat waves
in the whole of  North America  will become more frequent, longer
or more intense this century.  Emissions Reductions  Decisions made now about the pace of emissions reduction
could benefit future generations, according to another author of
the report, Thomas Stocker, a professor at the University of
Bern in  Switzerland . Choosing a “lower emissions” development
path could more than cut in half the instances of daily
temperature records in 2100, he said.  “We can show therefore that there are immediate physical
benefits in mitigation and choosing lower emissions scenarios,”
Stocker said.  The study also found that damage caused by natural
disasters has expanded more rapidly than the global population
or economic growth. Economic losses caused by tropical storms
may increase 30 percent by 2040 from 2000 levels, according to
the median of nine studies cited in today’s report. Damage
caused by river flooding may rise 65 percent in the same period,
according to the median of six studies analyzed.  Hurricane Katrina  Changes in where populations live can affect the magnitude
of losses, according to the study, which cited the area around
the  Gulf of Mexico , hit in 2005 by  Hurricane Katrina , as an
example.  “Population trends within the region have increased
vulnerability by heightening exposure of people and property in
areas that are affected by extreme events,” the scientists
said.  Hurricanes Katrina and Rita destroyed more than 100 oil and
gas platforms in the Gulf of Mexico, and disrupted 20 percent of
U.S. refining capacity, according to the study. Katrina alone
caused economic losses of $138 billion, it said.  Governments will need to combine carbon reductions with
measures to adapt to rising sea levels, increased temperatures
and more intense rainfall to find the most effective way to
fight  climate change , Pachauri said.  “There are huge disparities in terms of the impacts of
very similar events and disasters in different parts of the
world,” Pachauri said. “That’s a function of the
vulnerability, the exposure and the kinds of preparedness and
infrastructure that exist in different parts of the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net . 