-- U.S. Proposed Release of Oil Stocks, France’s Besson Says
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-03-28T10:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/u-s-proposed-release-of-oil-stocks-france-s-besson-says-1-.html
The U.S. government has proposed
releasing fuel from strategic stockpiles to curb rising oil
prices, French Industry Minister Eric Besson said.  The French government “welcomed the proposal,” Besson
told reporters today in Paris after a weekly cabinet meeting.  France  is waiting for a report from the  International
Energy Agency  on inventories before deciding on such a move,
Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said later at a press
conference. “France is accompanying the U.S. and U.K. in the
IEA consultation, which could allow the release of strategic oil
reserves in order to break the rising price spiral,” she said.  Tapping strategic reserves is one option being considered
to counter rising oil prices, Besson said last week. The Paris-
based IEA coordinated the release of 60 million barrels of crude
and oil products in June after Libyan output was disrupted by an
armed uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi . The agency also made
supplies available during the 1991 Persian Gulf War and when
Hurricane Katrina damaged oil rigs and refineries in the  Gulf of
Mexico  in 2005.  An IEA official, asking not to be identified citing the
agency’s policy, declined to comment today on what the French
ministers said.  Oil declined for the first time in four days in  New York 
amid signs of increasing supply in the U.S., the world’s biggest
crude-consuming nation. The release of oil from the Strategic 
Petroleum Reserve “has been in consideration for some time,” 
Charles McConnell, U.S. acting assistant secretary for fossil
energy, said at a hearing in  Washington  yesterday. No decision
has been made, he said.  Rising Stockpiles  Futures slipped as much as 1 percent to $106.22 a barrel
before a government report that analysts forecast will show
crude inventories rose to a six-month high last week. Supplies
jumped 3.6 million barrels, the  American Petroleum Institute 
said yesterday.  The IEA isn’t planning a coordinated release of emergency
oil stockpiles among its 28 member nations, Executive Director
Maria van der Hoeven said March 22 in an e-mailed statement
during an official visit to New Delhi. The agency advises oil-
consumer nations including the U.S., the U.K.,  Japan  and  Germany 
on energy policy.  “Individual IEA member countries may use their stockpiles
as they see fit, provided they don’t fall below 90 days of net
imports,” she said in the statement. “This would normally be
undertaken after consultation with the IEA and others, and since
we have not yet discussed specific plans with any country, it is
premature to speculate on unconfirmed rumors about individual
stock releases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  