-- U.S. High Court Limits Privacy Act Suits to Actual Economic Harm
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-03-28T15:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/u-s-high-court-limits-privacy-act-suits-to-actual-economic-harm.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court , rejecting a
claim by a California pilot who sought to conceal that he was
HIV-positive, ruled that the government can be sued only for
financial harm from violations of the federal Privacy Act.  In a 5-3 decision today, the justices said Stanmore Cooper
couldn’t seek damages for mental or emotional distress.  Federal law “limits the government’s Privacy Act liability
to harm that can be substantiated by proof of tangible economic
loss,” Justice Samuel Alito wrote.  Cooper had sought damages for “humiliation, embarrassment,
mental anguish, fear of social ostracism and other severe
emotional distress” after the Social Security Administration
shared information about his medical condition with the Federal
Aviation Administration. HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus,
causes AIDS.  The FAA revoked Cooper’s private pilot’s license on grounds
that he had lied on license applications that required him to
disclose health issues and medications he was taking. Cooper
pleaded guilty to one count of providing false information and
was fined $1,000. The FAA subsequently reissued Cooper’s pilot
license after a review of his medical records.  Cooper, who had applied for long-term disability benefits,
sued, saying the government violated the Privacy Act when the
 Social Security Administration  compared disability claims with
FAA pilot records in a program designed to identify pilots who
may have been medically unfit.  Sotomayor Dissent  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , in a dissenting opinion, said
“common sense” dictates that mental and emotional distress are
“the primary, and often only, damages sustained as a result of
an invasion of privacy.”  Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia,
Anthony Kennedy and Clarence Thomas joined Alito’s majority
opinion. Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen Breyer agreed
with Sotomayor. Justice  Elena Kagan , who represented the federal
government at the Supreme Court as solicitor general before
becoming a justice, didn’t participate in the decision.  The case is Federal Aviation Administration v. Cooper, 10-
1024.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in  Washington  at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 