-- U.S. Said to Make No Decision on Release From Oil Reserve
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-28T17:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/u-s-said-to-make-no-decision-on-release-from-oil-reserve-1-.html
The Obama administration hasn’t
made a decision on whether to release oil from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve nor made any specific proposal to allies, a
White House official said.  The option of using the reserve remains under
consideration, the official said on condition of anonymity.  The administration’s response followed statements in Paris
by French Industry Minister Eric Besson that the U.S. has
proposed releasing fuel from strategic stockpiles to curb rising
oil prices.  The French government “welcomed the proposal,” Besson
told reporters in Paris today after a weekly cabinet meeting.  Rising oil costs threaten to put a crimp in the recovery
and price pressure may increase as the U.S. and European Union
are cutting purchases of crude from  Iran  as part of sanctions
against the Islamic Republic. Iran is the second-largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
after  Saudi Arabia .  Oil fell for the first time in four days after U.S.
stockpiles climbed to the highest level in almost 20 months and
on speculation that Western countries may tap emergency
reserves. Crude oil for May delivery fell $2.28, or 2.1 percent,
to $105.05 a barrel at 12:29 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Gasoline Prices  The average U.S. retail price of a gallon of regular
gasoline is $3.91, up from $3.58 a year ago, according to an
American Automobile Association  survey . The higher cost has
become an issue in the election campaign as President  Barack Obama  seeks a second term.  Charles McConnell, acting assistant energy secretary, told
the House Appropriations subcommittee on Energy and Water
Development yesterday that using the reserve “has been in
consideration for some time, and no decision has been made.”  Tapping reserves was a topic discussed by President Barack Obama and  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  when the British
leader was in the U.S. earlier this month.  France  is waiting for a report from the  International
Energy Agency  on inventories before deciding on such a move,
Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said in Paris.  “France is accompanying the U.S. and U.K. in the IEA
consultation, which could allow the release of strategic oil
reserves in order to break the rising price spiral,” she said.  Coordinated Releases  The Paris-based IEA coordinated the release of 60 million
barrels of crude and oil products in June after Libyan output
was disrupted by an armed uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi . The
agency also made supplies available during the 1991 Persian Gulf
War and when  Hurricane Katrina  damaged oil rigs and refineries
in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2005.  The European Union decided in January to ban oil imports
from Iran starting July 1 as part of efforts to ratchet up
pressure on the Persian Gulf nation’s nuclear program.  The U.S. Energy Department in a report earlier this month
said that excluding Iranian oil from the global market would
increase the shortfall between worldwide supply and demand by
about 3 million barrels a day.  Saudi Arabia can boost oil output by 25 percent beyond the
almost 10 million barrels a day it already produces, even as
crude markets are oversupplied, Ali al-Naimi, the country’s oil
minister, said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  