-- U.S. Durable Goods Orders Probably Rebounded on Aircraft
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-28T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/u-s-durable-goods-orders-probably-rebounded-on-aircraft.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably rebounded in February as aircraft demand surged,
economists said before a report today.  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years rose
3 percent after dropping 3.7 percent the prior month, according
to the median forecast of economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.
Excluding transportation equipment, demand climbed 1.7 percent
after falling 3 percent, economists projected.  Growing auto sales and the need to update business
equipment are bolstering production, prompting gains in
employment that are keeping factories as a source of strength in
the expansion. Nonetheless, higher fuel costs and slowdowns in
 Europe  and  China  may limit manufacturing this year.  “Manufacturing has certainly benefited from the surge in
demand for cars,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at
UniCredit Group in  New York . “Coming out of this recession,
there has been a lot of pent-up demand.”  The Commerce Department will report the durables figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates of the 83 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg ranged from a drop of 1.4 percent to a gain of 6.4
percent.  An increase in airplane bookings probably contributed to
the advance, economists said. Boeing Co., the largest U.S.
aircraft maker, said it received orders for 237 planes last
month, up from 150 in January.  Capital Goods  Orders for non-military capital goods excluding aircraft, a
proxy for business investment in items such as computers,
engines and communications gear, advanced 1.5 percent after a
4.5 percent decline, according to the median forecast.  An increase in orders last month would extend a pattern of
declines at the start of a quarter that are later reversed.
Since the end of 2005, orders for non-defense capital goods have
dropped in the first month of a quarter in all but three
occasions.  Auto manufacturing has been powering factory growth. Cars
last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led by
Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from  General Motors Co. (GM) 
Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a 15 million  annual rate , the
strongest since February 2008, according to data from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  “Based on what we see in terms of pent-up demand and
importantly the strength of the economy, we do not believe that
short-term fluctuations in pump prices will curtail industry
growth this year,”  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales
operation for GM, said on a March 1 conference call. “American
consumers and the overall economy are in much better shape than
they were a year ago.”  Gasoline Prices  A gallon of regular unleaded gasoline has increased since
the end of 2011, rising to a 10-month  high  of $3.90 as of March
26, according to AAA, the nation’s largest automobile group.  Other gauges show manufacturing continued to expand this
month even as orders eased. Regional reports from the Federal
Reserve show manufacturing accelerating in the New York and
Philadelphia areas, while bookings cooled.  Those gains help explain why shares of machinery makers
have outpaced the broader stock market this year. The  Standard &
Poor’s  Machinery  Supercomposite (S15MACH)   Index (SPX) , which includes companies
like Cummins Inc. and Caterpillar Inc., has climbed 17 percent
so far this year, compared with a 13 percent increase for the
S&P 500 Index.  Recent “better news” on the economy has included a
“slight bit of encouraging news here and there in the housing
market” as well as strength in manufacturing, Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week said in response to audience
questions following a speech in Arlington, Virginia.  At the same time, rising oil prices may increase the cost
of production for some manufacturers. Crude oil futures on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  have climbed 8.6 percent this year,
reaching $107.33 a barrel yesterday, after surging 25 percent in
the last three months of 2011.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  