-- UBS Hires Rohatyn’s Mariscal, Names Regional Investment Chiefs
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-03-28T07:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/ubs-hires-rohatyn-s-mariscal-names-regional-investment-chiefs.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  hired Rohatyn Group’s Jorge Mariscal as chief investment officer for  emerging markets  and
named four more regional CIOs as Switzerland’s biggest bank
seeks to transform the way it advises wealthy clients.  Mariscal joined last week, while Andreas Hoefert, Yonghao
Pu, Kelvin Tay and Daniel Kalt were promoted to CIOs for  Europe ,
 Asia Pacific (APB) , Southern Asia Pacific and Switzerland,
respectively. All will report to Alexander Friedman, UBS’s chief
investment officer.  Their objective is to devise investment ideas at a time of
low  interest rates  and turbulent markets, while building
confidence among clients, Friedman said in an interview in
Zurich yesterday. The bank also combined its wealth management
research with the rest of  investment management , and reorganized
the unit by asset classes, including equity, credit and macro.  “We’re navigating the market turmoil pretty well and we
now have a path to leveraging all the resources in this group,”
Friedman said. “We need every advantage we can get in order to
effectively manage capital in this low-yield environment, and
that means leveraging any insight in any region, and the only
way to have all that information in an organized fashion is to
have an investment process that brings it all together
efficiently.”  Fighter Jet  UBS also started an advertising campaign on March 15 to
make clients aware of the changes at its wealth management unit.  Friedman, who served as a White House Fellow at the U.S.
Pentagon, working for former Marine Corps Commandant General
Charles Krulak, joined UBS last March. He has compared
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank to Airbus SAS’s A380 double-decker
plane: “big, complicated, with a lot of people on board.”  He said in August his job is to make it more agile, like a
fighter jet, for the benefit of clients who entrusted the bank
with 750 billion Swiss francs ($830 billion) of invested assets,
as well as for UBS itself, which aims to boost earnings after
record losses in the credit crisis.  “The fighter jet’s flying and so far it’s been
performing,” said Friedman, 41. “Now we are integrating our
resources across the globe to reach our destinations in a more
direct manner. We’re trying to make the engines go faster.”  Friedman was a mergers and acquisitions banker at Lazard
Ltd. before he was hired as the chief financial officer of the
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net ;
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  