-- UEFA Struggling to Devise Format for Expanded Soccer Tournament
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-28T13:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/uefa-struggling-to-devise-format-for-expanded-soccer-tournament.html
European soccer’s governing body
is struggling to come up with a compelling format for its
European Championship in 2016, the first featuring 24 teams.  This year’s competition in June and July in Poland and
Ukraine is the last time it will involve 16 teams, separated
into four groups with the top two qualifying for the knockout
stages.  “It is 24 teams and that is a problem,” UEFA General
Secretary Gianni Infantino told reporters today at the Soccerex
conference in Manchester. “It is not an ideal final tournament
because you will have to have a few of the third ones who
qualify as well.”  The  World Cup  featured 24 teams before 8 teams were added
in 1998. The tournament expanded after soccer’s governing body
changed rules that final group matches have to start at the same
time to prevent teams working together.  West Germany  and  Austria 
were accused of colluding in the Germans’ 1-0 victory that
allowed both qualify out of their groups in the 1982 World Cup
at the expense of  Algeria .  “The question is how do you make it in a way that results
cannot be organized,” Infantino said. “You don’t know in
advance what you need to be the best.”  Niall Sloane, controller of sport at U.K. broadcaster ITV,
said in an interview that he prefers the 16 team tournament. He
said there’s a risk that the quality of the event would be
diminished by the quantity of teams. The tournament is broadcast
by ITV and the British Broadcasting Corp. in the U.K.  Infantino said he was not worried supporters’ lack of
interest in the expanded qualifying, which will allow almost of
the region’s 53 members qualify for France 2016. UEFA will
directly sell broadcast rights for the qualifying games for the
first time from 2014 after promising higher revenues to all 53
countries.  “If we think it is boring we will change the qualifying
for next time,” Infantino said. “But we think it is still an
excellent qualification competition and the fact more teams
qualify may increase the interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Manchester,  England  on 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 