-- Unemployment May Drop to 6% by Mid-2013, N.Y. Fed Study Finds
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-28T15:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/unemployment-may-drop-to-6-by-mid-2013-n-y-fed-study-finds.html
The jobless rate in the U.S. could
drop to as low as 6 percent by the first half of 2013, a bigger
decrease than most economists currently project, according to
 research from  the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York .  The relationship between the number of Americans newly
unemployed and those recently finding work indicates joblessness
will continue to decline, according to economist Aysegul Sahin.
The  jobless rate  held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent last
month after falling by 0.8 percentage point in the year ended
January, according to figures from the Labor Department.  “Simulations based on historical patterns suggest that the
fall in the unemployment rate could be quicker than many
forecasters predict,” Sahin wrote in a note on the bank’s
Liberty Street Economics blog co-written by research associate
Christina Patterson.  The analysis looked at flows into and out of unemployment
since the end of World War II, likening it to water in a
bathtub. The unemployment rate, or level of water in the tub,
would be determined by the difference in the volume of water
pouring in and draining out.  The number of those exiting unemployment, which include
people finding a new job as well as those leaving the  labor
force , takes precedence in determining changes in joblessness at
this stage of a recovery, the economists found.  The flow into and out of unemployment over the three prior
recoveries indicates the jobless rate will decrease to 6 percent
by at least the end of 2014, the economists said. Should the
pattern be similar to that following the rebound from the 1990-
91 recession, the rate could get close to there by early next
year.  Median Forecast  Unemployment will average 7.6 percent in the last three
months of 2013, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Blue Chip Economic indicators this month. The
average for the 10 lowest estimates was 7 percent.  Fed policy makers predict an  unemployment rate  of 7.4
percent to 8.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013, based on
their so-called central tendency forecasts, which exclude the
three highest and three lowest of 17 projections.  The study doesn’t make a projection for the unemployment
rate in the fourth quarter of this year. The Obama
administration’s handling of the economy is a central issue in
the Nov. 6 presidential election.  The post on the Fed’s blog said researchers will discuss the
importance of flows into and out of the labor force in
determining the level of unemployment in a report on March 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at 
 Ctorrres2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  