-- UniCredit Unit Still Interested in Selling Mercator Stake
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-03-28T12:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/unicredit-unit-still-interested-in-selling-mercator-stake.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Slovenian unit is
still interested in selling its 8 percent stake in  Mercator
Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d. d. after a takeover of the largest retailer
in the Balkans by its Croatian competitor fell through.  “Anyone interested in Mercator, let them come to us as we
are ready to sell,” France Arhar, the chief executive officer
of the Slovenian unit, told reporters in Ljubljana today. “We
don’t have any special wishes since we’re not an investment
bank.”  Pivovarna Lasko Group d.d. , Slovenia’s biggest drinks
company, and domestic banks had held talks to sell their joint
52 percent stake in the store chain to Agrokor d.d., Croatia’s
largest privately owned company. The sale fell through last
month after Agrokor withdrew its bid that valued Mercator at 832
million euros ($1.1 billion).  Pivovarna Lasko (PILR) , the biggest investor in Mercator with a 23
percent holding, is also considering to sell its stake as it
needs to repay about 150 million euros of loans, STA newswire
reported on Feb. 6, citing Chief Executive Officer Dusan Zorko.  Several attempts by owners to sell holdings in Mercator
failed after increased opposition by Slovenian officials,
including Economy Minister Radovan Zerjav, who said the sale to
Agrokor would harm the Slovenian  food industry . Bozo Jasovic
stepped down as the chief executive officer of Nova Ljubljanska
Banka d.d. in December over the state-controlled bank’s plan to
sell its 11 percent stake in the retailer.  Mercator shares fell 1.5 percent to 125 euros at 2 p.m. in
 Ljubljana , extending their slump from a November high to 32
percent and valuing the company at 471 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  