-- UniCredit to Beat Cost-Cut Target in 2012, CEO Ghizzoni Says
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   M a n u s   C r a n n y
-- 2012-03-28T09:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/unicredit-to-beat-cost-cut-target-in-2012-ceo-ghizzoni-says.html
UniCredit will cut costs this year
more aggressively than planned, beating targets approved in
November, Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said.  “There is a daily battle on costs, and I’m sure we will
beat our plan in this respect this year,” Ghizzoni said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television in  London  today. “The worst
is over for  Italy  and for UniCredit.”  Ghizzoni is cutting costs, reducing staff and reviewing the
bank’s strategy in central and eastern  Europe  as part of an
effort by the Milan-based bank to boost profitability. It raised
7.5 billion euros ($10 billion) in a rights offer in January to
meet capital targets set by the European Banking Authority.  UniCredit, which yesterday announced better-than-expected
fourth-quarter profit of 114 million-euro, may resume paying a
dividend this year, Ghizzoni said in the interview. The lender
plans to cut operating costs by an average annual rate of 0.3
percent in the 2010-2013 period.  UniCredit climbed as much as 2.5 percent and was up 1.3
percent at 4.03 euros in Milan at 10:39 a.m., giving the company
a market value of 23.3 billion euros. The  Bloomberg Europe Banks
and Financial Services Index (BEBANKS)  has gained 16 percent this year,
while UniCredit has declined 4 percent.  ECB Drawback  The  European Central Bank ’s signals that it’s unlikely to
extend a third round of unlimited loans to the region’s banks
isn’t a concern for Italian banks, Ghizzoni said. He doesn’t see
the need for a new round of liquidity unless there is an
unexpected “catastrophic” scenario.  “For UniCredit, liquidity is not an issue because we have
good access to the wholesale market,” the CEO said. “Things
are moving in the right direction. A lot of governments have
taken the proper decisions in terms of debt, Italy included.”  UniCredit requested 26 billion euros in the ECB’s two
longer-term refinancing operations. The lender has completed 30
percent of its 31 billion-euro needs for 2012, and the total
amount is already covered considering borrowings from the ECB,
Ghizzoni said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in  Milan (UCG)  at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  