-- Tunisia’s Ruling Party Vows to Keep Country Secular to Reassure
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2012-03-28T17:34:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/tunisia-s-ruling-party-vows-to-keep-country-secular-to-reassure.html
Tunisia ’s governing Islamist party
rejected calls to make Islamic law the basis of a new
constitution, citing the need to reassure the public and
investors that the government will respect the values of all.  In the party’s first official comments on the matter,
Rached Ghannouchi, leader of the Ennahda group that controls
about 40 percent of the seats in parliament, said it is intent
on backing a pluralistic system in Tunisia. Ennahda will keep
unchanged the first article of the constitution passed in 1959,
which says that Tunisia is a free and independent state whose
religion is Islam, Ghannouchi said.  The decision was taken to “protect the interests of
national unity and to prevent the division of Tunisian society
into two ideologically opposed camps,” he told reporters today
in the capital, Tunis. “There is no collective agreement to add
another article.”  The issue of making Shariah, or Islamic law, the basis of
the constitution has sparked protests and fueled concern that
the country that was the birthplace of the Arab Spring would
lose its secular identity. A committee elected in October is
charged with drafting the new constitution following the
uprising that ousted former President Zine El Abdine Ben Ali
last year.  Salafis, who are followers of more strict interpretations
of Islam, have pushed for the imposition of Shariah in Tunisia.
About 3,000 Salafis marched in Tunis on March 25, demanding that
Shariah be imposed and calling for the killing of Jews in the
country. The press briefing was called to put an end to
speculation over the party’s position after some members had
given media interviews about the matter.  “Shariah never left Tunisia,” Ghannouchi said, pointing
out that many of the country’s current laws mirror the precepts
of Islamic law. The decision not to revise the first article was
approved by the majority of the party’s top council, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  