-- Huntington Ingalls Rises After Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-03-28T20:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/huntington-ingalls-rises-after-profit-beats-analysts-estimates.html
  Huntington Ingalls Industries
Inc. (HII) , the U.S. Navy’s sole builder of aircraft carriers,
reported fourth-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates. The
company rose the most in almost a year.  Huntington rose $2.56 or 6.8 percent to $40.46 at the close
in  New York  trading, the most since March 31. Earlier today, the
company said net income for the quarter ending Dec. 31 was $59
million, or $1.19 a share, exceeding the  average estimate  of 94
cents a share by 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The shares
have gained 3.1 percent since the company was spun off by parent
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  last March.  The results “exceeded our expectations on earnings,
revenues and  cash flow ,”  Douglas Harned , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein LLC in New York, wrote in a note to clients today.
“We see margin expansion and transparency of the revenue
outlook as driving the case for investing” in Huntington, he
wrote.  Huntington Ingalls Chief Executive Officer Mike Petters
faces the challenge of containing cost increases in construction
of new Ford-class aircraft carriers as well as winding down and
closing the company’s Avondale, Louisiana, shipyard in 2013.
Petters has promised investors that the company will boost
profit margins to 9 percent by 2015 from 4.4 percent in 2010.  Interest Costs  The shipbuilding company said it recorded a non-cash
goodwill impairment charge of $10 million during the fourth
quarter. Net income declined compared with $63 million, or $1.29
a share, a year earlier, the company said. Interest costs during
the quarter almost tripled to $29 million compared with a year
earlier, the company said. It reported a profit margin of 6.6
percent for the quarter.  Huntington Ingalls operates yards in Avondale, where it
builds Navy and Marine Corps amphibious assault ships and Coast
Guard cutters; Pascagoula,  Mississippi , where it builds the
Navy’s destroyers; and  Newport News , where nuclear-powered
aircraft carriers and submarines are built.  The company splits work on destroyers and submarines with
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  based in  Falls Church , Virginia.  Sales at the Ingalls shipyard in Mississippi, where
Huntington Ingalls builds non-nuclear ships, fell 7 percent to
$676 million because of reduced sales of DDG-51 class destroyers
and less work on two LPD-17 amphibious transport ships, the
company said. The profit margin at the unit rose to 2.2 percent
in the quarter compared with 1.4 percent in the same period last
year, the company said.  New Carrier  Sales at the Newport News unit, which builds nuclear-
powered vessels, rose 5 percent to $1.08 billion, aided by work
on the USS Gerald R. Ford, the first in class of the U.S. Navy’s
next generation of aircraft carriers. The profit margin declined
to 9.5 percent from 10.3 percent last year, the company said.  The new carrier is about 40 percent complete and faces cost
increases of as much as 18 percent, according to Senator  John McCain , the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee.  The full cost of the ship built by Huntington Ingalls plus
added equipment, such as advanced radar and an electronic
aircraft-catapult system, may be as much as $12.3 billion,
according to McCain. The carrier is scheduled to be completed in
2015, and the Navy plans to build three such carriers.  McCain and Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and
chairman of the committee, have asked the U.S. Government
Accountability Office to study why the carrier’s cost is rising.  Docking Fees  The Navy has said that it’s docking some of Huntington
Ingalls’s fees for the cost increases, without specifying how
much the company has lost.  Navy Secretary Ray Mabus wrote McCain this week that
Huntington Ingalls and the Navy must show “significant
improvement” in curbing costs for the carrier.  “The Navy is conducting a line-by-line review” of all
remaining anticipated expenditures “to identify further
opportunity to reduce cost and to mitigate risk,” Mabus wrote
in the March 26 letter.  As with other defense contractors, Huntington Ingalls would
be affected if Congress fails to avert $500 billion in automatic
Pentagon budget cuts set to begin in January. That would be in
addition to the $497 billion, 10-year reduction in the
Pentagon’s projected spending already included in the Defense
Department’s plans.  “We do not expect automatic cuts to set in, and continue
to expect Congress to ultimately reach a negotiated solution,”
Harned wrote in a March 22 note to clients.  The U.S. Navy’s 2013 budget, now being discussed in
Congress, would delay production and funding for one DDG-51
destroyer to 2016 from 2014, and postpone work on one Virginia-
class submarine from 2014 to beyond the current five-year
defense plan.  Even with those delays, “we do not believe that this will
substantially impact” Huntington Ingalls, Harned wrote.
Huntington’s aircraft-carrier construction “remains intact,”
according to Harned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  