-- Huntington Ingalls Profit Falls 6% on Higher Interest Expense
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-03-28T12:26:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/huntington-ingalls-profit-falls-6-on-weaker-destroyer-sales.html
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII) ,
the U.S. Navy’s sole builder of aircraft carriers, said fourth-
quarter profit fell 6 percent because of higher interest
expenses.  Net income was $59 million, or $1.19 a share, compared with
$63 million, or $1.29 a share, a year earlier, the company said
in a statement. The  average estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was 94 cents a share. Sales declined less than 1
percent to $1.74 billion in the quarter ending Dec. 31.  Huntington Ingalls Chief Executive Officer Mike Petters
faces the challenge of containing cost increases in construction
of new Ford-class aircraft carriers as well as winding down and
closing the company’s Avondale, Louisiana, shipyard in 2013.
Petters has promised investors that the company will boost
profit margins to 9 percent by 2015 from 4.4 percent in 2010.  Huntington Ingalls, based in  Newport News ,  Virginia ,
declined 20 cents to $37.90 yesterday in  New York  trading. The
shares have declined 3.4 percent since the company was spun off
by parent  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  last March.  The shipbuilding company said it recorded a non-cash
goodwill impairment charge of $10 million during the fourth
quarter. Interest costs during the quarter almost tripled to $29
million compared with a year earlier, the company said.  It
reported a profit margin of 6.6 percent for the quarter.  Huntington Ingalls operates yards in Avondale, where it
builds Navy and Marine Corps amphibious assault ships and Coast
Guard cutters; Pascagoula,  Mississippi , where it builds the
Navy’s destroyers; and Newport News, where nuclear-powered
aircraft carriers and submarines are built.  The company splits work on destroyers and submarines with
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  based in  Falls Church , Virginia.  Segment Results  Sales at the Ingalls shipyard in Mississippi, where it
builds non-nuclear ships, fell 7 percent to $676 million because
of reduced sales of DDG-51 class destroyers and less work on two
LPD-17 amphibious transport ships, the company said. The profit
margin at the unit rose to 2.2 percent in the quarter compared
with 1.4 percent in the same period last year, the company said.  Sales at the Newport News unit, which builds nuclear-
powered vessels, rose 5 percent to $1.08 billion, aided by work
on USS Gerald R. Ford, the first in class of the U.S. Navy’s
next generation of aircraft carriers. The profit margin declined
to 9.5 percent from 10.3 percent last year, the company said.  The new carrier is about 40 percent complete and faces cost
increases of as much as 18 percent, according to Senator  John McCain , the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee.  Aircraft Carrier  The full cost of the ship built by Huntington Ingalls plus
added equipment, such as advanced radar and an electronic
aircraft-catapult system, may be as much as $12.3 billion,
according to McCain. The carrier is scheduled to be completed in
2015, and the Navy plans to build three such carriers.  McCain and Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and
chairman of the committee, have asked the U.S. Government
Accountability Office to study why the carrier’s cost is rising.  The Navy has said that it’s docking some of Huntington
Ingalls’s fees for the cost increases, without specifying how
much the company has lost.  Navy Secretary Ray Mabus wrote McCain this week that
Huntington Ingalls and the Navy must show “significant
improvement” in curbing costs for the carrier.  “The Navy is conducting a line-by-line review” of all
remaining anticipated expenditures “to identify further
opportunity to reduce cost and to mitigate risk,” Mabus wrote
in the March 26 letter.  Pentagon Cuts  As with other defense contractors, Huntington Ingalls would
be affected if Congress fails to avert $500 billion in automatic
Pentagon budget cuts set to begin in January. That would be in
addition to the $497 billion, 10-year reduction in the
Pentagon’s projected spending already included in the Defense
Department’s plans.  “We do not expect automatic cuts to set in, and continue
to expect Congress to ultimately reach a negotiated solution,”
 Douglas Harned , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein LLC in New
York, wrote in a March 22 note to clients.  The U.S. Navy’s 2013 budget, now being discussed in
Congress, would delay production and funding for one DDG-51
destroyer to 2016 from 2014, and postpone work on one Virginia-
class submarine from 2014 to beyond the current five-year
defense plan.  Even with those delays, “we do not believe that this will
substantially impact” Huntington Ingalls, Harned wrote.
Huntington’s  aircraft-carrier  construction “remains intact,”
according to Harned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  