-- Valiant Petroleum Expands Drilling in Norway After Buying Assets
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-03-28T10:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/valiant-petroleum-expands-drilling-in-norway-after-buying-assets.html
Valiant Petroleum Plc (VPP) , the U.K. oil
explorer focused on the North Sea, plans to expand drilling off
Norway after buying assets and qualifying as a field operator.  “Our focus is very broad,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Buchanan  said in a phone interview. “Our  spread  in Norway
covers everything from the Norwegian North Sea through the
Norwegian Sea into the  Barents Sea .”  The company agreed on March 19 to pay 11.5 million pounds
($18 million) to  Rocksource ASA (RGT)  for assets in the Barents and
North Seas. Last year, it acquired Sagex Petroleum ASA, with
interests off Norway, for 7.1 million pounds.  Valiant, based in Woking, England, plans to invest $250
million to $300 million in projects this year and pump as much
as 8,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, depending on first
production at the Causeway field due in the second half. The
company said today in a statement that it paid off its debt last
year and tripled its profit after tax to $103 million.  The explorer anticipates the possibility of rising industry
investment in the U.K. North Sea, as well as drilling and assets
trading following tax changes in the government’s budget.  “I am hoping that we will see an increase in investment
and an increase in activity,” Buchanan said. “We need more
wells drilled, and we need more discoveries, and need to be able
to take these discoveries quickly into production.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne last week
offered tax allowances for U.K. North Sea fields with resources
not exceeding 50 million barrels of oil and gas. He also
promised to guarantee tax relief for dismantling aging
facilities. The decision was welcomed by North Sea producers
such as  BP Plc (BP/) ,  EnQuest Plc (ENQ)  and  Premier Oil Plc. (PMO)   “The future for the North Sea is substantially in fields
of less than 50 million barrels,” Buchanan said. That would be
“a decent size” field, with average discoveries holding about
20 million equivalent barrels of oil and gas, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  