-- Vitol CEO Says Atlantic Refinery Closings Spur Long-Distance Oil
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n   a n d   S t e p h e n   V o s s
-- 2012-03-28T23:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/vitol-ceo-says-atlantic-refinery-closings-spur-long-distance-oil.html
Vitol Group, the Swiss oil trader
that had revenue of almost $300 billion last year, said
declining profits at U.S. and European refineries will spur more
transcontinental fuel shipments.  Processing margins will stay weak at plants in  Europe ,
deterring potential buyers as major oil companies continue to
exit the business, Vitol Chief Executive Officer Ian Taylor
said. Along with the closing of unprofitable plants on the U.S.
East Coast, consumers will increasingly need to buy fuels such
as diesel from further afield, creating trading opportunities.  “As East Coast refineries close, European refineries
close, the product import arbitrage openings will probably
lengthen a little bit,” Taylor said in an interview at the
company’s London office. “We’ll probably see a little more
shipping used.”  Petroplus Holdings AG, Europe’s largest independent
refiner, filed for insolvency this year amid tumbling profits as
companies built new facilities in  Asia  and the Middle East.
Sunoco Inc. and ConocoPhillips have shut two plants in
 Pennsylvania  and plan to idle a third that together could
process more than 700,000 barrels a day. Hovensa LLC closed a
plant in the  U.S. Virgin Islands  that was the largest offshore
shipper to the East Coast.  At least seven refineries are up for sale in Europe,
including four of Petroplus’s five plants.  ‘Difficult to be Bullish’  “I can’t see many buyers,” Taylor said in the March 21
interview. “It is very difficult to be bullish on European
refining. Demand in Europe continues to be flat or declining,
costs for refiners continue to be relatively high.”  Refining margins fell 49 percent to $1.48 a barrel in
northwest Europe last month from $3.01 in January and were
negative early this month because of crude costs, the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency  said in a March 14 report.  The closures will encourage arbitrage shipments from other
regions, Taylor said. The construction of large, sophisticated
refineries in  India ,  China  and the  Middle East  has made some
Western plants less competitive at a time when demand has
declined in industrialized nations.  Vitol itself made 5,460 ship voyages in 2011 and has more
than 200 ships on the sea at any one time carrying crude and oil
products around the world, according to the company’s 2012
annual report.  Vitol boosted its revenue 44 percent last year to $297
billion from $206 billion in 2010, the annual report showed
without disclosing net income. Crude and oil-derived fuels
accounted for $229 billion of the total.  ‘Committed to Trading’  Trading more than 5 million barrels of crude and oil
products every day makes Vitol one of the world’s biggest
independent oil traders, competing with peers such as Trafigura
Beheer BV, Gunvor Group Ltd. and Mercuria Energy Trading SA and
listed companies such as  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , BP Plc and
Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  The company, founded in 1966 has major offices in Geneva
and London, is “committed to the trading business for the long
term,” Taylor said. “We will be trading oil hopefully for the
next 45 years” as integrated  oil companies  shift their focus to
upstream operations and away from trading and refining.  Vitol has no plans for an initial public offering and out
of its 2,810 employees, 360 have shares in the company.  Competitor  Glencore (GLEN) , based in Baar,  Switzerland , sold $10
billion of stock in an initial public offering in May.
Glencore’s revenue from energy products was $117 billion last
year, up 31 percent, out of a companywide total of $186 billion
in 2010, according to a March 5 earnings statement. Glencore,
seeking to buy Xstrata Plc, the world’s largest exporter of
thermal coal, is more heavily involved in mining and agriculture
than Vitol, while the latter focuses on oil trading.  “We have to be in it today, tomorrow and the next day, and
maybe we’re willing to take a little more credit risk, for
example, maybe we’re willing to be a bit more flexible in
certain payment structures compared to an international  oil
company ,” Taylor said. “The oil majors continue to selectively
exit the downstream and this gives us opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in  London  at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Voss in London at 
 sev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  