-- Vodacom May Lose Control of Congo Unit Amid Dispute
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-03-28T11:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/vodacom-may-lose-control-of-congo-unit-as-shares-ordered-seized.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD)  may lose control
of its wireless unit in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo after a
court ordered its shares be confiscated to settle a $21 million
dispute with a consultant.  The commercial court, based in the capital Kinshasa, on
March 26 issued an order to attach Vodacom’s 510,000 shares in
its 51-percent held Vodacom Congo SPRL unit in order to enforce
its Jan. 25 judgment that Vodacom pay Moto Mabanga’s Namemco
Energy (Pty) Ltd. a $21 million consultancy fee, according to
court documents provided by Mabanga.  “Vodacom’s appeal against the judgment is still before the
court and is due to be heard,” Pieter Uys, the chief executive
officer of Johannesburg-based Vodacom, a unit of Vodafone Group 
Plc, said by phone today. The company has also pleaded to the 
central African nation’s justice inspectorate to speed up the 
appeal. “We are aware of the confiscation order. Our lawyers are 
looking into it and will respond.”  Mabanga sued Vodacom last year, seeking a $40.8 million
success fee for work done during 2007 and 2008. The commercial
court ruled on a reduced award. Mabanga was already paid a $2.8
million service fee for the consultancy work. “We have paid him
in terms of the two contracts we had with him and there are no
outstanding payments,” said Uys.  Jose Roger Mbonga, the head clerk at the commercial court,
yesterday confirmed the authenticity of the order, which was
signed and executed by Pasho Babene, a bailiff in the Kinshasa
suburb of Gombe.  Vodacom, the largest provider of wireless services to  South
Africans , always honors its contractual obligations, Uys said.
The contracts Vodacom had with Mabanga stated that all
agreements were to be in writing and any disputes would be
resolved in the South African legal jurisdiction, said Uys.  “The court is handling the attachment process and will
determine how many shares must be sold in order to pay me,”
Mabanga said by phone today. “That’s because nobody knows their
value as the company is unlisted. It’s been a long struggle.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Sikonathi Mantshantsha in
Johannesburg at   smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong 
at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  