-- Watson Said to Be in Talks to Buy Swiss Drugmaker Actavis
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e ,   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-28T14:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/watson-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-swiss-drugmaker-actavis.html
Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  is
nearing an agreement to purchase Swiss drugmaker Actavis Group
hf, creating one of the world’s largest producers of generic
drugs, according to people familiar with the process.  Watson, based in Parsippany,  New Jersey , may pay about 4.5
billion euros ($6 billion) for Actavis, two of the people said,
declining to be identified because the talks are private. While
a deal may be announced as soon as next week, it is more likely
to come after Easter, the people said.  Proceeds from a sale would allow  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to
recover money it loaned to Icelandic billionaire Bjorgolfur Thor Bjorgolfsson to acquire the company in 2007. Actavis  refinanced
its debt  in 2010 and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank posted an
impairment of 407 million euros related to the drugmaker last
year.  Mylan Inc. also approached Actavis, based in Zug, but
hasn’t made a formal bid, a person familiar with the situation
said. The complexity of Actavis’s businesses, which were cobbled
together through a series of acquisitions, has been holding back
other companies from making competing bids, the person said.  Bjorgolfsson spent more than $1.8 billion on takeovers to
build the company, formerly based in  Iceland , into a competitor
in the global generic-drug market. Deutsche Bank and
Bjorgolfsson wouldn’t settle for less than 4 billion euros, one
person said.  Actavis’s sales rose 9 percent last year to almost 1.9
billion euros, a spokesman said in an e-mail. The company makes
generic versions of the attention-deficit treatment Ritalin and
the sedative Ambien, among other products.  Spokesmen for Mylan, Actavis and Watson declined to comment
on the sale process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  