-- Yale Said to Benefit From Move to Clear New Haven Protest
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-03-28T22:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/yale-benefits-from-potemkin-village-green-order-protest-says.html
Occupy New Haven protesters
fighting eviction from the town green next to  Yale University 
are challenging a private, colonial-era group with ties to the
Ivy League school that, with the city, controls the park.  Members of the protest group, one of many to grow out of
the Occupy Wall Street movement, have camped on the green since
Oct. 15 to protest  income inequality  and unemployment. They
accused the city in a lawsuit of trying to drive them out on
behalf of the green’s proprietors, an unelected committee led by
Yale Law School Professor Emeritus Drew Days, a former U.S.
solicitor general in the Clinton administration, in time for
Yale graduation ceremonies in May.  The city, which administers the land, served the eviction
notice March 12 “at the request of the proprietors so that the
area adjacent to the  New Haven  Green would be free from signs of
political protest,” according to the protesters’ complaint. The
eviction is “part of the annual effort to create a Potemkin-
like aura of serenity in downtown New Haven,” they said.  A court order allowing protesters to stay on the green that
was set to expire at 11:59 p.m. was extended to 5 p.m. April 9.
U.S. District Judge Mark R. Kravitz in New Haven said he expects
to rule before then on whether to allow the camp to remain on
the green longer. Today the attorneys said they aren’t seeking
to stay indefinitely.  ‘Offensive’ to Values  The protesters, in their March 13 complaint, seek a court
order allowing them to stay indefinitely and dissolving the
proprietors’ committee, which they said “purports to govern
public property, but by means secret, seemingly hereditary and
offensive to the values and principles of a republic.”  “The current committee is believed to be the only colonial
vestige in the U.S. still maintaining title to land in public
use,” according to a filing by the protesters. The green should
be “open and available to all,” they said in that filing.  John Horvack, an attorney for New Haven, said the city can
stop camping on the green without violating people’s rights
under the U.S. Constitution’s First Amendment, which guarantees
freedom of speech and assembly.  Kevin Smith , a lawyer for the protesters, said the camp
structures themselves were expressions of free speech because
they show “what it’s like to be a part of forgotten America --
and an America that some would like to forget.”  Lifetime Service  Members of the  Committee of the Proprietors of Common and
Undivided Lands in New Haven  serve for life, according to the
lawsuit. At least four of the five proprietors are connected to
Yale by marriage, education or employment, according to the
members’ online profiles.  Kravitz said he intended to decide the case solely on First
Amendment grounds, not on whether the existence of the
proprietors violated the state constitution.  Norman Pattis, the plaintiffs’ lead attorney, asked the
judge to clear up the governance of the green.  “What has come of this country if we’re going to turn this
over to proprietors?” Pattis asked the judge. “This is not a
theocracy. This is not a plantation. This is a republic.”  Yale is the biggest employer in New Haven, a city of
129,779, according to the 2010  census . The university has 12,000
workers, according to its  Office of New Haven and State Affairs .  Taxes, Fees  The university pays at least $15 million a year in taxes,
fees and donations to the city, according to the office. The
school said it draws 550,000 visitors who spend a total of $40
million a year. A document it prepared in 2007 said Yale
contributed 11 percent of the city budget, while maintaining its
own police department, trash hauling and fire marshal.  Tom Conroy , a spokesman for the 311-year-old university,
said Yale hasn’t taken a position on the Occupy movement or the
group’s lawsuit.  “I don’t see the relevance of the lawsuit’s mention of
Yale’s role in the city,” Conroy said in an e-mail.  Rob Smuts, New Haven’s chief administrative officer and a
Yale graduate, declined to comment while the dispute is being
litigated.  The 16-acre (6.5 hectare) green has been a public meeting
spot since 1638 and once served as the city’s graveyard, said
 James Campbell , librarian for the  New Haven Museum . Thousands of
bodies still lie beneath it.  Established 1724  At first, “it was owned by everybody,” Campbell said in a
phone interview. The proprietors’ committee was established by
the British colony of  Connecticut  in 1724 “and has functioned
as a separate organization from town government since,” he
said.  By 1805, when the committee’s membership became too
numerous, it was limited to five people, according to “The New
Haven Green and the American Bicentennial” by Rollin Osterweis.  Proprietors are chosen privately and meet privately. Its
members include  Anne Calabresi , a descendant of one of the
original landowners and the wife of Guido Calabresi, a federal
appeals court judge in New York and former dean of the Yale law
school. Calabresi and Days declined to comment while the case is
pending.  “We do not concede that the green is a governmental
space,” Days said at a March 14 court hearing. “It is a space
that is private, that’s available to the public with limited
regulations on its use.”  Tents, Canopies  The camp is on the side of the green closest to Yale’s Old
Campus, where first-year students live and where graduates march
during commencement. It’s a mixture of tents, canopies, and
lean-tos, many of them painted with protest slogans. The central
part of the camp, where protesters meet at least twice weekly,
has a large structure heated by a makeshift solar panel.  New Haven businesses “are not pleased with the way the
green looks,” said Anthony Rescigno, president of the Greater
New Haven  Chamber of Commerce . “They don’t think it encourages
tourism and people coming downtown.”  In a March 26 memo that doesn’t address the question of
ownership, the city said it has the right to regulate the time,
place and manner of public protests.  The city said the protesters’ structures are damaging trees
and grass. The eviction is an attempt to “prevent a small group
of individuals from becoming indefinite, full-time residents on
the green.”  The city said the number of police calls to the green
totaled 52 from mid-October to mid-March, compared with 18
during the same period a year earlier.  ‘Not Accountable’  Occupy Wall Street demonstrators camping in  New York ’s
Zuccotti Park, a privately owned public space, were evicted in
November and a state judge said that they failed to show they
had a First Amendment right to stay in the park. In December, a
Massachusetts judge said police could evict protesters from a
Boston square without court approval.  Claire Criscuolo, owner of Claire’s Corner Copia, the
restaurant closest to the New Haven camp, said it hasn’t
affected her business.  “I wish I didn’t have to see a bunch of tents,” she said,
“but it deserves to be there. It’s pretty much what the
founders had in mind.”  The case is Mitchell v. City of New Haven, 12-cv-00370,
U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Dillon  in New Haven, Connecticut, at 
 j.dillon@snet.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  