-- Pentair, Tyco’s Flow Unit Plan $4.53 Billion Combination
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   T o m   L a v e l l
-- 2012-03-28T13:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/tyco-pentair-to-merge-valve-units-in-10-billion-deal.html
Pentair Inc. (PNR)  agreed to buy the
flow-control instruments company being created from a breakup of
 Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  in a deal valuing the subsidiary at
$4.53 billion.  Tyco will spin off its flow unit to shareholders and the
business will immediately merge with the operations of Pentair,
the two companies said in a joint statement today. Tyco
shareholders will own 52.5 percent of the combined company’s
approximately 214 million shares, with Pentair investors
controlling the remainder.  The transaction values the flow unit at about $4.9 billion,
including debt and minority interest. That’s about 11 times the
Tyco unit’s 2011 Ebitda, excluding nonrecurring items, the
companies said.  “The new Pentair will be well positioned to benefit from
the increased demands on energy, water, infrastructure and
industrial process resulting from the growing population and
wealth of developing economies,” Pentair Chief Executive
Officer Randall Hogan, who will lead the enlarged company, said
in the statement.  Pentair surged 18 percent to $47.32 at 9:36 a.m. in New
York trading after gaining 21 percent, the biggest intraday
increase since at least 1984. Tyco climbed 3.6 percent to
$55.45.  The flow-control merger, still subject to investor and
regulatory approvals, will create a business with $7.7 billion
in combined sales and the potential for $250 million in annual
savings, Tyco and Pentair said today.  Tax Free  The merger will add to Pentair’s profit immediately,
contributing an extra 40 cents a share to adjusted earnings next
year, they said. The manufacturers plan to complete the
transaction by the end of September along with Tyco’s move
announced last year to divide into three companies.  As part of the transaction, the new Pentair will assume
approximately $275 million of Tyco Flow debt, net of cash. The
transaction is structured as a “Reverse Morris Trust,” which
allows Tyco to preserve the tax-free nature of the planned
spinoff while also getting the benefit of potential cost
reductions from merging the business with that of Pentair.  In a Reverse Morris Trust, the buyer typically needs to be
smaller than the division it’s acquiring.  Deutsche Bank AG provided financial advice to Pentair, and
the firms of Cravath, Swaine & Moore and Foley & Lardner were
legal counsel. Greenhill & Co. supplied an additional fairness
opinion to Pentair’s board.  Tyco’s financial adviser was Goldman Sachs Group Inc., and
the firms of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett and  McDermott Will &
Emery  provided legal counsel. Lazard was financial adviser to
Tyco’s board.  The new company will be headquartered in  Switzerland , and
its main offices will be in  Minneapolis , where Pentair is based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Valpuesta at 
 rvalpuesta@bloomberg.net  