-- Zombies in Play as Zynga Deal Sparks Glu Mobile Talk: Real M&A
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i   a n d   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-28T20:37:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-28/zombies-in-play-as-zynga-deal-sparks-glu-mobile-talk-real-m-a.html
Glu Mobile Inc. (GLUU) , the maker of
“Contract Killer: Zombies” and “Gun Bros” games for
smartphones, is offering potential buyers the fastest sales
growth among U.S. mobile gaming competitors.  Shares of Glu Mobile rose 21 percent last week on
speculation it’s a takeover candidate after Zynga Inc. paid $180
million for OMGPOP Inc., which produces the “Draw Something”
application. With analysts estimating  revenue  will climb 86
percent in the next two years, San Francisco-based Glu Mobile
traded yesterday at 2.3 times 2013 sales, cheaper than the
average for mobile gaming competitors globally and a 58 percent
discount to  Zynga (ZNGA) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glu Mobile could be the next target in the $7 billion
mobile gaming industry after deals for OMGPOP, Playdom Inc.,
PopCap Games and Playfish Inc. in the last three years, said
Canaccord Financial Inc. While Glu Mobile has slumped  61 percent 
since its 2007 initial public offering, the company is projected
to post its first profit by 2014 as it transitions to so-called
freemium games that are downloaded at no cost and then charge
for extra features. The company may lure interest from Zynga,
Electronic Arts Inc. or  DeNA Co. (2432)  and fetch more than $6 a share,
said Roth Capital Partners LLC, a 34 percent premium.  “They happen to be in the right space at the right time,”
Daniel Niles, senior portfolio manager at AlphaOne Capital
Partners LLC, which owns shares of Glu Mobile and Zynga, said in
an interview from  San Francisco . “If you’re looking at this and
saying ‘I know I need to get into the freemium business, and I’d
like exposure to the fastest growing pieces of that -- which are
the guys that produce stuff for cell phones and tablets,’ this
is a logical candidate that’s also not that expensive.”  ‘The Right Premium’  “As a public company, Glu’s policy is to not comment on
takeover speculation,” Chief Executive Officer Niccolo de Masi
said in an e-mailed statement. “Our management team and board
are fully aligned with our shareholders and would recommend an
offer for the company at the right premium.”  Adam Isserlis, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Zynga,
and John Reseburg, a spokesman for Redwood City, California-
based Electronic Arts, declined to comment on whether the
companies are considering bids for Glu Mobile. Sibel Sunar, a
spokeswoman for Tokyo-based DeNA in Los Angeles, didn’t return
phone calls or e-mails requesting comment.  Today, Glu Mobile advanced 12 percent to $4.99, the highest
closing price since August. The stock posted the fourth-biggest
advance in the Russell 2000 Index.  ‘Family Guy: Uncensored’  Founded in 2001, Glu Mobile began generating the majority
of revenue from smartphone games last year and  forecasts  that
the category will make up as much as 88 percent of 2012 sales.
In 2010 the company shifted to the freemium model, which allows
users to download games for free and then makes money from
micro-transactions for virtual goods and in-game advertising.  Glu Mobile, which bought developers Griptonite Inc. and
Blammo Games Inc. last year, offers  social mobile games  from
“Deer Hunter Challenge” to “Stardom: The A-List” and also
partners with  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and News Corp.’s Fox on
games such as “Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock Mobile” and
“Family Guy: Uncensored.”  The global mobile game market reached about $7 billion in
revenue in 2010, according to Technavio, a market research firm
in Elmhurst, Illinois. The U.S. portion of the mobile gaming
industry expanded 29 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011 from
a year earlier, becoming the fastest-growing category of gaming
purchases, based on data from NPD Group Inc., a Port  Washington ,
New York-based market research firm. In the same period, 81
percent of mobile game applications were downloaded at no charge,
according to NPD.  Freemium Games  “Mobile has become larger, so the market potential has
expanded dramatically,”  Michael Mahoney , senior managing
director at Falcon Point Capital LLC in San Francisco, said in a
phone interview. “Fundamentally, two things are very valuable:
a distribution platform and some ability to produce hits. Not
many companies have that.”  Glu Mobile said its freemium games for smartphones and
tablet computers are up against offerings from public companies
such as Zynga, DeNA,  Gree Inc. (3632)  and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  Glu
Mobile said it also competes for  consumer spending  with premium
mobile games from Activision, Electronic Arts,  Gameloft SA (GFT)  and
 Take-Two Interactive Software Inc. (TTWO) , according to its annual
 regulatory filing .  Glu Mobile’s  revenue  is projected to reach $123 million in
2013, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, 86
percent higher than in 2011. That’s a steeper increase than
every company Glu Mobile lists as a competitor except for Tokyo-
based Gree, the data show.  ‘Not That Expensive’  While Glu Mobile is the second-most expensive among its
global competitors at 3.9 times sales in the last 12 months, its
price-to-sales  multiple  drops to 2.3 relative to 2013 revenue,
based on yesterday’s closing price, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That’s less than the group average of 2.9 times 2013 sales
and Zynga’s ratio of 5.6.  “Considering the growth rates, it’s not that expensive,”
 Adam Krejcik , an analyst at  Roth Capital  in Newport Beach,
 California , said in a phone interview. “Especially if you
compare it to the likes of Zynga.”  There’s no reason for Glu Mobile to trade at a discount to
Zynga and historic takeover multiples in the industry of 6 times
to 7 times revenue, Michael Graham, a New York-based analyst at
Canaccord, said in a phone interview.  ‘Plants vs. Zombies’  Zynga, the biggest maker of social games, said last week it
acquired New York-based OMGPOP, whose “Draw Something” game
has 27.8 million monthly users on Facebook Inc., according to
the website  AppData . OMGPOP also introduced a mobile version
last month that’s the most popular program in Cupertino,
California-based Apple Inc.’s App Store. Zynga is trying to
reduce its reliance on Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook ,
which accounts for more than 90 percent of its sales.  After Zynga disclosed the price of the OMGPOP acquisition
in a March 23  regulatory filing , Glu Mobile shares gained 21
percent, the most since November 2010. The stock closed
yesterday at $4.47, giving the game developer a market value of
$286 million. The shares fell as low as 23 cents a share in
November 2008.  OMGPOP was the latest in a wave of mobile and social gaming
takeovers in the last two years. Electronic Arts in 2009 bought
Playfish, with games such as “Pet Society” that are played on
Facebook, and last year acquired PopCap, the publisher of
“Plants vs. Zombies” and other games for cell phones and
social networking websites.  Creating Hits  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  purchased social-game maker Playdom in 2010
and last year took an accounting charge related to the deal and
posted an operating loss in its  interactive unit .  Glu Mobile introduced 20 new titles last year, eight of
which the company considered “successful,” CEO de Masi said on
a Feb. 7 earnings conference call. The company has about 85
iPhone apps and 39 iPad apps available in the App Store.  “If a company has one hit game, it’s not a guarantee it
will continue to produce hits,” Justin Smith, founder of
social-games researcher Inside Network in Palo Alto, California,
said in a phone interview, referring to success broadly in the
gaming industry. “There are definitely no guarantees. If you
are a large developer able to cross-promote your titles, that
gives you a big advantage.”  While Glu Mobile is losing money, the company would still
be a good takeover candidate because a buyer could reduce
expenses by firing some of its approximately  575 employees , said
 Tom Taulli , who analyzes acquisitions and public offerings for
the Los Angeles-based website IPOPlaybook.com. The games
publisher may report its first annual  profit  of $7.7 million in
2014, based on analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Zynga’s Acquisitions  “There are not as many companies left,” Taulli said in a
phone interview. “The sector has gone through a consolidation
over the years.”  Larger gaming companies such as  Electronic Arts (EA) , valued at
$5.6 billion, and Zynga, which has a $9.5 billion market
capitalization after its December IPO, could be interested in
Glu Mobile to further expand in mobile games, according to
Taulli, Falcon Point’s Mahoney and Roth Capital’s Krejcik. Zynga,
with $1.9 billion in  cash  and short-term investments, has made
more than 20 acquisitions since 2008. Electronic Arts has
holdings of  $1.8 billion  in cash and short-term investments.  “The big buyers are going to be EA and Zynga,” Taulli
said. “It’s going to be their way to stay at the top of the
charts. As you get bigger, it gets harder to innovate.”  Takeover Price  International gaming companies like DeNA, an operator of
social gaming and shopping websites worth 333.3 billion yen ($4
billion), are “looking for a foothold in the U.S. mobile
market,” said Graham of Canaccord.  “Those are companies that
are already slowly getting involved in the U.S. by releasing
games here. They could potentially look for an acquisition to
accelerate their entry.”  While Taulli estimates Glu Mobile could get as much as a 15
percent premium in a takeover, or about $5.14 a share based on
yesterday’s closing price, Mahoney projects a price tag of $6 to
$7 a share. Niles of AlphaOne said the company will be able to
reach as much as $8 a share on its own in the next 12 months and
may sell for more than $10 in one to two years as it reaches
profitability.  Glu Mobile is “still a relatively smaller company in a
very fast-growing segment,” said Roth’s Krejcik. “The
acquisition by Zynga, it shows that they’re going to be
aggressive in terms of trying to make moves in the space and
that there’s still a lot of interest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in  New York  at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 