-- 
New York Tightens Security After Terror Warning

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-09-10T16:49:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/-credible-terrorist-threats-received-new-york-mayor-bloomberg-says.html
Authorities in New York and  New
Jersey  increased security after reports of a credible,
uncorroborated threat that terrorists may be plotting an attack
in the city around the Sept. 11 anniversary.  Police cruisers took up positions on midtown blocks on
Lexington, Park and Fifth avenues in Manhattan yesterday as
officers stopped trucks and other vehicles for inspection.
Police today were stopping trucks on Broadway near Fulton Street
in lower Manhattan, a few blocks from Ground Zero.  “We have already had a full complement of people working
shifts because of the Sept. 11 anniversary prior to this,”  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s
New York office, said yesterday. “We are taking the logical
investigative measures to assess this threat.”  New York  police officers will extend their shifts by four
hours at least through Sept. 12, said New York Police
Commissioner Ray Kelly. Officers will increase vehicle checks
and monitoring of bridges and tunnels, Kelly said. Police will
also perform more baggage screenings in subways, patrol outside
places of worship and government buildings and conduct bomb
sweeps of public garages.  “We will deploy quick-reaction teams consisting of heavily
armored officers,” Kelly said.  Grand Central  City landmarks, including Grand Central Terminal and
Pennsylvania Station, will have heightened security tomorrow, as
will major events including the U.S. Open tennis tournament in
Queens.  A heavily guarded “frozen zone” for vehicles is being
created from West Street to Broadway and Murray to Albany
streets in Lower  Manhattan . Several streets in the area will be
closed during the weekend.  To assist the police, the FBI will mobilize specialized
teams, including special agents, bomb technicians and SWAT and
hazardous-materials crews.  New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said yesterday that he has
deployed additional state police and National Guard troops
throughout the  New York City  area this weekend, to supplement
 law enforcement  patrols already assigned to regional airports,
bus terminals and subway and train stations.  Airliners Hijacked  On Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists associated with al-Qaeda
hijacked four airliners. Two were flown into the twin World
Trade Center towers in New York, destroying them; a third hit
the Pentagon in Arlington,  Virginia ; and one crashed in
Shanksville,  Pennsylvania , after passengers attacked the
hijackers. Close to 3,000 people were killed.  New York police have stopped at least 13 terrorist attacks
since then, Mayor Michael Bloomberg said. While the killing of
al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden has helped reduce the threat,
the mayor said, “The one thing we know is the terrorists have
not gone away.”  The latest threat concerns a possible al Qaeda-sponsored
attack targeting New York or  Washington  on or near the
anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, attack, said a U.S. official,
who wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter publicly. The
official said the intelligence concerns a possible vehicle-borne
attack, perhaps on a transportation hub or bottleneck, and
cautioned that the options may be broader than a car or truck
bombing.  U.S. authorities are “doing everything” possible to
confirm the threat, House  Homeland Security  Committee Chairman
Peter King said.  ‘Scrubbed’  “There are literally hundreds if not thousands of names
being scrubbed” in a database of suspected terrorists, King, a
New York Republican, said in an interview yesterday.
Investigators are “going to suppliers and store owners, anyone
who’s had a car stolen, anyone who’s leased certain types of
trucks, anyone who sold explosives,” he said.  The lawmaker praised the administration of U.S. President
 Barack Obama  for its coordination of the investigation.  “This is light years different from pre-Sept. 11, when
this information may have sat there,” King said.  A U.S. official in Washington said the credible
intelligence revolved around a plot possibly hatched by al-Qaeda
in  Pakistan  involving three individuals, including possibly one
American. Another U.S. official cautioned that information
wasn’t yet confirmed. The officials weren’t authorized to
publicly discuss the intelligence.  American Documents  A U.S. intelligence alert that federal officials sent to
local law enforcement said operatives in the suspected plot may
be carrying American documents, according to two people familiar
with the alert who weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  U.S. intelligence officials learned of the possible threat
in intercepted communications among suspected al-Qaeda
operatives in the tribal areas of western Pakistan, three U.S.
intelligence officials said.  However, they said, the “chatter,” as they described the
intercepted conversations, didn’t name the alleged attackers and
included only vague descriptions of vehicle-borne attacks on the
two most likely targets on a day of obvious significance and
media attention.  The intelligence community works with law enforcement to
confirm tips. Some information is vetted by the 106 FBI-led
Joint Terrorism Task Forces, said Juliette Kayyem, a former
assistant secretary at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security
who oversaw coordination between the department and state and
local law enforcement.  Fusion Centers  Tips also can be analyzed at so-called fusion centers of
analysts and law enforcement, run by state and local governments,
Kayyem said.  By publicizing the threat, the DHS has added millions of
potential tipsters who can help confirm the information, she
said.  “There is a sense of empowerment that the public is being
used,” said Kayyem, a lecturer in public policy at Harvard
University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Three weeks ago, 100 New Jersey state police detectives
began contacting 2,500 businesses that may be used by terrorists,
including fertilizer suppliers, truck rental agencies and hotels
in a so-called trip-wire operation designed to produce leads,
New Jersey State Police Superintendent Rick Fuentes told
reporters in Ewing, New Jersey, yesterday.  ‘People You Need’  “Those are the people you need to connect to; the people
who are going to give you the initial leads that are going to
get you to the bottom of terror operations,” Fuentes said.  In New York City, evidence of increased security was seen
in several locations. At the subway station in the Port
Authority bus terminal at 42nd Street in Manhattan, two police
officers stood guard at the turnstiles yesterday while two
others patrolled the platform.  Officers in a group of four stood on the subway platform at
Broadway and Murray streets in  lower Manhattan , giving
directions to tourists making their way to and from the site of
the 2001 attacks, four blocks south.  In Pennsylvania Station at 2 a.m., police with bomb
sniffing dogs patrolled the Long Island Railroad corridor as
late night revelers headed for trains home.  In  Brooklyn , U.S. marshals armed with machine guns guarded
the federal courthouse today and increased security was observed
in front of the nearby city emergency management office.  “We have threats all the time,” Bloomberg said yesterday
during his weekly appearance on WOR radio. “Each time we
increase our security, which obviously we had done for this. Are
we increasing a little more? Yes, we’re increasing a little more
but there’s a limit to how much you can have, just because you
can’t have a cop on every corner. But remember, a lot of the
precautions we take, you don’t see.”  Obama, who is scheduled to attend ceremonies at  Ground Zero 
tomorrow with former President  George W. Bush , was briefed on
the threat yesterday by National Security Adviser Tom Donilon,
White House counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan , and Deputy
National Security Adviser  Denis McDonough  before leaving for a
speech in Richmond, Virginia, White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said.  ‘Be Vigilant’  “As we head into the 9/11 anniversary weekend, we continue
to urge the American public to be vigilant and report any
suspicious activity to law enforcement authorities,” Secretary
of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano said in a statement. “We
take all threat reporting, including the recent specific,
credible but unconfirmed threat information, seriously.”  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York 
 pathurado@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in Brooklyn at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 