-- 
Scaramucci Schmoozes His Way Into Funds

-- B y   E d w a r d   R o b i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T13:34:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/-gucci-scaramucci-fired-by-goldman-schmoozes-his-way-into-top-hedge-funds.html
Anthony Scaramucci fist bumps
investors as he makes his way through a poolside party at the
Bellagio Hotel in  Las Vegas  on a May evening.  “It’s the Mooch!” someone shouts. Scaramucci, a Harvard
Law School graduate who flunked the New York bar exam twice and
was fired from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in 1991, is exactly
where he wants to be: playing host to the hedge-fund industry as
it surges past $2 trillion in global assets.  Scaramucci is the creator and ringmaster of the SkyBridge
Alternatives Conference, known as SALT, the largest annual
symposium and schmoozefest for hedge-fund managers and investors
in the U.S. For three days in May, more than 1,750 investment
professionals soaked up market insights from industry stars
Steven A. Cohen, Leon Cooperman and Kenneth Griffin;
geopolitical observations from Colin Powell and Gordon Brown;
and sports talk from New York Jets head coach Rex Ryan,
Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its October issue.  At the poolside gala capping the opening day, young women
in cocktail dresses play air hockey. Across the patio, men smoke
freshly rolled Dominican cigars. Jugglers, mimes and an Italian
clown riding a unicycle weave their way between revelers sipping
drinks and feasting on roasted pork.  “Can you believe this?” Scaramucci, 47, says, savoring
the festivities he’s organized. “You’ve got to use the skill
set God has given you, and I have the ability to connect with
people. I was made to do this stuff.”  Influential Friends  Welcome to the Anthony Scaramucci show. Two years ago, he
was a little-known money manager facing the failure of his New
York-based funds of hedge funds, SkyBridge Capital LLC,
following the worst financial crisis in decades. Scaramucci
swiftly recovered and catapulted himself into the center of the
hedge-fund world through unabashed self-promotion and his gift
for forging relationships with influential figures.  His friends range from Michael Milken, who helped debut the
first SALT conference in 2009, to movie director Oliver Stone,
who gave Scaramucci a cameo as a short seller in his 2010 sequel
 Wall Street : Money Never Sleeps. Former President George W. Bush, the keynote speaker at this year’s conference, even
nicknamed his dapper host “Gucci Scaramucci.”  “Anthony is a likable, self-promotional, street-smart kid
who understands the tremendous opportunity for growth in the
hedge-fund industry as the world grows more volatile,” says
Cooperman, 68, the billionaire founder of Omega Advisors Inc. in
 New York .  Mass Affluent  For all of the attention Scaramucci is attracting, he’s
pushing an investment model -- funds of hedge funds -- that has
lost assets and credibility since the credit crisis. SkyBridge,
which manages $2.8 billion in assets, is aiming its funds of
funds at so-called mass affluent investors. They are households
with a net worth of $100,000 to $1 million not counting their
primary residence, according to the Spectrem Group, a Lake
Forest, Illinois-based research firm that analyzes wealth
trends.  Only 3 percent of the 36 million mass affluent investors in
the U.S. commit money to hedge funds, Spectrem says. With
volatility in equities and fixed-income markets exploding in the
wake of  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the U.S. credit rating on
Aug. 5, Scaramucci is betting more mass affluent will plunge
into short selling securities, fixed-income arbitrage and other
sophisticated trades to grow their nest eggs.  Fraught With Challenges  “I want to be the Peter Lynch of the hedge-fund
industry,” Scaramucci says, referring to the Fidelity
Investments money manager and TV spokesman who helped popularize
mutual-fund investing in the 1980s and 1990s. “I want to make
hedge-fund investing approachable to the average American
investor.”  The funds-of-funds approach is fraught with challenges,
says Deirdre Nectow, managing director for business development
at Cambridge Associates LLC, a Boston-based investment
consulting firm.  Bernard Madoff ’s $20 billion Ponzi scheme
revealed that some funds of funds failed to detect how he had
faked his performance for more than 20 years as they had
channeled millions of dollars of their clients’ money into his
firm. While Madoff is a unique case, the difficulty of
researching the practices of dozens of managers that typically
comprise a fund of funds has left investors wary.  “You have 30 to 35 managers in one fund, but if one is a
Madoff you have a problem,” says Nectow, who advises many
clients to invest directly into hedge funds.  Layer on Fees  Funds of funds disgorged $2 billion in capital in the
second quarter as investors withdrew from the category,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc. In contrast,
investors poured $29 billion directly into hedge funds, which
are on course to record their highest net asset inflows since
2007.  Then there are the costs. Investors have to pay funds of
funds a management fee on top of the typical 2 percent on assets
and 20 percent of profits hedge funds charge. SkyBridge asks 1.5
percent annually and no performance fees, and its clients may
have to pay brokers a one-time placement fee of up to 3 percent.
Funds of funds mostly haven’t delivered on those higher costs:
The  S&P 500 Index (SPX) ’s 2.4 percent average annual gain in the five
years ended on July 31 beat the HFRI Funds of Funds index’s 1.7
percent performance.  “When you layer on the fees, you’re just guaranteeing a
lower return,” says  Janet Tavakoli , founder of Tavakoli
Structured Finance Inc., a Chicago investment advisory firm.  Scaramucci has had some success attracting well-off
investors who aren’t super-rich. About two-thirds of the 13,000
investors in SkyBridge’s funds of funds are mass affluent
households and high-net-worth individuals, says Ray Nolte, a
SkyBridge managing partner.  More Aggressive  Investors in the firm’s $1.7 billion flagship, the
SkyBridge Multi-Adviser Hedge Fund Portfolios LLC, have to
qualify as accredited investors with a net worth of $1 million
under Securities and Exchange Commission rules. The fund of
funds has a minimum threshold investment of only $25,000, and
SkyBridge sells it through Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit and other retail brokerages.  “We see mass affluent households starting to loosen up and
become more aggressive with their risk tolerance,” says Thomas
Wynn, a director at Spectrem.  SkyBridge offers investors entrée to top-shelf managers
they may not have the influence or wealth to reach on their own.
Led by Portfolio Manager Troy Gayeski, the firm’s flagship fund
commits 8.5 percent of its investments to Don Brownstein’s
Structured Servicing Holdings LP. It bets on the spreads between
mortgage-backed securities and was the top-performing hedge fund
in Bloomberg Markets’ annual ranking this year, with a 49.5
percent return.  Complex and Risky  SkyBridge puts 8.1 percent of its flagship fund’s assets in
Daniel Loeb’s Third Point Ultra, which exploits price swings in
securities linked to mergers and acquisitions, and another 5.9
percent in John Paulson’s Recovery portfolio, which hedges
dollar-linked risk by being denominated in gold. SkyBridge also
invests in Passport Capital LLC’s Global Strategy fund, which
focuses on commodities producers. SkyBridge’s flagship fund is
up 6.3 percent this year through June 30 compared with a 6
percent rise for the  S&P 500  in that period.  SkyBridge’s Multi-Adviser fund is far more complex and
risky than the typical actively managed mutual fund, Tavakoli
says. SkyBridge concentrates about a third of its assets in five
funds that invest in mortgage-backed securities, including
tranches of subprime home loans originated during the housing
boom.  Well Protected  While SkyBridge doesn’t use leverage itself, some of its
fund managers do to bolster returns. And SkyBridge says in its
quarterly reports that its flagship fund is “highly illiquid”
because, like many hedge funds, the firm reserves the right not
to redeem its clients’ money upon request.  Tavakoli says such a fund is too perilous for investors who
can’t afford to lose $25,000. “They should run far away from
this kind of strategy,” she says.  Scaramucci and Nolte counter that by spreading bets among
41 managers, some of whom pursue strategies designed to go up
when U.S. equities markets drop, they’re delivering a hedge many
investors want.  “Even if one or two managers lose their way, we are still
well protected,” Scaramucci says. Nolte says the firm’s clients
want SkyBridge to make big bets on their favorite trades, such
as mortgages, and not simply match market performance. “When we
have a strong conviction on an idea, we will put more risk on,”
Nolte says.  Private Dinner  Scaramucci uses his SALT conference -- and its A-list
lineup of speakers -- to burnish the SkyBridge brand. At the
2011 event, Scaramucci threw a private dinner for Bush, who
pocketed $175,000 for his off-the-record talk earlier in the
evening.  Milken, Cohen and other friends of Scaramucci’s joined the
former president for a four-course meal featuring filet mignon
and Yorkshire pudding slathered in black truffle gravy. Asked if
he took the seat at Bush’s right hand, Scaramucci guffawed.  “What, are you kidding me? I’m a sales guy: I put my best
client next to the president, and he was in heaven,” he says in
the staccato rhythm of his native  Long Island , New York.  Scaramucci promotes SkyBridge in the media too. He makes
regular appearances as a stock picker on CNBC, and spent more
than $100,000 to place the SkyBridge logo in a scene in Stone’s
second Wall Street drama featuring Gordon Gekko, the insider-
trading felon played by  Michael Douglas .  ‘Like a Pinata’  At a nationally televised town hall meeting in  Manhattan  on
Sept. 20, 2010, Scaramucci challenged President Barack Obama to
lay off of Wall Street.  “We have felt like a pinata,” he complained to the
president. The following evening,  Jon Stewart , the host of the
news satire program The Daily Show, lampooned Scaramucci as a
“Jersey Shore breakout star” who’s oblivious to the country’s
outrage at bailing out big banks. Scaramucci was so giddy to be
the target of Stewart’s wit that he sent the clip of the
comedian to his friends and clients.  “Hedge funds have long kept their heads down and let their
performance and reputations do the talking for them, but this
guy seems to be operating outside of the model entirely,” says
Charles Geisst, a financial historian and author of Wall Street:
A History (Oxford University Press, 1997).  A youthful man with wavy brown hair and matinee idol looks,
Scaramucci does have a salesman’s smooth touch. He peppers his
conversation with offers to perform favors -- “What do you
need?” -- and is fond of slipping his arm around your shoulder
and giving it a squeeze to make a point.  ‘Raise Some Money’  On the first day of the SALT conference, Scaramucci is
decked out in a gray, custom-made Loro Piana suit, a pink shirt
and pink striped necktie. He’s walking down a crowded hall in
the Bellagio’s convention center greeting attendees when a money
manager approaches and offers his hand.  “This is off the charts, Anthony, off the charts,” he
says. Scaramucci grins and wraps his arm around his new friend
without breaking stride. “Look, why don’t you try and raise
some money for yourself while you’re here?” Scaramucci says.
“I know a guy last year who raised a lot of assets from new
clients at SALT.”  Scaramucci possesses the trader’s love of profanity and
off-color jokes. He regaled a group of money managers at SALT
with a story of how he spoke with a roomful of wealthy Jewish
investors in Palm Beach,  Florida , in early 2009 after many of
them had lost their fortunes to Madoff.  Invest with an Italian  “So I told them: Always invest with an Italian. They like
cash businesses, and an Italian will only steal as much as he
can fit in the trunk of his car in cash,” he said. The money
managers crack up as their host flashes a wide smile.  Scaramucci is equally at home talking about complex trading
strategies. At a dinner he hosted at the Four Seasons during
SALT, Scaramucci led a discussion with economist Nouriel Roubini
on how Federal Reserve policy and  Europe ’s debt woes were
impacting capital markets.  “He comes across as Vinnie Barbarino, but it masks how
smart and thoughtful he really is,” says Brett Messing, a
Harvard Law friend, referring to a wisecracking TV character
played by John Travolta in the 1970s.  Scaramucci grew up in Port Washington, a middle-class town
on the north shore of Long Island. His parents are second-
generation Italians, and his father Alexander labored in the
construction industry for 42 years. As a teenager, Scaramucci
spent afternoons helping out at his uncle Sal’s Harley-Davidson
shop. He wasn’t allowed to ride motorcycles.  Action and Riches  “My father said, ‘We’re going to put $100,000 of education
into your brain, so I don’t want it on the pavement,’” says
Scaramucci, who drove a 1979 Chevrolet Camaro Berlinetta
instead.  Scaramucci graduated summa cum laude from Tufts University
in Medford, Massachusetts, in 1986, with a bachelor’s degree in
economics. Three years later, he earned his Harvard Law degree.
He found legal work to be mind numbing and failed to put in the
study needed to pass the New York bar exam until his third try.
He never did practice law.  Drawn to the action and riches of Wall Street, he was
ecstatic when he landed a perch in Goldman’s real-estate
investment-banking unit in August 1989.  “Your goal here is to not get fired,”  Robert Rubin , a
Goldman partner who would serve as U.S. Treasury secretary from
1995 to 1999, told Scaramucci’s training class, Scaramucci
recalls. By the end of his first year, Scaramucci knew he didn’t
have the analytical skills or patience to unpack complex
property deals.  Humbling Moment  “I sucked at it,” he says.  When the property market contracted in 1991, real-estate
head Michael Fascitelli fired Scaramucci as part of a cost-
cutting move. It was a humbling moment for the would-be Wall
Street player.  Fascitelli liked Scaramucci and helped him get a job in
Goldman’s equities group. In 1994, he transferred to the private
wealth management unit, where he was responsible for building a
book of rich investing clients.  “He was very hungry, and I thought he could shine in an
area where he could use his people skills,” says Fascitelli,
who’s now chief executive officer of  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  in New
York.  By 1995, Scaramucci, then 31, had more than 300 clients and
was producing $4.5 million in gross commissions and pocketing
more than $1 million a year in compensation. The next year, he
quit to co-found a hedge fund called Oscar Capital Management
LLC with fellow Goldman alum Andrew Boszhardt.  Future in Doubt  They built Oscar up to $800 million in assets and brought
in billionaire PC maker Michael Dell as a minority stakeholder
in the firm. After the dot-com crash hurt Oscar’s performance in
2000 and 2001, they sold the firm to Neuberger Berman Group
Inc., a New York asset management firm and brokerage, which was
in turn acquired by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2003.  Two years later, Scaramucci struck out on his own again. He
set up SkyBridge as a “seeding” firm that invested in startup
hedge funds similar to the way venture capitalists back tech
entrepreneurs. He raised $300 million and invested in nine
fledgling hedge funds.  When the recession struck in 2008, SkyBridge rapidly lost a
fifth of its value and Scaramucci criss-crossed the country
trying to persuade clients not to withdraw from his fund.  By May 2009, Scaramucci says, SkyBridge’s future was in
doubt. At the time, financial firms were canceling conferences
in Las Vegas out of concern it would look bad to party in Sin
City as taxpayers bailed out Wall Street.  Growing Anxious  Scaramucci had no such qualms. He decided to host his first
hedge-fund extravaganza at Encore at Wynn, one of the priciest
hotels on the Strip. “I wanted to let people know we were still
alive,” he says.  Scaramucci needed more than a three-day party in Vegas to
save his ailing firm. He recognized that the U.S. Treasury,
which injected $45 billion into  Citigroup Inc. (C)  after it almost
collapsed, was pressing CEO Vikram Pandit to unload peripheral
businesses.  Scaramucci arranged in late 2009 to meet Nolte, then CEO of
the hedge-fund management group in Citi’s alternative-investing
unit, which included funds of funds. Nolte, a buttoned-down
money manager with the demeanor of a college professor, told
Scaramucci that he was growing anxious as Citi pondered whether
to shed his division.  “We were going to wither and die until Citi decided what
to do with us,” Nolte says.  Against the Odds  In April 2010, Citi agreed to sell the business to
SkyBridge and Nolte, and his 23-member investment team joined
forces with Scaramucci. SkyBridge made a nominal upfront payment
and agreed to share a portion of its asset management fees with
Citi for three years, according to a person familiar with the
transaction.  In return, Scaramucci got $1.6 billion in assets, four
institutional investors and more than 7,000 mass affluent and
high-net-worth clients. “Anthony pulled off something that was
totally against the odds,” Fascitelli says.  On the second day of this year’s SALT gathering, Scaramucci
is chatting with one of his old bosses, Jon Corzine, Goldman’s
co-chairman from 1994 to 1999. Scaramucci says he’s still
mortified by the time in 1996 when he ran into Corzine and his
first wife, Joanne, at Henry Cipriani, a Midtown Manhattan
restaurant, and accidentally knocked a bottle of water off their
table and onto their laps.  Top Fundraiser  Corzine, who lost his bid for re-election as New Jersey’s
governor in 2009, laughs and tells him to forget about it.
“Anthony, you’re one of the only guys to leave Goldman Sachs
and do well,” says Corzine, now CEO of New York futures broker
 MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF)  “I lose elections!”  Scaramucci has become the Wall Street player he aspired to
be when he first landed at Goldman some 22 years ago. He
entertains clients in his luxury suite at Citi Field, home of
his beloved New York Mets. And he’s a top fundraiser for Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts who’s seeking the
Republican nomination for president.  He’s hit his stride not through his record as a money
manager, which even he admits is lackluster. Rather, it’s his
networking chops and friendships with Wall Street’s elite that
have won him the spotlight.  “I would make him the trustee for my estate not because
he’s a brilliant investor but because he would do the right
thing for my family, says Robert Matza, a former president of
Neuberger Berman and now president of GoldenTree Asset
Management LP, a New York hedge fund. “I trust him.”  Sales Job  SkyBridge has attracted $1 billion in new inflows since it
absorbed Citi’s funds-of-funds unit on July 1, 2010.  “Performance isn’t what beats a path to your door,” says
Robert Nichols, founder of Windward Capital Management Co., a
Los Angeles-based firm with $250 million in assets. “It’s sales
and marketing.”  Peddling high-risk funds of funds to the upper-middle class
will be a major struggle -- and just the kind of sales job that
Scaramucci relishes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Robinson in  San Francisco  at 
 edrobinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby in New York at 
 lcolby@bloomberg.net  