-- 
9/11, American Values and the Challenges That Lie Ahead: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-09T00:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/9-11-american-values-and-the-challenges-that-lie-ahead-view.html
It is tempting to hope that the 10th
anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks will serve as a cathartic
moment, allowing Americans to turn a page on the worries and
errors of the last 10 years without diminishing the successes.
But history has no pages.  Instead, as we head into the decade after the decade after,
our goal should be to look at global terrorism with a sharp eye
and a clear head.  The coarseness that marked aspects of U.S. conduct in the
world after Sept. 11 -- including a sometimes tragic disregard
for the rights of innocents ensnared in a global war against
terrorists -- may be understandable. However, much of the world,
including many Americans, concluded that it was not excusable.
And as the trepidation over another attack receded, the rough
edge of American fear was too easily turned inward, with
domestic politics assuming a sometimes vicious tone.  Over more than two centuries, American democracy has shown
a talent for self-correction. Time and again, moral shortcomings
have been confronted and our society elevated; political
excesses of right or left have been supplanted by reason and
moderation; an instinct toward adventure or overreach has been
overcome. The memory of those who died is eternal, but the
shadows of 9/11 are not. In the midst of a global economic
crisis rises an Arab Spring and new hopes.  The threat of Islamic extremism did not die with  Osama bin Laden . Vigilance, judiciously practiced, is still required.
Those who would do the U.S. harm will continue, to the best of
their dwindling abilities, to find the chinks in our armor.
There will be more attacks against the U.S. and its interests,
at home and abroad, and some will succeed.  This is a fact we must accept, as hard as that may be for
citizens of a free and democratic nation. In a metaphor borrowed
from Philip Zelikow, who was executive director of the 9/11
commission, we know that very occasionally a passenger airplane
will malfunction and fall from the sky, yet we keep on flying,
because we look at the big picture, judge the odds and have
trust in the system we have created and continually improve.  This nation has faced a decade-long test of its values,
governance and role in the world, with mixed results. Americans
have shown great resilience, and with renewed moral force, our
full faith in ourselves and our institutions will be redeemed.
That, our enemies know, is the ultimate victory.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 