-- 
Africa’s Friend China Finances $9.3 Billion of Hydropower

-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y   a n d   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-09-09T16:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/africa-s-new-friend-china-finances-9-3-billion-of-hydropower.html
When completed in 2013, Gibe III on
Ethiopia’s Omo River will be  Africa ’s tallest dam, a $2.2
billion project that conservationists say will deprive birds and
hippos of vital habitat.  Some 600 miles (965 kilometers) to the north, Sudan is
preparing to build the $705 million Kajbar dam on the Nile,
which would inundate historic towns and tombs of the Nubian
people, descendants of the pharaohs of ancient  Egypt . The $729
million Bui project on the Black Volta River, to be finished in
2013, will boost  Ghana ’s hydropower capacity by a third -- and
flood a quarter of Bui National Park while displacing 2,600
people.  What these megaprojects have in common is Chinese money and
know-how. Companies such as Sinohydro Corp. and Dongfang
Electric Corp. are key players in their construction, and
they’re financed by Chinese banks with support from the
government in Beijing, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Sept. 12 issue.  The country’s engineering and manufacturing giants have
recently completed or are participating in at least $9.3 billion
of hydropower projects in Zambia, Gabon, the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo, and elsewhere on the continent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and  International Rivers , a Berkeley,
California-based environmental group.  A similar, if smaller, push is happening in newer renewable
technologies. Chinese enterprises are now the top investors in
African solar power,and China’s government in June earmarked
$100 million for solar projects in 40 African nations.  Street Lights, Refugee Camps  Chinese photovoltaic panels already power street lights in
Sudan, sit atop schools and hospitals elsewhere and can be found
in United Nations-supported refugee camps in the Sahara.  “Renewable energy is merely the latest” facet of China’s
move into Africa, says Martyn Davies, chief executive officer of
Frontier Advisory, a consultant in Johannesburg working with
Chinese companies on the continent. “The traditional actors --
the Germans, the French, the Spanish -- won’t be able to compete
on price.”  Overall Sino-African trade reached $127 billion in 2010, up
from $10 billion in 2000, Beijing’s commerce ministry reports.
In 2009,  China  unseated the U.S. as Africa’s biggest trading
partner, accounting for 14 percent of the continent’s total
trade, according to the African Development Bank. The state-
owned China Development Bank Corp. in 2007 established a $1
billion fund to finance Chinese enterprises in Africa and now
plans to increase that to $5 billion.  Opens New Markets  China’s initiative in renewables will open up new markets
for its growing green energy sector. Only Chinese panels will be
used in solar projects the country backs, says Sun Guangbin,
secretary-general of the China Chamber of Commerce for Import &
Export of Machinery and Electronic Products.  “China needs new emerging markets to consume solar
products,” Sun says.  China’s Suntech Power Holdings Co. is supplying panels for
a 50-megawatt solar plant at Droogfontein,  South Africa . China
Longyuan Power Group last year said it would open wind farms in
South Africa, and Hua Lien International Holding has established
ethanol joint ventures in  Benin , Sierra Leone, and  Mozambique .  Sub-Saharan Africa, with some 800 million residents,
generates about the same amount of power as  Spain , population 46
million, according to the  World Bank . The bank says that since
1995, Africa’s power sector has grown an average of 1 percent
annually, or less than 1,000 megawatts a year, even though
capacity needs to expand more than 10 percent a year to meet
demand.  Few Strings Attached?  One attraction for African governments is that Chinese
investment comes with few strings attached, researchers and
conservationists say. China doesn’t tie its aid to human-rights
progress, environmental issues, or democratic governance, as the
U.S. and  Europe  do.  “Many African countries find that very acceptable,” says
John Mitchell, an associate fellow at Chatham House, a foreign
affairs research group in  London .  Due to human-rights concerns,  Sudan  had trouble raising
money for its $1.8 billion Merowe Dam until Chinese banks came
up with funding,  International Rivers  says. The project was
finished two years ago.  Chinese investment is helping Africa reach levels of dam-
building not seen in years, bringing back memories of hydropower
campaigns that conservationists deem a disaster.  ‘Very Sobering’  “The social, environmental, and economic track record of
large dam projects in Africa is very sobering,” says
International Rivers Policy Director Peter Bosshard. While
Chinese companies have improved their environmental record in
the past few years, “there also continue to be big gaps,”
Bosshard says.  Advocates say hydropower can help make up Africa’s chronic
power deficit. Gibe III, for instance, will double  Ethiopia ’s
power generation capacity. That, says Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, will be instrumental in fighting poverty in a country
nicknamed “Africa’s water tower” for the rivers coursing out
of its highlands.  Dams can help Ethiopia electrify remote villages, increase
irrigation and earn money from electricity exports, Meles said
at an Addis Ababa news conference in March.  “Hydropower,” he said, “will have to be at the center of
Africa’s energy future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net 
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  