-- 
Lagarde Urges Heightened Readiness in U.K. as Growth Slows

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-09-09T16:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/lagarde-urges-heightened-readiness-in-u-k-as-economy-faces-weak-growth.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  urged the British authorities to be
in a state of “heightened readiness” to act should the economy
weaken further.  The export-led recovery predicted by Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  is facing slowing growth in Europe and
the U.S., and policy needs to be “nimble” if conditions
worsen, she said in a speech in London today. She said the U.K.
policy stance remains “appropriate” and stopped short of
earlier IMF calls to cut taxes to help consumers.  “This heightened risk means a heightened readiness to
respond, particularly if it looks like the economy is headed for
a prolonged period of weak growth and high unemployment,”
Lagarde said.  The automatic response to a weakening economy -- a falling
tax burden and increased spending on welfare -- would provide an
“important cushion,” she said. She called on Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King  to ease monetary policy should the outlook
fail to “improve soon.”  The Bank of England yesterday resisted calls to extend
economic stimulus as it attempts to navigate a path between
accelerating inflation and a faltering recovery. It maintained
the target of its bond program at 200 billion pounds ($320
billion) and held the benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low
0.5 percent.  Fiscal Mandate  Osborne said his policy is based on the structural deficit
rather than the total shortfall so that automatic stabilizers
can kick in if the economy hits a weak patch. The Treasury’s
fiscal watchdog expects a structural deficit of almost 5 percent
of economic output to return to balance by April 2015, a year
earlier than needed under his rules.  “Countries with large budget deficits and significant
fiscal vulnerabilities, including the U.K., with one of the
largest deficits of all, must continue to set out an implement
credible deficit-reduction plans,” Osborne said, speaking
alongside Lagarde at the  Chatham House  research institute.
“Britain will stick to the deficit plan we have set out.”  The U.K. fiscal watchdog, the  Office for Budget
Responsibility , may be forced to lower its 2011 growth forecast
of 1.7 percent and predict higher borrowing when it publishes
its economic and fiscal outlook on Nov. 29, economists say.  In Danger  “People hoped there was going to be a recovery coming
through and that recovery hasn’t been as strong or as robust as
hoped for,” Stephen King, chief group economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in an interview at Chatham House. “By
definition the fiscal position is in danger of being weaker.”  Economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the three months
through August, the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said yesterday, while the cost of insuring British bank
debt has risen to levels seen in September 2008, when Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Ed Balls , Treasury spokesman for the opposition  Labour
Party , renewed his call for a cut in value-added tax on sales to
spur demand.  Brendan Barber , general secretary of the  Trades
Union Congress , an umbrella group representing 5 million
workers, said osborne’s plan in a “national program of self
harm”.  “The IMF has diplomatically shied away from contradicting
our chancellor in public -- at least for now,” Balls said in an
e-mailed statement. “In my experience, the IMF’s message to
Britain in private and at today’s G-7 meeting will be rather
more blunt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 