-- 
Lagarde Says Policy Makers Should ‘Act Boldly’ to Support Global Recovery

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-09T09:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/lagarde-says-policy-makers-should-act-boldly-to-support-global-recovery.html
International Monetary Fund Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said governments and policy makers in
developed economies must take action to support the recovery as
the risk of recession outweighs the threat from inflation.  “Countries must act now and act boldly to steer their
economies through this dangerous new phase of the recovery,”
Lagarde  said in a speech  at the Chatham House foreign-affairs
research group in  London  today.  Monetary policy  in advanced
economies “should remain highly accommodative,” she said.  Central bankers and finance ministers from the Group of
Seven nations convene in Marseille,  France , today as they face
calls to boost growth amid growing threats from  Europe ’s debt
crisis and a slowing global recovery. G-7 members are fighting
on multiple fronts to prevent the slowdown from turning into a
slump, with many benchmark  interest rates  at or near record lows
and government debt levels at unprecedented highs.  While “policy makers do still have options to support the
recovery,” the scope for action “is considerably narrower than
when the crisis first erupted,” Lagarde said. “Policy makers
should stand ready, as needed, to take more action to support
the recovery -- including through unconventional measures.”  Growth Concerns  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
slashed its growth forecasts for the U.S. and  Japan  yesterday
and said central banks around the world should be ready to ease
monetary policy if economies weaken further. Underscoring growth
concerns, the  European Central Bank  and Bank of England held
their key interest rates the same day, and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. policy makers will discuss
tools they could use to boost the recovery this month.  “Downside risks have increased” and “the global
rebalancing of demand needed for sustainable global growth has
stalled,” Lagarde said. “Weak growth and weak balance sheets
of governments, financial institutions and households are
feeding negatively on each other. If growth continues to lose
momentum, balance-sheet problems will worsen, fiscal
sustainability will be threatened, and the scope for policies to
salvage the recovery will disappear.”  A measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to each other in
Europe this week rose to the highest in almost 2 1/2 years and
about $5 trillion has been wiped off global equity markets since
the start of July as debt fears rippled around the world.  ‘Liquidity Crisis’  “We must not underestimate the risks of a further spread
of economic weakness or even a debilitating liquidity crisis,”
Lagarde said. “That is why action is needed urgently so banks
can return to the business of financing economic activity.”  The IMF head said U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s proposed
$447 billion employment plan announced yesterday was “welcome”
as it will “focus on supporting growth and job creation in the
short term.” Still, “it remains critical for the U.S. to
clarify its medium-term plan to put public debt on a more
sustainable path.”  Lagarde said many of the countries that share the euro
“need more fiscal action and more clarity about the
availability of sovereign financing.” It is “essential” that
euro-region leaders implement an agreement reached on July 21 to
try to resolve their sovereign-debt crisis “as soon as
possible,” she said.  While “strong fiscal consolidation is essential” to
restoring sustainability in the U.K. government’s finances and
the policy stance is “appropriate,” the  Bank of England  has
“room for additional easing if the outlook does not improve
soon,” the IMF head said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  