-- 
Vancouver Spared from Harm in 6.4 Earthquake

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n ,   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 
2011-09-10T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/magnitude-6-7-earthquake-strikes-canada-s-vancouver-island-area.html
A magnitude 6.4  earthquake  struck
175 miles west of  Vancouver , causing buildings to sway in the
Pacific coast Canadian city while causing no reported damage.  Residents of Vancouver Island, the 290-mile-long land mass
to the west of the city, said they felt the impact. The temblor
hit west of the island yesterday at 12:41 p.m. local time,
according to the  U.S. Geological Survey .  “It was scary but it was quick, it only lasted a few
seconds,” said Cathy Falavolito, who with her husband owns the
Westview Marina & Lodge in Tahsis, British Columbia, on the west
coast of Vancouver Island.  The quake took place on a secondary fault, not the major
Cascadia Subduction Zone, said John Vidale, director of the
Pacific Northwest Seismic Network at the University of
 Washington  in  Seattle . There was no tsunami because the edges of
the fault moved sideways, not up and down, so a major wave
wasn’t generated, he said.  “There will be lots of aftershocks, but they’re in a place
that aren’t likely to cause a lot of damage,” he said.  A damaging tsunami isn’t expected, the West Coast and
Alaska Tsunami Warning Center said on its  website .  The earthquake was centered about 50 miles (80 kilometers)
south of Port Alice, British Columbia, according to the warning
center. It was the biggest in the region since November 2004,
according to emergency officials, and caused no reports of
injuries.  Felt on Barge  “The earthquake was felt fairly strongly in the Port Alice
area,” Chris Duffy, director of operations for Emergency
Management B.C., said on a conference call with reporters.
“There’s no report of damages at this time.”  Falavolito, the marina owner, was on a barge with a dozen
tourists when the quake occurred, she said. A lunch table
onshore rocked and power went out for about five minutes before
coming back on, she said.  “Usually you don’t feel earthquakes because you’re on the
water, but we definitely felt it on the barge,” Falavolito
said.  In the city of Victoria, the provincial capital at the
south end of Vancouver Island, nothing was felt, according to a
police spokesman, Mike Russell.  Workers in downtown Vancouver, which is separated from
Vancouver Island by the Strait of Georgia, felt buildings sway.  “We just started to hear some squeaking, and our blinds
were moving a little bit, and then it felt like I was on a boat
all of a sudden,” said Stacy Rowa, an employee at  Aura Minerals
Inc. (ORA)  who works on the 19th floor. She said she wasn’t aware of
anyone being injured or any damage to the building.  ‘Dizzy and Stunned’  On the 23rd floor of the HSBC building, “we were dizzy and
stunned,” said Sharon Park, who works in fixed income at BMO
Capital Markets. “It felt like waves and it lasted a minute or
longer.”  Some in Vancouver felt nothing.  “I just came back from a walk and I didn’t feel a thing,”
Renee Villeneuve, who works in the treasury department of
forestry company  Canfor Corp. (CFP)  in Vancouver, said by telephone.  Several dozen aftershocks have been recorded, with the
strongest being a 4.9 magnitude, according to  John Cassidy , a
seismologist with Natural Resources Canada, who spoke on the
conference call with Duffy.  “This type of earthquake is actually relatively common,
and on average about every 10 years we see an earthquake of this
size offshore of Vancouver Island,” Cassidy said. “So it’s not
really unusual. The really big ones occur hundreds of years
apart.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  