-- 
Air France Seeks Savings to Narrow Gap With BA, Lufthansa

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-09-09T10:17:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/air-france-seeks-savings-to-close-gap-with-ba.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,  Europe ’s
largest airline, is demanding more savings from managers this
year as part of an effort to catch up with its main European
rivals.  The Paris-based carrier needs to deepen cost cuts beyond
the 500 million euros ($693 million) in savings earmarked for
2011 with improved productivity and procurement, Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon told journalists today. Air
France, which is targeting operating profitability in 2011, last
raised its savings target from 470 million euros in July.  “Our competitiveness can be improved, and must be,
compared with our biggest rivals,” the CEO said at the
briefing.  Air France-KLM has plunged 55 percent in Paris this year,
the worst performance on the Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index, as
the airline struggles with high fuel costs and sluggish
business-class demand. Gourgeon said his company is at a
disadvantage to  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British Airways Plc
because of currency exchange rates and higher payroll taxes. Yan Derocles, an analyst at Oddo Securities, has said investors want
the airline to announce a new savings plan.  ‘Big Objectives’  “We’re still waiting to hear something further from Air
France on big cost-cutting objectives,” Derocles said. He has a
“buy” recommendation on the stock.  Air France fell as much as 3.8 percent to 6.05 euros and
was 3.2 percent lower as of 11:29 a.m. in Paris. That compared
with a 2.1 percent decline for Lufthansa and a 3.3 percent
decline for International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, formed
from the merger of British Airways and Iberia.  British Airways is benefiting from a “competitive
devaluation of the pound,” Gourgeon said. Lower government
social charges at Lufthansa give the German airline the
equivalent of a 500 million-euro advantage, he said.  A hiring freeze and attrition should cut Air France-KLM’s
headcount by 1 percent to 2 percent a year, Gourgeon said.  The airline said Sept. 5 that it will trim planned capacity
increases next year. In May, the carrier announced a 10 percent
seat reduction in its joint venture with Atlanta-based  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)   New Planes  The airline has said it intends to divide a planned $20
billion order for about 100 new long-range jetliners between
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 and the Airbus SAS 350. Gourgeon said the
carrier will discuss the purchase at a board meeting Sept. 15,
and will seek as many options as possible, with fewer firm
orders for maximum flexibility.  The carrier, which will adopt the calendar year to report
results, earned 122 million euros in the 12 months to March 31,
its first operating profit in three years. Air France-KLM
reported a 145 million-euro loss for the quarter ended June 30.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Mulier at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  