-- 
Air France Says Autopilot Incident May Aid AF447 Crash Probe

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-09-09T10:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/air-france-says-autopilot-incident-may-aid-af447-crash-probe.html
Air France said the investigation of
an autopilot shutdown during a flight from Paris to Caracas this
month may offer insights into the crash of an aircraft in 2009
from  Brazil  that killed all 228 people on board.  “The Caracas incident includes some elements that might be
illustrative in the accident investigation,” Chief Executive
Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said during a briefing for
reporters today.  In common with the 2009 crash, the Caracas-bound Airbus
A340 experienced a rapid gain in altitude after the autopilot
shut down, Gourgeon said. Investigation will show whether “the
plane climbed of its own accord,” he added.  Flight AF447 from  Rio de Janeiro  to Paris, an  Airbus A330 ,
plunged into the Atlantic in the night of June 1, 2009, after
airspeed sensors were blocked by ice, causing the autopilot to
disengage, according to findings by France’s BEA accident
investigation bureau. A junior pilot incorrectly forced the jet
into a sharp climb and continued to do so even as it slowed to
an aerodynamic stall, where the wings lose lift.  Air  France  has said the pilots on the Air France flight
that crashed showed “professionalism” in their attempt to
control the deteriorating flight parameters.  “We are investigating the Caracas flight because it was a
serious incident, not because there are similarities with Flight
447,” BEA spokeswoman Martine Del Bono said today.  Whereas the Caracas flight’s autopilot disengaged in
extreme turbulence and wind shear, the Flight 447 incident began
with the failure of its airspeed sensors in “very light
turbulence,” Del Bono said.  “It’s too early to talk about similarities with the
crash,” Del Bono said. “Until we’ve concluded our
investigation, we won’t know whether there are any.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  