-- 
Alibaba.com to Audit All Paying Members to Combat Fraud

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-09T12:15:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/alibaba-com-to-audit-all-paying-members-to-combat-fraud-1-.html
Alibaba.com Ltd. (1688) , operator of
 China ’s biggest online commerce site for business owners, will
audit all exporters that pay the company to market their
products after some buyers were defrauded.  The company will visit the facilities of all paying members
of its China Gold Supplier program over the course of a year,
Director of International Marketing Linda Kozlowski said at a
briefing in Hangzhou, east China today. The “onsite check”
will help lower fraud on Alibaba.com’s website, she said.  Alibaba.com, used by companies including Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. to find suppliers, lost customers last quarter after
tightening screening of vendors to address concerns about the
reliability of its website. The Chinese  Internet company  is also
offering product inspection and escrow payment services to help
boost protection for buyers, Kozlowski said.  The new checks “won’t be a drag” on customer growth,
Kozlowski said. Alibaba.com won’t need to hire more people for
the customer audit program, she said. Complaints from users have
declined 77 percent this year, Kozlowski said.  Subscribers for the Gold Supplier program for Chinese
exporters fell by more than 4,200 in the quarter ended June to
about 112,000, Alibaba said last month. In the previous three
months, the company lost more than 4,800 Gold Supplier members.  More than 2,300 vendors used Alibaba.com’s website to
defraud buyers, and about 100 employees were responsible for
letting sellers create bogus storefronts, Alibaba said in
February.  Separately, parent Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. plans to
offer English-language support for its Aliyun operating system
for mobile devices,  Wang Jian , head of the company’s cloud-
computing division, said today. The Aliyun product will focus
mainly on the China market, rather than overseas, he said.  Alibaba Group didn’t collaborate with biggest shareholder
Yahoo! Inc. on cloud computing, Wang said. The U.S. investor has
no “real” cloud technology, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 