-- 
Manchester City CEO Garry Cook Ousted After E-Mail Sent to Player’s Mother

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-09T15:34:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/manchester-city-ceo-garry-cook-ousted-after-e-mail-sent-to-player-s-mother.html
Manchester City  Chief Executive
Officer Garry Cook resigned from the Premier League soccer club
today after controversy over an e-mail to a player’s mother.  Anthonia Onuoha, the mother and agent of defender Nedum
Onuoha, said an e-mail from Cook’s account ridiculed her cancer,
according to the Sun newspaper. A review by the club found
“foundation” to her accusations, and Cook’s resignation was
accepted.  Cook admitted in a  statement  on Manchester City’s website
that it was his “error of judgment in this matter that has
prompted me to reach this decision, which I believe is in the
best interests of the football club.”  The  Sun  reported five days ago that Onuoha received a
message, which was intended for City’s football administrator
Brian Marwood and appeared to be sent by Cook, which made fun of
her use of the phrase “ravaged with it” in describing her
condition.  “When I opened up my e-mails and saw the message, it was
the worst day of my life, even worse than being diagnosed with
cancer,” the Sun quoted Onuoha as saying. “I couldn’t
understand how anyone could behave like that. I’m critically
ill. I just cried and cried for hours.”  City’s board then began an investigation.  “As a result, the club can confirm that there is
foundation to Dr. Onuoha’s allegations and the chairman has
written to apologize to Dr. Onuoha for any distress caused,”
City’s statement said. “Following the findings of the review,
Chief Executive Officer Garry Cook has offered his resignation,
which has been accepted with regret by the board.”  Director John MacBeath will take over as temporary CEO of
the and work with the board to find a permanent replacement for
Cook.  Owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan has already spent
more than $1 billion to bring in players since acquiring the
club in September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  