-- 
Angola President Dos Santos May Arrange Putin-Style Handover, Eurasia Says

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-09T12:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/angola-president-dos-santos-may-arrange-putin-style-handover-eurasia-says.html
Angola ’s Jose Eduardo dos Santos
will probably hand over the presidency to a trusted ally while
continuing to wield power behind the scenes, Eurasia Group said.  The New York-based political risk-research company said it
expects dos Santos to run in parliamentary elections in 2012 and
appoint Manuel Vicente, chairman of state-owned oil company
Sonangol EP, as vice president in anticipation of the
president’s formal succession by early 2013.  “The president will likely look to implement an organized
hand-off to Vicente or another trusted ally while remaining,
like  Vladimir Putin  in  Russia , the power behind the throne for
an interim period,” Philippe de Pontet, Eurasia’s Africa
director, wrote in a research note published yesterday. A
managed transition to a respected figure such as Vicente “will
likely be broadly reassuring for oil and other investors,
especially if dos Santos remains deeply engaged behind the
scenes.”  The  Popular Movement  for the Liberation of Angola party, or
MPLA, in power since Angola’s 1975 independence from  Portugal ,
will meet in December to appoint its presidential candidate for
next year’s election, Rui Falcao de Andrade, an MPLA spokesman,
said on Sept. 6 in an interview from the Angolan capital,
Luanda.  To avoid friction within the party, the debate surrounding
the president’s succession should be carried out with
“tranquility, reason and good sense,” Mario Pinto de Andrade,
a member of the MPLA, said in an interview published in Angolan
newspaper Novo Jornal today. He sits on the MPLA’s  Central
Committee , a decision-making body that will name the party’s
presidential candidate in December.  Question Mark  De Pontet sees a 30 percent to 40 percent chance that
another candidate, such as Vice President Fernando Piedade Dias dos Santos, known popularly as Nando, will emerge as the
preferred successor to dos Santos.  Nando’s long career in the security and intelligence
services would bring a “bigger question mark” for investors
than the appointment of Vicente, de Pontet said. Minister of
State Carlos Feijo is seen as a possible replacement to Vicente
at the helm of Sonangol, he said.  For the MPLA, “any scenario is possible” regarding the
succession of dos Santos, according to de Andrade.  Dos Santos is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second longest-serving
ruler after  Equatorial Guinea ’s President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, who came to power in 1979, just a few months before the
Angolan president.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  