-- 
Manning Shows Value in Vegas as Colts Super Bowl Odds Slide Due to Injury

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-09T04:00:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/manning-shows-value-in-vegas-as-colts-super-bowl-odds-slide-due-to-injury.html
Peyton Manning  this weekend will
miss a game for the first time in his 14-year National Football
League career. His injury puts the  Indianapolis Colts  in
similarly unfamiliar territory: off oddsmakers’ lists of  Super
Bowl  favorites.  The status of their 35-year-old quarterback, a four-time
NFL Most Valuable Player who underwent additional neck surgery
yesterday, has the Colts entering the regular season with
championship odds as high as 35-1 at some Las Vegas sportsbooks,
up from 14-1.  Oddsmakers for years have said no NFL player would affect
the betting line more than Manning. After playing in 227
straight games since his rookie season in 1998, Manning had neck
surgery in May and needed to have vertebrae fused yesterday. The
Colts said he is out indefinitely until his prognosis becomes
more clear. His absence is proving his value at sportsbooks.  “There is no doubt he is the most important player to his
team as far as affecting the odds,” said  Jeff Sherman , the
assistant manager at the  Las Vegas Hilton’s sports book .  The Hilton moved the Colts’ Super Bowl odds to 25-1 from
15-1 because of Manning’s injury. The Colts are 9-point
underdogs against the Houston Texans in their season-opener Sept.
11, a game that started with an even spread at the Hilton.  Since Manning became their quarterback in 1998, the Colts
have won 10 or more games 11 of 13 seasons and won the Super
Bowl in 2007.  “Peyton Manning is the only player in the NFL that would
affect his team’s odds by more than a touchdown,” RJ Bell,
founder and chief executive of Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website  Pregame.com , said in an e-mail.  Super Bowl Favorite  The  New England Patriots , who have won 10 or more games for
eight straight seasons with two Super Bowl titles, are 9-2
championship favorites at the Las Vegas Hilton.  The defending champion  Green Bay Packers , who beat the New
Orleans Saints 42-34 last night to kick off the NFL season, are
the second choice at 6-1. They’re followed by the record six-
time Super Bowl-winning Pittsburgh Steelers and  Philadelphia
Eagles  at 8-1.  The Eagles’ odds dropped after an offseason in which they
added Pro Bowl cornerback  Nnamdi Asomugha  to highlight a free-
agent haul that also included defensive tackle Cullen Jenkins,
defensive end Jason Babin and running back Ronnie Brown.  Philadelphia has never won a Super Bowl title.  “Our expectations are to win a championship,” quarterback
 Michael Vick , who last month signed a new six-year contract that
could be worth $100 million, told reporters during training camp.
“I would love to be a part of the group that gets it done.”  Jets’ Odds  The  New York Jets , in the same division as the Patriots,
have 12-1 Super Bowl odds after losing in the American Football
Conference championship game the past two years.  “I don’t know what the experts say, I just know what I
believe in my heart, and that’s that this is going to be our
year,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  told reporters at training camp last
month. “Again, we have to find somebody out there to beat  New
England  besides us, and I think that would help.”  Ryan has predicted Super Bowl championships for the Jets
each of his previous two years as coach as well.  The Saints,  San Diego Chargers  and  Atlanta Falcons  also
have 12-1 odds, according to the Las Vegas Hilton.  The  Dallas Cowboys  and  Baltimore Ravens  are listed at 20-1,
completing the Hilton’s top 10.  At 25-1, the Colts are tied with the  New York Giants  and
 Detroit Lions , a franchise that hasn’t made the playoffs since
1999, Manning’s second year in the NFL. Indianapolis is just
ahead of the Texans and Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who are 30-1.  “It’s a part of the game,” Colts tight end Dallas Clark
told reporters about Manning’s injury. “For him to do what he’s
done for so long is remarkable. It’s unfortunate, but we still
have to go out there and play hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  