-- 
Tanzania’s Economy Grew at Slower Pace in First Quarter on Power Outages

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-09-09T14:03:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/tanzania-s-economy-grew-at-slower-pace-in-first-quarter-on-power-outages.html
Tanzania’s economy, East  Africa ’s
second-biggest, grew at a slower pace in the first quarter as
reduced power outages caused by a drought curbed mining
production.  The growth rate fell to 5.8 percent in the three months
through March, compared with 7.7 percent in the same period a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in an e-
mailed statement today from Dar es Salaam, the commercial
capital. The  mining industry  grew 2.1 percent, against 28.3
percent in the first quarter of 2010, while the electricity
industry expanded 4.7 percent compared with 5.1 percent.  “The economy suffered many shocks like shortage of power,
higher fuel and food prices,” said Yonoh Mtengule, chief
economist at National Bank of Commerce Ltd., the Tanzania unit
of  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  “All the key sectors that were accelerating
the economy before were curtailed, and a slowdown was
inevitable,” he said today in a phone interview.  Tanzania vies with Mali to be Africa’s third-biggest
producer of gold after  Ghana  and  South Africa  and has the
world’s only known deposit of tanzanite, a rare gem. The
government is targeting an annual average economic-growth rate
of 8 percent from 2011-12 to 2015-16, the country’s planning
commission said July 8.  “The government may have to revise growth rates for this
year downwards because similar shocks against the economy
continued in the second quarter,” Mtengule said.  Power Rationing  Drought has drained Tanzania’s main hydropower dams,
resulting in power rationing amid a deficit of 264 megawatts on
the national  power grid , Energy Minister William Ngeleja said in
February. Electricity demand in the East African nation of 40.5
million people is currently 840 megawatts, with installed
capacity at 1,120 megawatts.  IHS Global Insight, the London-based research group, said
it cut its growth forecast for the country to 5.9 percent for
the year from 6.3 percent previously.  “We believe that the economic cost from power shortages is
expected to be even higher in the second and third quarters,
when widespread power rationing brought production stoppages in
the mining and manufacturing sectors,” Mark Bohlund, senior sub-
Saharan Africa economist at IHS, said in an e-mailed note.  The statistics agency is scheduled to release second-
quarter economic data next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam  via Nairobi at 
440 or  pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 