-- 
AOL Said to Discuss Deal With Yahoo Advisers Amid Bartz Exit

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-09T20:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/aol-said-to-discuss-deal-with-yahoo-advisers.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  is talking with advisers to Yahoo! Inc. to gauge its
interest in combining the companies after the ouster of CEO
 Carol Bartz , according to two people familiar with the matter.  Armstrong is discussing options for a combination aimed at
strengthening the two Internet companies, said the people, who
wouldn’t be identified because the talks aren’t public. He has
talked with private equity firms and investment bankers from
Allen & Co. working with Yahoo, one person said.  Armstrong had been interested in a merger with Yahoo last
year and was rebuffed while Bartz was at the helm, one person
said. Her departure prompted him to reconsider the option, and,
under one scenario now being considered, Yahoo would acquire AOL
and Armstrong would become CEO of the combined company, the
person said.  Yahoo is unlikely to be interested in a deal for AOL at
this time given the company’s losses and declining revenue,
according to one person familiar with the matter. AOL’s market
value is about $1.6 billion, while Yahoo’s is about $18.2
billion.  Graham James, a spokesman for AOL, and  Kim Rubey ,
spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to comment.  AOL and Yahoo have been struggling to compete against
Internet companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc. AOL has
lost almost $800 million since it was spun off from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX)  in 2009. The Internet pioneer has struggled to make money
from online advertising as its profitable dial-up Internet
access business declines. AOL is also using Allen & Co. to
consider its strategic options.  Yahoo’s Decline  Yahoo, the most-visited U.S. Web portal, fired Bartz on
Sept. 6, after less than three years as CEO. Once an $80 billion
company, Yahoo has fallen more than 80 percent as it lost
Internet users and advertising revenue to Google and Facebook.
Bartz was hired after Yahoo rejected a $47.5 billion offer from
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in 2008.  Yahoo has been working with Allen & Co. and UBS AG for some
time, according to Charles Sipkins, a spokesman for Yahoo’s
board.  AOL, based in New York, fell 82 cents, or 5.3 percent, to
$14.72 at 4 p.m. on New York Stock Exchange. Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo rose 4 cents to $14.48 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Pulley in New York at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 Dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  