-- 
Asian Currencies Decline on U.S. Economic Recovery, European Debt Concern

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-09T22:36:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/asian-currencies-have-weekly-decline-on-global-slowdown-concern.html
Asian currencies fell this week,
led by slides in the  Singapore dollar  and India’s rupee, as a
faltering U.S. recovery and Europe’s debt crisis prompted
investors to favor safer bets than emerging-market assets.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index had its biggest
weekly loss this year after global funds pulled $2.3 billion
from shares in  South Korea  and Taiwan in the first four days of
the week. Central banks in  Korea , Indonesia, the Philippines and
Malaysia held off from raising  interest rates  at policy reviews
on Sept. 8 after the U.S. reported zero jobs growth for August.
The  European Central Bank  also left borrowing costs unchanged
and cut its growth forecasts for the region.  “The ECB seems to be quite worried about the slowdown in
economic activity in  Europe  and that is casting a pall on risk
sentiment globally,” said Nick Verdi, a Singapore-based
currency strategist at  Barclays Capital . “The U.S. labor market
is very weak. Market participants were trying to weigh up
whether the Fed will enact further monetary stimulus.”  The Singapore dollar fell 1.7 percent this week to S$1.2244
against its U.S. counterpart, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rupee weakened 1.7 percent to 46.5650, South
Korea’s won dropped 2 percent to 1,084.10 and Malaysia’s ringgit
declined 1.5 percent to 3.0095.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10 most-
active currencies excluding the yen, dropped 0.99 percent in the
past five days, the most since the week ended Nov. 26.  U.S., Europe  Concern the  U.S. economy  will slip into a recession
prompted President Barack Obama to unveil a $447 billion plan to
Congress on Sept. 8 to create jobs through tax cuts and
infrastructure spending. The ECB cut its 2011 growth forecast on
Sept. 8 to 1.6 percent, from 1.9 percent, and its projection for
2012 to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent.  Finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations, meeting
yesterday in Marseille, France, said concerns about the future
of a global economic recovery highlight the need for policy
makers to support growth. They agreed to “take all necessary
actions to ensure the resilience of banking systems and
financial markets.”  The ECB, the Bank of  Japan  and the  Federal Reserve  may
implement coordinated monetary-policy easing to tackle weak
growth, Morgan Stanley economists wrote in a Sept. 7 note to
investors. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke refrained from signaling
plans for further stimulus in a speech on Sept. 8 in  Minneapolis .  “Speeches made by Bernanke and Obama were in line with
expectations, and not enough to surprise the market,” said Kim Sung Soon, a Seoul-based senior currency trader at the
Industrial Bank of Korea. “The lingering uncertainty in global
financial markets is putting downward pressure on the won.”  ‘External’ Risks  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said Sept. 8 that
inflation may exceed the 4 percent target this year, adding it’s
hard to find ways to curb consumer-price gains. The Bank of
Korea kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3.25 percent
for a third month on Sept. 8 and said it may not be able to
increase borrowing costs until “external” factors such as
Europe’s debt crisis are under control.  The ringgit had its biggest weekly loss in a month after
government data showed that  Malaysia ’s export growth moderated
to 7.1 percent in July from 9.6 percent the previous month.  “Prolonged uncertainties in the financial markets,
weakness in the labor market and the prevailing fiscal
conditions in the advanced economies have heightened the
downside risks and fragility of the global economy,” Bank
Negara said in its policy  statement  on Sept. 8. “In the
domestic economy, recent indicators point to slower growth in
external demand.”  Export Slump  Taiwan’s dollar completed its biggest weekly decline since
February, sliding 0.9 percent to NT$29.265 versus the greenback.
The island’s overseas sales rose 7.2 percent in August from a
year earlier, the least since they last declined in October 2009,
the Ministry of Finance reported this week. Economists expected
a 15.5 percent increase, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso declined 0.7 percent to
42.438 per dollar and Thailand’s baht fell 0.5 percent to 30.07.
 China ’s yuan lost 0.09 percent to 6.3882, while  Indonesia ’s
dropped 0.8 percent to 8,588 from Aug. 26. Financial markets in
Southeast Asia’s biggest economy were shut for a holiday in the
week ended Sept. 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  