-- 
AT&T Calls T-Mobile Deal Good for Public

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-10T00:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/at-t-replies-to-u-s-suit-calls-t-mobile-deal-good-for-public.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  said its proposed
$39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc. is good for mobile-
phone customers and that the U.S. lawsuit seeking to block the
deal “fails to come to grips” with its benefits.  AT&T filed its response today to the U.S.  Justice
Department ’s complaint in federal court in Washington. The
company said the merger would lead to better service, fewer
dropped calls and lower prices for consumers. AT&T cited fierce
competition from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , MetroPCS Communications Inc., Leap Wireless International
Inc., U.S. Cellular Corp. and Cellular South Inc.  “The Department does not and cannot explain how, in the
face of all these aggressive rivals, the combined AT&T/T-Mobile
will have any ability or incentive to restrict output, raise
prices, or slow innovation,” AT&T said in the filing.  AT&T described T-Mobile as “the only major carrier to have
actually lost subscribers in a robustly growing market” with a
business model that has it trapped between large providers and
lower-priced competitors.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies, which would make AT&T the
biggest U.S. wireless carrier, would “substantially” reduce
competition.  ‘Interested’ in Solution  Mike Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman in Washington, said in an
e-mail that the company remains “interested in a solution that
addresses the DOJ’s issues with the T-Mobile merger.”  The company said in the filing that the government’s
characterization of AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon and Sprint as the
“big four” is misleading because the Federal Communications
Commission recently reported that 90 percent of U.S. consumers
have at least five wireless providers to choose from.  AT&T also added new lawyers to the case. Mark Hansen of
Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans & Figel PLLC in  Washington 
filed today as lead counsel. Hansen, who has previously
represented AT&T, Verizon, General Electric Co. and Morgan
Stanley, declined to comment on the filing or his status as lead
counsel.  Hernan Daguerre, a T-Mobile spokesman, declined to comment
on the filing.  “This transaction as currently proposed is anticompetitive
and harmful to consumers,”  Gina Talamona , a spokeswoman for the
antitrust division of the Justice Department, said in an
interview. “We will respond further in our court filings.”  Sprint, which has filed its own lawsuit opposing the
merger, said AT&T’s filing doesn’t change its position on the
deal.  ‘Could Raise Prices’  “The proposed takeover would create a clear wireless
duopoly that could raise prices, stifle innovation and cost
American jobs,” Sprint spokesman  John Taylor  said in an e-mail.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle has set a hearing
for Sept. 21 and told the parties to be prepared to discuss
settlement options.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 