-- 
Tata Motors CEO Forster Resigns After Less Than Two Years Running Company

-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 
2011-09-09T20:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/tata-motors-chief-executive-officer-forster-resigns-citing-personal-reason.html
Carl-Peter Forster, chief executive
officer of  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner of the Jaguar and  Land Rover 
brands, has resigned after less than two years at the helm
citing “unavoidable personal circumstances.”  Forster, who joined Tata Motors in 2010, will remain as a
non-executive member on the company’s board, the Mumbai-based
Tata Motors said in an e-mailed statement today. India’s biggest
automaker by revenue hired Forster from General Motors Co. where
he was head of European operations.  Tata Motors’ American depositary receipts plunged 9.2
percent to $15.35 yesterday in  New York . Forster’s resignation
is a “setback” as the company struggles to boost sales at home
in India, while the debt crisis in Europe slows demand for
Jaguar cars, according to Deepesh Rathore, managing director for
IHS Automotive in  India .  “He was one of the strong pillars for JLR,” said Pramod Amthe, an analyst with Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Mumbai. “His exit as the head of the business is definitely
negative. Investors may not get the same level of comfort they
used to get from talking to Carl.”  Prakash Telang, managing director of the company’s Indian
operations, and Ralf Speth, chief executive officer of Jaguar
Land Rover, will represent their respective units on Tata
Motors’ board, according to today’s statement.  “The board respects Carl-Peter’s personal circumstances
that led to this move,” Chairman  Ratan Tata  said in an e-mailed
statement today. “We would like to thank him for his
contributions to the successful development of our company.”  World’s Cheapest Car  Passenger-vehicle sales at Tata Motors slumped 33 percent
in August from a year earlier after India’s central bank raised
its benchmark  interest rate  to 8 percent in July, the highest
among  Asia ’s biggest economies.  Jaguar sales declined 23 percent to 4,372 in July,
according to a company statement. Almost 25 percent of Jaguar
and Land Rover sales come from the U.K., where the economy grew
at the slowest pace in the second quarter since it contracted in
the first three months of 2010.  North America  and Europe account
for about 22 percent each of sales, according to a company
 presentation .  Deliveries of the  Nano , the world’s cheapest car, plunged
85 percent to 1,202 units in August, Tata Motors said in a
statement on Sept. 1. The  Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers  said this week it may cut the industry’s sales
forecast after economic growth slowed to the least in six
quarters in the three months ended June.  Nano sales haven’t picked up, while “the Indica and Indigo
brands are laggards in their respective segments,” said IHS
Automotive’s Rathore. “A double dip in  Europe  will be
catastrophic for Jaguar and Land Rover.” The Indica is a
hatchback and the Indigo is a sub-compact sedan on the same
platform.  Successor  Tata Motors shares declined 3.3 percent to 764.9 rupees at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai. The shares have declined 42
percent this year, compared with a 18 percent decline in the BSE
India Sensitive Index. Forster’s resignation was announced after
market hours.  “I would expect Forster’s position to be filled up in the
next two to three months if the company wants to keep their
plans on track,” said Rathore.  Tata Motors bought Jaguar Land Rover from Ford Motor Co. in
2008 for $2.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at   kinoue@bloomberg.net . 