-- 
Australian, N.Z. Dollars Rise After Obama’s Jobs Address, China Inflation

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-09-09T17:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/australian-n-z-dollars-rise-after-obama-s-jobs-address-china-inflation.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars dropped against the majority of their most-traded peers
as concern Greece is moving closer to defaulting on its debt
sapped investor demand for higher-yielding assets.  The antipodean currencies earlier gained after U.S.
President  Barack Obama  proposed a $447 billion package to spur
hiring in the world’s largest economy. The currencies fell the
most against the yen as  Japan ’s currency benefited from its
haven status, even as Greek officials said no announcements were
planned. Finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations meet
today to discuss ways to bolster their economies.  “People have been talking about a Greek meltdown since the
morning, but nobody is sitting there laying down huge bets on a
Greek default,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president in
Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer. “You have a G-7 meeting, so there is a lot of event
risk this weekend. That is just adding to the mix.”  Australia’s dollar fell 1.1 percent to $1.0457 at 1:31 p.m.
in  New York , from $1.0576 yesterday. It dropped 1.2 percent to
80.953 yen. New Zealand’s dollar weakened 1.1 percent to 82.21
U.S. cents, from 83.09. It dropped 1.2 percent to 63.632 yen.  Greek bond yields reached record highs as the country
endeavors to show it can reach budget-cutting targets to receive
financial aid. Credit-default swaps insuring Greek sovereign
bonds jumped 212 basis points to a record 3,238, according to
CMA.  Greece  has no plans to publish details of anticipated
participation in its debt-swap program this week or next, said
 Petros Christodoulou , head of the country’s debt management
office.  Obama called on Congress yesterday to pass a jobs proposal
that includes infrastructure spending, subsidies to local
governments and tax reductions. The centerpiece of the plan is
cuts in payroll taxes, which cover the first $106,800 in
earnings and are evenly split between employers and employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  