-- 
Tax-Backed N.Y. Sale Shows Investors Bet on Wall Street Gains: Muni Credit

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/tax-backed-n-y-sale-shows-investors-bet-on-wall-street-gains-muni-credit.html
The  New York  Thruway Authority’s
21 percent cost saving on bonds backed by personal-income levies
shows investors are betting Wall Street’s home will buck
forecasts of slowing U.S. state tax revenue amid flagging job
growth.  The debt, with a top rating from  Standard & Poor’s , sold
yesterday with a yield of 2.41 percent for 10-year tax-exempt
securities. That’s 21 percent less than what a New York State
Dormitory Authority bond, also supported by personal-income
taxes and with the same credit grade, received in July. Yields
on AAA municipal bonds have fallen by the same amount during the
past two months, according to BVAL bond data.  New York’s 26 percent gain in personal-income levies last
quarter surpassed the national average of 16.5 percent,
according to the  Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government .
While  RBC Capital Markets  said this week that a weakening job
market may sap tax collections, New York may be in a better
position than other states to withstand a potential economic
slowdown.  “New York has a very diverse economy and should weather
any economic downturn probably better than most states,” said
Michael Pietronico, chief executive officer of Miller Tabak
Asset Management. He manages $585 million of municipal assets,
including New York debt backed by personal-income taxes.  $22.5 Billion  The Thruway Authority, which oversees a 570-mile (917-
kilometer) toll-road system, sold about $352 million of the tax-
exempt securities to finance highways and bridges. It’s the
second-biggest offer of a week in which sales are set to total
$3.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on 10-year top-rated municipal debt fell to 2.09
percent yesterday, the lowest since at least January 2009, when
Bloomberg data on the maturity began. The yield has tumbled from
2.64 percent when the dormitory authority sold in July.  The Thruway agency is one of five New York authorities that
have sold a total of about $22.5 billion of debt backed by
personal-income levies, S&P said in a report. Few municipalities
outside New York state and city sell such bonds, according to
Evercore Wealth Management LLC.  New York’s collection of personal-income taxes rose 4.2
percent last fiscal year, and the third-most populous state
forecasts a 7.9 percent gain in fiscal 2012, according to S&P.  Investor Protection  The state gets about 15 percent of its tax revenue from
 Wall Street , according to Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . Revenue
of the six largest U.S. banks is projected to rise about 5
percent in 2012 relative to this year, according to Bloomberg
data.  If levies on bankers’ compensation should fall, investors
are still protected because New York sets aside as much as $6
billion, or 25 percent, of personal-income tax collections in a
fund to repay the bonds, S&P said.  “The income tax in New York is very heavily dependent on
Wall Street and the jobs generated, and salaries and bonuses, so
depending on how the market does this year, there could be some
additional weakness” in the local economy, said Howard Cure,
director of municipal-credit research in New York for Evercore,
which manages $2.9 billion of municipal securities, including
about $30 million of New York personal-income-tax debt. “But
the coverage is very strong on these bonds.”  U.S. job growth unexpectedly stalled in August. Payrolls
were unchanged, the weakest reading since September 2010, and
compared with the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey for
a gain of 68,000. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  States’ personal-income  tax revenue  may begin to slump if
payroll remain as weak as in August, because growth in the
collections is “highly correlated” with employment levels,
RBC’s Chris Mauro wrote in a report this week.  Still, the  reserve fund  for the securities is “a solid
mechanism for these monies to be directed to pay off the
bonds,” Pietronico said. “One of the attractive elements of a
deal like this is it cannot be politically altered moving
forward should the state become lacking in cash.”  Following is a description of a pending sale of municipal
debt:  The New York City Municipal Water Finance Authority, which
provides drinking water to the city’s eight million residents,
will sell through competitive bid as soon as Sept. 13 about $458
million of water and sewer-system revenue bonds to finance
capital projects and refund debt. (Added Sept. 9)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  