-- 
Tax Credits Over Deductions for Retiree Savings Pushed at Panel

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-09-09T18:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/tax-credits-over-deductions-for-retiree-savings-pushed-at-panel.html
Replacing  tax deductions  with
credits for retirement savings would benefit low- and middle-
income Americans, federal economic policy expert William Gale
told a retirement security forum.  Credits would shift tax benefits from those paying the top
tax rates to more modest earners, Gale said today at an event in
Washington hosted by the  Senate Special Committee on Aging .  The current system of retirement savings is flawed, Gale
said, because it delivers the “largest immediate benefits to
higher-income individuals in the highest tax brackets.”  Redirecting incentives is particularly important because
“the current weakness in the economy actually poses a threat to
the retirement system” by putting pressure on families to cut
back on savings, said Gale, director of the Retirement Security
Project at the non-partisan  Brookings Institution .  Gale proposed eliminating tax exclusions for worker and
employer contributions to employer-based 401(k)s as well as
deductions for contributions to individual retirement accounts.
He recommended substituting a tax credit, deposited directly
into an employee’s retirement savings account.  A 30 percent credit would be revenue-neutral over 10 years,
Gale said. If the government wanted to reap savings for  deficit
reduction , reducing the credit to 18 percent would yield $458
billion over 10 years for the Treasury, he said.  Gale’s proposal is based on a 2006 paper he co-wrote with
 Peter Orszag , former director of the Office of Management and
Budget, and Jonathan Gruber.  In an op-ed article in Bloomberg News on Sept. 7, Orszag,
now vice-chairman of global banking at Citigroup Inc., said
research shows that under the current system income deposited by
high earning households in tax-preferred accounts, like a
401(k), would likely have been saved anyway.  Encouraging Saving  “To encourage more saving, per dollar tax incentives
should be larger at the bottom than at the top,” Orszag wrote.  David John, senior research fellow at the Washington-based
 Heritage Foundation , which advocates for free enterprise and
limited government, said at the event today that private savings
proposals like Gale’s are important because even if Social
Security were fully funded, it only provides about half of the
income Americans need for a comfortable retirement.  “We need to be able to depend at least to some extent on
ourselves,” John told the forum. “It is a rough world out
there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in  Washington  at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  