-- 
Axiata, Berjaya, DiGi, Malaysian Air: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-09T00:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/axiata-berjaya-digi-malaysian-air-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.4 percent
to 1,469.83.  Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA)  : The Employees Provident
Fund, Malaysia’s biggest pension fund, bought a net 4.6 million
shares in the mobile-phone operator, a stock exchange filing
showed. The stock gained 0.6 percent to 4.77 ringgit.  Berjaya Food Bhd. (BFD MK): The restaurant-chain operator’s
profit in the first quarter ended July 31 rose 10 percent from a
year earlier to 2.86 million ringgit, according to a stock
exchange filing. Berjaya Food gained 1.2 percent to 85.5 sen.        DiGi.Com Bhd. (DIGI)  : Malaysia’s third-largest mobile
phone operator plans to return cash to shareholders after
receiving a 509 million-ringgit ($170 million) payment from a
unit. The company also said investors will receive 10 shares for
each one they currently own in a proposed split to make the
stock more affordable and boost liquidity, according to stock
exchange filings. The stock was suspended on Sept. 8. It last
traded at 31.12 ringgit.        GHL Systems Bhd. (GHLS)  : The online transactions
provider appointed Kanagaraj Lorenz as its chief executive
officer, it said in a statement. The stock was unchanged at 40
sen.        Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  : The carrier’s
unions may protest the company’s planned share-swap with rival
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  , said Alias Aziz, president of the
Malaysia Airlines Employees’ Union. The union will hold a picket
in November if the carrier’s management doesn’t respond to its
concerns, Alias said in a telephone interview. Malaysian Air
said in a statement it will continue to engage with the unions.
The stock fell 0.7 percent to 1.52 ringgit. AirAsia added 0.6
percent to 3.41 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  