-- 
Banks, Construction Stocks May Bounce Back, India Nivesh Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-09T10:48:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/banks-construction-stocks-may-bounce-back-india-nivesh-says.html
Daljeet Kolhi, head of research at
 India  Nivesh Securities Pvt., comments on the outlook for the
nation’s equities. He spoke in a phone interview from Mumbai.  The BSE India Sensitive Index dropped 1.7 percent to
16,866.97 at the 3:30 p.m. close.  On markets:  “Markets remain concerned about the global scenario. The
situation in the eurozone and the U.S. remains sticky. There
were expectations Obama will announce something great for the
economic revival of the country. Nothing has come out of it.
Whatever he has announced are long-term measures, so we won’t
see the effects any time soon. Secondly, where will the money
come from? Cutting healthcare expenditure won’t be possible in
an ageing population. We will have to wait till the Fed meeting
on Sept 20. Perhaps QE3 will be announced. On the domestic
front, inflation is the biggest concern.”  On India’s interest rates:  “Rate-tightening will continue because inflation
continues. We will have to wait till the  Reserve Bank  of India’s
meeting on Sept. 16. There will be another 50 to 75 basis point
increase. Markets will remain jittery about this.”  On investment strategy:  “Investors should remain light because so much policy
action is due in this period. They should take advantages of
rallies towards 5,100 to 5,200 to book their profits and re-
enter whenever markets give them an opportunity. This is our
view for the next two-to-three months because we don’t see
anything changing structurally. Investors should be nimble and
pull out as soon as they get 15 to 20 percent profit.”  “Investor should consider stocks from beaten down sectors
like banking, construction and infrastructure stocks. There is
an opportunity of a bounce-back. They should avoid  consumer
goods  and pharmaceutical stocks. Though these are defensive
sectors, they are trading at high multiples and have a high
margins of error. Investors should also look at sectors less
dependent on international markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  