-- 
Beverly Hilton Said to Get Investment From Oaktree, Averting Sale of Hotel

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-09-09T19:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/beverly-hilton-said-to-get-investment-from-oaktree-averting-sale-of-hotel.html
The Beverly Hilton hotel in  Los
Angeles  received an investment from  Howard Marks ’s Oaktree
Capital Management LP, averting a sale of the landmark property,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  Oaktree, based in Los Angeles, is now a partner with
current owner Oasis West Realty LLC, said the person, who asked
not to be named because the deal is private. The owners got a
new mortgage to replace a $300 million loan that came due last
month, according to the person.  The Oaktree investment will enable Oasis to proceed with
plans for two residential buildings and an additional luxury
hotel at the 9-acre (3.6-hectare) Beverly Hilton site, the
person said. The developer last year hired Cushman & Wakefield
Sonnenblick Goldman to sell or recapitalize the hotel and
surrounding property ahead of the loan’s maturity.  The suggested asking price for an outright sale was more
than $500 million, according to the person, who declined to
disclose the amount of Oaktree’s investment.  Stephen O’Connor , a spokesman for Cushman in Los Angeles,
declined to comment. Marks didn’t immediately return a message
seeking comment, nor did Beny Alagem, Oasis’s chief executive
officer.  The 570-room Beverly Hilton, located at the intersection of
Wilshire and Santa Monica boulevards in  Beverly Hills , was
opened in 1955 by Conrad Hilton and has hosted such notables as
Presidents  John F. Kennedy  and  Bill Clinton . The property was
owned by television personality Merv Griffin from 1987 to 2003.  Oasis bought the hotel in 2003 for about $130 million and
spent about $80 million on improvements, the person said.  Oaktree is the biggest distressed-debt investor, overseeing
more than $80 billion for pension funds from Massachusetts to
Florida and the world’s largest sovereign-wealth funds, such as
China Investment Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  