-- 
BMW Plants Defy Recession Threats

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-09-09T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/bmw-plants-defy-recession-threats.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s plants
continue to churn out cars at a record pace and buyers of the
revamped X3 sport-utility vehicle will have to wait until 2012
for delivery, Chief Financial Officer Friedrich Eichiner said.  “Our business indicators don’t show signs of a
recession,” Eichiner said at a Munich briefing with journalists
yesterday. “Our factories are working at full tilt.”  Sales for the maker of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce cars rose
7.4 percent to 110,891 vehicles in August boosted by the X3. The
$36,750 mid-sized SUV was revamped last year and orders made now
won’t likely be delivered before next year, Eichiner said.  BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi
are forecasting record sales this year amid increasing demand in
 China  and the U.S. Audi said last month that the carmaker is
hiring staff to increase car production, including a 57 percent
capacity boost for the 69,600-euro ($96,575) A8 flagship sedan,
on expectations that the luxury-auto industry will weather the
stock-market slump. Mercedes is also raising output.  BMW’s upbeat outlook contrasts with widespread concern
about an economic slowdown. European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that threats to the euro
region’s economy have “intensified” as the region’s debt
crisis worsens. The carmaker’s shares have tumbled on the gloom,
dropping 23 percent in the past two months.  Even as current business appears insulated from the
economic risks, BMW is prepared for a slowdown after trimming
costs and reducing its leasing business to lower financial risk
during the 2009 recession, Eichiner said, adding that BMW could
withstand a similar crisis without its automotive business
slipping to a loss.  Emotional Decisions  “We have to be careful not to talk ourselves into a
crisis,” Eichiner said. “Buying decisions are emotional, and
at some point the talk of a slowdown becomes a self-fulfilling
prophecy.”  New products like the revamped 5-Series and X1 compact SUV
are helping to maintain demand even amid economic uncertainty,
he said. The manufacturer will continue to roll out new models
and will present the Mini Coupe and an overhauled version of the
1-Series compact next week at the International Motor Show in
 Frankfurt .  To support plans to boost sales to more than 2 million
vehicles by 2020, BMW will likely decide this year whether to
build a new plant in  Brazil , Eichiner said. The company is also
hiring 3,500 people in 2011 as it seeks new talent, especially
to design and build electric vehicles, personnel chief Harald Krueger said at the briefing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  