-- 
BNP, HSBC, Citigroup Warn of Damages From Basel Surcharge Plans

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-09T12:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/bnp-hsbc-citigroup-warn-of-damages-from-basel-surcharge-plans.html
Banks said that plans by regulators
to impose capital surcharges of as much as 2.5 percentage points
on lenders whose failure would damage the global economy are
flawed and risk harming the recovery of the financial system.  Lenders including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , BNP Paribas SA and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  have called for changes to the plans in letters
submitted to the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . BNP,
 France ’s largest bank, has called for the measures to be delayed
because of the “very fragile” state of the European economy.  “We are concerned that the proposal will inhibit global
commerce by discouraging banks from facilitating global trade,”
Citi said in its  response , published alongside others on the
Basel committee’s  website . “Additional  capital requirements 
have consequences for the ability of banks to provide support to
the real economy,” HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, said.  Regulators are seeking to prevent a repeat of the freeze in
interbank lending and government bailouts of banks that followed
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The Basel
committee, which brings together regulators from countries
including the U.S., U.K. and  China , published plans in July to
force systemically important banks to hold capital beyond
internationally approved minimum levels, known as Basel III.
Lenders were given until Aug. 29 to comment on the proposals,
which it estimated would affect as many as 28 banks.  Stefan Walter, the secretary general of the Basel
Committee, declined to comment on the consultation. The
responses will be discussed at a meeting of the committee
scheduled for Sept. 27-28, he said.  Amplifies Concerns  The surcharge plan “amplifies” concerns Basel capital
rules will “hamper the banks’ capacity to finance the economy
and foster growth,”  BNP Paribas (BNP)  said in its  response .
“Elementary wisdom would dictate delaying it for review once
all other highly demanding regulatory measures have been
implemented,” the bank said.  “The European economy is currently very fragile and
dependent on the banks’ ability to support it,” BNP said. “It
would be incomprehensible to penalize the development of the
European banking market in these circumstances.”  The proposals may “exacerbate apparent inconsistencies
that already exist in banks’ risk-weighted asset calculations,”
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  said in its response.  HSBC was among the banks to warn the plans could lead to
“market distortions” as lenders deemed to be systemically
important could attract deposits and market funding more easily
than other banks during a crisis.  The surcharges will be calculated as a proportion of a
bank’s assets weighted according to their riskiness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 