-- 
Brazil Sugar Premiums May Increase ICE Interest, Kingsman Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-09T15:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/brazil-sugar-premiums-may-increase-ice-interest-kingsman-says.html
Elevated premiums for physical sugar
from  Brazil  may spur interest in obtaining supplies from the
country on ICE Futures U.S. when the October contract expires
this month, according to Kingsman SA.  Raw sweetener for loading in October at the port of Santos
is at a premium of more than 1 cent a pound to the ICE price,
the broker and researcher said today. A potential sugar delivery
from the Philippines had curbed interest in the October
contract, it said Sept. 1. Sugar from the Asian nation is of
inferior quality to Brazilian sweetener, according to Kingsman.  “If there is a big enough delivery, the amount of
Brazilian sugar received may potentially offset the amount of
sugar from the  Philippines ,” Fabienne Pointier, an analyst at
Lausanne, Switzerland-based Kingsman, said by phone today.
“Some traders believe the risk of receiving sugar from the
Philippines is small due to logistical constraints.”  The island archipelago may have between 200,000 and 300,000
metric tons of surplus supplies still available for export,
Pointier said Sept. 1. The October contract traded on ICE in  New
York  expires Sept. 30.  The price gap between sugar for October delivery and March-
delivery sweetener widened this month amid potential interest in
the delivery. The October 2011 contract was last 1.18 cents more
expensive than the March 2012 contract, data compiled by
Bloomberg showed, against 0.86 cent on Sept. 1.  Weather Pattern  “Given the rising risks of La Nina and the further
tightening of October 2011-March 2012, we will have to temper
our downside expectations for sugar,” Luis Rangel, vice
president of commodity derivatives at ICAP Futures LLC in  Jersey
City ,  New Jersey , said in a report yesterday.  La Nina, a weather pattern associated with cooler-than-
normal water temperatures in the equatorial  Pacific Ocean , has
returned and will strengthen and persist into the Northern
Hemisphere’s winter, the U.S. National Weather Service said on
its website yesterday.  The weather phenomenon may hurt sugar-cane yields in
Brazil, the world’s largest producer of the commodity, according
to Macquarie Group Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 