-- 
Brazil Central Bank Will Cut GDP Forecast on Global Slowdown, Tombini Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 
2011-09-09T15:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/brazil-central-bank-will-cut-4-growth-forecast-tombini-says.html
Brazil ’s central bank will cut its
forecast for economic growth this year as a slowdown in
developed nations curbs demand for commodities, bank President
Alexandre Tombini said.  The central bank will reduce its current forecast of 4
percent growth later this month, Tombini said in an interview
with Globo News Television yesterday. Tombini did not say what
the new forecast will be.  “Our vision of the world economy, hit with a quarter of
the force it was during the 2008 crisis but for a longer period
of time, means slower growth,” Tombini said. “We’re not
talking about a global recession, we are talking about a
deceleration in the world economy with ramifications for the
Brazilian economy and for inflation.”  Last week’s half-point interest rate cut was a response to
the worsening global economic outlook, and doesn’t mean that
policy makers have switched from targeting inflation to
targeting growth, Tombini said.  “The central bank doesn’t have any other goal except
inflation,” Tombini said.  The surprise reduction in the benchmark rate, to 12
percent, followed five straight rate increases and led some
analysts to accuse the bank of yielding to calls by President
 Dilma Rousseff  to lower  interest rates . Tombini denied he was
being pressured.  ‘Run the Bank’  “The president has told me to run the central bank with
autonomy and make the best decisions,” Tombini said.  Tombini said that the central bank remains committed to its
4.5 percent inflation target, and that price increases will
start to ease during the third quarter. Consumer prices rose
7.23 percent in the year through August, exceeding the 6.5
percent upper limit of the bank’s target range for a fifth
straight month.  “Even with this cut in August, we have still tightened
monetary conditions by 125 basis points this year, and this is
still going to impact the economy, including the labor market,”
Tombini said. “Some moderation is important in this process of
slowing inflation to the target in 2012.”  Tombini said the labor market is last to feel the impact of
monetary tightening.  The central bank’s projections for inflation to slow to
target by the end of next year assume that the government will
hit its budget targets in 2012, Tombini said.  Fiscal Targets  “This government has consistently hit its fiscal
targets,” Tombini said. “This government has been showing
determination to maintain a robust fiscal situation to
differentiate the country.”  In the minutes to its August policy meeting published
yesterday, the central bank signaled that further rate cuts may
be coming. The Aug. 31 half-point rate cut was the central
bank’s fastest change of direction since 1999.  Traders are betting on a percentage-point rate cut this
year, according to Bloomberg estimates based on interest rate
futures.  Economists in a Sept. 2 central bank survey cut their 2011
growth forecast for a fifth straight week, to 3.67 percent,
after a 7.5 percent expansion last year that was the fastest in
more than two decades.  World stock markets lost $5 trillion between the central
bank’s July and August policy meetings, as  Europe  grappled with
a sovereign debt crisis and growth in the U.S. showed signs of
slowing.  Brazil’s surprise cut following  Turkey ’s decision to bring
its benchmark rate to a record low 5.75 percent after an
unscheduled meeting Aug. 4. Mexico and  Peru  have also signaled
that they may lower borrowing costs.  Slowing Growth  The world’s second-largest emerging market after  China  is
showing some signs of slowing, though economists are divided on
what impact the global slowdown will have.  Industrial production in July fell 0.3 percent from a year
earlier, while the bank’s economic activity index declined in
June for the first time since 2008.  Tombini said the outlook for commodities prices is stable
or lower. Food prices have been more resilient to the global
crisis than energy and metals, he said. Brazil’s biggest exports
are  iron ore , oil and soybeans.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the second-most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.730 percent
at 11:51 a.m. New York time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  