-- 
Brazil Real Declines to Weakest Since March on Growth Concern

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-09-09T22:11:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/brazil-real-declines-for-sixth-day-as-growth-concern-deepens.html
Brazil ’s real fell to the weakest
level since March as concern the global recovery is stalling
weakened demand for higher-yielding assets.  The real fell 0.8 percent to 1.6741 per dollar, from 1.6602
yesterday, after earlier touching 1.684, the weakest since March
17. The currency lost 2 percent this week, extending its drop
this year to 0.8 percent.  Stocks fell, commodities dropped and the euro declined to a
six-month low against the dollar as three German officials said
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is preparing plans to
shore up banks in the event that Greece defaults. Brazil’s
central bank will cut its forecast for economic growth this year
as a slowdown in developed nations curbs demand for commodities,
bank President Alexandre Tombini said in an interview with Globo
News Television yesterday.  “It’s the scenario of greater  risk aversion ,”  Solange Srour , chief economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos in  Rio de
Janeiro , said in a telephone interview. “Today the real is
accompanying the other currencies.”  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2013, the
most actively-traded in Sao Paulo, fell five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 10.71 percent. Yields on contracts due
in January suggest traders are betting the central bank will
lower the benchmark  interest rates  by 100 basis points by year-
end from 12 percent.  The central bank cut its benchmark interest rates by a half
percentage point last month, surprising all 62 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg who had expected policy makers to hold
rates steady.  The central bank will reduce its current forecast of 4
percent growth later this month, Tombini said in television
interview without giving further details.  “Our vision of the world economy, hit with a quarter of
the force it was during the 2008 crisis but for a longer period
of time, means slower growth,” Tombini said. “We’re not
talking about a global recession. We are talking about a
deceleration in the world economy with ramifications for the
Brazilian economy and for inflation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  