-- 
Bullard Says Fed Could Adjust Balance Sheet Further If Needed

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-09T19:06:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/bullard-says-fed-can-use-balance-sheet-policy-to-add-momentum-to-economy.html
St. Louis Federal Reserve President
 James Bullard  said policy makers need to consider if further
stimulus is needed after the  U.S. economy  slowed in the last few
months.  “The economy has weakened over the summer” Bullard, 50,
said in an interview with Toronto-based Business News Network
today. “We have to think very hard about what our policy
options are.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday
that policy makers will discuss the tools they could use “to
promote a stronger economic recovery in the context of  price
stability ” at their Sept. 20-21 meeting. Options may include
buying more  government bonds  and lengthening the duration of
securities in its $1.65 trillion Treasury portfolio, a move
called “Operation Twist” after a similar program in the 1960s.  Asked if the Fed still has the power to deliver momentum to
the recovery, Bullard said, “I’m not one to say we are out of
ammunition.” Bullard, who is not a voter on the  Federal Open
Market Committee  this year, said the Fed can still stimulate the
economy “mostly through balance-sheet policy.”  “The committee has made no decision on ‘Operation Twist,’
so I think the market might be a little bit out in front on this
question,” Bullard said. He added that when the Fed last tried
this policy, “it didn’t work very well at that time.”  The world’s largest economy may still expand at a pace
exceeding 2 percent in the third and fourth quarters of this
year, Bullard said. “The chances of recession are only modest
at this point,” he said, adding the recovery of the U.S.
housing market will be a “long slog.”  Dissent Reflects Debate  Bullard said that dissenting votes cast in recent FOMC
decisions reflect both the extraordinary economic situation and
a healthy debate.  “We try to avoid group-think,” he said in the televised
interview. “You shouldn’t be surprised to see some dissenting
views.”  Investors shouldn’t expect European leaders to create an
“instant” solution to their fiscal crisis, in part because
legislatures across the region need to pass some agreements,
Bullard said.  “There are going to be ongoing negotiations for a long
time, possibly for a couple of years,” he said. “European
leaders absolutely have the resolve that they need to keep the
European project together.”  A potential default by  Greece  on its sovereign debt would
not necessarily lead to a systemic failure, Bullard said. “It
could be contained,” Bullard said. “That would depend on
exactly how it was handled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  