-- 
Cairo Demonstrators Try to Raze Embassy Wall

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-09-09T18:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/cairo-protesters-try-to-tear-down-wall-built-to-protect-israeli-embassy.html
Protesters outside the Israeli
Embassy in Cairo tore down part of a wall built by the army to
protect the mission, state-run Nile News reported today.  The broadcaster said protesters in another part of  Egypt ’s
capital hurled stones at the Interior Ministry and that some
tried to storm the building.  Thousands gathered in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  to demand the
acceleration of political change by the ruling military council
and an end to military trials of civilians. Twenty people were
injured in the square and six more near the embassy, state
television reported.  The protests come two days before the testimony of Field
Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi at the trial of former President
 Hosni Mubarak  on charges of corruption and involvement in the
killing of protesters during the uprising against him earlier
this year. Tantawi is the head of the army council that took
over from Mubarak after his ouster in February.  Tensions between Egypt and  Israel  have escalated as
violence on their shared border flared in August after militants
opened fire on cars and busses near the southern Israeli city of
Eilat. Three Egyptian police officers died in the ensuing
Israeli military response.  Israeli President  Shimon Peres  expressed sorrow over the
deaths and his country is investigating the possibility its
forces inadvertently killed the Egyptians while shooting at the
attackers, a military officer who declined to be identified,
citing regulations, said on Aug. 21.  Egypt’s army built a barrier around the building that
houses the Israeli mission in Cairo as demonstrations
intensified following the incident.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Langan at   hlangan@bloomberg.net  