-- 
Canada Loses Jobs for First Time Since March as Jobless Rate Rises to 7.3%

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-09T14:32:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/canada-loses-jobs-for-first-time-since-march-as-jobless-rate-rises-to-7-3-.html
Canada  unexpectedly lost jobs for
the first time in five months in August, led by goods-producing
industries such as construction and natural resources.  Employment fell by 5,500 after rising by 7,100 in the
previous month, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa, and the
jobless rate rose to 7.3 percent from July’s 7.2 percent, which
was the lowest since December 2008. Bloomberg News surveys
called for job gains of 21,500 and unemployment to stay at 7.2
percent.  Thirty-year government bond yields fell to as low as 2.853
percent, the lowest in Bloomberg records dating to 1990, as the
report signaled a stagnating job market following the second
quarter, when the economy shrank for the first time since the
2009 recession. Separate reports today showed housing starts
declining at the quickest this year and worker output per hour
falling at the fastest pace in five years.  “I’m concerned about third-quarter growth in Canada,”
said  Derek Holt , Scotia Capital’s vice president of economics in
Toronto. There are signs domestic demand is “falling to
pieces,” such as rising inventories, slower business investment
and housing, he said. “Let’s cross our fingers and hope the
consumer comes through in this picture.”  The Canadian dollar depreciated 0.7 percent to 99.69 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 9:58 a.m. in Toronto, from 98.95 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0031. The yield on
Canada’s 2-year government bonds dropped 5 basis points to 0.83
percent.  Goods Producers Drop  Work fell by 40,100 in goods-producing industries in August
and rose by 34,600 in services, today’s report showed.
Construction companies fired 24,300 people to lead the decline,
followed by 11,500 workers from natural resources firms.  The drop in employment comes after hourly worker output
fell at the fastest pace in five years in the second quarter.
 Labor productivity  slid 0.9 percent as output dropped and hours
worked rose,  Statistics Canada  said in a separate report.  Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., a government agency, said
the pace of home construction starts fell 9.7 percent in August,
the fastest rate this year.  The  Bank of Canada  said two days ago the need to raise
 interest rates  has “diminished” because a fading global
recovery will ease inflation pressures. The bank held the key
rate at 1 percent, where it’s been since last September.  Private Sector Decline  Private employment fell by 20,600 in August, while
government jobs rose by 22,000. Health-care and social
assistance jobs rose by 50,100.  Among companies cutting jobs is Transcontinental Inc.,
which said Aug. 30 it will fire about 30 workers as it moves
some printing equipment to a central location in  Montreal .  “Our first priority is to move our economic recovery
forward, and ensure Canada’s economy continues to create jobs,”
Prime Minister Stephen Harper told a meeting of Conservative
Party lawmakers yesterday.  The U.S., which buys three-quarters of Canada’s exports,
reported no increase in employment last month.  Charles Evans ,
president of the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago, said Sept. 7
the Fed should move “aggressively” to reduce unemployment,
even at the cost of temporarily pushing inflation higher.  Signs of Deleveraging  “We are feeling the effects of a recovery and slow
employment growth in the  United States ,” Tim Hockey, Toronto-
Dominion Bank group head of Canadian banking, said today at a
conference in  London . “Additionally, personal loan growth has
slowed down in Canada, as we are seeing some early signs of
consumer deleveraging.”  Canadian average hourly wages rose 1.4 percent in August
from a year earlier, repeating the July pace that was the
slowest June 2003.  Full-time employment rose by 25,700, and part-time jobs
fell 31,200, the report said.  The number of self-employed workers fell by 6,900, and
those working at corporations rose by 1,400.  “These weaker-than-expected results will feed into fears
that the Canadian economy will not rebound as sharply from its
second-quarter dip as policy makers would like to see,”  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 