-- 
Canada Second Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-09-09T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/canada-second-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's business sector labor productivity report for
the second quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  The labour productivity of Canadian businesses fell
0.9% in the second quarter, after increasing 0.4% in the
first quarter. The decline comes against a backdrop of
temporary factors which affected output more than labour,
including wildfires in Northern Alberta and a tsunami in
Japan.  Businesses cut back production for the first time in
two years while continuing to increase hours worked, which
explains the productivity downturn in the second quarter.  The real gross domestic product (GDP) of businesses was
down 0.3% in the second quarter. It was the first decrease
since the second quarter of 2009. The decline was largely
a result of the goods-producing industries, which
retreated after six consecutive quarterly advances. At the
same time, output in the services-producing industries
remained flat, following two quarters of expansion.  In contrast, hours worked in the business sector
maintained an upward trend, rising 0.6% in the second
quarter. Employment growth slowed to 0.4% in the second
quarter, while hours worked per job edged up by 0.2%.  Goods-producing businesses (-2.1%) contributed the most
to the overall decline in business productivity, after
rising 0.9% in the first quarter. The downturn was
widespread, with the largest declines occurring in mining,
oil and gas extraction (-3.0%) and manufacturing (-1.8%).
Wildfires in Northern Alberta, as well as maintenance
shutdowns in petroleum production and the tsunami in  Japan 
that disrupted the supply of motor vehicle parts to  North
America , all contributed to reducing output in the second
quarter.  Productivity in the services-producing industries edged
down 0.2% in the second quarter, after two consecutive
quarterly gains. The productivity declines seen in
wholesale trade, retail trade, professional services, and
accommodation and food services were partly offset by
advances in other industries.  In the  United States , the productivity of American
businesses was down 0.1% in the second quarter, after
falling 0.3% in the first quarter. This was the first time
since 2008 that there have been two consecutive quarters
of decline.  In Canadian businesses, labour costs per unit of
production grew by 0.9%, their fifth straight quarterly
increase. Since the second quarter of 2010, unit labour
costs have risen on average 0.7% per quarter.  The growth of unit labour costs in the second quarter
was due entirely to the productivity decline, as average
compensation per hour worked was unchanged from the
previous quarter. This came in the wake of three
consecutive 1.0% increases.  The average value of the Canadian dollar (+1.9%)
against its US counterpart continued to climb in the
second quarter, but its appreciation rate was somewhat
slower than in the previous two quarters. That was
reflected in a 2.8% increase in the unit labour costs of
Canadian businesses in US dollars, their third consecutive
quarterly advance.  By comparison, American businesses' unit labour costs
were up 0.9%, after advancing 1.7% in the first quarter.  The second quarter labour productivity figures released
today were revised back to the first quarter of 2011 at
the aggregate level and to the first quarter of 2010 at
the industry level.  Note: Important changes are coming to  Canada 's System of
National Accounts (CSNA), starting in May 2012. These
changes will affect all users of CSNA products and
statistics such as gross domestic product (GDP), balance
of payments, international investment, and input-output
tables. For more information, consult Canadian System of
National Accounts 2012 Historical Revision.  The term "productivity" in this release refers to
labour productivity. For the purposes of this analysis,
labour productivity and related variables cover the
business sector only. Labour productivity is a measure of
real GDP per hour worked. Unit labour cost is defined as
the cost of workers' wages and benefits per unit of real
GDP.  All the growth rates reported in this release are
rounded to one decimal place. They are calculated with
index numbers rounded to three decimal places, which are
now available on CANSIM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  