-- 
Canadian Currency Falls After Economy Unexpectedly Loses Jobs; Bonds Climb

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-09T21:03:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/canadian-dollar-declines-after-economy-unexpectedly-loses-jobs-in-august.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped for a second
day, approaching parity with its U.S. counterpart, as data
showed employers unexpectedly cut jobs in August for the first
time in five months.  Canadian government bond yields slid to record lows as
global stocks tumbled amid speculation  Greece  might default,
deepening Europe’s debt crisis. The U.S. dollar rose versus all
16 of its major peers, including Canada’s dollar, as investors
sought refuge. Canada’s unemployment rate rose, bolstering bets
the central bank may be slow to raise  interest rates .  “These weren’t very good numbers,” said  Dean Popplewell ,
head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm
Oanda Corp. “They mean the Bank of Canada is going to stay very
much on hold, and if things keep up like this, we could even be
looking at the bank wanting to ease rather than tighten the next
time around.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.7 percent to
99.67 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 98.95
cents yesterday. It lost 1.1 percent this week. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0033. The currency last traded on a one-for-one
basis with the greenback Aug. 9.  Stocks dropped, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
falling 2.7 percent and Canada’s S&P/TSX Composite Index losing
2.3 percent.  The greenback gained to a six-month high against the euro.
 Germany  is preparing plans to shore up its banks if Greece fails
to meet the terms of its aid package and defaults, three
officials said. The Greek Finance Ministry, in a statement,
rejected talk of default as “organized speculation.”  Flaherty on Greece  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Greece may have
to leave the euro if it fails to press ahead with its budget-
correcting plans. Flaherty spoke in Marseille,  France , where
he’s attending a meeting of Group of Seven officials.  Canada’s  government bonds  climbed, sending yields on the
30-year security down as much as nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 2.80 percent, the lowest level in Bloomberg
records dating to 1990. Ten-year note yields dropped 12 basis
points to touch 2.095 percent, the lowest since at least 1989,
and two-year note yields slid as much as 12 basis points to a
record 0.768 percent.  Government bonds have returned 7.8 percent this year, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data showed.  Bank of Canada  The Bank of Canada kept its target rate for overnight
lending between commercial banks at 1 percent on Sept. 7, where
it has been for a year. Policy makers said there was less need
for an increase as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a slow
U.S. economic rebound hobbled the global recovery.  The central bank reiterated it expected economic growth to
resume in the second half of this year, led by business
investment and  consumer spending . Policy makers’ next meeting is
on Oct. 25.  Payrolls in Canada decreased by a net 5,500 jobs in August
after an addition of 7,100 jobs in the previous month, the
nation’s statistics agency reported. The median forecast of 22
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 21,500.
Full-time employment rose by 25,700, and part-time jobs fell
31,200, the data showed. The jobless rate rose to 7.3 percent.  “It’s not as consistent with a third-quarter rebound as we
would like to have seen,”  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal  Bank of Canada ’s RBC Capital Markets, said
by phone from Toronto. “If the U.S. dollar keeps going like it
is, I don’t see why we shouldn’t get down to parity.”  Productivity Drops  Canadian  labor productivity  fell at the fastest pace in
five years from April to June, another report showed. It
declined 0.9 percent in the second quarter as business output
decreased 0.3 percent,  Statistics Canada  said.  The loonie touched the weakest in a month on Aug. 5, when
the government said in its last employment report the economy
had gained fewer than half the jobs economists had projected.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
cut its growth forecasts yesterday. The U.S., Canada’s biggest
trade partner, will expand 1.1 percent in the third quarter and
0.4 percent in the fourth quarter, instead of the 2.9 percent
and 3 percent increases predicted in May, the Paris-based group
said yesterday in an interim assessment.  Canada’s gross domestic product fell at a 0.4 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, the nation’s statistics
agency reported Aug. 31. Canada was the only G-7 country besides
 Japan  to contract from April through June.  Employers in the U.S. added zero jobs last month, the Labor
Department said in  Washington  on Sept. 2. It was the weakest
reading of the data since September 2010.  ‘Loss of Momentum’  Today’s employment report “clearly sounds an underlying
loss of momentum in Canada’s job market, as private sector and
goods-producing jobs fell,”  Douglas Porter , deputy chief
economist at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in
Toronto, wrote in a note. “The underlying trend in Canada’s job
market is cooling.”  Canada’s currency will strengthen to 98 cents per U.S.
dollar by year-end, according to the median of 34 economists’
and analysts’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The loonie has weakened 3 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback has declined 3.2
percent, while the yen has gained 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  