-- 
McDonald’s August Same-Store Sales Gain 3.5%, Trailing Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-09T20:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/mcdonald-s-august-sales-rise-3-5-trailing-analysts-estimates.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, reported August same-store sales that
trailed analysts’ estimates as U.S. consumers restrained
spending and Hurricane Irene hurt traffic on the East Coast.  Sales at stores open at least 13 months rose 3.5 percent,
the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts projected a gain of 5 percent, the average of seven
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. sales advanced 3.9
percent, missing analysts’ estimates for a 4.5 percent gain.  Chief Executive Officer James Skinner has sought to boost
afternoon sales with snack wraps and smoothies while U.S.
consumer confidence in August slumped to the lowest since April
2009. Hurricane Irene, which struck the East Coast including  New
York  City late last month, knocked out power to more than 6
million homes and businesses.  The hurricane “hit them on the East Coast, which is
probably a stronger region and hurt them on a weekend,” Peter Saleh, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York, said
today in an interview. The storm may have reduced August sales
by 0.5 percent, he said.  McDonald’s dropped $3.58, or 4 percent, to $85.03 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest
decline in more than two years. The shares have gained 11
percent this year.  McDonald’s sales rose 2.7 percent in  Europe  and fell 0.3
percent in  Asia , Africa and the  Middle East . Analysts were
expecting growth of 6 percent in Europe and 3.7 percent in Asia,
Africa and the Middle East.  Asian Sales  Sales growth in China and  Australia  was offset by weakness
in  Japan , where same-store sales fell 8.2 percent last month,
the company said. The sales decline in Asia, Africa and the
Middle East was the first since November 2009.  McDonald’s and other restaurants have experienced higher
costs for ingredients such as beef and cheese during the past
year. In May, the company boosted prices 1.4 percent in the
U.S., following a 1 percent increase in March. The fast-food
chain has also increased menu prices in other markets including
 China .  “It doesn’t look like commodities are going to trade down
any time soon,” Saleh said. McDonald’s will “probably take
another menu price increase soon.”  The profit margin at McDonald’s company-operated stores
narrowed to 19 percent in the quarter ended June 30 from 19.9
percent the year before, primarily because of higher commodity
costs, the company said in a  filing .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  