-- 
Checkmate Seeks Sea Snake Partner in Talks With Listed Investors

-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-09T12:58:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/checkmate-seeks-sea-snake-partner-in-talks-with-listed-investors.html
Checkmate SeaEnergy Ltd. , seeking to
reduce wave-power costs using 650-foot rubber sea snakes, is in
talks with three listed companies in  Europe  and  Asia  to find a
strategic partner before a planned fundraising next month.  A quarter-scale model of the Anaconda devices, hailed by
U.K. inventor and businessman James Dyson as having  worldwide 
export potential, will be built using the first of two raisings
in the next 18 months, Chief Executive Officer Paul Auston said.
The model will be used for the technology’s first sea trial.  “There are significant potential benefits for the project
by involving strategic partners who can bring their specialist
expertise,” he said in an interview. “Ahead of the first round
we plan to conclude our discussions with a strategic partner,”
which “will hopefully help us to attract other investors.”  Brewin Dolphin Holdings Plc (BRW)  is managing the fundraising,
Auston said, declining to identify Checkmate’s possible partners
other than stating they are involved in the rubber industry. He
sees a possible initial public offering before the company sets
up its first 5-megawatt wave farm, expected by 2016 or earlier.  Marine energy projects have lagged behind wind and solar in
garnering investment. The industry last year raised $58 million,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data, compared with
$7.59 billion in public markets and $1.33 billion in private
capital for wind. Wave and tide energy may be able to satisfy as
much as 20 percent of U.K. power demand, the  government  says.  Human Circulation  Checkmate, based in Wiltshire, U.K., is seeking to raise 6
million pounds ($9.6 million) by the year-end. The company will
seek another 11 million pounds in about 18 months to create a
full-scale 1-megawatt device and commercialize the technology.  The company may use the U.K.’s Enterprise Investment Scheme
to attract “sophisticated” investors, Auston said, adding that
he isn’t convinced that  venture capital  is viable for Checkmate.  Auston likens its technology, involving a rubber tube lain
on the surface of the sea, to the vascular system of the body.  “If your heart is the sea creating pressure, the arteries
react by expanding and contracting,” he said. “Anaconda is
mimicking what happens in the human circulation system.”  A report commissioned by the U.K.’s Carbon Trust indicates
the likely cost of energy from the Anaconda is less than 3.6
million pounds per installed megawatt, Auston said, a figure
“very significantly lower than competing devices.”  The average capital cost of wave energy converters is about
$8 million a megawatt, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data show.  Lower Costs  Aquamarine Power Ltd., which received a loan from Barclays
Plc this week, and Pelamis Wave Power Ltd., working with E.ON
AG, are among companies developing rival technology.  Checkmate plans a first wave farm of five 1-megawatt units.  “I suspect that before we get to the deployment of the
first farm of five a number of options will open up -- this may
include an initial public offering,” Auston said.  There are currently two publicly traded companies focused
on marine energy, Angus McCrone, a senior analyst at London-
based Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said today by phone.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  