-- 
China Inflation Eases From Three-Year High, Giving Room for Pause on Rates

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-09T09:11:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/china-inflation-slows-to-6-2-as-measures-to-curb-loan-growth-take-effect.html
China ’s inflation eased in August
from a three-year high and industrial output growth moderated,
adding to evidence that higher interest rates and lending curbs
are cooling the world’s second-biggest economy.  Consumer prices rose 6.2 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said today, matching the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 31 economists. Industrial
output expanded 13.5 percent, the smallest gain in three months.  The figures rounded out a week in  Asia  in which Australian
unemployment unexpectedly climbed, Japanese machinery orders
slumped and four central banks held off on raising interest
rates. For emerging economies including China, the slowing may
help pull down elevated inflation rates that have sparked public
protests and eroded households’ purchasing power.  “China is on track for a soft landing and the market could
gain more confidence in the resilience of the Chinese economy,”
said Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. “Amid jittery global markets and worries about a
double-dip in the U.S. and  Europe , China’s activity data may
offer some support to global raw materials prices.”  Stocks in China outperformed the rest of the region today,
with the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index closing little
changed at 2,497.75. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slumped 0.7
percent.  Holding Rates  People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan may join
policy makers across Asia in pausing monetary tightening to
support growth as confidence among consumers from Europe to the
U.S. threatens the region’s exports.  South Korea ,  Indonesia ,
 Malaysia  and the Philippines all held rates unchanged this week.  “It allows Asian central banks to focus a little bit less
on restraint and allow those economies to  grow a little more
rapidly,” Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in  Singapore , referring to prospects for diminished
inflation pressures.  Trade data due tomorrow may provide further evidence of a
slowdown in China. Import growth in August moderated to 21
percent from a year earlier, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of 29 economists. Exports may have climbed
21.9 percent, and the  trade surplus  may have narrowed to $24.6
billion from $31.5 billion the previous month.  Money Market  China’s money-market rate fell to the lowest level in more
than three weeks on speculation the PBOC will refrain from
announcing more tightening. The seven-day repurchase rate, which
measures interbank funding availability, dropped 0.36 percentage
point to 3.63 percent as of 3:45 p.m. in  Shanghai .  Gross domestic product grew 9.5 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier after climbing 9.7 percent in the
first three months. Citigroup economists led by Shen Minggao in
Hong Kong estimate growth at 8.9 percent in the third quarter
and 8.4 percent in the final three months of 2011.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week the slowdown is within
expectations and that fighting inflation is still the top
priority even as he acknowledged increasing risks to the global
recovery. Asia’s fastest-growing economy is still likely to
expand at five times the pace of the U.S. and euro area this
year, according to Citigroup, which estimates full year growth
of 9 percent for China.  Governor Zhou has raised rates five times over the past
year and boosted banks’  reserve requirements  to a record 21.5
percent for the biggest lenders. The central bank is also
widening reserve requirements to include lenders’ margin
deposits, a move that will be phased in over the next six months.  Housing Curbs  In addition to monetary tightening, Wen imposed curbs on
home purchases after prices surged and ordered the construction
of more housing for low-income families.  Economists at China International Capital Corp. and
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. say one more increase
in  interest rates  is possible by the end of this year. Deposit
rates have lagged behind inflation for 19 months, eroding
households’ purchasing power and encouraging the flow of money
out of banks into assets including property. The central bank’s
key one-year lending rate stands at 6.56 percent and the deposit
rate is 3.5 percent.  The slowdown in August inflation was the first in four
months and the sharpest since December, today’s data show.  Food inflation was 13.4 percent, slowing for the first time
since April, and accounting for just under two thirds of the
overall increase in consumer prices. Pork prices jumped 45.5
percent from a year before, from a 57 percent gain in each of
the previous two months, the statistics bureau said.  Six-Year High  Non-food inflation accelerated to 3 percent from 2.9
percent in July to match June’s level, which was the highest in
more than six years.  Inflation is “down but not out,” said Alistair Thornton,
a Beijing-based economist with IHS Global Insight. “It may have
peaked but it will remain elevated for significant period of
time and this will complicate monetary policy.”  The slowdown in industrial output was led by heavy industry
including steel and cement, statistics bureau data showed.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households, which
includes roads, factories and real estate, grew 25 percent in
the first eight months. Property development spending rose 33.2
percent, supported by low-cost homes. The housing ministry said
today that construction started on 8.68 million units through
August, meeting 86 percent of the government’s full-year target.  Retail Sales  Retail sales climbed 17 percent in August from a year
earlier, after increasing 17.2 percent the previous month, the
statistics bureau said. The data, which includes purchases by
government entities, isn’t adjusted for inflation.  Factory-gate prices climbed 7.3 percent last month from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau said today. That compared
with a 7.5 percent jump in July and the 7.2 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Cost pressures, including rising wages and raw-material
prices, have hurt profits at companies including Baoshan Iron &
Steel Co.. The nation’s biggest publicly traded steelmaker
reported a 37 percent drop in first-half net income because of
higher iron ore costs and weakness in demand from carmakers.  Some companies are passing on higher costs to customers,
with liquor producers Wuliangye Yibin Co. and Jiangsu Yanghe
Brewery Joint-Stock Co. announcing plans to raise prices by as
much as 30 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  