-- 
Chinese Stocks Decline After Industrial Output Growth Slows

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-09T08:51:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/china-s-stock-futures-rise-amid-obama-jobs-plan-easing-inflation-outlook.html
China’s stocks fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a second weekly decline, as slowing
industrial output growth overshadowed a report showing inflation
eased from a three-year high.  Anhui Conch Cement Co., the biggest cement producer, slid
to the lowest since January after industrial output rose 13.5
percent in August, compared with economists’ estimate of 13.7
percent. Citic Securities Co. led gains for brokerages on
speculation they will benefit from a plan allowing yuan funds in
 Hong Kong  to invest in mainland stocks.  “The inflation controls have curbed industrial growth,”
said Richard Chen, a strategist at Jianghai Securities Co. in
 Shanghai . “This will hurt the outlook for companies’ earnings
as tightening measures won’t ease in the near term. Investors
are selling into rallies as concerns over the economic slowdown
may drag the index lower.”  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 1.2 point, or 0.1
percent, to 2,497.75 at the 3 p.m. close, extending a weekly
loss to 1.2 percent. Five stocks declined for every four that
rose on the gauge, which climbed as much as 1.2 percent after
inflation eased to 6.2 percent in August and some investors
speculated U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s jobs plan will boost
economic growth. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 0.2 percent to 2,751.09.
The market is closed Sept. 12 for the Mid-Autumn holiday.  The Shanghai gauge has slumped 11 percent this year as the
central bank raised  interest rates  five times and ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times
since the start of 2010 to tame inflation. It is valued at 11.6
times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 11.4 set
on Sept. 6, according to daily data compiled by Bloomberg.  Industrial Output  Anhui Conch, China’s biggest building material producer,
lost 3.1 percent to 18.04 yuan, the lowest level since Jan. 21.
The stock declined 18 percent this week. Tangshan Jidong Cement
Co. dropped 3.1 percent to 15.46 yuan.  China ’s industrial output rose 13.5 percent in August from
a year earlier compared with a 14 percent gain the previous
month. August retail sales rose 17 percent, matching economists’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. while January to August fixed-
asset investment gained 25 percent, compared with the forecast
of 25.2 percent.  The market also lost its gains in the afternoon after
Caixin Online reported about 85 percent of Liaoning province’s
local government financing vehicles had income insufficient to
cove all their debt servicing payments. Caixin cited a
government audit report.  “Debt defaults would be a big problem for local
governments by curbing investment in infrastructure,” said
Chen.  Inflation Eases  China’s consumer prices climbed 6.2 percent from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing. That
compared with the 6.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of 31 economists and July’s 6.5 percent gain.  The positive effects of the lower inflation figure should
be limited as it was widely expected, Ting Lu, an economist at
Bank of America Corp.’s brokerage unit in Hong Kong, said in an
e-mailed report today.  “The market had expected a bigger decline in CPI inflation
to around 6 percent, but the consensus edged up a bit in the
past week on a rebound in pork and vegetable prices,” Lu said.  Citic Securities added 1.4 percent to 12.08 yuan. Haitong
Securities Co. advanced 1.3 percent to 7.96 yuan. The central
bank may start the Hong Kong trial “soon,” the Xinhua News
Agency reported yesterday, citing an unidentified senior
official. The total investment quota under the trial will be
capped at less than 20 billion yuan, Xinhua cited the official
as saying.  Jobs Plan  President Obama called on Congress to pass a jobs plan that
would inject $447 billion into the economy through
infrastructure spending, subsidies to local governments to stem
teacher layoffs, and cutting in half the payroll taxes paid by
workers and small-business owners.  The package is heavily geared toward tax cuts, which
account for more half the dollar value of the stimulus, and
administration officials said believe that will have the
greatest appeal to Republican members of Congress.  Obama’s plan “‘may help damp concerns over U.S. economic
growth for short term but that’s not strong enough to save the
world,” said Mei Luwu, a  fund manager  at Lion Fund Management
Co., which oversees more than $7.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  