-- 
Commodities Slide Worldwide on Global Growth Concerns, Led By Crude Oil

-- B y   J u s t i n   C a r r i g a n
-- 
2011-09-09T17:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/commodities-slide-worldwide-on-global-concerns-over-growth-led-by-crude.html
Commodities dropped for a second day
amid mounting concern the faltering economic recovery in the
U.S. and  Europe  will curb demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities fell as
much as 2.6 percent in  New York , the most in more than three
weeks, as investors sold all but the safest assets. Coffee
traded at a two-week low, gasoline had its biggest decline in
five weeks and West Texas Intermediate crude retreated the most
in a week. Gold rose for a second day.  Three German officials said today that Chancellor Angela
Merkel’s government is preparing plans to shore up banks in the
event that Greece can’t pay its debts. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday policy makers cut
their growth forecasts for this year and next. U.S. President
 Barack Obama , in an television address yesterday, called on
Congress to pass a $447 billion plan to boost employment after
hiring by U.S. companies stalled last month.  “It’s another day of  risk aversion  across the board,”
said James Zhang, a strategist at Standard Bank Plc in  London .
“Commodities have followed the euro and the equity market down.
Clearly the market is lacking confidence in policy makers’
ability to revive the economy, despite Obama’s Jobs Act.”  The S&P GSCI Index retreated 2.5 percent at 12:40 p.m. in
New York. Arabica coffee for December delivery fell 2.6 percent
to $2.767 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. and traded at $2.758
earlier, the lowest level since Aug. 26. Gasoline tumbled as
much as 12.35 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $2.7621 a gallon, the
biggest drop since Aug. 4. Crude oil for October delivery lost
$2.23, or 2.5 percent, to $86.82 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Gold advanced as investors sought a store of value amid
declines for stocks, the euro and higher-yielding currencies
such as the Australian dollar and South African rand. December-
delivery futures gained $11.70, or 0.6 percent, to $1,869.20 an
ounce the Comex in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Carrigan in London at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  