-- 
Consumer Is ‘Wild Card’ for U.S. Growth

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/consumer-is-wild-card-for-u-s-growth.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  is watching rail
shipments of  consumer goods , auto parts and vehicles for clues
to whether the economy may slip back into recession later in
2011, Chief Executive Officer Jim Young said.  While cargos of farm products and coal build toward the
seasonal peak in shipping that occurs about this time each year,
Union Pacific hasn’t seen as much demand for consumer goods,
Young said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters
in  New York .  “The real wild card is the consumer,” Young said. “It’s
still a positive, but I’m a little nervous with it.”  Union Pacific, the largest U.S. railroad by sales, is a
“good barometer” of the economy, hauling everything from autos
to electronics in addition to commodities, Young said. Consumer
spending accounts for 70 percent of the  U.S. economy , and job
growth has stagnated with the  unemployment rate  running at 9.1
percent.  So-called intermodal shipments that can move by a
combination of rail, road and sea were down 1 percent through
August from a year earlier, according to Union Pacific, which is
based in Omaha,  Nebraska . The shipping containers used for those
moves often contain retail goods.  The railroad also has been tweaking its projections for the
timing of the peak shipping season, when demand rises because of
new model-year autos, farm harvests and stores restocking
inventory for the Christmas season. Young said yesterday that
the bump in shipments should begin this month, compared with the
company’s July 21 forecast for an August start.  ‘Real Problem’  Some workers at Union Pacific are reining in purchases even
though they’re not in danger of losing their jobs, Young said,
recounting conversations with employees at town-hall-style
meetings. That may bode ill for U.S. consumer spending, he said.  “If you lose that, you could have a real problem,” Young
said. “I don’t see it right now, and I’m counting on a positive
end of the year. But I think we’re kind of on the edge.”  Last year’s shortage of rail cars is gone now, leaving some
cars idle, Young said. He said his uncertainty about consumers
extends to the fate of the new auto models that the railroad is
now shipping for “bullish” carmakers.  “They are moving a lot of product,” Young said. “The
question is whether they will get them off the showroom floor.”  Auto Sales  Auto sales in August ran at a seasonally adjusted annual
rate of 12.1 million vehicles, the third-slowest pace of 2011.
Among the slumping companies is  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , battered by
safety recalls in 2010 and this year’s earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan . Toyota’s August deliveries were 13 percent less than a
year earlier.  Young predicted that Toyota’s shipments will return to the
levels seen before the quake and tsunami, which disrupted
production and the Toyota City, Japan-based automaker’s supply
network.  Union Pacific’s 4.8 percent drop this year in New York
Stock Exchange trading through yesterday was smaller than the
5.7 percent decline for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
railroad has benefited from price increases and rising volumes
in the five other major product categories besides intermodal.  Union Pacific is boosting investment by 30 percent this
year to $3.3 billion on confidence that demand for shipments
will return to its 2006 weekly peak of 204,000 rail cars, Young
said. Weekly carloads dropped to as low as 141,000 per week in
2009 and are now running at about 180,000, he said.  A workforce that numbered almost 43,000 at the end of last
year may not grow by the original plan for as many as 1,500
employees, Young said. With a softening economy, the range is
now 1,000 to 1,500 new hires, he said.  “I’ve shaved it back a little,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in New York at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  