-- 
Copper Tumbles Most in a Month as Obama, Bernanke Fail to Boost Confidence

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-09T18:04:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/copper-tumbles-most-in-a-month-as-obama-bernanke-fail-to-boost-confidence.html
Copper tumbled the most in a month
as President Barack Obama and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  failed to boost investor confidence in the economy.  Global equities dropped as Bernanke stopped short of
detailing new plans to boost growth in the world’s largest
economy in a speech yesterday, making no reference to further
asset purchases by the central bank. Obama called on Congress to
pass a plan that would inject $447 billion into the economy. The
U.S. is the world’s biggest copper consumer after  China .  “Obama’s plan is just not convincing enough,”  Matthew Zeman , a strategist at Kingsview Financial in Chicago, said in a
telephone interview. “Bernanke also disappointed investors. A
lot of risk assets are lower. We will have more downside in the
copper market.”  Copper futures for December delivery declined 14.1 cents,
or 3.4 percent, to close at $4.0025 a pound at 1 p.m. on the
Comex in  New York , the biggest loss since Aug. 8. The metal
slumped 3 percent for the week, the first decline in three
weeks.  “There is residual disappointment in the market that QE3
has not been announced,” Stephen Briggs, an analyst at BNP
Paribas SA in London, said by telephone today, referring to a
third round of so-called quantitative easing. The “Obama job
proposal was not earth-shattering, so perhaps slight
disappointment there.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months dropped $294, or 3.2 percent, to $8,821 a metric ton ($4
a pound).  Aluminum, nickel, zinc, tin and lead also fell.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in  London  at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  