-- 
Cordero Said to Resign as Mexico Finance Chief in Order to Seek Presidency

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 
2011-09-09T19:33:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/cordero-said-to-resign-as-mexico-finance-chief-in-order-to-seek-presidency.html
Mexican Energy Minister Jose Antonio Meade will take over as finance minister from  Ernesto Cordero ,
who is stepping down to run for the presidency next year.  President Felipe Calderon announced the appointment today
at an event in Mexico City. Jordy Herrera, currently the head of
Petroleos Mexicanos’ gas and petrochemical unit will assume
Meade’s former post.  Meade, who as deputy finance minister headed last year’s
talks with Congress to pass Calderon’s 2011 budget, will adapt
quickly to his new duties as lawmakers discuss spending plans
for 2012, said Ernesto O’Farrill, an economist at Bursametrica
SA in Mexico City.  “Meade is technically capable and has the political
experience required,” O’Farrill said in a telephone interview.
“It is convenient that this change is already happening,
instead of keeping the uncertainty about Cordero’s role.”  The peso weakened 0.9 percent to 12.6311 at 2:06 p.m. New
York time. The currency fell to 12.6743 in intraday trading, the
weakest level since 12.7686 on Aug. 9.  The yield on  Mexico ’s benchmark peso-denominated bonds due
2024 rose 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to 6.36
percent, according to Banco Santander SA data. The price fell
1.37 centavos to 132.51 centavos per peso. The benchmark IPC
stock index slid 2.6 percent to 33,808.02.  Cabinet Shuffles  Calderon is making changes to his Cabinet for the third
time this year. Since taking office in 2006, he has named four
interior ministers, three economy ministers and three finance
ministers, among other changes.  Meade, 42, took over the Energy Ministry on Jan. 7. He has
a doctorate in economics from  Yale University  in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut . He previously served as the head of financial
planning for Mexico’s pension fund regulator and the head of the
 Finance Ministry ’s banking unit.  Cordero is among a number of candidates vying for the
nomination of Calderon’s National Action Party as it seeks to
prevent the  Institutional Revolutionary Party  from regaining the
presidency that it held for seven decades before losing power in
2000. Opposition lawmakers had questioned Cordero’s ability to
direct fiscal policy while positioning himself for a
presidential run.  ‘Discipline and Stability’  “It’s very healthy that the economic realm is being
cleaned of political noise,” said Mario Correa, an economist
with Grupo Financiero Scotiabank SA in Mexico City. “I don’t
expect any policy changes. Meade will keep the country’s fiscal
discipline and stability as the Mexican economy’s major
assets.”  Among voters belonging to the ruling  National Action Party ,
Cordero ranks fourth in preference with 7 percent, according to
a poll from Consulta Mitofsky. The survey was carried out
between Aug. 20 and Aug. 24 and has a margin of error of 3.1
percentage points.  Among all potential voters, Cordero does not rank in the
top six possible candidates, the survey shows. Enrique Pena
Nieto of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, leads
preferences with 34 percent, followed by  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who narrowly lost to Calderon for the presidency in
2006.  Mexicans vote to choose Calderon’s successorin July 2012.  In other cabinet changes announced today, Salomon
Chertorivsky replaces Jose Angel Cordova as health minister,
after leading the government health program known as Seguro
Popular.  Alejandro Poire will head the national intelligence agency,
known as CISEN, after being the government security spokesman.
Alejandra Sota, currently spokeswoman for Calderon, will
maintain her duties and will also assume Poire’s role.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  