-- 
Crapo Says Obama Jobs Plan Is Discouraging (Transcript)

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-09T21:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/crapo-says-obama-jobs-plan-is-discouraging-transcript-.html
Senator  Mike Crapo  said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s ‘Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that President Barack Obama’s $447
billion jobs proposal is discouraging because the administration
is relying on unaffordable spending initiatives rather than more
fundamental changes in economic policy needed to battle
joblessness.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Senator Mike Crapo of
 Idaho , who joins us here in the studio. Thank you for being with
us today, Senator.  SEN. MIKE CRAPO (R-ID): Thank you, Al. It’s good to be with
you.  HUNT: Let me start off by asking you about the president’s
Thursday night address to Congress, his jobs initiative, your
impression. Did he do well? Did he make sense?  CRAPO: Well, I think he gave an incredibly powerful speech,
but, frankly, I was discouraged by it for a number of reasons.
It continues to look at temporary solutions that are very
expensive, continues to try to spend our way into a prosperous
economy. And, frankly, on a number of other fronts, the
president seemed to be very resistant to the kind of fundamental
economic and fiscal reforms that I think are the kinds of things
that we should be pursuing.  HUNT: What - what was he resistant to, for instance?  CRAPO: Well, I interpreted his remarks about regulatory
reform to be pretty much, no, we’re not going to do it.  HUNT: Right.  CRAPO: We’ve got a little bit going on, but that’s about
it. And I think that’s one of the biggest problems we face right
now, with uncertainty in the economy and in the business world.  HUNT: How about the payroll tax proposals he made last
night, both for small business and for employees? Should they be
enacted, extended for a year?  CRAPO: You know, the payroll taxes are something that I’ve
supported in the past, and I think that they could be extended,
as the president has proposed.  HUNT: And increased.  CRAPO: And increased, actually. He’s extending to the
employees, as well as the employers. And I don’t disagree with
that, because I do believe that that’s something that can be
helpful in the small business arena and, frankly, with
individuals, as they deal with incredible troubles right now.  I don’t believe it’s the kind of fundamental reform of our
 tax code  and our economic policy that we really need to begin
aggressively pursuing.  HUNT: And how about short term? Is it desirable or not, the
aid to states to prevent layoff of teachers and the stuff for
veterans?  CRAPO: Well, it’s a good idea, except that it’s so
expensive.  HUNT: Right.  CRAPO: And what we have seen is that, over the last - well,
since the president took office, we’ve had added $4 trillion to
our national debt, and we’ve lost 1.7 million jobs, trying to
spend our way into it with the government support of this kind.
And we’ve got to ultimately realize that we really, truly need a
paradigm shift in our fiscal policy.  And what the president’s proposals last night were, for the
most part, amounted to - they amounted to adding about $450
billion of new spending over the next couple of years and then
trying to offset it over 10 years by stalling the effort we have
to reduce the deficit.  HUNT: Now, the president said it would all be paid for
under his proposal, but he would insist that the super-committee
and then Congress pay for this additional $447 billion. Is that
a pipe dream?  CRAPO: Well, it’s a pipe dream, and it’s also a
discouragement, for this reason. It’s a pipe dream in the sense
that he’s proposing to do the pay-fors over 10 years, but the
spending is happening over two.  HUNT: Right.  CRAPO: And we need to remember that. But even more so, the
way he said he wanted to do it was that he said he wanted to
just add this on top of what the joint committee that’s now
working on the debt crisis solution is working on. And the
reason that’s discouraging is because he appears to be saying
that, if we meet the minimum target of about $2 trillion to $2.5
trillion of the debt ceiling debate conclusion, that then we can
start spending again.  But the problem is that that was a very minimal solution
dealing with the extension of the debt ceiling. We need to be
hitting about $4 trillion to $5 trillion of  deficit reduction 
over 10 years before we can really just keep our head above
water and start developing those fundamental reforms that I
talked about earlier.  HUNT: What are the odds that the super-committee is going
to come up with something?  CRAPO: Well, you know, I’ve been asked that question many
times, and I don’t have a good answer. I pretty much say, if you
look at the traditional politics in America, which are still in
play, it’s hard to see how - how the committee gets somewhere,
because we’ve had so many efforts at it in so many different
contexts. That being -  HUNT: But you succeeded (ph) in the Gang of Six.  CRAPO: Yeah, but that’s what I just about to say. There are
- the reasons to succeed are so powerful and so compelling and
so imminent right now, in terms of the impact in our economy,
that I believe that this committee truly not only has an
opportunity, but has the capacity to do something big. And there
will be a lot of us who will be advocating that and helping to
build the pathway for this committee to be a success.  HUNT: But, Senator, you also were on the Bowles-Simpson
commission and looking at both of that, the Bowles-Simpson and
at the Gang of Six. The one thing that happened is that there
were sufficient numbers of people from the Democrats, the left,
if you will, who gave on entitlements against the base of the
party, and there were sufficient number of Republicans like you
who, however distasteful, gave on higher revenues against the
base of the party. You’ve got to do both to get something done,
don’t you?  CRAPO: You really do. But I want to clarify that, because
on entitlement reform, that’s straightforward. We need to get in
and do the kind of fundamental reform that will help us to
change the spending lines.  On  tax policy  or revenue policy, it gets a little bit
complicated, because we truly can generate more revenue to the
federal government by the kind of basic tax reform that the
commission and the Gang of Six proposed. And we can actually
achieve that in a revenue-neutral way at the outset, but grow
the economy.  HUNT: But both Bowles-Simpson and the Gang of Six would
result in net revenue increases. They are very clear that we’re
going to have to increase taxes some, tax reform, too, and that
may produce more revenue down the road, but we’re also going to
have to increase taxes.  CRAPO: Bowles-Simpson did. The Gang of Six had proposed
that we utilize dynamic scoring as we create the revenue - the
rate reductions. And I personally think that it could have been
achieved, that the revenue would have been higher and the tax
rates could have been maintained.  HUNT: But here’s what  Barack Obama  says. Hey, I’ve given on
entitlements. I’m - he said last night, I’m willing to cut the
spending on Medicare. The Democratic base doesn’t like that. And
then he says, not a single Republican leader in Congress or a
single Republican presidential candidate is willing to do the
same thing on the other side of the equation.  CRAPO: And - but he always brings it back to making the
wealthy pay their fair share -  HUNT: Yeah.  CRAPO: - and saying that his proposal is raising taxes. And
- and, again, whether it’s the Gang of Six or the Bowles-Simpson
commission, they did not raise taxes. They reduced the tax rates
and, in the Bowles-Simpson case, they didn’t reduce them in an
entirely equal amount to the reduction of the tax expenditures.
In the Gang of Six process, we were adjusting that to try to
achieve the utilization of dynamic scoring and get there.  But the point is, the president continues to focus on
raising taxes. And that is not the solution - I don’t support
that. And I don’t think that there will be prominent support for
that.  HUNT: But weren’t you disappointed when the Republican
presidential field all said they wouldn’t support any kind of
package that cut spending by $10 for every $1 of revenue
increase? Didn’t that disappoint you?  CRAPO: I was not disappointed in the sense that they were
all holding firm on saying not raising taxes. But I was
disappointed that they didn’t focus the debate on the kind of
 tax reform  that will generate greater  tax revenue . And that’s
what, I believe, is going to be the ultimate solution here.  HUNT: Who do you expect to be the Republican presidential
nominee? Who would be the best candidate for the Republicans?  CRAPO: Another tough one. I have not endorsed anybody yet,
because I’m waiting to see who I think is the one who can win
next November, a year from now.  HUNT: Right.  CRAPO: And I haven’t made in my own mind a strong
conclusion about who that will be. I think that right now we
have a number of strong candidates. Obviously, Perry and Romney
are the two who are appearing to emerge right now. But I always
remind people that this kind of - it’s - this early in a -  HUNT: It is early.  CRAPO: - in an election cycle, people can move around a
lot.  HUNT: Of those two, does one seem more electable as of
today?  CRAPO: I would think Romney may be a little more electable,
but I don’t know. And, frankly, I have to say, I don’t know
Perry very well, but that’s just my initial thought about it.  HUNT: You will have a lot of time to learn it, I expect.  (LAUGHTER)  CRAPO: That’s right.  HUNT: Senator Crapo, thank you so much for joining us
today.  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 