-- 
European Bank, Sovereign Bond Risk Surge to Records on Stimulus Concerns

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-09-09T15:49:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/credit-default-swap-indexes-rise-in-europe-on-stimulus-concerns.html
The cost of insuring European
financial and sovereign debt rose to records after  Juergen Stark 
said he will resign from the European Central Bank’s Executive
Board and Greece’s debt woes deepened.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
on 25 banks and insurers increased 26 basis points to 290,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 4:30 p.m. in London. The
gauge, which is up from 246 basis points Sept. 2, is heading for
the biggest weekly increase since March 2009. Swaps on Greece
soared 701 basis points to a record 3,727 basis points,
signaling a 94 percent probability of default, according to CMA.  Stark’s early departure from the ECB, his tenure was due to
end in 2014, fueled concern policy makers are divided over the
best way to fight the euro region’s worsening debt crisis.
Questions over  Greece ’s ability to meet the terms of its first
rescue package are dogging the indebted nation as bondholders
weigh whether to participate in a debt exchange that’s crucial
to a second bailout.  “A Greek default could accelerate the bank deleveraging
process,” said Alberto Gallo, a strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “Balance sheet losses and rising
risk premia could force banks and investors to sell other
assets. In an illiquid market, this could be a fire-sale.”  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps on 15
governments climbed 11 basis points to 333.5 basis points.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is preparing plans to
shore up German banks in the event that Greece fails to meet the
terms of its aid package and defaults, three coalition officials
said.  Emergency Plan  The emergency plan involves measures to help banks and
insurers that face a possible 50 percent loss on their Greek
bonds if the next tranche of Greece’s bailout is withheld, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are being held in private.  The Euribor-OIS spread, a measure of banks’ willingness to
lend to each other, widened to 82.3 basis points in  London , the
highest since March 2009 and up from 73.95 basis points
yesterday.  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars for one
year through the swaps markets increased to the most since
December 2008. The cost of converting euro-based payments into
dollars, as measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap,
fell 7.1 basis points to 66.3 basis points below the euro
interbank offered rate, or Euribor, indicating a higher premium
to buy the greenback, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rate Futures  The three-month Euribor interest-rate future expiring in
December, which traders use to bet on where they expect rates to
go, jumped close to a record today, gaining to 98.92 basis
points. The contract rose to as high as 98.95 basis points on
Aug. 10.  “The Stark resignation’s not helping things,” said
Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies International
Ltd. in London. “At some point down the line certainly Greek
debt will have to be restructured, I’m just not quite sure that
it’s as imminent as markets think it might be.”  The Greek default probability, which is based on a standard
pricing model, assumes investors would recover 40 percent of the
bonds’ face value were the country to fail to meet its
obligations within five years.  Swaps on  Portugal  climbed 60 basis points to 1,126,
Ireland rose 20 to 856 and  Italy  was up 24 at 458, CMA prices
show.  Subordinated Debt  An index of credit-default swaps on banks’ subordinated
debt jumped 47 basis points to an all-time high of 520 basis
points. Swaps on the senior debt of Italy’s biggest lender
UniCredit SpA increased 20 basis points to 260 and  Germany ’s
WestLB AG rose 25 to 375, according to CMA. An increase signals
deteriorating perceptions of  credit quality .  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 40
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings increased 54
basis points to 769. The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125
companies with investment-grade ratings rose 17 to 191.  Swaps on Porsche Automobil Holding SE jumped 50 basis
points to 247, CMA prices show. The company’s planned merger
with Volkswagen AG is in doubt after lawsuits left them unable
to agree on the value of the maker of the 911 sports car.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13.7 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  