-- 
Crude Oil Declines for Second Day as Rising Dollar Counters Storm Concerns

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-09T12:11:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/crude-oil-declines-for-second-day-as-rising-dollar-counters-storm-concerns.html
Oil fell for a second day in  New
York  as a rising dollar undermined the appeal of commodities,
offsetting concerns that a tropical storm off Mexico’s Yucatan
Peninsula will limit the supply of crude.  Crude declined as much as 1.7 percent, paring this week’s
gains, as the dollar advanced to a six-month high against the
euro. Companies including BP Plc evacuated staff in the  Gulf of
Mexico , home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output. Prices dropped
yesterday after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stopped
short of specifying measures the U.S. may use to bolster growth
when policy makers meet this month.  “The macro-economic data looks more bleak and so the
demand side is acting as a capping mechanism,” said Andy Sommer, a senior trader at EGL AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland , who
predicts Brent will end the year at about $115 a barrel.  Crude for October delivery dropped as much as $1.49 to
$87.56 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.10 at 12:58 p.m. London time. Prices are
up 1.9 percent this week and 19 percent from a year ago. Brent
for October settlement was at $113.89, down 66 cents, on
London’s ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The euro traded at $1.3814 against the dollar at 12:50 p.m.
in London from $1.3882 yesterday. The U.S. currency has advanced
2.8 percent in the past five days.  Tropical Storm Nate is 120 miles west of Campeche,  Mexico ,
and expected to become the third hurricane of the Atlantic
season as early as today. Top winds are 65 miles (100
kilometers) per hour, under the 74 mph threshold needed to be
upgraded, according to a National Hurricane Center advisory at 8
a.m. East Coast time.  Oil Evacuations  BP and Apache Corp. said they were beginning evacuations of
some workers in the Gulf because of Nate. The BP decision
affects non-essential workers at the Atlantis, Holstein and Mad
Dog platforms, according to a telephone hotline message.
Apache’s removal of non-essential workers from facilities in the
far western Gulf hasn’t affected production, Bill Mintz, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  U.S. crude supplies fell 3.96 million barrels to 353.1
million last week as Tropical Storm Lee shut platforms, a report
from the Energy Department showed yesterday. They were forecast
to drop 2 million barrels, according to the median estimate of
14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Gasoline stockpiles
climbed 199,000 barrels compared with a median forecast for a
drop of 1.4 million barrels.  Bernanke, Obama  Bernanke told economists yesterday that the Fed has
measures at hand and is “prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate.” Obama, speaking before a joint session of
Congress, demanded that lawmakers act on a plan to boost
spending, stem layoffs and cut taxes.  Oil may fall next week amid heightened concern that global
economic growth is slowing, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Fourteen of 28 analysts, or 50 percent, forecast oil will
decline through Sept. 16. Seven respondents, or 25 percent,
predicted prices will increase and seven estimated there will be
little change during the period. Last week 50 percent of
surveyed analysts projected a drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  