-- 
Cyprus Has No Plan to Put Army on Alert, Defense Ministry Says

-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 
2011-09-09T16:37:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/cyprus-has-no-plan-to-put-army-on-alert-defense-ministry-says.html
Cyprus denied a report it will keep
armed forces on alert while drilling for oil in its offshore
territory after  Turkey  threatened to send warships to the area.  “We completely deny this report,” Aliki Stylianou, a
spokeswoman at the Nicosia-based  Ministry of Defense  said in a
telephone interview today.  Turkish Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said that Cyprus’s
intentions “would be a risky move,” web-based  Hurriyet Daily
News  reported Sept. 6,  citing  an interview to television channel
CNNTurk. As Cyprus’s boundaries remained undetermined, the
island’s government should refrain from conducting oil
exploration in its offshore territory, Yildiz said, according to
the newspaper.  Cyprus is divided after Turkey invaded the northern third
of the island in 1974 in response to a coup inspired by the
military junta then in power in Greece. The leaders of the Greek
Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities resumed reunification
talks in 2009 after a UN sponsored plan to reunite the island
was rejected by Greek Cypriots.  Greece ’s Deputy Prime Minister Theodoros Pangalos said
today that his country, which is also a NATO-member like Turkey,
will support Cyprus and any act of aggression will be deemed as
a move against Greece, according to the Cyprus News Agency.  Praxoula Antoniadou, the east Mediterranean island’s
minister of commerce, industry and tourism also responsible for
energy affairs, said in a telephone interview on Sept. 7 that
according to an existing schedule Cyprus will go ahead with
drilling by the beginning of October.  U.S. based  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL)  which has the license to carry
out exploration in Cyprus’s Block 12 is working with Israel’s
 Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG) , which proposed the construction of a natural
 gas pipeline  to Cyprus. The two companies are partners in
exploiting Israel’s offshore gas findings.  Turkey’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said today
that his country plans to increase its naval presence in the
eastern Mediterranean to prevent a repeat of the attack by
Israeli commandos on a Gaza-bound aid ship last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at  sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  