-- 
Germany’s Benchmark DAX Index Falls; Deutsche Telekom, Siemens, BASF Drop

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-09-09T16:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/daimler-fresenius-volkswagen-porsche-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks slumped to a two-year
low as three coalition officials said  Angela Merkel ’s government
is preparing plans to shore up the nation’s banks in the event
that Greece defaults.  Deutsche Bank AG and Commerzbank AG tumbled more than 7
percent, tracking a slide in financial shares across Europe.
Porsche SE retreated 14 percent as  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said its merger
with the sports-car maker can no longer be completed by the end
of the year.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  slid 4 percent to 5,189.93 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Frankfurt, the lowest since July 2009. The gauge fell
6.3 percent this week, extending the drop since the 2011 high on
May 2 to 31 percent amid growing concern that growth in the
global economy is slowing as  Europe ’s debt crisis spreads.  “The probability of a mild recession has increased,”
 Andrew Garthwaite , the head of global equity strategy at Credit
Suisse Group AG in London, wrote in a report. “Europe lacks
both political and economic leadership.”  Germany’s emergency plan involves measures to help banks
and insurers that face a possible 50 percent loss on their Greek
bonds if the next tranche of Greece’s bailout is withheld, said
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are being held in private. The successor to the
German government’s bank-rescue fund introduced in 2008 might be
enrolled to help recapitalize the banks, one of the people said.  Stark Resignation  Stocks extended declines as the  European Central Bank  said
 Juergen Stark  resigned from the executive board. He quit after
protesting the bank’s bond purchases on a conference call
earlier this week, said a euro-area central bank official
familiar with the meeting.  Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank, lost 7.3 percent to
23.09 euros and Commerzbank tumbled 8.7 percent to 1.67 euros,
the lowest since at least 1992.  Porsche preferred shares lost 14 percent to 37.99 euros.
Volkswagen and Porsche failed in their attempts to combine by
the end of the year as lawsuits left them unable to determine a
valuation, raising doubts over whether a merger of the German
automakers will ever take place.  Max Warburton , a London-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. cut his price estimate on Porsche shares by 23
percent to 50 euros to reflect the news on the merger, according
to a report.  VW preferred shares slipped 3.9 percent to 103.75 euros.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  slid 4 percent to 39.37 euros. The
German stock-market operator which is trying to acquire NYSE
Euronext said it doesn’t plan a compulsory purchase of stock
from investors who have yet to tender their shares, a so-called
squeeze out.  “After the statement from Deutsche Boerse last night, the
expectation of a squeeze out happening in the near term has
receded,” said Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at Berenberg
Bank AG in London. “That has been underpinning the Deutsche
Boerse stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  