-- 
Manhattan Court Staff Recalls Life After Bodies Fell From Sky on Sept. 11

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/decade-s-passage-doesn-t-dim-sept-11-memory-for-downtown-courthouse-staff.html
Clifford Kirsch, the former
district executive of the federal courts’ Southern District of
New York, remembers hearing a massive crash outside his office
in the Lower  Manhattan  courthouse the morning of Sept. 11, 2001.  Kirsch said he first thought a Dumpster had been dropped at
the front of the building’s north entrance on Worth Street.  “I went up to the 26th floor of the courthouse and saw the
tail section of a commercial airplane protruding from the North
tower” he said. “Bodies were falling from the sky.”  For many people who worked at the federal courthouse in
Lower Manhattan, seven blocks north of the World Trade Center,
10 years haven’t dimmed their vivid memories of that day.  “Sept. 11 was different for us because we didn’t just
experience it as much as we lived it,” said David Kelley, who
was co-chief of the terrorism unit of the U.S. Attorney’s
Office.  Minutes after American Airlines Flight 11 smashed into the
north tower, Kelley said he went to the scene with Barry Mawn,
then head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s  New York 
office, to launch an investigation.  “We watched helplessly as bodies rained down,” said
Kelley, who would later serve as U.S. Attorney and oversee the
prosecutions of  Martha Stewart  and WorldCom Inc.’s Bernard Ebbers. “We stared in disbelief as the plane hit the south
tower.”  Kelley said he was buried under rubble when the buildings
collapsed and colleagues thought he was dead. He eventually
reached an office and called his boss, U.S. Attorney Mary Jo White.  Exaggerated Reports  “I was happy to tell her that reports of my death were
grossly exaggerated,” he said.  Kelley, Kirsch and several hundred people gathered Sept. 8
to honor those in the courthouse who, according to Chief Judge
 Loretta Preska , “enabled the wheels of justice to continue
turning in the days thereafter.”  The blueprints for the war on terror were drafted then,
under extraordinary circumstances, they said. So-called material
witnesses, people suspected of having information about the
attacks, were identified and brought to the courthouse, which
was open only for emergency proceedings. A federal grand jury
was convened.  Kelley was summoned to  Washington . “I was still in shock
as we drove by the Pentagon, which was still burning,” he said.
A third plane struck that building, and a fourth crash in
 Pennsylvania .  Federal prosecutors in Manhattan, who had traveled with the
FBI to  East Africa  to investigate the 1998 embassy bombings and
had indicted  Osama bin Laden  and his al-Qaeda associates in June
1998, reviewed the passenger manifests of the four hijacked
airplanes, he said.  Dozens Questioned  Dozens of people were questioned, and leads were chased
down by White’s prosecutors and the FBI, Kelley said.  Those brought to the courthouse would eventually include
Zacarias Moussaoui, a French citizen arrested in August 2001 who
later admitted being part of the plot to fly planes into
buildings. He pleaded guilty and is serving a life term.  “We were able to identify the hijackers and the identities
of their associates who might strike again,” Kelley said.  Michael Mukasey, then chief judge at the courthouse and
later the U.S. attorney general, presided over emergency
hearings, guarded by U.S. marshals wearing body armor.  “We simply went back to our desks and got on with it,”
Mukasey said.  Those working in the courthouse faced logistical hurdles as
well. Federal buildings in  Lower Manhattan  were evacuated after
the attacks and didn’t reopen for more than a week, Mukasey
recalled.  Emergency Quarters  Prosecutors and members of the Joint Terrorism Task Force,
including FBI agents and police, barred from their offices and
set up an emergency command post in a garage in Manhattan’s
Chelsea section.  Some cases had to be reconstructed after evidence stored in
vaults at the World Trade Center was destroyed, Kelley said.  The courthouse and U.S. attorney phone systems were wiped
out after a telephone switching station in the basement of a
World Trade Center building was destroyed in a fire.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones recalled that Kirsch’s
staff purchased 100 mobile phones for the federal judges and
court personnel. Court officials used secure telephone lines
from the Brooklyn federal prosecutors’ offices, sending a signal
to a microwave receiver on the Manhattan courthouse roof,
Mukasey said.  Since the building was in the so-called ‘Frozen Zone’ south
of Canal Street, an area sealed off by authorities, judges
couldn’t get to work, said Dennis Jacobs, Chief Judge of the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York.  Proceedings were briefly held at a Midtown bar association
office on folding chairs and tables.  The U.S. marshals stepped in and drove judges to the
courthouse daily in armored buses normally used to convey
prisoners to and from the federal jails, Jacobs said.  “My colleagues bravely and gallantly demonstrated why the
Southern District enjoys the reputation it has,” Kelley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 