-- 
Deutsche Bank Risk Seen Rising as Puts Appreciate Most in Europe: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-09-09T04:32:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/deutsche-bank-risk-seen-rising-as-puts-appreciate-most-in-europe-options.html
The price of options to protect
against losses in  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  shares is rising more than
any other European lender as  Germany  leads the rescue of nations
in the region’s shared currency.  Three-month options that pay owners should Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank drop 10 percent cost 1.3 times the price of
contracts betting on 10 percent gains, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from 1.14 at the end of July,
the biggest increase among financial firms in the Stoxx  Europe 
600 Index, data using five-day averages show. Stocks subject to
bans on short selling were excluded.  While budget deficits in Greece sparked the crisis,
attention is turning to Germany, the largest provider of bailout
funds in the region, as concern increases that its efforts will
fail. The DAX Index plunged 27 percent this quarter, the third-
largest decline behind Italy and  Greece , while Deutsche Bank has
dropped 38 percent.  Josef Ackermann , its chief executive
officer, said last week that conditions in stock and bond
markets are reminiscent of late 2008.  “Deutsche Bank in Europe is kind of an anchor,” Matthias Fankhauser, a  fund manager  at Clariden Leu AG, which oversees 90
billion Swiss francs ($104 billion), said in a telephone
interview from Zurich yesterday. “The pressure recently on
Germany, on the DAX, probably had a big impact on Deutsche as
well. We saw weakening and quite weak economic data recently,
which really shows that the economy was losing momentum at a
high speed.”  Falling Euro  The  European Central Bank  said risks to the economic
recovery have intensified, sending the euro down 1.5 percent
against the  U.S. dollar  yesterday. Credit-default swaps on Greek
government debt reached a record, signaling a 91 percent chance
the nation will fail to meet debt commitments. Germany is the
chief underwriter of emergency loans offered to Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal , contributing about 27 percent of the total because
it’s Europe’s biggest economy.  The benchmark gauge of European options prices, the  VStoxx
Index (V2X) , slipped 4.2 percent to 41.63 yesterday. The index tracks
prices for options on the Euro Stoxx 50, which rose 0.6 percent.
Its U.S. counterpart, the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, or VIX, rose 2.8 percent to 34.32.  Investors are betting against Deutsche Bank because of
risks from the debt crisis even as the company projects the
lender will increase earnings this year, said  Dirk Becker , a
financial industry analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in
 Frankfurt  who has a “buy” rating on the stock.  Slowing Growth  Deutsche Bank had net sovereign risks related to Portugal,
Italy, Ireland, Greece and  Spain  of 3.67 billion euros ($5.1
billion) on June 30, the company said July 26. Net income will
surge 139 percent to 5.53 billion euros in 2011, according to
the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey. Growth will
slow to 9.2 percent in 2012, the data show.  “It’s one of the most hated stocks in the universe,”
Becker said in a telephone interview yesterday. “People believe
the European debt crisis may end in some kind of worst-case
scenario such as a euro breakup or sovereign default, and if
those things happen Deutsche Bank is one of the most
interconnected banks and would obviously be one of the big
losers. That’s what is being priced in.”  Christian Streckert, a Frankfurt-based spokesman for
Deutsche Bank, declined to comment.  The lender has tumbled 49 percent from its Feb. 16 high,
including a 35 percent loss since the end of July. The shares
sank to the lowest price since March 2009 on Sept. 6. Deutsche
Bank had the fifth-biggest drop in the Stoxx 600 Banks Index
during the past month, behind three Greek lenders -- EFG
Eurobank Ergasias, Alpha Bank AE and National Bank of Greece SA
-- and Paris-based  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA.  Profit Forecast  Deutsche Bank said yesterday that if capital markets and
the sovereign debt crisis improve, it will  reach  its forecast
for 10 billion euros in pretax operating profit this year.
Ackermann said Sept. 5 that volatility and uncertainty were the
“new normal” in markets and banking.  Investors are snapping up Deutsche Bank’s December 22 euro
puts, which are priced 12 percent below yesterday’s stock price
of 24.89 euros. The number of existing contracts surged
eightfold to 9,681 in the past two weeks, the most among the
company’s equity derivatives, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  While options traders are becoming more pessimistic about
Deutsche Bank, they’re paying less for insurance against U.K.
lenders. Put costs have fallen since July 29 in relation to
calls for Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and Barclays Plc, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The  Bank of England  said in June that the euro-area debt crisis
poses the biggest risk to the stability of the nation’s
financial system.  Short-Sale Bans  Deutsche Bank’s options prices may show more pessimism than
other lenders because some European countries have curbed short
selling, according to Justin Wiggs, who trades financial stocks
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore.  Stocks dropped worldwide on Aug. 25, including a slump of
as much as 4 percent by the DAX, as  France ,  Italy  and Spain
extended restrictions on short selling, which involves the sale
of securities borrowed from the owner in a bet they fall. Spain
and Italy extended their bans through Sept. 30. France’s
Autorite des Marches Financiers said its ban could last as long
as Nov. 11. The regulators all said they might lift the bans on
short selling of financial stocks when the market stabilizes.  ‘Ongoing Pressure’  “The fundamental thing is you can’t do it in other
markets,” Wiggs said about the short-sale bans in a telephone
interview yesterday. “There could be ongoing pressure on German
markets because people want to be short and there could be some
pricing skew because of that.”  Deutsche Bank’s core tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of
financial strength, would be 7 percent in 2012 if all so-called
Basel III rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
were applied, Mediobanca SpA’s  Christopher Wheeler  said in a
report yesterday. That would trail rivals such as UBS AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the analyst said.  The Frankfurt-based bank is “confident” it will meet
Basel III capital and liquidity requirements early, Chief Risk
Officer Hugo Banziger said in a presentation on June 10.  “For Deutsche, the question always has been do they have
enough capital, and that discussion is still going on,”  Florian Esterer , who helps oversee about $55 billion at Swisscanto Asset
Management AG in Zurich, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The company always said ‘we don’t need any more
capital so quit bothering us,’ but the underlying risk is that
they’re not sufficiently capitalized and they will need to raise
equity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  