-- 
DTZ’s Leung Signals He May Run for Hong Kong Chief Executive

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-09-09T11:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/dtz-s-leung-signals-he-may-run-for-hong-kong-chief-executive-1-.html
Leung Chun-ying signaled his
intention to resign from his role as an adviser to the  Hong Kong 
government and run for the position of chief executive as a
widening wealth gap stokes social tension.  Leung, 57, is the chairman for Asia Pacific region at DTZ
Holdings Plc, a real estate advisory company. He is currently
one of the members in the Executive Council, the top advisory
body to the city government on major policy issues.  “I have been trying to get the support from all Hong Kong
people in different sectors,” Leung told reporters in Hong Kong
today. “I will quit my position as non-official member in the
executive council at an appropriate time in response to my
preparation for the election campaign.”  Social unrest is rising in Hong Kong as  home prices  surged
more than 70 percent since the start of 2009, prompting Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  in March to criticize rising wealth disparity
as the cause for “deep-rooted conflicts” in the city. Hong
Kong Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  will finish his term by June
2012 and a 1,200-member election committee will vote to select
the next head for Hong Kong.  “Given the structural problems that Premier Wen mentioned,
this is difficult for any candidate to do well ,” said  Joseph Cheng , a political science professor at the City University in
Hong Kong. “The rising home prices strengthen people’s
perception that the government supports the real estate tycoons,
and this certainly hurts the legitimacy of the government.”  Chief Secretary Henry Tang, the second-highest ranking
official in the city, may resign this month to run for the chief
executive election, Sing Tao Daily reported today, citing people
close to Tang that it didn’t identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  