-- 
The Most Dangerous Terrorists Might Be Our Own: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-09-09T00:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/the-most-dangerous-terrorists-might-be-our-own-jeffrey-goldberg.html
The sentencing this week of a
Newburgh,  New York , man to 25 years in prison for plotting to
attack two synagogues and shoot down U.S. military aircraft as
part of a self-styled jihad is a reminder -- and we need this
sort of reminder -- that a crucial question we ask ourselves
about our fight against al-Qaeda might be the wrong question.  The question we usually ask is: Is al-Qaeda entirely
defeated, partially defeated or not-so-partially defeated?
Recently, one answer came from the secretary of defense (and
former CIA director),  Leon Panetta , who said in July, “We’re
within reach of strategically defeating al-Qaeda.”  This is unalloyed good news -- better a world without al-
Qaeda than with al-Qaeda. But the real question is: Will the
defeat of a particular group, even one of the most deadly
terrorist organizations in history, end the threat of Islamist
terrorism? The Newburgh plot, among other recent and vexing
developments in the battle against homegrown terrorists,
suggests strongly that the answer is no.  Yesterday, I stopped by the headquarters of the Department
of Homeland Security to talk to its chief, Janet Napolitano, who
seemed unusually somber and pensive. I think the lingering
effects of  Hurricane Irene , and the upcoming Sept. 11
commemoration, were weighing heavily.  The Lone Wolves  I skipped making the plea I usually make when I see
Napolitano, which is that the department change its name to
something less embarrassingly Sovietish than “homeland
security.” But I did ask her about another perennial obsession:
the (to me) semi-meaningless security measures put in place in
our airports after the Sept. 11 attacks, and whether Panetta’s
recent declaration of near-victory over al-Qaeda meant that we
would soon see some of the more theatrical procedures rolled
back.  “No,” she said.  I waited a long moment, having done my duty for the flying
public. Then I asked, “Would you care to explicate?”  She smiled and said, “First of all, I think you have to
distinguish among core al-Qaeda” -- al-Qaeda’s Pakistan-based
leadership -- “and other al-Qaeda-inspired but not operationally
controlled groups.” She pointed to al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula and al-Shabab, in Somalia, as organizations “that
previously had not aimed at anything beyond their state borders
but now are being more anti-Western in their activities.”  She continued, “We are going to be, in my view, dealing
with terrorism as a threat to the United States from abroad for
the foreseeable future.”  When I asked her what worries her more -- threats from
abroad or threats concocted by Muslims already in the U.S. --
she suggested strongly that the danger posed by self-
radicalizing “lone wolves” is the one she’s most concerned
about.  Homegrown Extremism  Statistics buttress her worry. In their  new book 
“Counterstrike: The Untold Story of America’s Secret Campaign
Against al Qaeda,” Eric Schmitt and Thom Shanker write that
Muslims in the U.S. “were said to exhibit little of the
alienation that often gripped their counterparts in  Europe .” But
that began to change, they write, starting in 2009. “In all
there have been more than forty plots involving American
citizens or permanent residents in the ten years since the 9/11
attacks, and roughly half of these were launched in 2009 or
2010.”  They go on, “The jihadist plots or attacks inside the
United States have baffled terrorism experts because the would-
be bombers have no evident links to one another and little in
common beyond their apparent ideological motive.”  Schmitt and Shanker point to three men in particular as
evidence of a rising tide of homegrown extremism: Najibullah
Zazi, who pleaded guilty last year to plotting to place
explosives in the New York City subway system; David Coleman
Headley, in  Chicago , who confessed to aiding the conspirators
behind the 2008 terror assault on Mumbai; and, of course,  Faisal Shahzad , whose car bomb miraculously failed to explode in Times
Square in May 2010.  On the Islamist lone wolves, Napolitano is clear: She
believes they may succeed in carrying out an attack that would
have failed if it were organized solely overseas. “It is much
more difficult to defeat a lone actor for all the reasons you
would suspect: They usually use simpler tradecraft, they’re not
conspiring with people, there’s nothing to intercept, a lot of
times they act on almost a sporadic basis, so it’s very hard to
predict.”  She went on, “The growth of homegrown violent extremism
within the  United States , individuals and small cells, is
something that I’ve seen expand in my tenure as secretary.
Protecting the American people from this is one of the most
difficult problems we have.”  A Deeper Problem  Napolitano believes that community policing, and close
cooperation with imams and other Muslim leaders, will help  law
enforcement  identify dangerous young men before they become
radicalized. Yet how do we as a society isolate a small minority
of potential terrorists from the much larger population of
innocent and loyal Muslim-Americans? Napolitano said she is
confident law enforcement can work within the bounds of the
Constitution to do so.  But the problem has become more complicated than that. The
notion that Islamic jurisprudence is somehow penetrating our
legal system -- and that American Muslims and their (mainstream)
organizations seek to undermine this country -- has infected the
way many people (even some  Republican presidential candidates )
think about Islam. It’s possible that the extreme vilification
of Islam one finds in some quarters of the right-wing Internet
and talk radio could intensify the alienation and anger of a
young Muslim man already exposed to Islamist propaganda -- and
perhaps even prod him to violence.  The radicalization cycle remains something of a mystery,
and unlocking it will preoccupy the Department of  Homeland
Security  for some time. It clearly concerns Napolitano. “I’ve
been thinking a lot about what causes someone who lives in a
comfortable suburb of northern  Virginia  to want to camp out” in
 Pakistan ’s tribal areas, “then come back home and kill people.
We just don’t know what flips that switch.”  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 