-- 
Health-Care Law, Monsanto, Madoff, Weavering in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-09T10:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/health-care-law-monsanto-madoff-weavering-in-court-news.html
A federal appeals court in  Virginia 
threw out two challenges to the Obama administration’s 2010
health-care law, saying it lacked authority to decide whether
the measure is constitutional.  With the decisions, the court in Richmond yesterday became
the second U.S. appellate panel this year to leave the law
intact after lower-court judges ruled on its constitutionality.
The decisions came in separate cases challenging the statute’s
requirement that individuals buy health insurance or pay a tax
penalty. A third appeals court threw out that mandate.  The rulings broaden the range of opinions on the health-
care law among the intermediate federal courts, a division
likely to be resolved by the U.S. Supreme Court.  “I was a little surprised,” Northwestern University law
professor Stephen Presser said of the court’s decision to
dismiss the cases on jurisdictional grounds. “I expected them
to talk about the constitutional issue.”  The judges in both decisions dismissed the cases, saying
the court lacked jurisdiction. In one, the judges said a statute
that generally blocks lawsuits challenging the collection or
assessment of taxes barred them from ruling on the health-
insurance mandate. In the other, they said the state of Virginia
lacked the legal right to bring its lawsuit.  “This decision is another victory for the Affordable Care
Act,” said  Stephanie Cutter , assistant to the president and
deputy senior adviser, in a White House blog post. Cutter
pointed out that two of the judges noted in one of the decisions
that they would have found the law to be constitutional.  Mathew Staver, dean of the Liberty University School of
Law, called the outcome “astounding.” He said in an interview
that the school will petition the U.S. Supreme Court for review.  Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli  said in a
statement that he plans to appeal the ruling.  The U.S. calls the insurance mandate the linchpin of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, claiming in court
papers that without expanding the pool of younger, healthier
customers the insurance industry won’t be able to meet its
obligations for coverage under the law.  The cases are Liberty University v. Geithner, 10-02347, and
Commonwealth of Virginia v. Sebelius, 11-01057,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  For more, click here.  Primary Global Recruited From Public Firms, Ex-Analyst Says  A former  Primary Global Research LLC  analyst told a jury
his firm actively recruited employees at publicly traded
companies to work as consultants so they would pass detailed
inside information to fund managers who were clients.  Bob Nguyen, 32, of Stockton,  California , testified as a
prosecution witness against James Fleishman, a former Primary
Global executive on trial in  Manhattan  federal court for
allegedly participating in an insider-trading scheme.  Nguyen supervised experts from technology companies who
moonlighted at Mountain View, California-based Primary Global,
which matches investors with specialists who provide insight
into specific markets. He said that after the financial crisis
of 2008, senior Primary Global officials urged staff to recruit
from public companies. Fleishman was present for those meetings,
Nguyen said.  “The financial crisis happened and we’re getting all these
potential experts who aren’t working,” Nguyen said. “The
message was we should be recruiting people who are at publicly
trading companies,” he said. “The reason was, they said, they
were ‘more insightful.’”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps asked Nguyen what he
understood “more insightful” to mean.  “What I understood was that they’d be more useful and
provide more data to clients,” he said.  Of the 15 people charged by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara’s office in the insider-trading probe of so-called
expert networkers and fund managers, 12 have pleaded guilty.
One, Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was
convicted at trial in June of  securities fraud  and conspiracy.
Fleishman is the second to go to trial.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-CR-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  Monsanto May Win Appeal of French GM Maize Ban, Court Says  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and 10 other companies may win a challenge
against a French ban on the use of a strain of genetically
modified corn if the French government can’t show it followed
the correct procedures, the European Union’s highest court said.  An EU nation must establish “the existence of a situation
which is likely to constitute a clear and serious risk to human
health,” the  EU Court of Justice  in Luxembourg said in a ruling
yesterday. Another condition is that the country inform the
European Commission and other EU countries of its measures.  The bloc’s 27 nations are split over the safety of food
produced from genetically modified crops. This is slowing the
process of winning EU permission to grow them and has prompted
complaints by the U.S. and other trade partners.  The case was triggered when St. Louis-based Monsanto in
2007 sought to renew an authorization it previously received for
its MON 810 corn. The commission, the EU’s executive agency, in
 1998 authorized  the use of the maize.  France  introduced emergency measures in 2007 that banned
the use of the product by Monsanto in the country. Two more
orders followed in 2008 that outlawed the planting of the maize
seed. The company, with the support of 10 others, challenged
these measures. France’s Conseil d’Etat, the country’s highest
administrative court, last year sought the EU tribunal’s
guidance on the legality of the measures.  The decision on the validity of the measure will be given
by the Conseil d’Etat and until then “the French emergency
measure stays valid and the prohibition to cultivate varieties
of genetically modified MON 810 maize remains in place on French
territory,” the French environment ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  The case concerns a strain “which hasn’t been checked
according to new European requirements and for which
uncertainties remain as to its potential effect on the
environment,” the ministry  said . agency, in 1998 authorized the
use of the maize.  The safety of MON810 has been confirmed consistently during
the past 15 years, Kelli Powers , a Monsanto spokeswoman, said
yesterday in an e-mail statement. “French farmers should no
longer be denied the choice to use it.”  The cases are: C-58/10, Monsanto SAS, Monsanto Agriculture
France SAS, Monsanto International SARL, Monsanto Technology LLC
v Ministre de l’Agriculture et de la Peche; C-59/10, C-60/10, C-
61/10, C-62/10, C-63/10, C-64/10, C-65/10, C-66/10, C-67/10, C-
68/10.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  SAP’s Ex-TomorrowNow Unit Charged Over Oracle Downloads  SAP AG (SAP) ’s former TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit was
charged by the U.S. with unauthorized computer access and
criminal copyright infringement for improper downloads of Oracle
Inc. programs.  SAP, which shut the Bryan, Texas-based unit in 2008,
reached an agreement with the U.S. Justice Department resolving
the charges, Jim Dever, a SAP spokesman, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. A plea agreement was filed in court and
isn’t yet public, he said, without disclosing any penalty.  “Any fine would be paid by SAP,” Dever said. “We look
forward to what we believe is a fair and final resolution.”  TomorrowNow was accused in 11 counts of using login
credentials from Oracle customers such as Merck & Co. and
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  to gain access to the company’s
software and one count of criminal copyright infringement for
reproducing Oracle’s copyrighted works, according to a charging
document filed yesterday in federal court in  San Francisco  by
U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag.  Jack Gillund, a spokesman for Haag, declined to comment on
whether there was a plea agreement with SAP.  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , and Redwood City,
California-based Oracle are the two biggest makers of business
software and compete for corporate customers that purchase
programs to run payroll, human resources, accounting and real
estate management tasks.  The criminal case is U.S. v. TomorrowNow, 11-642, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  Milberg Founder Weiss Seeks Dismissal of Madoff Trustee Suit  Melvyn Weiss, the disbarred co-founding partner of the law
firm Milberg LLP, said he will seek dismissal of a lawsuit by
the trustee for Bernard L. Madoff’s defunct firm that demands
the return of money withdrawn from the Ponzi scheme over 15
years.  “The trustee’s claims violate the statutory ‘look back’
periods limiting avoidance to six years prior to the filing date
for state law,” Weiss said Sept. 7 in a filing in U.S. District
Court in Manhattan.  Trustee Irving Picard’s lawsuit last year against Weiss and
his family never alleged they had actual knowledge of the fraud,
according to Weiss. That sets it apart from 19 suits in which
Picard claimed defendants knew or should have known of Madoff’s
conduct and sought to recoup funds withdrawn beyond the six-year
limit, he said.  Weiss asked the judge to remove the case from bankruptcy
court, saying it raised a “novel issue” and federal law
questions that require a district judge’s ruling.  “The trustee and his counsel are confident in their claims
and look forward to arguing this matter in whichever court the
case is eventually heard,” Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Weiss and ex-partners William Lerach, David Bershad and
Steven Schulman all pleaded guilty to criminal charges in
connection with paying firm clients to file securities fraud
suits against companies. The four, who were partners in the
former firm Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach LLP, were
disbarred and served prison sentences.  Madoff, 73, is in a federal prison in North Carolina,
serving a 150-year sentence for the fraud.  The case is Picard v. M&B Weiss Family Limited Partnership,
10-04241,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Weavering Capital Criminal Probe Dropped by U.K. Prosecutors  U.K. fraud prosecutors dropped a criminal investigation
into the collapse of hedge-fund firm Weavering Capital (UK) Ltd.
and its founder Magnus Peterson.  The Serious Fraud Office decided not to bring charges
because it didn’t think it could win a conviction, the agency
said yesterday. Weavering Capital collapsed in March 2009 with
losses of more than $500 million after discovering the
counterparty for its biggest trading position was controlled by
the fund’s manager.  “There is a devastating weight of evidence against Mr.
Peterson,” Barnaby Stueck, a partner with Jones Day in  London 
who is pursuing a civil cases against the executive, said in an
interview. “I don’t understand how the SFO could reach the
conclusion that they did.”  The agency was investigating interest-rate swaps between
the Weavering Macro Fixed Income Fund Ltd. and another Weavering
fund in the British Virgin Islands that were valued at more than
$600 million. The swaps, which had little or no actual value,
inflated the value of the fund and covered up Peterson’s losses
on options trades, according to Jones Day, which is advising the
fund’s administrator.  The SFO arrested Peterson and Edward Platt, a senior
employee at the fund, after it collapsed in 2009. A civil case
against Peterson for fraud and breach of duty filed by  MCR , the
turnaround firm appointed as Weavering’s administrator, is
scheduled to go to trial in October.  “The SFO’s decision to discontinue its investigation into
the actions of Magnus Peterson and Edward Platt comes as a shock
and is deeply disappointing to Weavering’s investors and
creditors,” MCR liquidator Geoffrey Bouchier said in an e-
mailed statement from Jones Day.  After considering the evidence, there wasn’t a reasonable
prospect of getting a conviction, SFO spokesman David Jones said
in an e-mail.  Monty Raphael, Peterson’s attorney, didn’t return a phone
call and e-mail seeking comment on the SFO’s decision.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Pisa Has Right to Annul Swaps,  Italy ’s Highest Court Rules  Pisa’s provincial government has the right to annul swaps
contracts with Dexia Crediop SpA and Depfa Bank Plc, Italy’s
highest administrative court ruled.  Italy’s Council of State ruled that Italy’s administrative
courts have jurisdiction on the cases and that the agreements
may be annulled, according to Pasquale Vulcano, Pisa’s lawyer.  Pisa, known for its leaning tower, had stopped making
payments on the swaps, claiming that 95 million euros ($133
million) of bonds and derivatives sold by the banks in 2007
didn’t provide an economic advantage to the city. The city said
that the bank hid so-called implicit costs on the swaps that
made the new financing by Dexia, a unit of Brussels-based  Dexia
SA (DEXB) , and Depfa more expensive than existing debt.  Dexia Crediop is considering appealing the ruling in Italy
and the European Union, the company said in an e-mailed
statement. Officials for Depfa didn’t have an immediate comment.  The court will appoint an expert to assess whether the
contracts were economically convenient, the ruling said.  Siemens, Toshiba Czech Fines Were Legal, EU Court Aide Says  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and other electric-
equipment makers should have more than 900 million koruna ($52
million) in Czech fines upheld, an adviser to the European
Union’s highest court said.  “The Czech competition authority was entitled to impose
penalties under national law,” even though EU antitrust
authorities had also punished the cartel members, Advocate
General Juliane Kokott, of the  EU Court of Justice, said  in a
non-binding opinion yesterday. The Luxembourg-based EU court
follows such legal advice most of the time.  The Czech antitrust regulator fined at least 10 companies a
record 979 million koruna in 2007, a month after the EU
regulator levied a 750.7 million-euro penalty ($1.05 billion) on
them for colluding on prices of electric equipment. The
companies, also including  Areva SA (CEI)  and  Alstom SA (ALO) , are
challenging the legality of the Czech fine, which was later cut
to 942 million koruna.  “We’re disappointed with the conclusion that’s been
reached and we’ll now wait for the court’s decision,” said
Anthony Dawes, a lawyer in the Brussels office of law firm White
& Case LLP, who represented Toshiba.  Siemens spokesman Alexander Becker declined to comment on
the EU adviser’s opinion, as did Mitsubishi. Spokespeople for
Areva and Alstom didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment.
Toshiba, Hitachi and Fuji Electric didn’t respond to e-mails
seeking comment outside normal office hours.  The case is C-17/10, Toshiba Corporation v. Urad pro
ochranu hospodarske souteze.  For more, click here.  France Telecom May Lose Appeal Over $1.55 Billion in Aid  France Telecom SA (FTE) , France’s largest phone company, should
lose an appeal over an order by the European Union to pay as
much as 1.1 billion euros ($1.55 billion) in back taxes to the
French government, an adviser to the EU’s top court said.  Niilo Jaeaeskinen, an advocate general for the  EU Court of
Justice , said in a non-binding opinion yesterday that the EU
court should dismiss the appeal. The Luxembourg-based tribunal
follows such advice in a majority of cases.  The European Commission had probed France’s support for the
phone company when it was close to bankruptcy in 2002, deciding
that France Telecom had received improper tax benefits from 1994
through 2004. The Paris-based company is appealing a lower EU
court’s decision that sided with the regulator in 2009.  The Brussels-based commission won a separate case at the EU
high court in 2007 over France’s failure to recoup the tax
breaks. The tribunal rejected France’s arguments that the
commission should have given a more precise figure when it ruled
in 2004 that France Telecom must pay back as much as 1.1 billion
euros, plus interest.  Rulings by the EU’s top court take about six months from
the time of the opinion. France Telecom said the company has set
aside the funds in an escrow provision.  “If the court follows this opinion there will be no
financial impact on France Telecom due to the fact that the sum
claimed has already been paid to the French authorities in
2010,” Tom Wright, a spokesman for France Telecom, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The case is: C-81/10 P, France Telecom v. European
Commission.  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On The Docket  Lone Star Verdict Due in October as Prosecutors Seek Prison  South Korean prosecutors asked the Seoul High Court to
sentence  Lone Star Funds ’ former local chief Paul Yoo to 10
years in prison when it delivers its verdict in the stock-
manipulation retrial of Yoo and the U.S. fund next month.  The  Seoul High Court  will rule on the case on Oct. 6, Judge
Cho Kyung Ran said at a closing hearing yesterday. The
proceedings have been a hurdle to the Dallas-based fund’s sale
of  Korea Exchange Bank (004940) , which is also a defendant. The
prosecutors sought fines of about 35 billion won ($33 million)
for Lone Star, 45 billion won for Korea Exchange Bank and 4
billion won for Yoo.  An end to the case may pave the way for  Hana Financial
Group Inc. (086790) ’s planned purchase of Korea Exchange Bank from Lone
Star after the Financial Services Commission delayed approval of
the deal in May because of the retrial. Hana, set to buy a 51
percent stake in KEB, and Lone Star extended a deadline to
complete the transaction until the end of November.  “Even in my dreams, I never thought that I was involved in
illegal activities,” Yoo said yesterday in his last remarks to
the court.  Lone Star is innocent of the stock price manipulation
charge as Yoo didn’t represent Lone Star’s LSF-KEB Holdings SCA
unit, which owns Korea Exchange Bank, the fund’s attorney said.
Korea Exchange Bank’s lawyers also claimed the lender can’t be
penalized with Yoo because he didn’t represent the bank. Both
Lone Star and Korea Exchange Bank are charged by prosecutors as
de-facto employers of Yoo.  For more, click here.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 