-- 
Health-Care Ruling May Delay High Court's Final Answer

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-09-09T04:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/health-care-ruling-may-delay-final-answer-from-u-s-high-court.html
A federal appeals court decision
cast doubt on the prospect that the U.S.  Supreme Court  will rule
on the constitutionality of President Barack Obama’s health-care
overhaul before the 2012 elections.  The three-judge panel said yesterday it didn’t yet have the
power to consider a challenge to the law’s requirement that
Americans, by 2014, either acquire health insurance or pay a
penalty. The court ruled that judicial review must wait for the
assessment of a fine -- something that wouldn’t occur until the
following year.  The health-care law, which has divided courts around the
country, was already in line for possible Supreme Court review
early next year, with a ruling likely in June. Yesterday’s
ruling adds a new legal wrinkle, raising a procedural issue that
might delay the ultimate outcome.  “It’s still the case that we will get some decision from
the United States Supreme Court the last week of this coming
June,” said Walter Dellinger, the former U.S. solicitor general
who filed a brief backing the law on behalf of congressional
Democrats. “But it is possible that ruling could be that no one
has the right to challenge this law until they’ve declined to
pay the penalty or sought a refund.”  Three federal appeals courts have now considered the law,
each reaching a different conclusion. A Cincinnati-based appeals
court upheld the law in June, calling it a valid use of
Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce. An appeal in
that case is now before the Supreme Court.  26 States  An Atlanta-based court then disagreed, upholding arguments
by 26 states that Congress had exceeded its power under the
commerce clause. The  Justice Department  is scheduled to say by
the end of the month whether it will seek Supreme Court review
of that ruling or instead ask a larger panel of appellate judges
to reconsider.  The latest ruling, from the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Richmond, Virginia, takes a third approach. The panel
focused on a law, known as the Anti-Injunction Act, barring
lawsuits that seek to block the collection of federal taxes. The
measure says that “no suit for the purpose of restraining the
assessment or collection of any tax shall be maintained in any
court by any person.”  Writing for herself and one other panel member, Judge Diana Gribbon Motz, said the law meant the court couldn’t hear a suit
filed by Liberty University, a Christian school in Lynchburg,
 Virginia , founded by the late Rev. Jerry Falwell.  “This expansive language leaves no room for a court to
carve out exceptions based on the policy ramifications of a
particular pre-enforcement challenge,” she wrote.  ‘Another Victory’  Motz rejected arguments from Liberty and the Justice
Department, which had contended that the Anti-Injunction Act
shouldn’t stop the suit from going forward. The White House
nonetheless claimed victory after the ruling.  “This decision is another victory for the Affordable Care
Act and the tens of millions of Americans already benefiting
from this landmark law,”  Stephanie Cutter , assistant to the
president and deputy senior adviser, said in a White House blog
post.  Cutter pointed to statements by two judges that they would
have upheld the law had the court ruled on the merits. The
appeals court threw out a separate lawsuit, filed by Virginia
Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , on different grounds.  The ruling put the 4th Circuit at odds with the Cincinnati-
based 6th Circuit, which said the Anti-Injunction Act didn’t
apply. Before yesterday’s ruling, all nine federal judges to
consider the issue had concluded they could address the merits
of the health-care law, according to Judge Andre Davis, who
dissented from Motz’s ruling.  ‘Astounding’ Decision  Mathew Staver, dean of the Liberty University School of Law
called the outcome “astounding,” and said the school will seek
Supreme Court review. “I think this is a case that would
clearly be reversed,” he said in an interview.  The  high court  will have to resolve the Anti-Injunction Act
matter even if the Justice Department doesn’t press the issue.
Under longstanding Supreme Court precedents, federal courts have
an independent obligation to determine whether they have
jurisdiction.  Although Motz said yesterday that the law might not
restrict state suits against the health care law, those
challenges face their own separate procedural questions.  The issue is an obstacle for foes of the law, said  Tom Goldstein , an appellate lawyer in Bethesda,  Maryland , whose
 Scotusblog  website tracks the high court.  ‘Front and Center’  “Even if it only costs the plaintiffs a vote, it’s not a
vote that they really have to lose,” said Goldstein, who filed
a brief supporting the law on behalf of AARP, an advocacy group
for senior citizens. “When the government gave up on this
argument, it seemed to fade, but now it will be back front and
center.”  Ilya Shapiro, a senior fellow at the libertarian  Cato
Institute  in Washington and an opponent of the health-care
measure, said the Anti-Injunction Act might give the high court
a way to leave the law intact, at least for the time being,
without endorsing an expansion of federal power.  “I think it’s more likely to do that than to rule for the
individual mandate on the merits,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 