-- 
ECB Said to Dilute Distressed-Bank Plan as Debt Crisis Worsens

-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e ,   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-09-09T12:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ecb-said-to-dilute-distressed-bank-plan-as-debt-crisis-worsens.html
The  European Central Bank  plans to
dilute a proposal to wean distressed banks off its emergency
funding on concern it would exacerbate the region’s debt crisis,
said two euro-area officials familiar with the deliberations.  Instead of imposing higher  interest rates  on emergency
loans to penalize Greek, Irish and Portuguese banks, the ECB and
national central banks would ask financial institutions to
detail how they will repay the money, said one of the officials.
He spoke on condition of anonymity because talks are ongoing.
Banks would also need to outline expected future ECB funding
needs and how they plan to raise money in markets, he said.  The measures are similar to those agreed with Irish banks
as part of that country’s rescue, the other official said.
Policy makers may decide on the plan by the end of the year.  The ECB has spent more than a year trying to work out how
to reduce banks’ dependency on emergency funding. Banks in
 Greece , Ireland and Portugal, which have all received European
Union-led bailouts since April 2010, have increased their
reliance on ECB cash. The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index has plunged 31 percent since the start of July on
concern the crisis is spreading and will engulf Spanish, Italian
and French banks.  Under the latest proposal, the ECB along with national
central banks would assess the feasibility of banks’ funding
intentions and track compliance with any agreed plan, said one
of the people familiar with the matter. An ECB spokeswoman
declined to comment.  ‘Full Allotment’  One of the main planks of the ECB’s emergency measures
during the financial crisis was to lend banks as much money as
they needed against collateral to avert a credit squeeze. It
implemented so-called “full allotment” in its main refinancing
operations in October 2008 after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  Since then, the ECB has been prevented from
withdrawing the measure by the debt crisis.  With growing concern about the quality of assets held by
European banks, some have found themselves locked out of the
 interbank market  and have needed to increase their reliance on
ECB cash instead. Policy makers have said they’re worried about
these “persistent bidders” and are working on a plan to
address the issue.  Irish, Portuguese and Greek banks’ reliance on ECB funding
has increased in recent months. Irish lenders borrowed 97.9
billion euros ($135.5 billion) from the central bank in August,
up from 97.6 billion euros the previous month, the country’s
central bank said today. Under the country’s bailout terms,
banks were ordered to cut their loan-to-deposit ratios to 122.5
percent by the end of 2013 in order to make them more self
sufficient.  ECB financing to  Portugal ’s banks rose for a second month
in August to 46 billion euros from 44.2 billion euros. Greek
banks’ dependency jumped to 103 billion euros in June from 97.5
billion euros in May, the latest data available shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net 
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net 
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  