-- 
ECB Dealt Blow as Executive Board Member Stark Resigns Before End of Term

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-09T15:47:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ecb-executive-board-member-stark-resigns-three-years-before-end-of-term.html
Juergen Stark resigned from the
European Central Bank’s Executive Board after protesting the
bank’s bond purchases on a conference call earlier this week,
said a euro-area central bank official familiar with the
meeting.  During the Sept. 4 call, Stark, 63, expressed his strong
opposition to the program, which was expanded last month when
the ECB started buying Italian and Spanish bonds, said the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions are confidential. Stark was supported by the central
banks of  Austria  and the Netherlands, the person said. The
resignation of Stark, the ECB’s chief economist, is a blow to
the bank, the official said, noting he is the second German ECB
member after  Axel Weber  to leave over the bond program.  Stark’s resignation, less than two months before President
Jean-Claude Trichet’s term ends, suggests policy makers are
increasingly split over the best way to fight  Europe ’s debt
crisis. The ECB’s bond purchases have also been opposed by
Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann and his predecessor Weber,
who earlier this year pulled out of the running to succeed
Trichet.  “There is quite a severe row going on,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-region economist at Citigroup Inc. in
 London . “It seems that it went too far.”  ‘Personal Reasons’  The euro extended its decline after news of Stark’s
possible resignation was first published. It traded at $1.3662
at 5:37 p.m. in  Frankfurt , down 1.6 percent on the day.  Stark today informed Trichet that, “for personal reasons,
he will resign from his position,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said
in a statement. “Stark will stay on in his current position
until a successor is appointed, which, according to the
appointment procedure, will be by the end of this year.”  The German government will nominate Deputy Finance Minister
 Joerg Asmussen  to replace Stark on the ECB’s six-member board,
 Germany ’s N-TV reported, without saying where it got the
information.  The ECB, which started its bond program in May last year
when  Greece ’s fiscal crisis began to spread to other euro-area
countries, has so far spent 129 billion euros ($176 billion) on
the bonds of distressed governments in an attempt to lower their
yields. While the ECB says it is trying to ensure the
transmission of its  interest rates , Stark told Bloomberg News on
Aug. 18 that the purchases blur the line between monetary and
fiscal policy.  No ‘Glowing Advocate’  “It’s generally known that I’m not a glowing advocate of
these purchases,” Stark said. “I see the rationale. Our
accommodative monetary policy isn’t being transmitted in certain
regions. So it’s justifiable from a policy point of view. But
there’s an important point -- we are also reducing interest
rates for the sovereign. That’s where the problem is.”  Stark’s eight-year term was due to end on May 31, 2014.
When he and Trichet depart, half of the ECB’s board will be new.
Belgium’s Peter Praet joined in June. Bank of  Italy  Governor
 Mario Draghi  will take the ECB’s helm on Nov. 1.  Trichet yesterday said the central bank has cut its growth
forecasts for this year and next and reduced its assessment of
inflation risks, opening the door for further stimulus measures.
Stark is one of the ECB’s most ardent inflation fighters.  “Things do not look too good from outside, with a second
German leaving the Governing Council to openly criticize the ECB
after Weber,” said Laurent Bilke, a former ECB economist now
working at Nomura International in London. “Good luck to Mario
Draghi.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  