-- 
Ecuador State Fund Balks at 12% Rate Sought by Banks in Bond Market Return

-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 
2011-09-09T16:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ecuador-s-biess-in-talks-with-citigroup-jpmorgan-for-bond-sale.html
The banking arm of Ecuador’s state-
run pension fund is in talks with banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to help manage a $200-million foreign
bond sale next year.  Banco del Instituto Ecuatoriano de Seguridad Social , which
will use the notes to boost spending on local infrastructure
projects and lending to members, said the banks are recommending
an “impossible” interest rate of 12 percent, while BIESS is
seeking no more than 9 percent, Chief Executive Officer Efrain Vieira said yesterday in an interview at his offices in Quito.  The bonds would be the first notes sold in international
markets by a government agency since Ecuador defaulted on $3.2
billion of debt three years ago. Vieira, who manages about $7.57
billion for the country’s biggest institutional investor, said
the banks want higher yields because of the perceived risk of
investing in  Ecuador , where the  United Nations  estimates about
40 percent of the population can’t meet basic needs.  “The sale would allow Ecuador to reintegrate with
international markets,” said Vieira, a 47-year-old electrical
engineer, who was named CEO last year after winning a public
merit contest. “The banks want 12 percent, which is too
expensive for me. It’s impossible to sell at that rate.”  Citigroup’s press office in Miami and JPMorgan spokeswoman
Lauren Francis in New York didn’t immediately respond today to
telephone messages seeking comment.  Dollar-Bond Yields  The yield on Ecuador’s dollar bonds maturing in 2015 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.64 percent at
12:02 p.m.  New York  time, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield has declined 233 basis points this year,
while the price has gained 8.6 cents to 99.08 cents on the
dollar. The country’s bonds on average yield 881 basis points
more than U.S. Treasuries, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI+ index.  BIESS also is reducing its Ecuadorean government bond
holdings to help spur trading for the notes in the country’s
local market, Vieira said. The bank has sold $352 million so far
this year and plans an additional $328 million sale immediately,
he said.  “There’s a change of policy,” Vieira said. “Before, the
fund waited for the paper to mature. Now the plan is to help
generate a secondary market.”  There is a shortage of government debt on the local market
after the central bank in July passed rules forcing financial
companies to hold part of their reserves in public debt, Cesar Robalino, executive president of the nation’s private bank
association, said in an Aug. 24 interview.  International Financing  Ecuador’s government has relied on financing from  China  and
multilateral lenders like the  Inter-American Development Bank  as
well as loans from the state pension fund to help cover budget
deficits since the default.  President  Rafael Correa  stopped payments on $3.2 billion in
bonds starting in December 2008, saying the securities were
“illegitimate” and “illegal.” The government’s 2015 dollar
bonds were the only global notes Correa kept servicing.  BIESS also is limiting purchases of debt from Ecuadorean
companies with high import levels in a bid to support a
government plan to boost the country’s trade surplus, Vieira
said.  The bank plans to increase its holdings of securities sold
by Holcim Ecuador SA, the local unit of Holcim Ltd., the world’s
second-biggest cement producer, and supermarket chain Corp. La
Favorita CA, he said.  Partnering with international banks would give the foreign
bond sale “more weight,” Vieira said.  “The goal is to do something different,” he said. Help
from foreign banks should give the bonds “much more weight and
protection and they will be much more enticing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in  Quito  News at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  