-- 
Egypt Declares Emergency as Israeli Embassy Hit

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 
2011-09-11T03:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/egypt-fires-gas-at-israel-embassy-protest-arabiya-says-1-.html
Egypt’s ruling military council
declared a state of emergency to restore order after protesters
attacked the Israeli embassy in Cairo.  Israel ’s Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  told his nation last night that the incident
had damaged “the fabric of peace” between the two countries
while declaring his commitment to the 32-year alliance.  Egyptian commandos rescued embassy security personnel and
civil security forces dispersed protesters gathered outside the
embassy for a second day. One person outside the embassy died of
a heart attack and 448 people were injured in both incidents,
Egypt’s state-run Nile News said. At least two people died in
the embassy protests, the  BBC  reported, citing unidentified
officials.  “The fact that the Egyptian authorities acted decisively
to bring about the release of our people is commendable and
deserves thanks,” Netanyahu said in a televised address from
his office in  Jerusalem . “At the same time, the Egyptians
cannot ignore the heavy damage done to the fabric of peace with
Israel and this extreme violation of international norms.”  U.S. President  Barack Obama  called on Egypt’s government
“to honor its international obligations to safeguard the
security of the Israeli embassy,” the White House said in a
statement Sept. 9. Egypt’s state television reported that the
Israeli ambassador went to Cairo airport to return to Israel.  Increasing Tensions  Since the February ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak , an
ally of the U.S. and Israel, there have been increasing calls by
many Egyptians for ending the peace treaty between Egypt and
Israel. Tensions between the countries escalated as violence on
their border flared in August, when militants opened fire on
cars and buses near the southern Israeli city of Eilat. At least
three Egyptian police officers died in the ensuing Israeli
military response.  Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf called a Cabinet
crisis group meeting after the incident at the embassy, state
television reported.  “I don’t think that we can link what is happening now to
what happened during the revolution,” Information Minister
Osama Heikal in an interview with Al Arabiya television. “What
is happening now is vandalism, it’s a crime in all measures, and
we need to deal with these individuals by enforcing the law.”  At least 17 people linked to the embassy incident have been
arrested, Al Jazeera television reported, citing an unidentified
security official.  Tear Gas  Demonstrators threw stones and tossed tear-gas canisters
back at the security forces, mixing chants against  Egypt ’s
ruling military council with denunciations of Israel, said Hatem
Abdel Moneim Talima, an assistant professor at the American
University in Cairo, who went to the embassy Friday and stayed
until early yesterday.  “I have never seen that much tear gas used before, not
even at the height of the revolution,” Talima said.  All Israeli diplomatic staff in Cairo are safe after
Egyptian commandos rescued them, Netanyahu said. Embassy
personnel have been returned to Israel, he said, and “our
diplomatic delegate in Cairo will continue to represent Israel
until the ambassador’s return.”  In a Sept. 9 telephone call with Netanyahu, Obama expressed
his concern about events at the embassy and reviewed what the
U.S. was doing to help resolve the situation “without further
violence,” the White House said in its statement.  Praise for Obama  In his televised address, Netanyahu said Obama had told him
“‘I’ll do everything I can.’”  “He did it,” Netanyahu said. “We owe him a special
thanks.”  “What happened is a disaster,” Emad Gad, who heads the
Israel studies program at the Al-Ahram Center for Political and
Strategic Studies in Cairo, said in a telephone interview.
“Israel will use this to make Egypt look like it’s incapable of
providing security.”  The Islamic Hamas movement, which controls the coastal  Gaza
Strip , said on Aug. 22 that an informal agreement was reached
with Israel to end violence that escalated after Aug. 18 attacks
near the Red Sea resort of Eilat left eight Israelis dead. At
least 14 Palestinians were killed in Israeli strikes following
that incident, and one Israeli was killed in a rocket attack.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  