-- 
Europe Company Swap Gap to U.S. Surges to Record: Credit Markets

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-09-09T15:41:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/lehman-mirrored-in-record-european-swap-divergence-to-u-s-credit-markets.html
Credit traders are demanding the
biggest premiums ever to protect against European corporate
defaults relative to North American companies, marking a
reversal from the months before Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
2008 failure when investors shunned U.S. borrowers.  A benchmark index of credit-default swaps linked to 125
European companies including French bank  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and
Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA, is trading 56.4
basis points wider than one for U.S. corporate debt, data from
London-based Markit Group Ltd. show. The gap reached 60 basis
points on Sept. 6. In the two months before Lehman’s September
2008 bankruptcy, the U.S. index averaged 41.6 basis points wider
than the European gauge.  Banks and money managers are shying away from European debt
as the region’s finance ministers struggle to contain a crisis
of confidence that has driven borrowing costs on countries from
 Greece  to  Italy  to records. That’s raising concern its lenders
will struggle to raise capital to cushion against spiraling
losses on sovereign debt.  “The big phobic worry here, and rightfully so, is does
Europe have its Lehman moment?” said  Scott MacDonald , head of
credit and economic research at Aladdin Capital Management LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and co-author of “When small
Countries Crash.”  Even with the U.S. unemployment rate holding above 9
percent for two years and risks of another recession rising, the
nation has remained a relative haven from the crisis in Europe.  ‘Contagion Risk’  “People are more focused right now on Europe and its
contagion risk,” said Michael Mutti, a credit strategist at
Raymond James & Associates in New York. “Our Treasuries are
still a safe haven. And that’s frustrating for investors who
want to put their money into something to get a little more
yield, but where are you going to?”  Elsewhere in credit markets, two-year interest-rate swap
spreads, a gauge of fear in debt markets, reached the widest
level in 14 months. The extra yield investors demand to own
investment-grade corporate bonds worldwide instead of government
debt climbed to the highest since August 2009. Lee Enterprises
Inc., publisher of the St. Louis-Dispatch, reached an agreement
with lenders to refinance $904.5 million of debt and avoid
bankruptcy.  The difference, or spread, between the two-year swap rate
and the comparable-maturity Treasury note yield climbed 2.81
basis points to 34 basis points as of 11:29 a.m. in New York.
The measure has climbed from 23.37 since the end of July as
investor concern has mounted that Europe’s fiscal imbalances
will spread and harm bank balance sheets.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own investment-grade
corporate bonds worldwide instead of government debt expanded to
234 basis points, or 2.34 percentage points, yesterday from 232
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. While that was the widest in two years, absolute yields
are at 3.74 percent, compared with almost 8 percent in December
2008.  Lee’s $689.5 million first-lien  term loan  will mature in
December 2015, instead of 2012, the company said in a Sept. 8
 press release . The debt will pay 6.25 percentage points more
than the  London  interbank offered rate and the lending benchmark
will have a 1.25 percent floor. A $175 million, second-lien
credit, which will mature in April 2017 rather than 2015, will
pay 15 percentage points more than Libor, the company said.  “The refinancing will remove a cloud that has obscured
Lee’s formidable strengths in our markets,” Mary Junck,
chairman and chief executive officer of Lee said in the
statement.  Traded Wider  The Markit iTraxx Europe index, which rises as investor
confidence deteriorates, has climbed 81 basis points since June
30 to 187 basis points, Markit Group Ltd. at 4:26 p.m. in
London. During the same period, the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade index, which is linked to the debt of 125
companies in the U.S. and  Canada , rose 38.7 to 130.6.  Before April 2010, the month S&P lowered its long-term
credit ratings on Greek government debt to junk, the iTraxx
index never traded wider than the CDX, Markit prices show.  Perceived credit risk for North American corporations is
rising at a slower rate than in  Europe  as investors wager that
companies holding more than $1 trillion in cash can withstand
the slowing economy.  Two Benchmarks  Yields on investment-grade corporate debt in the U.S.
reached a record low of 3.45 percent on Aug. 4, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, and firms from New
York-based Time Warner Cable Inc. to ketchup-maker H.J. Heinz
Co. in Pittsburgh have sold bonds this week. Yields were at 3.65
percent yesterday compared with 3.97 percent for equivalent debt
in Europe.  One difference between the two credit swap benchmarks that
may be contributing to the gap is that the European index
includes banks in the region that have had the biggest increases
in the cost of protecting against a default on their debt. The
North American version excludes U.S. banks.  Swaps on Paris-based Societe Generale jumped 40.2 basis
points today to 375.7 and have soared from 129.7 since June 30,
according to data provider CMA. The lender has been among banks
targeted by investors because of a perceived dependence on
short-term funding, analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
wrote in an Aug. 11 note to clients.  ‘Investor Angst’  Contracts on  Germany ’s  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , also in the index,
jumped 123.2 to 286.6 since the end of June, CMA data in London
show. The cost to protect the debt of Greek telephone company
Hellenic Telecommunications has soared 1,085 to 1653 in that
period.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
yesterday that threats to the region have worsened, reducing the
likelihood of interest-rate increases. The ECB, which was forced
to widen its bond purchase program to Italy and  Spain  as
borrowing costs for the nations reached euro-era records, stands
ready to pump more cash into markets if needed, he said.  Greece is seeking preliminary responses today from
investors to a proposed debt swap that’s part of a 159 billion-
euro European Union rescue plan agreed to in July. Responses to
the inquiry, which is not a formal offer, are nonbinding and
will be aggregated by regulators on a country-by-country basis,
according to the Greek government.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments climbed 11 basis points to
334.5.  The contracts pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10
million of debt.  “There’s only so much ammunition to go around here,” said
MacDonald of Aladdin, which oversees $10.4 billion. “It does
raise a lot of concern and investor angst.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 