-- 
El-Erian Says Obama’s Speech Recognized ‘Deep’ Challenges for First Time

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 
2011-09-09T15:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/el-erian-says-obama-s-speech-recognized-deep-challenges-for-first-time.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said President  Barack Obama  is moving for the
first time to “get ahead” of U.S. economic challenges because
the  Federal Reserve  is unable to revive employment on its own.  Obama called on Congress yesterday to pass a jobs plan that
would inject $447 billion into the economy through
infrastructure spending, subsidies to local governments to stem
teacher layoffs and cutting in half the payroll taxes paid by
workers and small-business owners. Tax cuts account for more
than half the dollar value of the stimulus.  “For the first time, the administration recognizes how
deep our economic challenges are and is trying to get ahead of
them,” El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer of the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “My hope is that there’s enough there for both parties so
that they can coalesce to the center.”  The president, speaking before a joint session of Congress,
demanded six times that lawmakers act “right away” to pass his
program. Job growth stalled last month and the  unemployment rate 
has hovered near 9 percent for more than two years.  “If Washington doesn’t come together, we’re not only going
to face years of low growth, we’ll end up in recession, and it’s
going to be very costly,”  Newport Beach , California-based El-
Erian said.  Fed Action Likely  El-Erian reiterated Pimco’s view that Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will be inclined to take additional
steps to spur growth beyond the two previous rounds of debt
buying, known as quantitative easing. The central bank will
likely extend the maturities of its portfolio while shedding
shorter-maturity debt, he said. The tactic has been called
“Operation Twist” after a similar program in the 1960s.  “I suspect we will see something from the Fed,” El-Erian
said. “Ultimately, it’s not going to be effective at generating
growth and it’s not going to be effective in reducing
unemployment. For that, you need the other agencies in
 Washington  to get their act together.”  Treasury 10-year note yields were below 2 percent as
speculation that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis may cripple its
financial institutions fueled demand for refuge.  U.S. 10-year yields declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.96 percent in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They reached a record low 1.9066
percent on Sept. 6. The 2.125 percent securities maturing in
August 2021 increased 5/32 today, or $1.56 per $1,000 face
amount, to 101 15/32.  ‘Moment of Truth’  The benchmark securities headed for a second weekly gain
after two euro-area officials said the  European Central Bank 
plans to dilute a proposal to wean distressed banks off its
emergency funding on concern it would exacerbate the region’s
debt crisis.  “We need  Europe  to have its moment of truth, to recognize
that the current course isn’t sustainable,” El-Erian said.
“They need to opt for one of two options: either full fiscal
union, or a smaller, stronger euro zone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  