-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall Most in 4 Weeks on Global Growth Concern

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n ,   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-09T21:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/emerging-market-stocks-set-for-weekly-drop-amid-economic-growth-concerns.html
Emerging stocks fell, with the
benchmark index extending its weekly loss to the biggest in a
month, after U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s $447 billion jobs
plan failed to ease concern that the global economy is slowing,
while eastern European shares tumbled as currencies weakened.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 2.1 percent to
992.31 as of 5:47 p.m. in  New York . The 2.9 percent loss this
week was the biggest in four. Hungary’s BUX Index tumbled 6.2
percent as the government may force lenders to absorb losses on
foreign-currency loans by fixing the  exchange rate  with the
Swiss franc below prevailing rates. Brazil’s Bovespa dropped 3.2
percent while  Mexico ’s benchmark slid 2.6 percent. Poland’s
WIG20 Index sank 5 percent.  Obama called on Congress yesterday to pass his job-creation
package after employment growth stalled last month and European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said “downside
risks” for the region’s economies have risen. Hungary’s forint
and Poland’s zloty depreciated against the Swiss franc, reviving
concern borrowers with foreign-currency loans may default.  Trichet’s comments “put pressure on the euro, leading to a
decrease in the appetite for risk and cooled  market sentiment ,”
Vyacheslav Smolyaninov, a Moscow-based strategist at UralSib
Financial Corp., said in an e-mailed note today. Speeches by
Obama and U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
“yesterday also failed to impress markets,” he said.  Speculation that  Greece  could default on its debt fueled a
global equities rout.  Germany  set plans to shore up the nation’s
banks in the event Greece defaults, according to three coalition
officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Eastern European Banks  OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest lender, plunged 11
percent after the ruling party proposed allowing foreign-
currency borrowers to repay loans early at a fixed rate with
banks covering costs. Trading was briefly suspended after the
price breached the 10 percent limit, dropping as much as 15
percent.  The forint slipped 1.8 percent against the Swiss franc and
1.1 percent versus the euro.  Banks in Poland also slid. PKO Bank Polski SA, the
country’s biggest lender, lost 7.2 percent and  Bank Pekao SA (PEO) ,
majority-owned by UniCredit SpA, declined 6.1 percent.  The zloty weakened 1.5 percent against the franc, falling
for a second day. Foreign-currency mortgage loans, most
denominated in Swiss francs, made up 63 percent of all home
loans in Poland, according to the country’s financial regulator.  Brazil , Israel  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the  oil company 
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , tumbled 7.1 percent and
iron-ore miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA fell 4.7 percent,
following crude and metals prices lower as Obama’s jobs plan
underscored concern the U.S. recovery is faltering.  The real declined for a sixth straight day, falling 0.8
percent to 1.6741 per dollar, the weakest closing level since
March.  Israel’s foreign and local currency ratings were raised one
step to A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited rapid economic
growth and possible debt reduction. The upgrade to the fifth-
highest investment grade status brings S&P’s rating in line with
Moody’s Investors Service and one notch higher than Fitch
Ratings’ assessment.  Fund Flows  Emerging-market equity funds reported a sixth week of
outflows amid signs that the global economic recovery is
faltering, Citigroup Inc. said.  Funds investing in developing-nation stocks reported
withdrawals of $1 billion in the week ended Sept. 7, Citigroup
analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report today, citing
figures compiled by EPFR Global. That compared with outflows of
$600 million in the week ended Aug. 31 and withdrawals of $7.7
billion in the week to Aug. 10, the third largest on record.  Russia ’s Micex snapped a three-day streak of gains to
decline 2.5 percent as crude fell for a second day. OAO Rosneft,
Russia’s largest oil producer, plummeted 3 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index slipped less than 0.1 percent
after  China ’s industrial output growth trailed estimates. The
gauge has lost 1.2 percent this week and 11 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  