-- 
Erdogan Says Turkish Navy Presence Will Help Protect Aid Ships

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-09-09T10:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/erdogan-says-turkish-navy-presence-will-help-protect-aid-ships.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said the country’s plans to increase its naval presence
in the eastern Mediterranean will prevent a repeat of the attack
by Israeli commandos on a Gaza-bound aid ship last year.  The first priority of the Turkish navy will be “to protect
our own ships,” Erdogan told Al Jazeera television, according
to a transcript published by  Turkey ’s state-run Anatolia news
agency. “From now on our humanitarian aid missions won’t be
subject to attacks like the Mavi Marmara was.”  Erdogan was referring to the ship raided by Israeli forces
in May 2010 while it was attempting, as part of an aid convoy,
to break the sea embargo on the  Gaza Strip . The attack left nine
Turks dead. A United Nations report on the incident said that
 Israel  had the right to enforce its blockade on Gaza, though it
used excessive force against the Turkish ship.  After that document was leaked to the New York Times last
week, Israel said it wouldn’t apologize over the incident, and
Turkey said it would reduce diplomatic and military ties with
Israel and station more warships in the east Mediterranean.  Dan Meridor, Israel’s intelligence minister, today
described Erdogan’s remarks as “grave and serious,” according
to Al Jazeera.  Turkey and Israel enjoyed close ties for decades, driven by
military cooperation and their shared status as key U.S. allies
in the  Middle East . The relationship has foundered since Erdogan
came to power in 2002 and his government, with roots in Islamist
movements, fought to curtail the power of the army and state
bureaucracy.  Erdogan has attacked Israel’s treatment of Palestinians,
whose bid for an independent state is overwhelmingly backed by
Turks.  People in Gaza “are living in an open prison,” he told  Al
Jazeera  yesterday. “If you want to send a crate of tomatoes,
you need Israel’s permission. Can people live like that? Are we
supposed to remain silent?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  