-- 
Terrorism Post-Bin Laden ‘Dynamically’ Shifts to Smaller Strategic Targets

-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 
2011-09-09T14:48:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/terrorism-after-bin-laden-seeks-smaller-targets.html
The 10-year, U.S.-led campaign
against al-Qaeda has claimed  Osama bin Laden  and many of his top
lieutenants while failing to extinguish the threat they posed.
Islamic militants have adapted to the war on terror, creating
new dangers that are harder to detect and defeat.  Terrorists inspired by bin Laden’s violent message are
determined to carry out smaller attacks and remain fixated on
aviation and economic targets such as oil and gas fields,
pipelines, transportation routes and refineries, according to
counterterrorism experts inside and outside the government.  Followers are using new and harder-to-monitor tools to
preach, communicate and raise money, and are trying to recruit
operatives who arouse less suspicion. Such efforts were
highlighted yesterday by a government warning of a possible
strike on New York or  Washington  timed to the 10th anniversary
of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  “This is an organization that has been dynamically
changing,” Michigan Republican Representative Mike Rogers,
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said in a Sept. 6
meeting with reporters and editors in Bloomberg News’ Washington
Bureau. Where money once came primarily from the Persian Gulf,
he said al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb in northern Africa has
become the movement’s biggest funder, through kidnappings and
other crimes.  ‘Far Different Threat’  “What on Sept. 11, 2001, was a largely hierarchical
organization led by Osama bin Laden,  Ayman al-Zawahiri  and seven
close subordinates, is now an array of regional groups, small
cells and individuals who’ve been inspired by bin Laden’s
radical message,” said Rick “Ozzie” Nelson, of the
Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies,
in an interview. “It poses a far different threat today than it
did on 9/11.”  “While we have significantly weakened al-Qaeda’s core
leadership in  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan , today we are reminded
that they can still conduct regional and international attacks
and inspire others to do so,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today in a speech at the John Jay College of
Criminal Justice in New York. “And the threat has become more
geographically diverse, with much of al-Qaeda’s activity
devolving to its affiliates around the world.”  “I have long described this organization as a syndicate of
terror, not a monolith, and this is becoming more true every
day,” she said.  James W. McJunkin, assistant director of the FBI’s
Washington Field Office, said al-Qaeda’s ability to stage
another “big one” like the Sept. 11 attacks “became less and
less of a threat, but the smaller, less-organized ones became
more of a threat to us.”  9/11 Anniversary  New York  or Washington faces a possible al-Qaeda-sponsored
attack around the time of the 10th anniversary, possibly using a
vehicle, said a U.S. official who wasn’t authorized to discuss
the matter publicly. U.S. Department of  Homeland Security 
spokesman Matt Chandler said in a statement that the threat was
“specific, credible but unconfirmed.”  Terrorists may learn from their own failures, such as al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula’s botched October 2010 attempt to
blow up cargo planes with bombs disguised as printer cartridges,
and may adopt new tactics. The 2008 attack in Mumbai by gunmen
who killed about 160 people demonstrated that guns can kill as
many people as bombs and are easier to use.  ‘Within Reach’  As a result, Nelson questioned Defense Secretary Leon Panetta’s July 8 declaration that the U.S. is “within reach of
strategically defeating al-Qaeda,” and White House
counterterrorism adviser  John Brennan ’s assertions that al-Qaeda
is “taking it on the chin” and is “on the ropes.”  “While killing bin Laden is a significant achievement for
the military and the CIA,” Michael Scheuer, former head of the
CIA’s bin Laden unit and a professor at  Georgetown University ,
 wrote  in the book “The National Interest” that “it is a major
tactical victory that will only lead to a strategic defeat of
the enemy should extreme -- and highly unlikely -- good fortune
prevail.”  Compared with 2001, al-Qaeda today presents different
challenges because it is more diffuse, its communications and
finances are better concealed and its message has attracted a
few like-minded recruits in the West -- such as Major Nidal Hasan, who killed 13 people at Fort Hood,  Texas , and would-be
Times Square bomber Faisal Shahzad -- who have passports, credit
cards, language skills and cultural knowledge that make them
harder to spot.  ‘Difficult to Detect’  “It’s very difficult to detect these individual lone-wolf
actors because they can do a lot outside of the radar screen of
the intelligence security services, and a number of individuals
we know have been inspired by the propaganda and the rhetoric
that is coming from al-Qaeda elements abroad,” White House
counterterrorism adviser Brennan told reporters yesterday at a
Christian Science Monitor roundtable.  As al-Qaeda diversified, the U.S. government has done the
opposite. It created two new agencies, the Department of
Homeland Security and the office of the  Director of National
Intelligence , and has undertaken campaigns and nation-building
efforts in Afghanistan and  Iraq  that have lasted more than twice
as long as America’s involvement in World War II.  The decade-long war on terror already has cost an estimated
$2 trillion, a Bloomberg analysis found. Public support for U.S.
campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq is waning.  Recruits  Keeping al-Qaeda and its recruits at bay, though, isn’t
getting any easier. In 2001, the group’s leadership, planning
and training was in Afghanistan and drew recruits and financing
largely from the  Persian Gulf , Pakistan and Central Asia.  Today, its core group, which Brennan said includes hundreds
of people, continues to operate -- with eyes and ears out for
CIA and Air Force drones -- in the tribal lands of western
Pakistan. It has maintained ties to Afghan and Pakistani
terrorist groups and to some former and current Pakistani
military and intelligence officers.  In a 2009 cable released by WikiLeaks, then-U.S. ambassador
to Pakistan Anne Patterson wrote that Pakistan’s military and
Inter-Services Intelligence agency were covertly sponsoring four
militant groups, including al-Qaeda, “and will not abandon them
for any amount of U.S. money.”  Al-Qaeda Subordinates  While the U.S. has concentrated intelligence efforts and
firepower on al-Qaeda’s core leadership in Pakistan, subordinate
or allied groups have taken root in  Yemen , Iraq, Somalia,
Nigeria and the Sahel countries of northern  Africa .  Testifying before the House Homeland Security Committee on
Feb. 9, Michael Leiter, then director of the National
Counterterrorism Center, called al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula, based in Yemen, “probably the most significant risk
to the U.S. homeland.”  Al-Qaeda has made few if any inroads in more-populous
 Muslim countries . None of the rebellions in Tunisia,  Libya ,
 Egypt  and Syria has been an effort to create the Islamic
caliphate that bin Laden envisioned.  It’s not yet known whether the ultimate beneficiaries of
the so-called Arab Spring will be West-facing democrats or
Islamist groups such as Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood.  “The metastasization of al-Qaeda worldwide and the spread
of it makes it, again, more difficult to track down, but this is
why we have relied so heavily on our international partners and
developing those relationships with intelligence and security
services overseas,” Brennan said.  ‘Intelligence Disaster’  Scheuer, the former head of the CIA’s bin Laden unit, said
at the Edinburgh International Book Fair on Aug. 27 that the
uprisings that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya who
had cooperated with the West have been “an intelligence
disaster for the U.S. and for Britain and other European
services.”  That, coupled with al-Qaeda’s spread, poses problems for
the major intelligence tools the U.S. has been using against the
terrorists.  It’s harder and more expensive to keep spy satellites and
surveillance drones parked over eight or more locations than it
is to keep them trained on the Afghan-Pakistani border.
Moreover, al-Qaeda terrorists have long since responded to
America’s technological advantage by hanging up their mobile and
satellite phones.  Bribes, Blackmail  That means human intelligence is critical. In Pakistan,
U.S. intelligence and special operations officers and the agents
they recruit, bribe and blackmail have done much of the work of
locating and targeting al-Qaeda leaders.  Human intelligence, though, requires language skills,
sources, experience, cultural knowledge -- and patience as the
CIA tries to develop those capabilities in al-Qaeda’s newer
locations.  Also important, McJunkin said, are efforts by some al-Qaeda
affiliates to recruit or inspire people in the U.S.,  Europe  and
elsewhere who don’t arouse suspicion.  Shahzad, who failed in an attempt to detonate a car bomb in
New York’s Times Square, is a good example of “a guy who was
clean,” he said.  Shahzad traveled to Pakistan frequently for family reasons
and wound up going “off-track” and getting some terrorist
training without popping up on intelligence or law enforcement
radar, McJunkin said.  ‘Mostly Inept’  However, a new study by the RAND Corp., released Aug. 31,
found that: “Despite al-Qaeda’s increasing use of the Internet
to attempt to radicalize and recruit homegrown terrorists in the
 United States , the turnout has been tiny and mostly inept.”  The study’s author, Brian Michael Jenkins, said that few of
the 32 jihadist plots hatched by U.S.-based terrorists since
Sept. 11 got much beyond the discussion stage, and only 10
developed anything resembling an operational plan. Six of the
10, moreover, were the subject of FBI sting operations.  Still, militants don’t have to execute big attacks to
succeed, McJunkin said. If a small operation that hurts a few
people gets media coverage, “that’s an effective tactic for
terrorists,” he said.  Social media, gaming websites and virtual worlds also are
making it harder to detect terrorist plotters, McJunkin said. He
cited the case of five American students who were reading
jihadist material on YouTube, along with CDs and printed
material, and decided to go to Pakistan to join the fight.  Some technology may not create as much anonymity as its
users think it does, said John Kothanek, former head of Pay
Pal’s criminal investigations team, who conducted several
terror-related investigations for Pay Pal and EBay.  Charities  “I’ve seen certain charities will have line after line of
’Here’s a donation, here’s a donation,’” Kothanek said. “Then
all of the sudden someone will say, ‘Here’s 500 bucks, buy some
grenades.’”  “Even as we make progress against core al-Qaeda we are
finding that, with the rise of al-Qaeda affiliates, the
terrorist financing threat has metastasized and, in some ways,
become more intractable,” Daniel Glaser, assistant Treasury
secretary for terrorist financing, told a House Financial
Services subcommittee on Sept. 6. “These affiliates rely on
non-traditional sources of funding, including criminal activity
and, most notably, kidnapping-for-ransom.”  “We have not seen the end of al-Qaeda, its associated
movements, or its ideology,” concludes a Sept. 7  report  from
the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “Al-Qaeda
has been buffeted relentlessly by global counterterrorism
pressure. It has had its ideology increasingly marginalized by
global opposition and opprobrium as well as the protest
movements in the Arab world.  ‘‘Even so, al-Qaeda and affiliated movements can still rear
its heads violently and inspire individuals with its distorted
narrative -- enabled in many ways by globalization, underlying
regional grievances, the stresses of youth bulges, and the
force-multiplying effects of modern technology.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  