-- 
Ethiopian Police Arrest Actor Debebe Over Alleged Links to Banned Group

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T14:19:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ethiopian-police-arrest-actor-debebe-over-alleged-links-to-banned-group.html
Ethiopian authorities arrested actor
Debebe Eshetu on allegations he has links to the banned Ginbot 7
group, said  Shimeles Kemal , minister of state in the
Communications Ministry.  After being “closely” monitored, Debebe was detained
yesterday by federal police and intelligence officials, Shimeles
said in a phone interview today from Addis Ababa, the capital.
He is being held at the Maekalawi prison and will be brought
before court within 48 hours of his arrest, Shimeles said. The
court may grant a further 28 days for investigation before
charges are brought under the country’s anti-terror laws.  In 2005, Debebe was charged with treason following a
disputed election and sentenced to life in prison, according to
the state-owned Ethiopia Radio and Television Agency’s website.
His request for a pardon was granted by the government, the
agency said. Debebe’s latest arrest is on charges of “plotting
to carry out a terrorist attack,” ERTA said.  Ginbot 7 is led by Berhanu Nega, who was elected mayor of
 Addis Ababa  in 2005. He was also imprisoned for plotting to
overthrow the government and fled to the U.S. to set up the
organization after being pardoned in 2007.  “Debebe Eshetu has never been in any way or form associated
with Ginbot 7,” Berhanu said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. “This measure by the government, in addition to
all the arrests that it has been doing in the past few weeks, is
simply a futile attempt to terrorize people into submission.”  ‘Terror Activity’  The group is banned because it has “openly declared”
violence to achieve its objective and also “resorts to terror
activity,” Shimeles said. Berhanu is a fugitive from a death
sentence, he said.  Ginbot 7 ’s primary mission is for political authority to be
“assumed through peaceful and democratic process based on the
free will and choice of citizens of the country,” according to
the group’s website.  While peaceful resistance is preferred, “people have a
right to protect themselves from violent tyranny in any way they
could,” Berhanu said today. “They have a right to struggle for
their liberty, as in  Libya  or any other place for that matter,
by whatever means the situation demands.”  Earlier this week, the government charged two Swedish
reporters and two ethnic-Somali rebels with terror offenses
after they were detained in July in the restive Ogaden region.
Five others, including three Ethiopian journalists, were also
charged under the country’s anti-terror laws for involvement in
a separate plot.  Debebe has acted in  movies  including the 1973 action film
Shaft in  Africa  and Una Stagione all-Inferno in 1970, according
to the Internet Movie Database.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 