-- 
Bankers Hooked on Gambling Need a Capital Intervention: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-09T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/european-bankers-hooked-on-gambling-will-need-capital-intervention-view.html
Would you give money to a compulsive
gambler who refused to kick the habit? In essence, that’s what
the world’s biggest banks are asking taxpayers to do.  Ahead of a meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized
nations’ finance ministers in Marseilles this week, bankers have
been pushing for a giant bailout to put an end to Europe’s
sovereign-debt troubles. To quote Deutsche Bank Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann : “Investors are not only asking
themselves whether those responsible can summon the necessary
willpower … but increasingly also whether enough time remains
and whether they have the necessary resources available.”  Unfortunately, he’s right. As Bloomberg View has written,
Europe’s leaders -- particularly  Germany ’s  Angela Merkel  and
 France ’s Nicolas Sarkozy -- are running out of time to avert
disaster. Their least bad option is to exchange the debts of
struggling governments for jointly backed euro bonds and
recapitalize banks. European banks have invested so heavily in
the debt of  Greece  and other strapped governments, and have
borrowed so much from U.S. institutions to do so, that the
alternative would probably be the kind of systemic financial
failure that could send the global economy back into a deep
recession.  At the same time, bankers are campaigning against
regulators’ efforts to address a root cause of the problem: Big
banks’ addiction to excessive leverage, or to using borrowed
money to boost their shareholders’ returns. In a recent flurry
of letters to the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , which
is in the process of setting new rules for the largest global
institutions, various banking groups warn that higher  capital
requirements  -- tantamount to putting limits on leverage -- will
reduce credit availability and stunt the economy’s growth.  Getting It Wrong  Here, the bankers are demonstrably wrong. To fully grasp
their position, it helps to understand why they find leverage so
attractive. Consider two banks, both with $100,000 in assets.
The first got the entire $100,000 from its shareholders, giving
it a 100 percent capital ratio. The second raised only $1,000 in
equity and borrowed the rest, giving it a 1 percent capital
ratio. In the first case, a $1,000 profit on the assets will
generate a meager 1 percent return on the shareholders’ $100,000
investment. In the second case, the same $1,000 gain will
produce a 100 percent return on equity. The second option also
has a steep downside: A loss of only $1,000 can wipe out the
shareholders.  No Fear  At a big, systemically important bank, high leverage allows
executives to play a heads-I-win-tails-you-lose game with
taxpayers. In good times, the leverage makes the bank extremely
profitable to shareholders, allowing executives to collect juicy
bonuses. In bad times, as the European experience yet again
demonstrates, governments have no choice but to step in and bail
out the banks, and executives have nothing to fear but a highly
remunerative exile. No wonder the average tangible equity as a
share of tangible assets -- effectively a simple capital ratio -
- at 32 of  Europe ’s biggest banks is only 4.6 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Deutsche Bank’s ratio is among
the lowest, at 1.9 percent.  Sharply increasing capital levels would make the financial
system far more resilient, and would in no way threaten growth.
Think about it: If banks don’t get into trouble in bad times,
they can keep providing credit just when the economy needs it
most. The best available  research , led by former Morgan Stanley
economist  David Miles , suggests that once all the costs and
benefits are tallied up, the ideal ratio of equity to assets
would be somewhere between 7 percent and 10 percent. That
translates, in the bizarre math of bank regulation, into a risk-
weighted capital ratio of about 20 percent, or double what the
folks in Basel are considering. The researchers also find little
risk of erring on the high side. Even risk-weighted capital
ratio of 50 percent would be preferable to the status quo.  If Europe’s leaders find the political will for another
bailout, they should make sure it’s the last, if only because
the dire state of government finances makes it doubtful they can
afford any more. Simple, hard-to-circumvent capital rules should
be the primary condition of any taxpayer-financed solution to
Europe’s financial troubles, and there’s no good reason the
required level should be any lower than 20 percent. The only
losers would be leverage-obsessed bankers, who might have to go
cold turkey and earn a living by finding productive uses for
their shareholders’ money. That’s a price society can afford to
pay.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 