-- 
Euro Area Should Have an Exit Mechanism, Estonia’s Ligi Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-09-09T11:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/euro-area-should-have-an-exit-mechanism-estonia-s-ligi-says.html
The euro region should have a
mechanism allowing member countries to exit the single currency,
Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said.  “This isn’t about throwing people out, this is about
the criteria,” Ligi said in an interview in Krynica,  Poland ,
today. “Where the initiative comes from isn’t really important,
it just has to be based on strict rules and sanctions.”  Estonia was the first former Soviet republic to adopt the
euro when it made the currency switch in January. Its $19
billion economy benefited from the move even as the sovereign-
debt crisis through increased economic confidence, Ligi said
today, repeating recent statements from government officials.  Ligi, named  Europe ’s finance minister of the year in
January by The Banker magazine, said he was confident the euro
won’t collapse as there is strong political commitment. Leaving
the currency union wouldn’t necessarily help countries with
their difficulties, he added.  “I don’t see any advantages for countries if they left:
they would still have to pay their debts, cut expenditure
and increase income,” he said. “They would still have to make
structural reforms and change their mindsets.”  Estonia’s economy has grown at the fastest pace in the
European Union this year, helped by a low comparison base after
the second-worst recession in the 27-member bloc in 2008-2009
behind  Latvia . It is the least-indebted euro-region member, at
6.6 percent of gross domestic product, and the sole nation in
the currency area to have a  budget surplus  last year.  There are no talks on  Greece , which received bailout loans
last year of 110 billion euros ($152 billion) and is currently
seeking further help, potentially leaving the euro, European
Commission economics spokesman  Amadeu Altafaj  told reporters in
Brussels yesterday. Neither exit nor expulsion is possible and
euro-area membership is irrevocable, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  