-- 
Euro Adoption Would Be ‘Natural’ for Croatia, Finance Chief Says

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-09T08:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/euro-adoption-would-be-natural-for-croatia-finance-chief-says.html
Euro adoption would be “natural”
for  Croatia  after its European Union entry, seen in 2013, even
as the sovereign-debt crisis may make the switch more difficult,
Finance Minister Martina Dalic said.  Croatians already use the euro more than in many EU
countries, with 80 percent of retail deposits denominated in the
trading bloc’s common currency, Dalic said in an interview
yesterday in Krynica,  Poland .  “There’s such a high degree of euroization,” she said.
“Euro adoption is the natural path for Croatia. Keeping the
recent developments in the eurozone in mind, the process of
adopting the euro won’t be an easy one.”  The biggest opposition party in Croatia, which will hold a
general election in December, is less enthusiastic about the
euro. The country will “have to take our time” before making
any decisions on euro adoption,  Zoran Milanovic , head of the
 Social Democratic Party  that leads opinion polls, said in an
Aug. 26 interview.  Prime Minister  Jadranka Kosor ’s ruling  Croatian Democratic
Union , which spent 16 of the past 20 years in power, had 20
percent backing in an Aug. 26 poll, compared with 24 percent for
the  Social Democratic Party .  The former communist countries of Europe that have joined
the EU since 2004 agreed at the time of their entry to adopt the
euro when they meet conditions that include budget-deficit and
public-debt limits and at least two years of testing the
currency’s stability in a trading band.  Budget Target  The Croatian government will seek to narrow the budget
shortfall to within the EU’s limit of 3 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013 from 4.3 percent this year, Dalic said.  “Our deficit-reduction plan is an ambitious one, but this
is the kind of fiscal policy that will send a positive signal to
the domestic and international investors,” she said.  State-asset sales of 1 billion kuna ($186 million) a year
from the sale of state assets over the next three years will
boost revenue, she said.  Croatia is struggling to recover from a recession after
foreign direct investment declined to $583 million in 2010 from
$6 billion in 2008. The economy grew 0.8 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier after declining 0.8 percent in the
first quarter and 1.2 percent in 2010.  The economy will expand 2.5 percent next year, accelerating
to 3.5 percent in 2013 and 4 percent a year later, according to
government forecasts.  “I think this is achievable,” Dalic said. “But we’re not
an island, we can’t isolate ourselves from what’s going on in
the rest of  Europe .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.netTo  contact the reporter on this story: 