-- 
European Stocks Drop for First Week in Three Amid Debt Concern

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-09-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/european-stocks-drop-for-first-week-in-three-as-banks-sink-on-debt-concern.html
European stocks fell for the first
week in three amid concern policy makers won’t be able to stop
the region’s sovereign debt crisis from growing and damaging the
economic recovery.  Societe Generale  SA and  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  led a
measure of European bank shares to the lowest since March 2009.
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  each sank 13
percent as 17 lenders were sued by the U.S. over the sale of
mortgage-backed securities and interbank lending rates climbed.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped 3.7 percent to 224.59
this past week as 18 of 19 industry groups declined. The gauge
has plunged 23 percent since this year’s peak on Feb. 17 as
economic data from the U.S. and Europe trailed forecasts and
 Standard & Poor’s  downgraded America’s AAA sovereign-debt
rating, citing political failure to reduce record deficits. The
index is trading at 9.4 times the estimated earnings of its
constituent companies, near the lowest valuation since March
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There has been “a whirlwind of sovereign downgrades,
collapsing economic data and stumbling politics across developed
markets” in recent weeks, said Tim Price, chief investment
director at PFP Group LLP in London. “Unsurprisingly, markets
have suffered. We have gone from a consensus of muted recovery
to one of possible double dip.”  Swiss Stocks Gain  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets except Switzerland, where the  Swiss National
Bank  intervened to weaken the franc. France’s CAC 40 declined
5.5 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 1.5 percent and Germany’s
DAX plunged 6.3 percent. The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  gained 1.3
percent, a third straight weekly advance.  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , which measures the cost of protecting
against a decline in shares on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, climbed
24 percent, the biggest gain in a month.  The Stoxx 600 tumbled 4.1 percent on Sept. 5 after German
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party suffered its fifth election
loss this year as she faced criticism over the handling of the
debt crisis.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet on
Sept. 8 said threats to the euro region have worsened and
inflation risks have eased. Planned rescue loans to Greece have
been put in doubt as countries including Finland demand the
country provide collateral in exchange for the funds.  Default Insurance  The cost of insuring against default on European financial
companies rose to a record this week as the ECB comments added
to concern lenders are finding it harder to access funding
markets. Credit-default swaps on Greek government debt surged to
an all-time high, signaling a 91 percent chance the nation will
fail to meet debt commitments, after its economy shrank more
than previously reported.  The rate at which London-based banks say they can borrow
for three months in dollars climbed to the highest level in more
than a year yesterday. The  London  interbank offered rate, or
Libor, for dollar loans rose to the highest since August 2010,
according to the British Bankers’ Association.  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index dropped 8.4 percent. Societe
Generale, France’s second-largest lender, and BCP, Portugal’s
second-biggest publicly traded bank by market value, fell 21
percent and 17 percent, respectively.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned lender, and
Barclays each fell 13 percent. The banks were among European,
Asian and American lenders sued by the U.S. Federal Housing
Finance Agency on Sept. 2 to recoup $196 billion spent on
mortgage-backed securities bought by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac .  Porsche Plunges  Porsche SE plunged 15 percent in the week and posted the
worst decline in more than two years yesterday after saying
efforts to combine with Volkswagen AG by the end of 2011 had
failed because of pending lawsuits. Preferred shares of
Volkswagen,  Europe ’s largest automaker, slid 5 percent.  Verbund AG tumbled 16 percent, the most since 2008, after
Austria’s biggest power company cut its guidance for 2011 and
gave a “cautious” outlook for next year.  YIT Oyj, Finland’s biggest builder, slid 17 percent after
saying excessive levels of ammonia were found in residential
units it built in  St. Petersburg ,  Russia .  Novartis AG, the drugmaker based in  Basel , gained 7.9
percent while Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the world’s second-
biggest luxury-goods company, climbed 6 percent. Investors
bought Swiss exporters after the country’s central bank set a
ceiling for the franc’s value against the euro. The Swiss
currency tumbled 7.3 percent to 1.21 per euro, the biggest
weekly drop since the creation of the single currency.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  jumped 27 percent, the most since 2008. The
U.K. explorer behind West Africa’s biggest offshore discovery in
a decade said an offshore find in French Guiana opened up a new
hydrocarbon basin on the other side of the Atlantic.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  