-- 
European Stocks Fall on Growth Concern as Porsche Shares Plunge

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-09T16:09:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/european-stock-index-futures-retreat-on-concern-global-economy-will-slow.html
European stocks slid, with the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index extending its weekly decline,
amid concern the global economic recovery is stalling.  Porsche SE plunged 14 percent after  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  said it
will no longer complete its merger with the carmaker by the end
of the year because of pending lawsuits.  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) 
slipped 4.6 percent after  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  cut its sales
forecast.  Verbund AG (VER)  lost 12 percent after forecasting that
profit will decline this year.  The Stoxx 600 retreated 2.6 percent to 224.59 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, extending its weekly drop to 3.7 percent.
The gauge has fallen 23 percent from this year’s peak on Feb. 17
as European and U.S. economic reports trailed forecasts, adding
to concern that the global economic recovery is at risk.  “The economic situation is getting worse,” said  Markus Steinbeis , head of equity portfolio management at the
Unterfoehring, Germany-based unit of Pioneer Investments KGmbH,
which oversees about $221 billion globally. “It depends more
than ever on what policy makers will do. As long as economic
indicators remain as they are right now and emerging markets are
tightening their monetary policies, the upside should be
limited.”  European stocks extended their declines as the  European
Central Bank  said that Executive Board member Juergen Stark has
resigned for “personal reasons.” Stark will keep his post
until the central bank appoints his successor.  National benchmark indexes retreated in every western-
European market. Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  slid 4 percent, while the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index dropped 2.4 percent. France’s CAC 40 Index
fell 3.6 percent.  Group of Seven  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said today he
expects no concerted action from the Group of Seven nations
meeting getting underway in Marseille, France, adding that the
sessions will not produce any “dramatic change.” Geithner,
speaking in an interview with Bloomberg Television, said that
Europe is under “enormous pressure.”  In the U.S., President Barack Obama challenged Congress to
pass a $447 billion jobs plan tilted toward the Republican
prescription of tax cuts.  The president, addressing a joint session of Congress
yesterday, demanded six times that lawmakers act “right away”
on a plan to boost spending on infrastructure, stem teacher
layoffs and cut in half the payroll taxes paid by workers and
small business owners.  German Inflation  A report today showed inflation in Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, slowed in August less than initially projected,
as energy costs increased. The inflation rate, calculated using
a harmonized European Union method, fell to 2.5 percent from 2.6
percent in July, according to the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden.  In  China , a separate report showed that the country’s
inflation eased in August from a three-year high as gains in
food prices moderated, giving policy makers more room to pause
monetary tightening as the economy cools and a global slowdown
threatens exports and jobs.  Consumer prices climbed 6.2 percent from a year earlier,
the National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing today. That
matched the 6.2 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 31 economists.  Porsche, Volkswagen  Porsche tumbled 14 percent to 37.99 euros, its biggest
decline since May 2009, as Volkswagen, Europe’s largest
carmaker, delayed its merger with the maker of the 911 sports
car. Volkswagen’s preferred shares fell 3.9 percent to 103.75
euros.  “From Volkswagen’s perspective, the continuing legal
hurdles mean that it is currently impossible to quantify the
economic risks of a merger and therefore to perform the
valuation of Porsche SE,” the company said. “The main causes
of uncertainty are the ongoing proceedings and actions brought
against Porsche SE in Germany and the USA for alleged market
manipulation.”  European carmakers and construction shares, whose earnings
are tied to economic growth, were among the worst performers on
the Stoxx 600 today, dropping more than 4 percent.  A gauge of banks retreated 5.3 percent as  Societe Generale (GLE) 
SA plummeted 11 percent to 17.45 euros, its lowest price since
1995.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  lost more than 7 percent.  The ECB plans to dilute a proposal to wean distressed banks
off its emergency funding on concern it would exacerbate the
region’s debt crisis, two euro-area officials familiar with the
deliberations said.  STMicro Shares Slide  STMicroelectronics, Europe’s largest chipmaker, fell 4.6
percent to 4.19 euros. Texas Instruments, the biggest maker of
analog chips, predicted third-quarter profit of 56 cents to 60
cents a share on revenue of $3.23 billion to $3.37 billion.
Analysts on average had estimated profit of 60 cents on sales of
$3.5 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Verbund sank 12 percent to 22.20 euros, its largest drop
since at least 1991. Austria’s biggest power company predicted
an operating profit of 780 million euros ($1.07 billion) and net
income of 380 million euros, according to a statement late
yesterday. Verbund had previously projected the measures would
“remain at nearly the same level as in the previous year,”
when it had operating profit of 828.5 million euros and net
income of 400.8 million euros.  Deutsche Boerse  Drops  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  slid 4 percent to 39.37 euros after
deciding against a compulsory purchase of stock, a so-called
squeeze out, from the minority of shareholders who have yet to
approve the owner of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange’s combination
with NYSE Euronext.  “The expectation of a squeeze out happening in the near
term has receded,” said Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at
Berenberg Bank AG in London. “That has been underpinning the
Deutsche Boerse stock.”  Admiral Group Plc (ADM) , a British motor insurer, slumped 4.2
percent to 1,307 pence as the U.K.’s Ministry of Justice said it
would ban so-called referral fees in personal-injury cases to
help stem rising insurance costs.  Societe Television Francaise 1 (TFI)  sank 7.2 percent to 9.54
euros, its lowest price in more than two years, as the operator
of the TF1 channel was downgraded to “neutral” from
“overweight” at JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Veolia, Tecnicas Reunidas  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  lost 6 percent to 10.22 euros as
the world’s biggest water company was rated “underweight” in
resumed coverage at Morgan Stanley.  Tecnicas Reunidas SA (TRE) , a Spanish provider of engineering and
construction services to the  energy industry , retreated 5.3
percent to 25.10 euros after Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
recommended selling the shares in new coverage.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  surged 15 percent to 1,413 pence, its
largest gain since 2008, as the U.K. explorer behind west
Africa’s biggest offshore discovery in a decade made a find off
the coast of  French Guiana .  “We continue to believe that Tullow offers an outstanding
growth story among European oils and remains a top pick in the
sector,” analysts at Bank of America Corp., including London-
based Alejandro Demichelis and Alexander Holbourn, wrote in a
report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  