-- 
Euribor-OIS Spread Widens; Costs to Swap Euro Payments for Dollars Rises

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T16:51:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/euro-bank-lending-stress-indicator-rises-to-highest-in-more-than-two-years.html
The Euribor-OIS spread, a measure of
banks’ willingness to lend to each other, reached the widest
level in 2 1/2 years, a sign of mounting financial-market
tension in the euro area.  The spread widened to 83 basis points at 5:43 p.m. in
London, the highest level since March 2009 and up from 74.95
basis points yesterday. The difference widened as the yield on
forward contracts based on the euro overnight index average, or
Eonia, slid 7.4 basis points to 0.7085 percent after the
 European Central Bank  signaled yesterday it may take further
steps to fend off the region’s debt crisis.  “It certainly does indicate that there are stresses, but
it doesn’t mean back to 2008,” when the measure surged to as
high as 206.9 basis points and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed, said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European interest-rate
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “This time we have the ECB pumping money into the
system. That’s quite a different story.”  Stocks fell for a second day and German two-year yields
were pushed to a record low today amid mounting bets in
derivatives markets on a Greek default. The euro fell to a
six-month low versus the dollar and European bank stocks fell
for the first time in three days.  The eight largest U.S. money-market funds halved
investments in German and U.K. banks over the past 12 months,
eliminated their lending to Italian and Spanish firms and
reduced investments in French banks, data compiled by Bloomberg
and published in today’s Bloomberg Risk newsletter showed.  Basis Swap  The premium European banks pay to borrow in dollars for one
year through the swaps markets increased to the most since
December 2008, “also a worrying sign,” according to RBC’s
Schaffrik.  The cost of converting euro-based payments into dollars, as
measured by the one-year cross-currency basis swap, fell 6.4
basis points to 65.5 basis points below the euro interbank
offered rate, or Euribor, indicating a higher premium to buy the
greenback, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 