-- 
Ex-Bear Stearns Fund Managers’ SEC Trial Set

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-09T21:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ex-bear-stearns-fund-managers-cioffi-tannin-get-trial-date-in-sec-case.html
Former Bear Stearns Cos. hedge-fund
managers  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin , acquitted in 2009 of
criminal charges they misled investors who lost $1.6 billion,
are set to face trial in February in a related civil case
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  U.S. District Judge Frederic Block in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
set the trial date for Feb. 13 at a conference today.  A federal jury in November 2009 found Cioffi and Tannin not
guilty of conspiracy and securities and  wire fraud  in the first
criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the collapse of
the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 55, was portfolio manager
for the hedge funds and Tannin was their chief operating
officer.  “We have had no discussions of substance,” John D.
Worland, a lawyer for the SEC, told Block when the judge asked
about the possibility of a settlement, which would make a trial
unnecessary.  Kevin Callahan , an SEC spokesman, and Marc Weinstein, a
lawyer for Cioffi at Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in  Manhattan ,
declined to comment on the case. Nina Beattie, a lawyer for
Tannin at Brune & Richards LLP in Manhattan, also declined to
comment.  Cioffi and Tannin were indicted in June 2008, a year after
their hedge funds failed. Bear Stearns collapsed less than a
year after the funds failed, and was purchased by New York-based
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The SEC claims the two men misled investors about the
funds’ deepening financial troubles and their own holdings in
the investment pools. The regulator’s case requires a lower
standard of proof than a criminal conviction.  Mortgage-Backed Securities  According to the government, Cioffi and Tannin conspired to
defraud their clients by publicly touting the health of the
funds, made up mostly of subprime mortgage-backed securities.  The  hedge funds , which filed for bankruptcy in July 2007,
were the Bear Stearns High-Grade Structured Credit Strategies
Enhanced Leverage Master Fund Ltd. and the Bear Stearns High-
Grade Structured Credit Strategies Master Fund Ltd.  The two hedge funds failed when prices for collateralized
debt obligations linked to home loans fell amid rising late
payments by borrowers with poor credit or heavy debt.  The men claimed in e-mails and conversations to be adding
their own money to the funds in the months immediately prior to
their collapse, according to the government. Neither man added
any money to the funds, once valued at $20 billion, the U.S.
alleged.  The defense in the criminal trial argued Cioffi and Tannin
were innocent of any wrongdoing and had remained honestly
optimistic about the funds’ health.  Jurors Interviewed  Jurors interviewed after the verdict in the criminal case
said Cioffi and Tannin had worked to save the funds and that
e-mails presented by the government as evidence both went
against and favored the defendants.  Both men were charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud , two counts of wire fraud and two counts
of securities fraud. Cioffi was charged with one count of
 insider trading , stemming from his transfer of $2 million --
one-third of his holdings in the funds -- to another Bear fund
he supervised that was profitable.  They were acquitted of all the charges.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Cioffi, 08-cv-2457, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Cioffi, 08-
CR-00415, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 