-- 
Ex-Credit Suisse Broker Butler Reports to Prison for $1 Billion Fraud

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-09T20:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ex-credit-suisse-broker-butler-starts-five-year-prison-term-in-new-jersey.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
 Eric Butler , convicted two years ago of committing a $1 billion
fraud, began his five-year sentence at a  New Jersey  prison where
he will be able to earn as much as 40 cents an hour.  Butler, 40, reported at about 2:30 p.m. today to a minimum-
security prison  camp  adjacent to the federal prison in Fort Dix,
New Jersey, said Wiley Jenkins II, a spokesman for the
institution. Inmates in the camp earn 12 cents to 40 cents an
hour tutoring or doing facilities work such as plumbing.  “I can confirm for you that Eric Butler is here,” Jenkins
said in a phone interview.  A federal jury in Brooklyn, New York, convicted Butler in
August 2009 of intentionally misleading his institutional
clients, including GlaxoSmithKline Plc and  Roche Holding AG ,
about securities purchased on their behalf. Victims’ losses were
more than $1.1 billion, according to the government.  Butler’s partner,  Julian Tzolov , who was indicted with him,
testified against Butler. Tzolov, a native of  Bulgaria , had fled
the U.S. and was captured in  Spain  after an international
manhunt. He pleaded guilty upon his return to the U.S. and was
sentenced in June to four years in prison.  Steven Molo, one of Butler’s lawyers at Molo Lamken LLP in
New York, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
his client’s incarceration.  No Fence  The Fort Dix camp has no perimeter fence and its 398
inmates sleep in dormitory-style housing, Jenkins said. The
facility has a softball field, walking track and exercise
equipment. It also has a commissary that sells personal hygiene
items and snacks, he said.  Butler and Tzolov falsely claimed that the securities they
put their clients in were backed by federally guaranteed student
loans, according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch in  Brooklyn .  The men told clients the investments, actually backed by
riskier corporate debt and subprime mortgages, were a safe
alternative to bank deposits or money-market funds, according to
Lynch’s office.  The jury found Butler guilty of  securities fraud ,
conspiracy to commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit
wire fraud.  The federal appeals court in Manhattan in June overturned
the securities-fraud conviction, saying the charge should have
been tried in federal court in Manhattan, where Credit Suisse
has its office, rather than in Brooklyn. The appeals panel
upheld the two conspiracy convictions.  Counts Moved  Butler then got seven wire-fraud counts in Manhattan
federal court moved to Brooklyn and consented to having the
securities-fraud count there as well. On Aug. 23, Butler pleaded
guilty to those counts, which all stemmed from the same
activity, and U.S. District Judge Jack B. Weinstein sentenced
him to the same five years he had imposed in 2010. The judge
also re-imposed a $5 million fine on the securities-fraud
conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 