-- 
Ex-Industrial Enterprises Chief Gets Seven to 21 Years in Prison for Fraud

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-09-09T19:23:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ex-industrial-enterprises-chief-gets-seven-to-21-years-in-prison-for-fraud.html
Former  Industrial Enterprises of
America Inc. (IEAM)  Chief Executive Officer James W. Margulies was
sentenced to seven to 21 years in prison for his role in a
$110 million  securities fraud  at the automotive fluids company.  New York State  Supreme Court  Justice Gregory Carro handed
down the sentence in Manhattan today. Margulies, of  Cleveland ,
was convicted in July of grand larceny, scheming to defraud,
conspiracy, and falsifying business records in what prosecutors
called a “massive” pump-and-dump scheme.  “This is basically a case of greed,” Carro said. He told
Margulies, a lawyer who will lose his license, that the sentence
should serve as “a general deterrent that will scream out from
this courtroom that people like you are going to be treated
harshly.”  Margulies, 47, and another former Industrial Enterprises
CEO, John D. Mazzuto, 62, were indicted in May 2010. Mazzuto,
who had a Yale University baseball field dedicated to him in
2009 for his support, pleaded guilty and testified against
Margulies at trial. Mazzuto hasn’t been sentenced.  Mazzuto and Margulies registered 15 million shares of their
company’s stock with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
to issue to employees and consultants, prosecutors said, and
gave millions of shares to friends, family members, business
associates and their alma maters, including $1.7 million to
Yale.  In January, Yale, which said it had no knowledge of the
fraud, agreed to pay a $1 million settlement to IEAM for the
value of the shares, according to the Yale Daily News.  Pocketed Proceeds  Some of the recipients sold the stock and pocketed the
proceeds, while others sold shares and sent the money back to
the company or entities and accounts controlled by Mazzuto and
Margulies, prosecutors said.  The judge initially ordered Margulies to make restitution
of $7 million, the amount prosecutors said he took for himself
over three years. The defense later disputed the restitution and
the judge put the order on hold until a Sept. 26 hearing.  Margulies used his ill-gotten gains to pay off a $1 million
mortgage on his home, pay $450,000 in back taxes, buy a $500,000
membership in a time-share, and purchase tens of thousands of
dollars of first-class travel and a ring that cost more than
$300,000, according to Manhattan Assistant  District Attorney 
Garrett Lynch.  ‘Well-Intended’  “My actions were well-intended at the time,” Margulies
said today of his involvement in the company, speaking to the
judge. “By the time I recognized the potential harm of my
actions, it was too late.”  The judge didn’t buy Margulies’s claims. “You say you got
into it innocently,” Carro said. “Yet this fraud started Day
One, the day those shares went on the market. You knew what Mr.
Mazzuto was up to from the very first day.  “I constantly hear you weren’t the architect, but you were
the engineer,” the judge went on. “Without you, this crime
would never have taken place.”  Margulies asked for probation, telling the judge that he
needed to be at home with his children, including a girl who has
special needs. Carro rejected that request.  “It’s not my sentence that’s going to devastate these
children,” the judge said. “It is your actions.”  New York  attorney Thomas Curran, who represents the
company, said in the courthouse afterward that Pittsburgh-based
IEAM planned to take action against at least 10 unidentified,
unindicted co-conspirators.  ‘Going After Them’  “We’re going after them in federal  bankruptcy court  in
 Delaware ,” Curran said in an interview. “There were a lot of
people, entities, law firms involved in all this.”  Current IEAM chief executive officer Robert L. Renck Jr.,
who also was at the courthouse, said in an interview the company
had filed 14 actions against 118 people and corporate entities
in federal bankruptcy court.  “It’s not over,” Renck said. “This was the end of the
beginning, not the beginning of the end.”  Renck, managing partner at R.L. Renck & Co., said he got
involved with the company because the broker-dealer had invested
$3.7 million on behalf of clients. “A group of us were
defrauded and we went in to investigate,” he said.  Asked whether  Manhattan  prosecutors would pursue the
unindicted co-conspirators, Assistant District Attorney Harold Wilson said, “The investigation continues.”  Wilson, who worked under Robert Morgenthau when he was
district attorney and now serves under Cyrus Vance Jr. in the
office’s Major Economic Crimes bureau, said the case was “the
latest in a long tradition of the office trying to protect the
financial markets in the city.”  The case is People v. Margulies, 2503-2010, New York state
Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 