-- 
Former Taiwan Semiconductor Manager Seeks 12-Month Sentence Over Tips

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-09T15:31:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ex-taiwan-semiconductor-manager-karunatilaka-seeks-12-month-term-over-tips.html
A former Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. manager who pleaded guilty to being part of an
 insider-trading  scheme involving  Primary Global Research LLC  is
seeking a 12-month sentence.  Manosha Karunatilaka, who pleaded guilty in May to taking
about $35,000 to pass inside tips about the company’s orders
while working as a Primary Global consultant, today asked the
sentencing judge to give him a split term of six months in jail
and six months of home confinement.  “I am a good person that made a terrible mistake and fell
from grace,” Karunatilaka said in a letter to U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, which was attached to the sentencing request
filed in Manhattan federal court today.  Prosecutors argued in a court filing that Karunatilaka
should get from 37 to 46 months in prison.  An analyst at an unnamed New York-based hedge fund which
used Primary Global’s services spoke to Karunatilaka frequently
from 2008 to 2010, prosecutors said in court papers. In May
2009, acting on Karunatilaka’s recommendation to bet that  Taiwan 
Semiconductor shares would fall, the fund made a profit of about
$1.7 million, the U.S. said.  Taiwan Semiconductor, based in Hsinchu, Taiwan, is the
world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips.  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View ,  California , is at
the center of a nationwide probe of insider trading at  hedge
funds , technology companies, banks and consulting firms. The
firm connects investors with employees of public companies who
purportedly provide them with insight into specific markets.  James Fleishman, a manager at Primary Global who has
pleaded not guilty to conspiracy charges, is currently on trial
in federal court in New York.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-CR-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at
   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 