-- 
Mexican Policy Makers Voted Unanimously to Leave Rates Unchanged in August

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-09T18:08:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/mexican-policy-makers-voted-unanimously-to-leave-rates-unchanged-in-august.html
Mexico’s central bank board voted
unanimously to keep the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged Aug.
26, while signaling it may follow Brazil’s lead and alter
monetary policy if economic conditions deteriorate, the
meeting’s minutes showed.  The central bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens,
kept the overnight rate at 4.5 percent for a 21th straight
meeting, matching the forecast of all 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Policy makers highlighted a weaker global economic recovery
and increased risk of slower domestic growth that may lead to
reduced inflationary pressures at home, according to the minutes
posted on the bank’s website today. Those factors could cause
current rates to be seen as restrictive and open space to
consider a change in monetary policy, the minutes said.  “The risk of a rate cut has increased,” Gabriel Lozano,
an economist at Banco Santander SA, said in a phone interview
from  Mexico  City. “The cut could occur in December, but I don’t
think it would be a unanimous decision because there are some
members who see it as costly to start relaxing the monetary
policy.”  Inflation “most likely” will range from 3 percent to 4
percent this year and next as  core inflation  will fall below 3
percent in 2012 from 3 percent to 3.5 percent in the second half
of this year, the minutes said.  Inflation Target  The central bank targets 3 percent inflation with a 1
percentage point margin of error.  “There are some members of the board who still don’t seem
very comfortable with cutting because inflation expectations are
anchored above the long-term objective,” Lozano said, adding
that a cut is more likely in 2012.  Credit Suisse Group AG yesterday forecast that  Banco de
Mexico  will reduce rates this year as borrowing costs become too
restrictive in the face of a slowing global economy.  “We think that there are more members of the central
bank’s board that are inclined to cut in the current context
than those potentially opposing it,”  Alonso Cervera , a Credit
Suisse economist, said in a report yesterday.  Gabriel Casillas , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist, is
forecasting a 25 basis-point rate cut in December.  The peso weakened 1.1 percent to 12.6483 per dollar at 1:33
p.m. New York time.  Slowing Down  A global economic slowdown would affect  Latin America ’s
second-largest economy, whose “productive activity” is showing
signs of slower growth as data indicates internal spending may
be decelerating, the minutes said.  “Risks have increased that could adversely affect the
performance of economic activity,” the minutes said today.  Brazil ’s central bank at its Aug. 31 meeting cited the
global slowdown as the rationale for slashing borrowing costs by
a half point to 12 percent after raising rates in each of the
five previous meetings.  “Re-evaluating the international scenario, the Committee
considers there was a substantial deterioration, reflected in
generalized reduction of great magnitude in the growth
projections for the major economic blocs,” Brazil’s central
bank said in its Aug. 31  statement .  Unlike Brazil, whose inflation rate accelerated in August,
Mexico has seen a decline in consumer price increases. Inflation
in Mexico last month slowed to 3.42 percent from 3.55 percent in
July, the national statistics agency said yesterday.  “The majority of the members agreed that the balance of
risks for inflation have improved,” according to the minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Jarvie at 
 rjarvie@bloomberg.net . 