-- 
Mexico Peso Drops to Weakest Level in a Month on Growth Concerns

-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-09-09T21:31:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/mexican-peso-declines-to-weakest-level-in-a-month-on-growth-concerns.html
Mexico’s peso fell to its weakest
level in a month after policy makers in the U.S. and  Europe  and
a jobs plan from U.S. President  Barack Obama  failed to ease
investor concerns about a global economic slowdown.  The peso dropped 1.4 percent to 12.6919 per  U.S. dollar  at
5 p.m. New York time, from 12.5146 yesterday. The currency fell
to 12.6980 in intraday trading, the weakest level since 12.7686
on Aug. 9. It has fallen 2.8 percent this year, the second-worst
performer among major Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after Argentina’s peso, and has retreated 2.2 percent
this week.  Obama yesterday detailed a $447 billion plan to boost
hiring and called on Congress to pass his package after jobs
growth stalled last month in the U.S., the destination of about
80 percent of  Mexico ’s exports, fueling concern the recovery in
the world’s biggest economy is faltering. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that “downside
risks” for the region’s economies have risen and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stopped short of providing
details on new plans to boost growth.  “Risk assets have been suffering,”  Ramon Cordova , a
currency trader at Base Internacional Casa de Bolsa in
Monterrey, Mexico, said in a telephone interview. “The market
continues to be pretty nervous about the situation in Europe and
the economic situation in the U.S. hasn’t been positive.”  Twenty-four of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg declined against the dollar.  Default ‘Rumors’  Investors are concerned that  Greece  isn’t implementing
austerity moves fast enough to get a sixth payment from last
year’s bailout. Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
dismissed “rumors” of a Greek default, saying the nation is
committed to “full implementation” of the terms of a July
agreement for a second aid package.  Mexico’s peso will trade at an average of 11.9 per U.S.
dollar this year and an average of 12.2 per dollar next year,
according to the 2012 budget proposal that the government of
Mexican President Felipe Calderon submitted yesterday to
lawmakers.  The yield on Mexico’s benchmark peso-denominated bond due
in 2024 rose 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 6.37
percent, according to Banco Santander SA data. The price of the
security fell 1.48 centavo to 132.40 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  