-- 
F&C Fund Manager Says Bullish on Portugal Stocks After Bailout

-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-09T09:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/f-c-fund-manager-says-bullish-on-portugal-stocks-after-bailout.html
Portuguese stocks offer a buying
opportunity because the bailout program being implemented by the
government will help restore investor confidence, said Pedro Pintassilgo, a  fund manager  at F&C Management Ltd. in Lisbon.  Portugal in April became the third euro zone country to
seek aid from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . The country’s benchmark PSI20 Index has dropped 19 percent
this year, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index has fallen 16.6
percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “I see a good buying opportunity for long-term investors
in Portugal,” Pintassilgo, who manages 70 million euros ($97
million) in Portuguese assets for F&C, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The government has shown that it’s
serious about completing the program and that will help regain
investor confidence.”  Pintassilgo declined to name the stocks that he favors.  A team of EU and IMF inspectors said on Aug. 12 that
 Portugal  was “on track” to meet this year’s deficit goals,
enabling the nation to receive an 11.5 billion euro instalment
from the aid package this month. Portugal is expected to
contract 2.2 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2012 before
returning to growth in 2013, according to government estimates.  Pintassilgo said some shares are now trading at “a big
discount” and positive factors including government plans to
sell stakes in EDP-Energias de Portugal SA, REN-Redes
Energeticas Nacionais SA and Galp Energia SA, should help
bolster prices.  “I see an upside in all three of these stocks,” said
Pintassilgo. REN has dropped 19.2 percent this year while EDP is
down 7.6 percent and Galp has fallen 2.8 percent.  Europe ’s ongoing credit crisis has had “the biggest
impact” on Portuguese banks, said Pintassilgo. Banco Comercial
Portugues and Banco Espirito Santo S.A. have declined 60.1
percent and 22.8 percent respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  