-- 
Fannie and Freddie Regulator Mulls Cheaper Mortgages

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-09-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/fannie-mae-and-freddie-mac-regulator-considering-obama-s-refinancing-plan.html
Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac are
exploring ways to help homeowners refinance into cheaper
mortgages, said the companies’ regulator, who stopped short of a
promise to deliver on a proposal from President  Barack Obama .  Edward DeMarco, acting director of the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , said he is working with the administration to
reduce “frictions” in a two-year-old program for borrowers who
owe more than their homes are worth. DeMarco, charged with
restoring government-controlled Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to
financial health, said the FHFA must determine whether the
program can be expanded without more losses for the firms.  “The final outcome of this review remains uncertain but
FHFA believes this undertaking is worthwhile and consistent with
our conservator responsibilities,” DeMarco said in a statement
yesterday.  DeMarco’s comments came the day after Obama said he wanted
to give more homeowners a way to take advantage of record-low
interest rates to stoke the listless housing market and boost
 consumer spending .  “We’re going to work with federal housing agencies to help
more people refinance their mortgages at interest rates that are
now near 4 percent,” Obama said in his speech to announce a
$447 billion jobs package.  The plan would could put “more than $2,000 a year in a
family’s pocket and give a lift to an economy still burdened by
the drop in housing prices,” Obama said.  Meeting  FHFA officials met yesterday with mortgage industry
executives to discuss possible changes to the Home Affordable
Refinance Program, or HARP, according to two people with
knowledge of the private meeting who spoke on condition of
anonymity.  Some staff members of Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  have
expressed concerns about easing rules to make refinancing more
accessible because a wave of repayments of the old, high-
interest loans would reduce the value of the securities into
which they are bundled. Investors would be forced to reinvest
the cash that gets returned into lower-yielding securities,
according to a person briefed on the discussions within the
mortgage firms.  That would harm the big institutional investors who own
most of the securities and make up the most important customers
of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the person said. A few senior
officials overseeing the agencies are resisting this pressure
and have encouraged staff members to work on viable plans out of
a desire to aid the overall economy, bring relief to homeowners
and reduce defaults, according to the person, who spoke
anonymously because the discussions are private.  Underwater  HARP, announced in March 2009, allows Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac to guarantee mortgages worth up to 125 percent of a
home’s value. The program is meant to help those so-called
underwater borrowers take advantage of record-low  interest rates 
to reduce their monthly payments and prevent foreclosure.  Obama administration officials originally predicted that
the program, which has been extended twice and is now set to
expire in June 2012, would help as many as five million
underwater homeowners. As of June, fewer than 840,000 borrowers
had permanently refinanced under HARP. Banks have avoided
participating because such loans are more likely to default.  “You’ve got a whole bunch of borrowers who have good
credit, they’ve been paying their mortgages, but because they
don’t have equity in their homes they can’t get refinancing,”
said James Parrott, a senior adviser to Obama’s National
Security Council. “They’re stuck at 6 percent in a 4 percent
market.”  Expanded Pool  Options for changing HARP might include giving banks more
protection against defaults, for example by charging higher
premiums for their guarantees. The program also could raise the
maximum loan-to-value ratio from 125 percent to expand the pool
of eligible borrowers.  Obama is under pressure from lawmakers, housing advocates
and some economists to do something about record foreclosures
and  home prices , which have fallen by about a third from their
peak in July 2006.  Three years into the crisis, the administration has limited
options thanks in part to the independent FHFA, which oversees
the two mortgage companies. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac continue
to report losses even after drawing more than $170 billion in
taxpayer aid since September 2008.  Economists disagree about the stimulative effect of a
large-scale mortgage refinancing. A  Congressional Budget Office 
working paper found that lowering interest rates on nearly 3
million mortgages would lead to fewer defaults and save Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac and the  Federal Housing Administration  almost
$4 billion. That savings would come at the expense of
bondholders including the Treasury and  Federal Reserve , giving
taxpayers a net loss of $600 million, the CBO report found.  “Because the estimated gains and losses are small relative
to the size of the housing market, the mortgage market, and the
overall economy, the effects on those markets and the economy
would be small as well,” the report concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 