-- 
Fannie, Freddie Said Near Settlement With SEC on Loan Disclosure

-- B y   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-09-09T23:57:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/fannie-freddie-said-near-settlement-with-sec-on-loan-disclosure.html
Government-supported housing
finance agencies  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac are within months of
settling claims that they failed to inform investors of their
exposure to subprime mortgages before the 2008 credit crisis,
according to a person with knowledge of the discussions.  The housing companies will neither admit nor deny
defrauding investors, nor will they pay any fines under the
proposed settlement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, said the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity
because the talks are private.  The settlement involves allegations that the two firms
didn’t adequately disclose to investors how much of their
portfolios contained mortgages made to borrowers with low credit
scores or borrowers who supplied little documentation. Losses
linked to subprime loans pushed the firms to near-collapse
before they were seized by regulators in September 2008.  Brad German , a spokesman for  Freddie Mac , declined to
comment, as did SEC spokesman John Nester.  Amy Bonitatibus , a
spokeswoman for Fannie Mae, didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment late yesterday.  Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,
Virginia, have drawn more than $171 billion in aid from the
Treasury since the government takeover.  The proposed settlement with the firms was previously
reported in The New York Times.  Separately, several former executives of the two firms are
being investigated for their actions during the housing bubble.  Former Fannie Mae Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  has
received a so-called Wells notice from the SEC telling him he
may face claims. Former Freddie Mac CEO  Richard Syron  has also
received a notice, according to two people briefed on the
matter. Donald Bisenius, Freddie Mac’s former executive vice
president for single-family credit guarantee, and Anthony
“Buddy” Piszel, a former chief financial officer, both
received Wells notices, according to public filings.  None has been accused of wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Sterngold in New York at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 