-- 
Federer, Djokovic Reach Semifinals as U.S. Open Extends Finish Into Monday

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T05:55:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/federer-djokovic-reach-semifinals-as-u-s-open-extends-finish-into-monday.html
Roger Federer  advanced to a fourth
semifinal meeting with Novak Djokovic in tennis’s past five
Grand Slam tournaments by beating Jo-Wilfried Tsonga to cap a
full day of play at the rain-interrupted U.S. Open.  After two days of washouts at the National Tennis Center in
New York, Federer waited out a 93-minute first-set interruption
last night before advancing with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 win over
Tsonga, the 11th seed from  France .  Even with all 10 matches being completed yesterday,
organizers said the weather delays would extend the tournament
into a third week for the fourth straight year. Both the men’s
and women’s finals were pushed back one day.  “This is the fourth year in a row we’re playing a Monday
final. Might as well just make it a Monday final,” Federer said
at a news conference. “I’m sure that there has been many finals
played here where one player had a huge advantage and I don’t
think that should be happening before such a huge match. It was
a good decision.”  If the men’s championship match had remained on Sept. 11,
Federer or Djokovic would have opposed a finalist who was
playing a fourth match in four days.  Rafael Nadal ,  Andy Murray ,  Andy Roddick  and  John Isner  are
all back in action today after winning fourth-round matches
yesterday. Today’s winners will play again in the men’s
semifinals tomorrow and then get a day off before the Sept. 12
men’s final.  “Out of fairness to the bottom half of the draw, I think
it’s definitely the right thing to do,” Federer said.  Nadal vs Roddick  Nadal, the defending champion and No. 2 seed from Spain,
today faces No. 21 Roddick, who was the last American man to win
a Grand Slam at the 2003 U.S. Open. Murray, the No. 4 seed from
the U.K., plays Isner, an American seeded 28th.  “I’m going to have to play my absolute best to have any
shot,” Isner told reporters.  While Isner may be the long shot in the men’s draw,
American  Serena Williams  is the women’s favorite even though
she’s also seeded 28th after two-injury marred seasons.  A three-time  U.S. Open  champion, Williams yesterday beat
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova of Russia 7-5, 6-1. She’ll next face
top-seeded  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, who beat  Andrea Petkovic , the No. 10 seed from Germany 6-1, 7-6 (7-5).  Samantha Stosur, the No. 9 seeded woman from  Australia , and
unseeded German Angelique Kerber also won yesterday to reach
tomorrow’s other women’s semifinal.  Beating Tsonga  Federer, the No. 3 seed from  Switzerland , avenged losses in
his previous two matches against Tsonga, including a
quarterfinal defeat at Wimbledon where he blew a two-set lead.  The five-time champion now has to get past Djokovic to
reach a seventh U.S. Open final in eight years. Djokovic
advanced when fellow Serb Janko Tipsarevic retired with a
hamstring injury while trailing 7-6 (7-2), 6-7 (3-7), 6-0, 3-0.  Federer lost to Djokovic in the semifinals of last year’s
U.S. Open and has dropped three of four meetings against the
top-ranked Serb this year. Djokovic won in straight sets at the
Australian Open, which has hard court surfaces like the U.S.
Open, while Federer won their last Grand Slam semifinal meeting,
on a clay court at the  French Open .  Bubble Trouble  While only Federer’s win was interrupted by rain yesterday,
the match between Roddick and No. 5 David Ferrer of  Spain  was
delayed an hour and moved to a new court because water was
bubbling up on the playing surface in Louis Armstrong Stadium.
The No. 2 court at the National Tennis Center was shut down
until further notice.  Roddick wound up beating Ferrer 6-3, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 on the
584-seat Court 13 and celebrated by slapping hands with fans who
lined the perimeter. He’ll return to 23,000-seat Ashe Stadium
today to face Nadal, who beat Gilles Muller of Luxembourg 7-6
(7-1), 6-1, 6-2.  Isner advanced to his first Grand Slam quarterfinal with a
7-6 (7-2), 3-6, 7-6 (7-2), 7-6 (7-4) win over Gilles Simon of
France. Murray beat American wild card Donald Young 6-2, 6-3, 6-
3 on the Grandstand court.  “The last few days haven’t been great,” Murray said. “So
you’ve just got to try and embrace the situation and do all the
right things to get yourself ready.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 