-- 
Feldstein Says Obama Plan Unlikely to Boost Consumer Spending: Tom Keene

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-09T18:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/feldstein-says-obama-plan-unlikely-to-boost-consumer-spending-tom-keene.html
Harvard University economics
professor  Martin Feldstein  said President Barack Obama’s $447
billion jobs plan is unlikely to boost  consumer spending  because
it doesn’t address falling  home prices .  “Until we fix the housing program, it is hard to see how
consumers are going to have confidence, net worth and the
willingness to spend,” Feldstein said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene.  Falling home values have curbed the confidence of consumers
whose spending makes up about 70 percent of the economy. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 4.5
percent in the year ended June 2011, and the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index last week fell to the second-lowest level this
year.  Feldstein disagreed with Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s view that the plan would provide a “substantial”
boost to growth. Tax cuts, including reduction of payroll taxes,
account for more than half the value of the president’s plan,
which includes a $105 billion infrastructure proposal for school
modernization, transportation projects and rehabilitation of
vacant properties.  “I don’t think it can be old-fashioned, Keynesian, ‘give
people some money and hope they spend it,’” Feldstein, who
served as chief economic adviser to President Ronald Reagan,
said. “People are too nervous, they are paying down debt, they
are not going out and going to spend it.”  Financing Unclear  The proposal will “buy us less than $450 billion in GDP,
probably half that amount,” Feldstein, 71, said. “So it is a
very inefficient program.” In addition, “It is not clear how
it is going to be paid for.”  Feldstein also said a possible effort by the  Federal
Reserve  aimed at lowering long-term  interest rates  in relation
to short-term borrowing costs would not work and could
discourage lending.  “It could backfire,” he said. “If the yield curve is
flattened even more, and it is very flat right now, why are
banks going to be willing to lend?”  Fed policy makers at their meeting Sept. 20-21 may decide
to replace short-term  Treasury securities  in the central bank’s
$1.65 trillion portfolio with long-term bonds in a bid to reduce
rates on everything from mortgages to car loans, according to
economists at Wells Fargo & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday said policy makers
will discuss the tools they could use to boost the recovery at
their next meeting and stand ready to use them if necessary.  Policy makers “are prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in the
context of price stability,” Bernanke said in  Minneapolis ,
echoing points from his Aug. 26 remarks in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming . He didn’t specify the tools.  ‘Moderate’ Growth  Geithner today said Obama’s plan would provide a
“substantial” boost to the economy. “I think we’ve got a good
chance of continuing a moderate pace of growth coming out of
this crisis,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
in Marseille,  France . If Congress approves the plan, “it would
dramatically reduce the risk of a long period of much weaker
growth.”  Economists cut their forecasts for growth, according to a
Bloomberg News survey taken from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7. The median
forecast calls for a 1.8 percent annual pace of expansion in the
third quarter, down from 2.1 percent in the previous month’s
survey. Growth next year is forecast to average 2.2 percent,
down from 2.4 percent.  Feldstein is a former president of the National Bureau of
Economic Research and a member of the NBER committee that
declared the recession ended in June 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  