-- 
Florida Growth Outlook to Slow, Portending Budget Deficit

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-09T19:34:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/florida-growth-outlook-to-slow-portending-budget-deficit-1-.html
Florida ’s economic recovery will be
“significantly” slower than forecast because of a faltering
housing market, the Legislature’s chief economist said, raising
the prospect of another budget deficit.  Economists will “pretty much take out” the modest
economic improvement the fourth-most populous U.S. state had
expected beginning in January when they publish their next
forecast, probably on Sept. 12,  Amy Baker  said.  “We pretty significantly slowed down the recovery pace, in
particular everything related to housing,” she said by
telephone after a meeting in Tallahassee to review estimates.
Stagnant real estate “feeds back into construction employment,
and those wages and salaries feed back into personal income.”  Slowing growth in Florida would reflect the national
economy. U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 1 percent
annual rate in the second quarter, the Commerce Department said
Aug. 26, down from a previous estimate of 1.3 percent. Housing
starts fell 1.5 percent in July from June.  Florida may face another  budget deficit  next year if growth
slows below projections, Baker said. A long-range financial
outlook produced by her staff  last week  forecast no budget
deficit over the next three years for the first time since at
least 2007. Lawmakers closed a $3.8 billion gap this year.  A reduction in general revenue this fiscal year of 1.2
percent would leave Florida with a projected budget gap next
year, Baker told a legislative panel on Sept 7. Over the past
two months, revenue collection has been about 2 percent shy of
estimates, based on figures Baker presented to lawmakers.  State economists in February had  projected  private housing
starts would grow 37 percent in the fiscal year that ends June
30, compared with 2.1 percent last year. They forecast wages and
salaries would rise 4.5 percent compared with 2.8 percent and
total jobs would increase 1.8 percent from 0.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 