-- 
For U.S. Muslims, 9/11 Began a Whole New Ballgame: Aasif Mandvi

-- B y   A a s i f   M a n d v i
-- 
2011-09-09T00:00:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/for-u-s-muslims-9-11-was-the-start-of-a-whole-new-ballgame-aasif-mandvi.html
When U.S. troops marched into  Iraq 
in 2003, I, like many Americans, was outraged at what I
considered a senseless and unjustified military action. As I
spoke to my mother about it on the phone, I noticed that the
angrier I got, the more uncomfortable she became.  At first I thought perhaps she disagreed with me, that her
awkward silences on the other end of the line resulted from her
biting her tongue. Had she, like many of her fellow Americans,
bought into the claim that Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden
were simply opposite sides of the same al-Qaeda nickel?  When I pressed her on this, she quietly replied, “Perhaps
we should not discuss this over the phone.”  What do you mean? I said. Why on earth not?  Because, she answered, “You never know who is listening to
us.”  The fear in my mother’s hushed voice marked a passage to a
new America. This was not the land of opportunity and freedom
that my parents had sacrificed everything to be part of in 1982,
when we arrived from the north of  England  after selling all our
possessions: our home, our car, my clock radio. (We even said
goodbye to our cat, Genie, whom we gave to a neighbor.)  My parents were quintessential Americans -- immigrants who
filled with pride as they waved the star-spangled banner every
Fourth of July. Suddenly, however, we inhabited a newly fearful
and suspicious America, an America that for my mother had lost
its head and its humanity.  For Muslims in America, everything changed after Sept. 11.
Personally, I had been a relatively secular sort. I didn’t
attend a mosque and, for the most part, didn’t find much
identification with the faith I had been born into. I was raised
on Western pop culture and hot dogs (though I never really
learned to play baseball). The only time I was reminded of my
Muslim-ness was when my grandparents visited and we would sit
and read the Koran, or on the occasions when I was chased home
from the bus stop by a group of white kids who for some reason
had decided I would be better suited riding a camel instead of a
bus.  After Sept. 11, as misinformation and Islamophobia spread
across the American news media and into American communities, I
suddenly began defending an identity to which I had a tenuous
relationship at best. I found myself shouting at pundits who had
no idea what they were talking about, including a radio jock who
found  deep meaning  in the fact that the Muslim holiday of EID,
spelled backward, is DIE. I could not believe what I was
hearing. When President  George W. Bush  called people from
 Pakistan  “ Pakis ,” it seemed my entire heritage was getting
lost in translation.  U.S. soldiers are now leaving Iraq, but here at home the
fear has not receded. There are protests against mosques all
over the country, including the one proposed in downtown
 Manhattan . Flying While Muslim remains a hazard because too many
Americans can’t, or won’t, distinguish terrorists from imams.
After Sept. 11, apart from the foolishness of TV pundits, it
seemed a useful conversation was taking shape -- a conversation
that might lead to understanding, to bridges across divides.  Now, 10 years later, it appears that the band of TV
pundits and politicians who set out to exploit the tragedy has
won. Fear and mistrust have trumped courage and unity. That
moment when the world came together and shared a grief that
transcended faith, nationality and politics is undone.  I’ve never forgotten my conversation with my mother. For
me, it represents the very essence of fear, the aftershock of a
senseless act of mass murder that still reverberates. What I
hope for in the next 10 years is a War against Fear. Then I can
go back to being a so-so Muslim, and a typical American, though
I really ought to learn to play baseball.  (Aasif Mandvi is a comedian, actor and correspondent for
The  Daily Show  on  Comedy Central . The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Aasif Mandvi at  amandvi@thedailyshow.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 