-- 
Ford Sees U.S. Auto Sales Falling Below 13 Million Forecast

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-09-09T20:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ford-says-u-s-auto-sales-may-end-year-below-13-million-seen-as-minimum.html
U.S. auto sales this year may not
reach 13 million that was the low end of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s range
of estimates, Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  said.  Ford had forecast industrywide 2011 sales of 13 million to
13.5 million vehicles, including medium- and heavy-duty trucks,
in its home market. Deliveries may rise to 12.7 million cars and
light trucks this year, the average estimate of 18 analysts
surveyed last month by Bloomberg. The average estimate in April
was for 2011 sales of 13 million light vehicles.  Concerns about the economy and financial markets are
further delaying purchases put off during the recession and
early recovery,  Jeff Schuster , executive director of global
forecasting at J.D. Power & Associates, said at the time. He is
among the 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who have cut their
full-year auto-sales estimates since the first quarter.  “We see signs of pent-up demand,” Booth said today,
speaking at a UBS conference in  London . “What it’s going to
take for that pent-up demand to emerge is some confidence in
what the future will look like.” Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford
anticipated a modest U.S. recovery, “but we didn’t expect it to
be quite as slow as it’s been.”  U.S. light-vehicle sales rose 11 percent in 2010 to 11.6
million from the previous year’s 10.4 million, which was the
lowest total since 1982, according to Autodata Corp., the
industry researcher based in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . They
averaged 16.8 million annually from 2000 to 2007.  Checking Costs  Ford slid 29 cents, or 2.8 percent, to $10.05 a share at
4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have fallen 40 percent this year.  Ford will return to an investment-grade  credit rating 
“sooner rather than later,” and the automaker won’t resume
paying a dividend until after that, Booth said. Standard and
Poor’s rates Ford’s debt at BB-, three levels below investment
grade, with a positive outlook.  Structural costs related to new-model introductions may
rise less than the $2 billion originally forecast, he said.  “If the industry takes a turn down, we will react to it,”
Booth said. “We no longer sit around and wait for the problem
to go away. If we see a significant downturn, we’ll cut back on
structural costs.”  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  raised prices this
year to offset some of the higher costs the company expected,
including manufacturing spending. The automaker is seeking to
lower its labor costs in contract negotiations with the  United
Auto Workers . The current accord covering Ford’s 41,000 U.S.
hourly workers expires Sept. 14.  Labor Talks  Booth said the UAW has not followed its tradition of
selecting a lead company by Labor Day to set the pattern on
wages and benefits for contracts for all three U.S. automakers.
Talks may go past the deadline, if needed, Booth said today.  “It’s not clear how it’s going to work out,” Booth said.
If no deal is reached by the deadline, “we expect to continue
working and continue those discussions.”  Ford earned $9.28 billion in the past two years after $30.1
billion in losses from 2006 through 2008. The company borrowed
$23.4 billion in late 2006, putting up all major assets
including its blue oval logo as collateral. That helped Ford
avoid the bankruptcies and bailouts that befell the predecessors
of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  