-- 
Franc Falls as Economy Minister Says Currency Is ’Massively Overvalued’

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-09T12:58:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/franc-falls-as-economy-minister-says-currency-is-massively-overvalued-.html
The Swiss franc fell against the
euro and the dollar as Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann
said the currency remains “massively overvalued” even after
the nation’s central bank imposed a ceiling.  The franc traded at almost the weakest level against the
euro since July, after tumbling Sept. 6 when the  Swiss National
Bank  established a franc ceiling at 1.20 per euro, the first
time such a limit was set since 1978. The SNB said it would use
“unlimited” quantities of cash to cap the increase. The
currency had strengthened 13 percent against the euro this year
before this week as investors sought haven assets amid  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  “The franc is now effectively a proxy for the euro, now
that it’s pegged to it,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubihsi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “The
franc is certainly overvalued against the euro.”  The franc fell 0.1 percent versus the euro to 1.21589 at
8:57 a.m. in New York, after touching 1.21867. It dropped 0.5
percent to 87.99 centimes per dollar.  The Swiss franc is still far removed from purchasing-power
parity against the single currency, Schneider-Ammann told
Bloomberg news after a news conference in Bern,  Switzerland .  “There is a general understanding that purchasing-power
parity is around 1.35 to 1.40” francs per euro, Schneider-
Ammann said. “That’s pretty much accepted.”  Asked if he would welcome a decision by the SNB to increase
the ceiling, Schneider-Ammann said the central bank is an
“independent institution” and should make its own decisions.
Policy makers, led by Philipp Hildebrand, will hold their
monetary assessment on Sept. 15.  Even with its depreciation this week, the franc is still 35
percent too strong against the euro, based on an index developed
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in
Paris that measures currencies using prices for similar goods
and services in two countries.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  