-- 
G-7 Signaled Japan Should Get Support for Selling Yen, OECD’s Tamaki Says

-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-09-09T00:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/g-7-signaled-japan-should-get-support-for-selling-yen-oecd-s-tamaki-says.html
The Group of Seven has signaled it
wants  Japan  to build a consensus before intervening in the
foreign-exchange market, according to the nation’s former head
of currency policy.  Members have indicated intervention “should be done in
agreement with the G-7 as opposed to unilaterally,”  Rintaro Tamaki , who was a vice finance minister until July and directed
two of Japan’s three rounds of yen sales in the past year, said
in an interview in Paris yesterday. He was referring to language
in an Aug. 8 statement by the G-7 that said officials will
“closely consult” each other on currencies.  Tamaki’s comments indicate Japan may encounter opposition
to further yen sales after acting by itself twice in the past 12
months. Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said he was
concerned about actions by Japan and  Switzerland  to stem gains
in their currencies and that the topic will be discussed by G-7
policy makers, who meet today in Marseille,  France .  “There is a substantial consensus, at least among G-7
countries, that markets should determine foreign-exchange
levels,” said Tamaki, 57, who is now deputy secretary-general
of Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development. “It’s
been a principle for a long time.”  Scale of Sales  G-7 members jointly sold the yen in March after Japan’s
record earthquake. Tamaki also supervised the first solo
intervention for Japan in six years last September. His
successor, Takehiko Nakao, implemented a third round Aug. 4, his
third day in the job. Last month’s tally of 4.51 trillion yen
($58 billion) in yen sales was the biggest since 2004.  Against the dollar, the yen has soared 19 percent in the
past two years, reaching a postwar high of 75.95 on Aug. 19. It
traded at 77.57 as of 9 a.m. in  Tokyo .  The Marseille gathering marks the debut for Japan’s Finance
Minister Jun Azumi, who took office earlier this month. Azumi
said before departing Tokyo that he would appeal to the group to
appreciate his concern about excessive yen gains.  “I want to tell them that we are going to take bold action
if there are excessive moves,” Azumi told reporters today in
Marseille. Japan is “closely monitoring speculative trading”
and a strong yen “threatens to throw water on the economic
recovery,” he said.  Shrinking Economy  A government report today showed that Japan’s gross
domestic product contracted at an annual 2.1 percent pace in the
second quarter, the third straight period of decline.  Investors have flocked to currencies including the yen and
Swiss franc as perceived havens from the euro-region’s debt
crisis and a U.S. economic recovery that’s been too weak to pull
unemployment under 9 percent.  Europe ’s sovereign-debt woes will
probably be the main topic at the G-7 meeting rather than
currencies, Tamaki said.  The  Swiss National Bank  said this week it will attempt to
prevent the franc from rising with the “utmost determination,”
setting a ceiling of 1.20 francs to the euro.  “We were concerned when Japan acted unilaterally with
respect to their currency,” Flaherty told reporters in Ottawa.
“We’re also concerned about Switzerland acting unilaterally.
That’s a discussion I’m sure we’ll get into this weekend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  