-- 
G-7 Statement on Tackling Slowdown, Supporting Banks (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 1 1 1 2 0 ]   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-09T21:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/g-7-statement-on-tackling-slowdown-supporting-banks-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of a statement released today in Marseille,  France  by
finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven
industrial nations.  “We met at a time of new challenges to global economic
recovery, with significant challenges to growth, fiscal deficits
and sovereign debt, stemming from past accumulated imbalances.
This is reflected in heightened tensions in financial markets.
There are now clear signs of a slowdown in global growth. We are
committed to a strong and coordinated international response to
these challenges.  “We are taking strong actions to maintain financial
stability, restore confidence and support growth. In the U.S.,
President Obama has put forward a significant package to
strengthen growth and employment through public investments, tax
incentives and targeted job measures, combined with fiscal
reforms designed to restore fiscal sustainability over the
medium term. Euro area countries are implementing the decisions
taken on July 21 to address financial tensions, notably through
the flexibilization of the EFSF, reaffirming their inflexible
determination to honor fully their own individual sovereign
signatures and their commitments to sustainable fiscal
conditions and structure reforms.  Japan  is implementing
substantial fiscal measures for reconstruction from the
earthquake while ensuring the commitment to medium-term fiscal
consolidation.  “Concerns over the pace and future of the recovery
underscore the need for a concerted effort at a global level in
support of strong, sustainable and balanced growth. We must all
set out and implement ambitious and growth-friendly fiscal
consolidation plans rooted within credible fiscal frameworks.
Fiscal policy faces a delicate balancing act. Given the still
fragile nature of the recovery, we must tread the difficult path
of achieving fiscal adjustment plans while supporting economic
activity, taking into account different national circumstances.  “Monetary policies will maintain  price stability  and
continue to support economic recovery. Central Banks stand ready
to provide liquidity to banks as required. We will take all
necessary actions to ensure the resilience of banking systems
and financial markets. In this context we reaffirm our
commitment to implement fully Basel III.  “We reaffirmed our shared interest in a strong and stable
international financial system, and our support for market-
determined exchange rates. Excess volatility and disorderly
movements in exchange rates have adverse implications for
economic and financial stability. We will consult closely in
regard to actions in exchange markets and will cooperate as
appropriate.  “We look forward to working with our colleagues in the G20
and the IMF in the coming weeks to rebalance demand and
strengthen global growth. As previously agreed, structural
reforms will make an important contribution in this regard.” 