-- 
GE Mulls Pullback for Norway Offshore Wind, May Affect 40 Jobs

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-09-09T14:44:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ge-mulls-pullback-for-norway-offshore-wind-may-affect-40-jobs.html
General Electric Co. (GE) , the world’s
biggest maker of power-generating equipment, is considering
consolidating its offshore wind operations in Norway because of
reduced demand.  The move could affect 40 jobs, Milissa Rocker, a
spokeswoman for the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company, said
in an e-mail, without saying whether the positions could be cut.  GE experienced lower-than-expected demand for its sea-based
 wind turbines , and increased competition in the sector is
putting pressure on profits in a segment that’s “at best, twice
the cost of an onshore wind project,” Rocker said.  The company bought the Norway-based ScanWind unit of
Morphic Technologies AB in  Sweden  for 130 million kroner ($23.9
million) in 2009 to improve access to offshore-turbine
technology. ScanWind’s gearless turbine is designed to cut
maintenance costs, helping GE compete with Siemens AG.  GE  initially planned  to invest 600 million kroner in
offshore wind in  Norway , including an offshore technology
development center in Oslo. The company also aimed to expand
production of turbine demonstration units in Verdal, according a
statement on the website of the Norwegian Ministry of Petroleum
and Energy. Norway generates more than 95 percent of its power
from hydroelectric plants.  GE remains committed to the offshore wind business and
continues to invest in driving down its costs, among the highest
among renewable energy technologies, Rocker said. That includes
plans to install a demonstration turbine in Gothenburg, Sweden,
later this year, she said. The company is also researching
turbine designs for deep water sites, she said.  GE makes wind turbines for land including a 1.5-megawatt
model that’s the world’s  most widely  deployed wind machine,
according to the company. GE continues to experience strong
onshore wind growth in  Europe , having doubled that business in
2010. It expects further doubling this year, Rocker said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  