-- 
Geithner Discusses Obama Plan with Bloomberg TV: Transcript

-- B y  
-- 
2011-09-09T17:08:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/geithner-discusses-obama-plan-with-bloomberg-tv-transcript.html
The following is the transcript of
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner’s interview today
with  Peter Cook , Bloomberg TV’s Chief Washington Correspondent,
in Marseille,  France :  PETER COOK, BLOOMBERG NEWS: Mr. Treasury Secretary, thank
you for the time. I know it’s been a long night for you. You
were at the speech last night, here in France today. Thank you
again.  TIM GEITHNER, US SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY: Nice to see
you.  COOK: Let’s start on the domestic front. In the President’s
speech last night this jobs plan, $447 billion, bigger than some
people had anticipated. Is it still big enough to have a
material impact on the US economy?  GEITHNER: Oh, absolutely. If you look at what private
forecasters have said in terms of the initial assessment it
would make a very substantial contribution to growth at a time
when we need it and help get hundreds of thousands and more
Americans back to work more quickly. Of course the impact it has
depends on what Congress actually does. And so we’d like them to
do as much as they can as quickly as they can.  COOK: You’ve heard the refrain from some Republicans
already this is Groundhog Day. This is stimulus redux and it
didn’t work out that well the last time. That’s their view.
What’s your argument for them this time around that this is
going to be any different?  GEITHNER: Well, first of all, I thought they were actually
pretty encouraging last night in their initial response. They
recognize, and this went into the design of the package, that
large parts of this package have had broad support from
Republicans in the past. And there’s no reason with the economy
growing more slowly not to take advantage of this moment and
that broad support for bipartisan support for these things in
the past too and move now on these things.  Now the initial actions we took to address the crisis were
incredibly successful in restarting growth and starting to heal
the damage caused by the crisis, but it was a terribly damaging
crisis. And it was always going to take a lot of time to grow
out of it. We’re still healing. We made a lot of progress. We
got a lot work to go and we got a lot of things happen in the
economy, the growth the first part of this year. We had  oil
prices  go up very high.  We had a disaster in  Japan . A terrible crisis in Europe
hurt us a lot. You had the damage that Congress caused by the
debt limit debate. Those are big blows for an economy still
healing from the crisis. And because of those blows we think the
prudent, responsible thing right now is to do some more for
growth in the short term.  COOK: Can you assure Americans, can you assure members of
Congress who have to vote on this plan that if they pass it that
we’ll avoid a double dip?  GEITHNER: I think that we’ve got a good chance of
continuing a moderate pace of growth coming out of this crisis.
And is they were to pass this plan we would dramatically risk
the growth - reduce the risks of a long period of much weaker
growth.  COOK: We had the original Recovery Act. The Administration
said it would keep unemployment from exceeding eight percent.  GEITHNER: Well, let me just correct you here with that.
That’s not what we said and it’s a deep political myth that that
was our commitment, our promise in the Recovery Act. What we did
was marshal an incredibly creative array of financial force
alongside the Fed in confronting the worst financial crisis in
generations. Now that crisis was terribly powerful, more
powerful than what caused the Great Depression.  And yet within three months of the President taking office
because of the force of those measures the economy after being
shrinking at a rate of five to six percent sequential GDP was
growing again. And we’ve had more than two million private
sector jobs created since the economy started, growth started
again. That’s a pretty good record of  job creation  and it’s
nowhere good enough because millions of Americans are still out
of work.  COOK: (Inaudible) that this is an economy in real trouble
right now.  GEITHNER: The economy is absolutely weaker than it was in
the beginning of the year, but it’s weaker because for two
reasons. One is because we’re still healing from a terribly
difficult financial crisis. And it’s difficult because again oil
prices put a huge amount of pressure on a weak economy, but the
damage caused from Japan was global in its effect on slowdown.
Europe has put enormous pressure on financial markets and
concern, reigniting a whole weight of caution.  And on top of that we had the self-imposed trauma of a
terribly damaging debate about default for the  United States of
America , a terribly damaging debate and that took a huge blow on
confidence. Because of those things the economy has been slower
than anybody expected, but the economy is still growing and with
actions the President proposed last night it will be stronger.
And that’s why we want Congress to move.  COOK: We haven’t talked to you since the downgrade. Do you
feel vindicated by what’s happened in the Treasury market since
then?  GEITHNER: I have enormous confidence in the basic strength
of the American economy over the long run, and no doubt we have
- it is completely within our capacity to make sure we return to
live within our means. It won’t happen on its own though.
Congress has to make sure that they are locking in reforms on to
entitlements, the healthcare spending, to other spending across
government and tax reform that will help get our fiscal deficits
on a more sustainable long-term path, but I am absolutely
confident that we’re going to be able to do that. And I think
the world is confident of that.  If you look at the reactions of markets around the world to
even the pressures we’re under right now, there is enormous
confidence around the world that this country, our country is
stronger than our political system looks today. We’ve got to get
the political system to catch up to the underlying strength of
the economy and do the kind of things we need to help heal the
damage caused by the crisis.  COOK: What about what’s happening here in  Europe ? There
were concerns about what’s happening here spreading to the
United States. We have markets telling us 90 percent chance
roughly of Greek default.  GEITHNER: Well, I think Europe’s still under enormous
pressure and they have a really very difficult challenging set
of problems they’re going to deal with over a long period of
time. And it’s not just of course what’s happened in  Greece , and
Ireland and  Portugal . I think the basic lesson of the financial
crisis is you need two things for them to work.  First of all you need reforms that address [in a line from]
make growth stronger, fix weak financial systems. Those have to
be very powerful, very credible, sustained over a long period of
time. That is necessary, but it’s not enough.  Those need to be backed by very, very powerful, unequivocal
financial force so that governments have the time to make those
reforms work. Now you can’t do the money without the reforms and
you can’t do the reforms without the money.  And what Europe is trying to do is to make sure that those
reforms underway are supported by very substantial committed
resources, and they’ve got some more work to do in that area.
They -  COOK: Yes. Are they moving fast enough?  GEITHNER: They’re moving, but I think they’re going to have
to demonstrate to the world they have enough political will.
This is not a question of financial or economic capacity. The -
even if you take a very conservative, pessimistic estimate of
the ultimate cost of resolving this crisis for Europe it is
completely within the capacity of the stronger members of the
euro area to absorb those costs.  Those costs will be much, much greater for them for their
economies if they were to sit here and do nothing. And I think
they recognize that. So this is a good, sensible financial
calculation for them that the overall costs for their economy is
long term will be less if they act more forcefully now.  COOK: Is it in the national interests of the  United States 
to ensure that the euro survives?  GEITHNER: Absolutely. I think it is absolutely in the
interests of the United States that the Europeans do whatever
they can to help make sure they bring this pressure, they sort
of calm the pressures now spreading across Europe, very
important to us and the world economy as a whole. It was very,
very damaging in the American economy last summer and so the
cause of the slowdown we had last summer. It’s been a
significant cause to the slowdown we’ve had this summer and I
think it’s very important to the world that Europeans do what
they need to do so that their - the problems they’re facing
don’t spread, don’t add to the pressures on the world economy as
a whole.  Now you know the Americans have put some pressure on the
world economy as a whole too, the damage, the debt limit debate
that we had in the United States I think it hurt confidence
around the world, not just in us, but more generally. So we’ve
been a source of complications for governments too in this case,
but we have a huge interest in helping the Europeans through
this and we’re going to everything we can to encourage them to
act more forcefully and make it easier for them to do that.  COOK: Will we see concerted action from the G7 coming out
of this meeting?  GEITHNER: Oh, not at this meeting. I don’t think you’re
going to see that. I think you’re seeing that governments around
the world in reaction to a slower economy globally with no - the
US has slowed. What’s remarkable about this is the slowdown has
been broad based around the world.  You’re going to see governments everywhere, central banks
everywhere recalibrate and decide where they have room to look
for things they can do to help strengthen real growth. And
that’s going to come gradually over time, but I don’t think you
should expect from this meeting any dramatic change and signal.  What we’re doing all the time, and we spend a lot of time
on the phone together between meetings. I certainly do all the
time is what we’re going to continue to do it explore ways we
can help the Europeans get ahead of this problem. And of course
we can’t want it more than them. It has to come from them
fundamentally. We can help and we’re spending a lot of time,
Peter, in trying to help them think through how best to manage
this.  COOK: Really quickly, on the regulatory front you wrote in
your FT op-ed today that the enforcement, the implementation of
regulatory changes in the wake of the financial crisis shouldn’t
impede growth. There are suggestions in the United States Dodd-
Frank is doing exactly that. Are you willing to revisit Dodd-
Frank and its implementation?  GEITHNER: There’s no credible argument in my view that the
reforms that Dodd-Frank calls for and that we’re starting to
implement in the United States would carry that risk. And that’s
because we try to be very careful not to overdo it.  Now we are going to force things a little more capital
against risk. That is a necessary thing to do, not just to
prevent the next crisis, but make sure banks are able to help
support an expanding economy. And because we were so aggressive
early the US financial system is much stronger now and a much
better position to help support growth, but we want to be
careful that we don’t overdo it. And so we need to bring a kind
of care and balance to this process so that understandable
effort, the noble effort to make sure we’re preventing a next
crisis doesn’t get in the way of healing the image from the last
crisis.  COOK: A final question. This is our last opportunity, first
opportunity to talk to you since you decided to stay at the
Treasury. Any regrets?  GEITHNER: Oh, I think it’s a deep privilege for me to work
for this President. We had a lot of challenges. He asked me to
stay in a time where we’re facing so many challenges. We have
Americans dying for their country around the world. How can you
not when the President asks? So I have huge confidence in him,
totally committed to his agenda, policy, and we have a lot of
work to do. And it’s my privilege to do it.  COOK: All right. Mr. Treasury Secretary, thank you for the
time. Appreciate you joining us.  #<659699.3550614.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 