-- 
Geithner Says Obama Jobs Plan Would Have ‘Substantial’ Impact on Economy

-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-09-09T15:40:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/geithner-says-obama-jobs-plan-would-have-substantial-impact-on-economy.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan
would provide a “substantial” boost to the U.S. economy.  “I think we’ve got a good chance of continuing a moderate
pace of growth coming out of this crisis,” Geithner said today
in an interview with Bloomberg Television in Marseille,  France .
If Congress approves the plan, “it would dramatically reduce
the risk of a long period of much weaker growth.”  The president, speaking before a joint session of Congress
yesterday, demanded that lawmakers act “right away” on his
plan boost spending on infrastructure, stem teacher layoffs and
cut in half the payroll taxes paid by workers and small-business
owners.  “It would make a very substantial contribution to growth
at a time when we need it to help get hundreds of thousands and
more Americans back to work more quickly,” Geithner said in the
interview. “Of course the impact it has depends on what
Congress does, so we would like them to do as much as they can
as quickly as they can.”  Geithner also expressed optimism about the reaction of
congressional Republicans.  “They were pretty encouraging last night in their initial
response,” Geithner said. “They recognize, and this went into
the design of the package, that large parts of this package have
had support from Republicans in the past.”  Credit Rating  Asked about the downgrade of the U.S. credit rating by
 Standard & Poor’s  last month, Geithner said financial markets
have given the nation a vote of confidence.  “There is enormous confidence around the world that this
country, our country, is stronger than our political system
looks today,” he said. “We’ve got to get the political system
to catch up to the underlying strength of the economy.”  After a partisan fight over the deficit and raising the
government’s debt limit took the country to the brink of
default, Standard & Poor’s lowered the rating to AA+ from AAA on
Aug. 5. As part of raising the debt limit, Congress created a
12-member supercommittee to find $1.5 trillion in cuts.  The government’s borrowing costs fell to record lows as
Treasuries rallied. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note fell from 2.56 percent on Aug. 5 to 2 percent yesterday.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their top
rankings on the U.S.  Debate Repercussions  Still, Geithner said the debate over the debt limit hurt
the  U.S. economy  and had repercussions globally.  “The damage of the debt limit we had in the  United States ,
I think it hurt confidence around the world,” he said. “We’ve
been a source of complications for governments, too, in this
case.”  Geithner said over the long term the U.S. has the capacity
to live within its means, and that it’s up to Congress to put
health and retirement programs on a sound footing.  Stocks fell for a second day and German two-year yields
declined to a record amid escalating concern about  Greece ’s debt
crisis and speculation Congress won’t pass Obama’s plan. The
MSCI All-Country World Index retreated 2.6 percent at 11:24 a.m.
in  New York , and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.9
percent.  Geithner, who is in Marseille to attend a meeting of Group
of Seven finance ministers and central bankers, said a solution
to the continent’s debt woes depends on the “political will”
of European Union leaders.  ‘Political Will’  “They’re moving, but I think they’re going to have to
demonstrate to the world they have enough political will,”
Geithner said. “This is not a question of financial or economic
capacity.”  Geithner said it’s “absolutely” in the interests of the
U.S. that  Europe ’s single currency survive. “We have a huge
interest in helping the Europeans through this.”  The G-7 officials are meeting for the first time since they
promised “coordinated action” Aug. 8 to calm financial
markets. Geithner is also scheduled to hold sessions today with
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  and European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet .  “Europe’s still under enormous pressure,” Geithner said.
“They have a really, very difficult, challenging set of
problems they’re going to have to deal with over a long period
of time. And it’s not just of course what’s happening in Greece
and Ireland and  Portugal .”  German Bonds  German, Dutch and Finnish government bonds jumped today,
while Italian, Spanish and Greek securities fell amid concern
that the debt crisis is deepening as growth slows.  German 10-year and two-year yields declined to all-time
lows after the ECB acknowledged the euro-region economic outlook
has worsened, boosting demand for the safest assets. Greek 10-
year yields climbed to a record, widening the spread over
similar-maturity bunds to the most since the euro was introduced
in 1999.  Trichet yesterday signaled that the ECB may take further
steps to fend off the region’s debt crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Cook  at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  