-- 
Geithner Says Europe Must Show ‘Political Will’ to Solve Region’s Crisis

-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 
2011-09-09T22:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/geithner-says-europe-must-show-political-will-to-solve-region-s-crisis.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said European nations must show they have the
“political will” to get through the continent’s debt crisis.  “They’re moving, but I think they’re going to have to
demonstrate to the world they have enough political will,”
Geithner said in a Bloomberg Television interview today from
Marseille, France, where he is attending a meeting of Group of
Seven finance ministers and central bankers. “This is not a
question of financial or economic capacity.”  Geithner said it’s “absolutely” in the interests of the
U.S. that  Europe ’s single currency survives. “We have a huge
interest in helping the Europeans through this.”  The G-7 officials are meeting for the first time since they
promised “coordinated action” Aug. 8 to calm financial
markets. Geithner is also scheduled to hold sessions today with
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  and European Central
Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet.  “Europe’s still under enormous pressure,” Geithner said.
“They have a really, very difficult, challenging set of
problems they’re going to have to deal with over a long period
of time. And it’s not just of course what’s happening in Greece
and Ireland and Portugal.”  Geithner said that “European officials fully understand
the gravity of the situation there,” according to comments
released by the Treasury this evening at the G-7 meeting.  “The G-7, alongside the IMF, is committed to working with
them to decisively address the crisis in Europe,” Geithner
said, referring to the  International Monetary Fund .  Geithner said that “there was strong support around the
table for the plan the president laid out to strengthen growth
and restore long-term fiscal sustainability,” referring to the
jobs plan presented by President  Barack Obama .  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Peter Cook  in Marseille at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Marseille at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  