-- 
Germany’s Inflation Slowed Less Than Forecast in August on Energy Rebound

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-09-09T06:37:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/germany-s-inflation-slowed-less-than-forecast-in-august-on-energy-rebound.html
Inflation in Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy, slowed less than initially projected in August,
as energy costs increased.  The inflation rate, calculated using a harmonized European
Union method, fell to 2.5 percent from 2.6 percent in July, the
 Federal Statistics Office  in Wiesbaden said today. On Aug. 29,
it had estimated the rate at 2.4 percent. From the previous
month, prices remained unchanged.  Crude  oil prices  have surged 20 percent over the past year,
leaving consumers with less money to spend. Still, European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday he
sees “risks to the medium-term outlook for price developments
as being broadly balanced,” when keeping the benchmark at 1.5
percent. The central bank forecast euro-region inflation at 2.6
percent and 1.7 percent this year and next, respectively.  “The peak in inflation has passed already,” said Heinrich Bayer, an economist at Deutsche Postbank in Bonn,  Germany . “The
economic slowdown in the euro area is taming price pressures so
the ECB can take a wait-and-see position. We expect the ECB to
keep rates on hold until the end of next year.”  On a non-harmonized basis, German inflation held at 2.4
percent in August, the statistics office said. Consumer prices
were unchanged from July, when they rose 0.4 percent.  ‘Easing Tension’  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said last week
that he sees a “clear easing of tension on the inflation
front” next year. “We assume to find ourselves much closer to
the target area that the ECB defines as  price stability ,” he
said without elaborating. The central bank aims to keep
inflation in the 17-member euro region just below 2 percent.  In Germany, wholesale-price inflation slowed to the weakest
pace in a year in August. Prices rose 6.5 percent from a year
earlier, after increasing an annual 8.2 percent in July, the
statistics office said in a separate report today. In the month,
prices gained 0.1 percent.  German economic growth almost stalled in the second quarter
as the region’s sovereign debt crisis weighed on confidence.
Gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent from the first quarter,
when it jumped 1.3 percent. In the euro region, GDP advanced 0.2
percent in that period.  A deepening economic slowdown and waning demand may further
ease price pressures. The ECB yesterday revised its forecast for
euro-area growth to 1.6 percent from 1.9 percent for this year
and to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent in 2012.  “Risks mainly relate to the ongoing tensions in some
segments of the financial markets in the euro area and at the
global level, as well as to the potential for these pressures to
spill over into the euro area real economy,” Trichet said
yesterday. “Looking ahead, we expect the euro-area economy to
grow moderately, subject to particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  