-- 
Germany Vows to Propose ECB Candidate as Stark Resigns

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-09T17:43:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/germany-vows-to-propose-ecb-candidate-as-stark-resigns-1-.html
Germany  will propose a candidate for
the  European Central Bank ’s executive board after the
resignation of Juergen Stark, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said today.  “The policy of the European Central Bank, as in the past,
will be set in all independence, which we honor and defend, to
defend the stability of our common currency and I assume that
Germany will present a proposal for the succession of Mr. Stark,
which will safeguard this,” Schaeuble told reporters today in
Marseille,  France , where he is meeting Group of Seven finance
officials.  Stark, 63, resigned today, the central bank said in an e-
mailed statement. The policy maker expressed strong opposition
to the ECB’s bond-buying program, which was expanded last month
when the ECB started buying Italian and Spanish bonds, said a
euro-area central bank official familiar with the meeting.  The resignation of Stark, the ECB’s chief economist, is a
blow to the bank, the official said, noting he is the second
German ECB member after former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
to leave over the bond program. Weber was replaced by Jens Weidmann,  Angela Merkel ’s economic advisor at the Chancellery.  “Juergen Stark has worked with great loyalty for the
common currency and the European Central Bank,” Schaeuble said.
“It wouldn’t be in the interest of his sense of responsibility
if we now speculated about the reasons.”  Schaeuble declined to comment on Deputy Finance Minister
 Joerg Asmussen  as a possible replacement.  ‘Very Competent’  Germany’s N-TV television reported that the German
government will nominate Asmussen, without saying where it got
the information. Lars Feld, a member of Merkel’s council of
economic advisers, said Asmussen is a “very competent” person
capable of replacing Stark.  Asmussen has been a key negotiator at the heart of Merkel’s
economic policy since she came to power in 2006. He and Weidmann
both studied under Weber, who was a university professor before
joining the central bank.  In 2009, as Germany underwent the worst recession in its
post-World War II history, opposition parties called on Asmussen
to be dismissed, saying he mishandled government efforts to save
property lender Hypo Real Estate Holding AG the previous year.
Asmussen also sat on the board of IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG
when it became the first German victim of the subprime turmoil
in 2007.  Stark’s departure, less than two months before President
Jean-Claude Trichet’s term ends, suggests policy makers are
increasingly split over the best way to fight  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  ‘Stability’  “I have the impression that Bundesbank President Weidmann
stands just as much for the stability of the European currency
as the whole government, the chancellor and the finance
minister,” said Schaeuble. “The proposal we’ll make will
reflect that.”  In April of 2010, when Schaeuble fell ill with a recurring
ailment related to his wheelchair use, he sent Asmussen in his
place to a meeting of European finance ministers.  By January of this year, as the crisis had spread to
Ireland and  Portugal , he hinted at an easing of rates on bailout
loans in return for a commitment across the euro region to
tackle debt and boost competitiveness.  “We can look at this if countries at the same time would
be willing to accept a kind of national fiscal framework to be
enshrined in their constitution,” he said in an interview in
 New York .  Eight months on, France,  Spain  and  Italy  have all joined
Germany in efforts to put legal limits on debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  