-- 
Giants’ Tuck Says He Expects to Play Against Redskins With Neck Injury

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-09T15:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/giants-tuck-says-he-expects-to-play-against-redskins-with-neck-injury.html
New York Giants defensive end Justin Tuck said he expects to play in the season-opener against the
 Washington Redskins  with a neck injury that has limited his
practice this week and left him “concerned.”  “I will be there on Sunday,” he said.  The Giants have lost five defensive players to season-
ending injuries, and two-time Pro Bowl defensive end Osi Umenyiora is out for the next few weeks. They open their
National Football League schedule at FedExField in Landover,
 Maryland , on Sept. 11.  Tuck, 28, hurt his neck during a preseason game against the
 New York Jets  on Aug. 29 and didn’t practice yesterday, coach
 Tom Coughlin  told reporters.  “I am concerned but I am not panicked,” Tuck told
reporters yesterday. “It is getting better, just not as fast as
I want it to.”  Coughlin said that Tuck has undergone MRI testing and that
the neck injury, which is not structural, is in a dangerous
area.  “We’re trying to get it absolutely pain-free and it’s not
quite that way,” Coughlin said yesterday. “That’s the obvious
reason -- a setback and we have some issues.”  The Giants defense allowed 310.8 yards per game last
season, the seventh-lowest total in the league. The unit has
lost linebackers Clint Sintim and Jonathan Goff, defensive
tackle Marvin Austin, and defensive backs Terrell Thomas, Bruce Johnson and Brian Witherspoon to season-ending injuries.
Umenyiora will miss the next few weeks after having knee
surgery.  Tuck, the Giants’ defensive captain and a two-time Pro Bowl
selection, said he approaches this injury differently because it
involves his neck.  “I have played through a lot of stuff, and hopefully I can
play through this one,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  