-- 
Glencore Target Optimum Coal Says Unidentified Alternative Bidder Withdrew

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-09T15:50:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/glencore-target-optimum-coal-says-unidentified-alternative-bidder-withdrew.html
Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  Ltd., the
target of a potential takeover by a group led by Glencore
International Plc, said an unidentified alternative bidder has
withdrawn its interest in taking over the company.  Optimum commented in a statement today after Piruto BV, a
unit of Glencore, increased its stake in the South African coal
producer to 25.8 percent from 24.7 percent. Piruto paid an
average of 37.99 rand ($5.22) a share in its latest purchase,
Optimum said yesterday, almost 12 percent higher than the
initial cash bid of 34 rand proposed Sept. 1.  Glencore, which intends to make any formal offer for  South
Africa ’s fourth-largest coal exporter with its black empowerment
partner  Cyril Ramaphosa , said last week it had agreements that
may take its Optimum holding to 43.5 percent.  Optimum rose 0.2 percent to 37.59 rand in Johannesburg
trading by the 5 p.m. close. Glencore, the world’s largest
publicly traded commodities supplier, slumped 5.2 percent to 414
pence in  London .  Glencore rival Mercuria Energy Asset Management BV, which
trades oil and energy products in more than 50 countries,
increased its stake in Optimum to 5.7 percent on Sept. 7.
Jacques de Bie, a spokesman for Optimum, said he couldn’t say
whether Mercuria was the unidentified party that withdrew its
interest.  Optimum, which owns mines and port capacity in South
Africa, is yet to receive a formal bid, it said today. Any offer
within six months of Sept. 6 would have to be made at a price
not lower than 38 rand a share, Optimum said. That values the
company at about $1.3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  