-- 
Goldman, Nomura Said Chosen to Manage Nikko Asset Initial Public Offering

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-09-09T07:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/goldman-nomura-said-to-be-chosen-to-manage-nikko-asset-s-ipo.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  were among four banks chosen to manage  Nikko Asset
Management Co. ’s initial public offering, said three people with
knowledge of the proposed sale.  Nikko Asset and its largest shareholder, Sumitomo Trust &
Banking Co., may sell about 50 billion yen ($645 million) of
shares in the IPO, said the people, declining to be identified
before a public announcement. The asset manager plans to list on
the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange as early as this year and targets a
market value of about 200 billion yen, they said.  The share offer may be the biggest IPO in  Japan  this year,
and would be the country’s first by a major asset manager in a
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s
equity capital market has begun to recover, with nine initial
share offers from the end of May following an 11-week hiatus in
the aftermath of a record earthquake and tsunami on March 11.  “Overseas investors will be interested because a Japanese
asset manager’s sale is a rarity and gives them access to the
country’s 1,500 trillion yen worth of household financial
assets,” said Kazumi Tanaka, an IPO analyst at T&C Financial
Research Inc. in Tokyo. “The IPO market will be more aggressive
next year as Japanese firms improve performance and recover from
the earthquake.”  Megumi Yoshizawa, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Nikko
Asset, declined to comment. Goldman Sachs’s Hiroko Matsumoto,
Nomura’s Keiko Sugai, UBS’s Eiko Noda and SMBC Nikko’s Tadataka
Ishida also declined to comment. All are based in Tokyo.  Four-Bank Management  New York-based Goldman Sachs will be the global coordinator
for the IPO, while  UBS AG (UBSN)  and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. will
help manage the sale, the people said.  Nikko Asset began choosing managers for the offering in
July. The firm hasn’t decided the terms of the sale or details
for the underwriters’ roles, the people said.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which acquired Nikko Asset from Nikko
Cordial Corp. in 2008, sold the company to Sumitomo Trust as
part of a transaction valued at 120 billion yen in October 2009.  Nikko Asset, founded in 1959, employs more than 500 staff
including 72 fund managers, and has 12.8 trillion yen under
management, according to its website. The investment management
firm, run by Chief Executive Officer Timothy McCarthy, has
subsidiaries in  London ,  New York ,  Singapore  and Sydney.  Sumitomo Trust and Nikko Asset agreed to buy DBS Asset
Management from  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast Asia’s
biggest bank, for S$137 million ($113 million) to tap business
from the expanding ranks of wealthy Asians, the companies said
in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  