-- 
Google Wins Chance to Prove Cloud Security in Contract Lawsuit

-- B y   L e a h   N y l e n
-- 
2011-09-09T23:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/google-wins-chance-to-prove-cloud-security-in-contract-lawsuit.html
A federal judge will order the U.S.
Interior Department to hire an independent expert who will
examine the security of Google Inc.’s cloud computing e-mail
products.  In order issued today, Judge Susan Braden said Google and
the  Justice Department  had reached an agreement where the
company will submit security information related to its cloud e-
mail for inspection by an independent technical expert who will
report back to the court.  Google sued the Interior Department in October, alleging
the agency favored  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in a $59.3 million planned
contract for cloud e-mail. The companies are vying to gain an
edge in the estimated $20 billion government cloud computing
market.  “From the beginning, we’ve simply asked for the
opportunity to compete for the Department of Interior’s
business,” Andrew Kovacs, a Google spokesman, said in a Sept. 9
e-mailed statement. “We’re gratified the court is now giving us
the chance to demonstrate how we can save U.S. taxpayers tens of
millions of dollars.”  Lawyers for the agency said Interior selected Microsoft
because it offered more security via a “private cloud,” where
governments and businesses have software and data delivered as a
service over the Internet and the infrastructure is dedicated to
one client. Google’s cloud e-mail product, Google Apps for
Government, shares infrastructure between some state government
and federal agency clients.  Security Standards  Lawyers for  Mountain View , California-based Google said in
court filings that Interior’s request was unduly restrictive
because Google’s product fulfills federal security standards.
They claimed that Interior officials refused to provide details
on the department’s specific requirements in order to shut
Google out.  The federal government spends $80 billion a year on
 information technology  and plans to move as much as one quarter
of that to the cloud. Some agency technology managers have
resisted, because they are concerned that cloud-based systems
are not as secure as those owned by government agencies.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , is not a party in
the case. Onix Networking Corp., a licensed Google seller, and
 Softchoice Corp. (SO) , a Microsoft reseller, are involved in the
litigation.  Steven Rosenbaum, a lawyer for Softchoice, didn’t respond
to calls and e-mails for comment.  The case is  Google Inc. (GOOG)  v. U.S., 10-743, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  -- Editors: David Ellis, Jon Morgan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leah Nylen in Washington at 
 lnylen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anne Laurent at 
 Alaurent7@bloomberg.net  