-- 
Greece Must Keep Cutting Its Budget or ‘Probably’ Exit Euro, Flaherty Says

-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 
2011-09-09T17:40:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/greece-must-stick-to-austerity-plan-or-probably-exit-euro-flaherty-says.html
Greece  may have to leave the euro if
it fails to press ahead with its budget-cutting plans, Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said.  “It’s necessary for the Greek government to stay the
course,” Flaherty told reporters in Marseille,  France , where he
is attending a meeting of Group of Seven officials. “The
alternative is probably that they leave the euro. I expect the
Greek government would want to continue their fiscal
consolidation.”  G-7 central bankers and finance ministers convene today for
their first face-to-face talks since they promised “coordinated
action” on Aug. 8 to calm financial markets. Flaherty said
investors remain to be convinced that governments can tackle
their balance sheets, and that there seems to be some hesitancy
among leaders to press ahead with commitments to reduce
deficits.  “This comes down to political choices that have political
consequences, choices that affect their opportunities for re-
election,” he said. “There aren’t easy, comfortable answers
here and I certainly worry if any of my colleagues are starting
to think that we can have a comfortable answer by delaying
fiscal consolidation.”  Debt Fears  The MSCI All-Country World Index retreated 3 percent at
12:13 p.m. in  New York , and the euro as much as 2.1 percent
against the yen, as concern grew about Greece’s debt crisis.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is preparing plans to
shore up German banks in the event that Greece fails to meet the
terms of its aid package and defaults, three coalition officials
said. The  European Central Bank  said  Juergen Stark  resigned from
the Executive Board, suggesting policy makers are divided over
how to fight the debt crisis.  Greece’s  Finance Ministry  said in a statement the country
is committed to “full implementation” of its bailout agreement
and rejected default talk as “organized speculation.”  “There is a continuing concern here that the euro zone
folks still don’t have a handle on the problem and it’s clearly
impacting on the global economy,” Alan Alexandroff, co-director
of the University of Toronto’s G-20 Research Group, said in an
interview. “There is some concern the EU, particularly the
French and the Germans, simply haven’t come up with a formula to
really resolve the sovereign debt problem.”  Greece said this week it will accelerate further austerity
measures as pressure mounted from European partners before the
payment of the sixth tranche of bailout loans under last year’s
110 billion-euro loan ($150 billion) package. A scheduled
quarterly review of Greece’s progress by the European Union and
the  International Monetary Fund  was unexpectedly suspended for
10 days and won’t resume until mid-month.  ‘A Possibility’  Asked if he thought there was any chance Greece would opt
to leave the euro, Flaherty said, “I don’t know. No doubt it’s
a possibility. It’s been written about. Lots of economists have
talked about it.”  He said he’s not advocating Greece’s exit from the European
common currency.  “It’s actually none of our business,” he said. “I want a
solution to the fiscal challenges to the EU. And we’re careful
about that. I don’t suggest to my European colleagues about
precise steps they can take.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis Marseille, France, at  targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  