-- 
Greece Dismisses Default ‘Rumors,’ Says Committed to Agreements

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T18:14:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/greece-committed-to-full-implementation-of-pact-amid-default-speculation.html
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
dismissed “rumors” of a Greek default, saying the nation is
committed to “full implementation” of the terms of a July
agreement for a second aid package.  “This isn’t the first time that this organized wave of
rumors over  Greece ’s default has appeared,” Venizelos said in
an e-mailed statement today. “This is a game that’s in bad
taste, organized speculation that is directed against the euro
region and the euro as a whole.”  Stocks sank and the euro slid to a six-month low against
the dollar today as three German officials said that  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s government is preparing plans to shore up banks
should Greece default. Investors are concerned that Greece isn’t
implementing austerity moves fast enough to get a sixth payment
from last year’s 110 billion-euro ($151 billion) bailout.  Greece committed is to the “full implementation” of the
decisions of a July 21 summit for a second aid package worth 159
billion euros, as well as “its obligations arising from its
agreements with its institutional partners,” Venizelos said.  Greece this week pledged to accelerate measures pledged in
return for international financing, with EU and International
Monetary Fund officials due to return to  Athens  next week to
resume a suspended review of the country’s fiscal performance.  Responses from banks invited to participate in a 50
billion-euro debt swap program that forms part of the July 21
agreement have been “very positive,”  Petros Christodoulou ,
head of the country’s debt management office, said in a
telephone interview today. The government is looking for
financial institutions holding 90 percent of Greek government
debt expiring up to 2014 to take part in the program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 