-- 
Greece Says It Doesn’t Plan to Release Debt-Swap Numbers in Coming Week

-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   M a r k   G i l b e r t
-- 
2011-09-09T16:25:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/greece-says-no-plan-to-publish-debt-swap-numbers-either-today-or-next-week.html
Greece  has no plans to publish
details of anticipated participation in its debt-swap program
this week or next, said  Petros Christodoulou , head of the
country’s debt management office.  The response so far has been “very positive,” he said in
a telephone interview. “There will not be a number coming out
of  Athens  today or next week. At this moment, more than half of
the Europeans have not even responded. It is too early.”  Credit-default swaps insuring Greek  government bonds  jumped
701 basis points to a record 3,727 basis points, according to
CMA. The five-year contracts signal there’s a 94 percent
probability the country won’t meet its debt commitments.  The results of the letter of inquiry, which was dated Aug.
25, will be “useful for us to plan our liability management,”
Christodoulou said today. It would be “totally misleading” to
describe the exercise as an offer and make the expected
participation percentage public, he said. “I will know the
number, but I’m not about to give it to anybody. It’s not a
number that means anything because it is not binding.”  He declined to say what percentage of owners of the
nation’s outstanding bonds the program has identified.  The proposed debt swap is part of a 159 billion-euro ($220
billion) European Union rescue plan agreed upon in July.
Responses will be aggregated by regulators on a country-by-
country basis, according to the Greek government.  The inquiry letter asks bondholders to respond to their
local regulators by today. “Any decision you make to
participate in such a voluntary transaction should be based on
the final terms of the offer memorandum and not on the terms of
this inquiry,” the letter says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Gilbert  in London at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  