-- 
Dow Chemical, Sasol Win Dismissal of Greenpeace Lawsuit

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-09T21:47:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/greenpeace-lawsuit-against-dow-chemical-dismissed-in-washington.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and Sasol  North
America  Inc. won the dismissal of a lawsuit alleging the
chemical companies illegally spied on a unit of Greenpeace
International, the environmental advocacy group.  Greenpeace Inc. sued under the federal Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act. A federal judge in Washington
ruled today that the nonprofit organization failed to establish
a direct connection between corporate espionage and civil
racketeering allegations and any injury the group suffered.  “The direct victim of this alleged  wire fraud  was not
Greenpeace, but a third party, and, therefore, the link between
Greenpeace’s injuries and defendants’ alleged racketeering
activity is too attenuated to be actionable under RICO,” U.S.
District Judge Rosemary M. Collyer wrote in her ruling.  Greenpeace claimed that Dow, closely held Sasol and two
public relations firms conspired from 1998 to 2000 to infiltrate
and steal confidential information to thwart its environmental
campaigns.  Greenpeace said the spying included breaking into locked
trash bins outside its  Washington  headquarters and infiltrating
meetings and electronic communications.  The injured third party the judge referred to was Calcasieu
League for Environmental Action Now, or CLEAN, described in the
ruling as an ally of Greenpeace.  Ruling Under Study  Molly Dorozenski, a Greenpeace spokeswoman, declined to
comment immediately, saying the group’s lawyers were reviewing
the ruling.  “As we have said from the beginning, the case totally
lacked merit and should have never been filed by Greenpeace,”
said  Gregory Baldwin , a spokesman for Midland, Michigan-based
Dow, the largest U.S. chemical maker, in an e-mail. “No Dow
employee did anything improper.”  Matthew Kirtland, a Washington lawyer representing Houston-
based Sasol North America Inc., said his client is pleased with
the court’s decision. Sasol North America is a unit of
Johannesburg-based  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , according to the company’s
website.  Greenpeace, during the time the group claims the companies
were spying upon it, was criticizing Dow for using chlorine in
its manufacturing process. Greenpeace also was examining Dow’s
sales of products containing genetically modified organisms,
according to the complaint.  Chemical Pollutants  Greenpeace, along with CLEAN, also was working with
communities it says were threatened by chemical pollutants,
including  Lake Charles ,  Louisiana , according to the court’s
ruling. Sasol runs a plant at Lake Charles, according to that
company’s website.  Also named as defendants were Ketchum Inc., a public
relations firm based in  New York ;  Dezenhall Resources Ltd ., a
Washington-based public relations firm; and four former
employees from Beckett Brown International Inc., a private
security firm.  The complaint says that Ketchum worked with Dow in its
effort to target Greenpeace while Dezenhall worked with Sasol.  Eric Dezenhall, a partner at Dezenhall, didn’t immediately
return a telephone message seeking comment on the ruling.  “As we always stated, the allegations were not supported
by the facts, or the law, and should be dismissed,” Jackie
Burton, a spokeswoman for Ketchum, said in an e-mail. “We are
gratified that the court agreed.”  Mother Jones  The spying allegations in the complaint were first reported
by Mother Jones magazine in 2008, which said it obtained
information and internal documents from a former investor of
Beckett Brown.  Greenpeace claims Beckett Brown relied on subcontractors
including off-duty police officers from Baltimore and Washington
to gain access to internal Greenpeace documents. According to
the complaint, the documents included campaign planning data,
donor letters, legal papers, financial reports, and credit-card
account numbers. The complaint also alleges the defendants stole
Social Security numbers and personal bank account statements
from its employees.  As part of its racketeering claim, Greenpeace alleges that
a Beckett Brown officer infiltrated CLEAN’s board and used e-
mail to defraud Greenpeace of proprietary information.  Collyer ruled that “the success or failure of Greenpeace’s
environmental campaigns could have been caused by any number of
pressure points” beyond the “e-mail escapades.”  The case is Greenpeace Inc. v. Dow Chemical Co., 10-cv-
02037, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 