-- 
Libya Said to Ship First Crude Oil Cargo From West as Production Resumes

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-09-09T15:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/libya-said-to-ship-first-crude-oil-cargo-from-west-as-production-resumes.html
Libya may export a crude-oil cargo
this month for the first time since March from the country’s
west as the holder of  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves rebuilds
production after deposing ruler  Muammar Qaddafi .  An 80,000 metric-ton cargo of crude is being offered for
shipment from the port of Mellitah later this month, three
people with direct knowledge of the transaction said yesterday.
Brent crude oil traded in  London  slid as much as 3.2 percent
today as traders anticipated additional cargoes, Carl Larry,
director of energy derivatives and research at Blue Ocean
Brokerage LLC in  New York , said by phone.  The oil, equal to about 600,000 barrels, will be loaded
from Sept. 15 to 17, the people said, declining to be identified
because the consignment has yet to be publicly announced. The
loading is likely the first from the nation’s west since March,
said Thomas Zwick, an analyst at shipping consultants Lorentzen
& Stemoco AS in Oslo.  Libya  wants to resume crude exports in two
to three weeks, Guma El-Gamaty, the U.K. coordinator for the
country’s National Transitional Council, said yesterday.  “This should contribute to calming down the Brent market,
but we still need to see more cargoes coming out,” Thina Saltvedt, an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo who has a price
forecast of $110 a barrel for the fourth quarter, said by phone.
“It’s an important cargo.”  ‘Downward Effect’  Brent for October delivery fell 1.7 percent to $112.58 a
barrel as of 3:57 p.m. in London. Prices are up 19 percent this
year, against 34 percent at the 2011 high in April.  “The news of the first Libyan shipment is having a
downward effect on front-month Brent prices,” said Larry. The
consignment may not mark the start of a “consistent” supply
resumption, meaning prices will likely rise, he said.  At least two crude-oil tankers went to eastern Libya during
the conflict. The Equator, a suezmax vessel able to haul 1
million barrels of crude, loaded at the rebel-held eastern port
of Marsa al Hariga on April 5. It then sailed to Singapore and
 Hawaii , ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Captain X. Kyriakou, also a suezmax, was near the
eastern port of Benghazi and 9.1 meters (29.9 feet) deep in the
water, compared with a maximum draft of 17.07 meters, vessel-
tracking data showed July 19. The tanker was 12.7 meters deep
and off the coast of Sardinia 10 days later, according to the
data.  Zawiyah Refinery  Libyan crude output slumped to 60,000 barrels a day in July
from 1.7 million barrels in January, according to the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency , which advises 28
industrialized nations.  Operations resumed about two weeks ago at the 120,000
barrel-a-day Zawiyah refinery near the Libyan capital of
Tripoli, El-Gamaty said yesterday. The plant is processing
30,000 barrels a day and will reach full capacity in six to
eight weeks, he said. The crude-export facility in the eastern
port city of Tobruk is undamaged, he said.  The Mellitah shipment is the type normally carried on an
aframax tanker. Charter rates for the vessels to haul cargoes
across the  Mediterranean Sea  doubled when the conflict broke out
before slumping because of reduced cargoes, according to data
from the  Baltic Exchange  in London, which assesses freight rates
on international maritime routes.  The transitional government will name a new cabinet next
week and appoint a separate oil minister, El-Gamaty said. Ali Tarhouni is now the council’s oil and finance minister.  Libyan crude output increased to as much as 1.87 million
barrels a day in 2008 from 1.38 million barrels in 2002,
according to  U.S. Energy Department data .  The cargo “can soften Brent prices in the short term, but
it will need a sustained recovery of shipments to prolong this
effect,” said Amrita Sen, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at   swallace6@bloomberg.net  