-- 
IDFC Securities Cautious on Software, Telecom Sectors, Vora Says

-- B y   T a n y a   A s h r e e n a
-- 
2011-09-09T06:52:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/idfc-securities-cautious-on-software-telecom-sectors-vora-says.html
Nikhil Vora, managing director and
co-head of research at IDFC Securities, comments on the outlook
for Indian stocks in an interview to Bloomberg-UTV in Mumbai.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index declined 0.5 percent to
17,086.56 as of 12.17 p.m. local time.  On markets:  “There is a lot of fear in the markets and this will
change. I see value emerging in India post a sharp fall. Close
to 37 percent of market is at levels” when the Sensex traded at
8,000 in March 2009, he said.  “In the worst case, India will be down 10 percent compared
from last year. Underlying growth is intact. I expect foreign
fund flows to improve. Market uncertainties will be manageable.
Implementation of even a few pending reforms will be enough to
trigger markets.”  “Investors will look at India at current valuations.
Indian promoters have been able to weather issues well. Robust
foreign direct investment shows continued conviction in India.
Short-term flows will dwindle globally, not just in India.”  Overseas funds withdrew a net $2.1 billion from Indian
stocks last month, the most since October 2008, according to
data from the nation’s market regulator. That triggered an 8.4
percent drop in the Sensex, making it the gauge’s worst August
in at least a decade, according to Bloomberg data.  On stocks:  “Information technology services may see a slowdown, but
this will not be huge. The gems and jewellery sector is more
exposed to  Europe . I am still cautious on globally-linked
businesses like software and communications. I am willing to bet
on reforms-led businesses.”  On  interest rates :  “I hope the  Reserve Bank  of India doesn’t raise rates
after the next move. I expect more moderate commodity-driven
inflation. I see the base effect moderating inflation starting
October. At most, we may see another 25 basis rate rise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Ashreena in Mumbai at 
 tashreena@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  