-- 
High-Frequency Trading Study Finds Impact on Market Volatility Is Limited

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 
2011-09-09T03:09:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/high-frequency-trading-study-finds-impact-on-market-volatility-is-limited.html
Computerized trading, under scrutiny
from securities regulators, isn’t spurring broad increases in
market volatility even as it sometimes creates “instability”
that may lead to crashes, a U.K. government study said.  High-speed automated trading on exchanges and other venues
may lead to “feedback loops” that compound problems and
efforts to manage risk may worsen those events, the  report  said.
Changes in volume, news reports and delays in market-data
distribution can exacerbate the moves, it said. The study
predicted that computer-driven trading will increase.  The report, commissioned as part of the U.K. government’s
 Foresight Project  on the future of computer trading in financial
markets, aims to assess the “risks and benefits” of automated
buying and selling, according to written comments by John Beddington, chief scientific adviser to the U.K. government. He
oversaw the project, which includes 16 additional academic
papers. Understanding the impact of computerized trading on
financial services and the broader economy may help policymakers
develop a “resilient regulatory framework,” he said.  “Firms that actively deploy high-frequency trading must not 
mistake this study for a validation that the practice cannot 
impact the market negatively,” John Bates, chief technology 
officer at Bedford, Massachusetts-based Progress Software Corp.,
said in an e-mailed statement. Bates is a member of the U.S. 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s technology advisory committee.
“Trading firms and regulators still largely have inadequate
cross-market oversight in place to detect and respond to market
abuse and market anomalies before it’s too late.”  May 6 Crash  The role of high-frequency firms in periods of market
swings has come under scrutiny since the May 6, 2010, crash that
briefly erased $862 billion from U.S. share values. Traders and
other professional investors were said to have withdrawn bids as
the selloff worsened, according to a Sept. 30 report from the
Securities and Exchange Commission and CFTC. Regulators and
exchanges later installed curbs to limit market disruptions.  The U.K. report comprises three papers by academics
including Dave Cliff at the  University of Bristol , Maureen O’Hara of  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York, and Terrence Hendershott at the  University of California  at Berkeley.
Academics with expertise in the issues from more than 20
countries helped write or review the project’s papers,
Beddington said. The report doesn’t represent the views of the
U.K. government or the financial sector, he added.  Volatility Evidence  “Research thus far provides no direct evidence that high-
frequency computer-based trading has increased volatility,” the
report said. Still, small changes in trading behavior or actions
may -- under specific circumstances -- trigger larger events and
“lead to undesired interactions and outcomes,” it said.  High-frequency trading is a technique that relies on the
rapid and automated placement of orders, many of which are
immediately updated or canceled, as part of strategies such as
market making and statistical arbitrage and tactics based on
momentum.  Hedge funds , brokerages and trading firms may use
these techniques as part of investment strategies or to execute
orders quickly as prices and available bids and offers change.  Algorithms, or strategies that execute bigger orders by
breaking them into smaller pieces and sending them to different
exchanges, also typically use high-frequency techniques. Mutual,
pension and hedge funds employ algorithms built by brokers or
vendors to automate their trading instead of manually placing
orders in markets or turning to humans to buy or sell blocks.  Majority of Trades  “Computer-based trading has become an increasingly
important part of the markets representing the majority of
equity shares and futures contracts traded,” James Overdahl,
vice president at NERA Economic Consulting in  Washington  and a
former chief economist at the U.S. SEC and CFTC, said in a phone
interview. The U.K. government’s working paper and 16 studies
reflect the “basic fact that markets have changed dramatically
over the past decade in terms of the technology employed for
order execution and order entry,” he said.  High-frequency activity accounted for about 38 percent of
European equity trading earlier this year, up from 29 percent in
2009, according to  Tabb Group LLC , a New York-based financial
industry research firm. In the U.S. it provided 53 percent of
trading volume this year, down from 61 percent two years ago. In
2006 the strategies represented 5 percent of European trading
and 26 percent in the U.S., Tabb said.  Computerized Trading  Overdahl said the group of papers are likely to become part
of the literature about the “effect of computerized trading on
market quality.” High-frequency firms have urged policymakers
to base regulations on empirical evidence about how automated
trading affects markets, he said. Overdahl is an adviser to the
 FIA-PTG , the Futures Industry Association’s Principal Traders
Group, which includes almost 40 U.S. proprietary trading firms.  High-speed trading isn’t likely to merely “fast-forward”
markets, according to one paper in the U.K. report. “It seems
more likely that despite all its benefits, computer-based
trading may lead to a qualitatively different and more obviously
nonlinear financial system in which crises and critical events
are more likely to occur in the first place, even in the absence
of larger or more frequent external fundamental shocks.”  If small changes can produce “widely different” outcomes
in the market, then prices and volumes may be “prone to
cascades, contagions, instability” and other effects, the paper
said. Even temporary results could lead to irreversible events
such as bankruptcies if they cause forced sales or trigger
penalties in contracts, it said.  Transaction Costs  Another paper found that the growth of computerized trading
has led to lower transaction costs for retail customers and
institutions and improved liquidity -- measured by the
difference between the highest price at which someone is willing
to buy and the lowest sale price, along with other metrics.
Faster trading has also led to “greater potential for periodic
illiquidity,” the paper said.  Regulators and trading professionals must improve their
understanding of how humans and robots interact, especially
since “future trading robots will be able to adapt and learn
with little human involvement in their design,” according to
the third paper. The need to analyze the consequences of these
changes becomes more important as computerized trading grows and
the number of human traders declines over the next decade.  “The number of human traders involved in the financial
markets could fall dramatically over the next 10 years,” the
paper said. “The simple fact is that we humans are made from
hardware that is just too bandwidth-limited, and too slow, to
compete with coming waves of computer technology.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 