-- 
India’s Steel Ministry Lowers Demand Growth Forecast by Half

-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-09-09T11:14:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/india-s-steel-ministry-lowers-demand-growth-forecast-by-half-1-.html
India ’s steel demand this fiscal
year will probably grow at half the pace forecast in May as
soaring  interest rates  damp purchases of cars and homes and
stall public works projects.  Consumption may increase 6 percent in the year ending March
31, G.K. Basak, executive secretary of the  steel ministry ’s
joint plant committee, said in a phone interview. Steel
Secretary P.K. Misra forecast 12 percent annual growth on May 4.  Shares of India’s top steelmakers  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) ,  Steel
Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL)  and JSW Steel Ltd. declined after the
ministry lowered its forecast. The central bank’s guidance on
interest rates in its meeting next week will be crucial for a
rebound in the nation’s steel demand, analyst Giriraj Daga said.  “It’s not clear what the central bank is likely to do,”
said Daga, who has a “sell” rating for shares of JSW Steel.
“Consumption has been almost stagnant and even a 6 percent rise
looks doubtful.”  Tata Steel, India’s biggest producer, fell 2.9 percent to
476.90 rupees, the most in two weeks in Mumbai. Steel Authority
of India, the second-largest, tumbled 5.3 percent to 112.10
rupees, while No. 3  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  slid 4.8 percent to 687.65
rupees. The BSE Sensitive Index fell 1.7 percent.  Borrowing Costs  India’s central bank raised interest rates 11 times since
the beginning of last year to contain inflation, slowing
consumer demand and delaying investments in new roads, ports and
electricity networks. While inventories at Indian steelmakers
may have expanded because of stagnant sales, demand may improve
in the second half on optimism a strong monsoon season will
boost farm income, Basak said.  In June, Basak estimated demand for the six months ending
Sept. 30 would be 8 percent, compared with 10 percent in the
year-earlier period. Steel consumption rose 1.3 percent to 28.1
million metric tons in five months ended Aug. 31, while output
rose 9.9 percent to 29.1 million tons, ministry data showed on
Sept. 6.  Tata Steel, Steel Authority and JSW Steel raised output
this year, anticipating demand will rise in the world’s second-
fastest growing major economy.  Higher Rates  The central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, in his most
recent policy decision on July 26, raised the central bank’s
repurchase rate by half a percentage point and predicted
inflation by the end of March will be 7 percent, a percentage
point higher than his previous guidance. He forecast  India’s
economy  would expand about 8 percent in the year through March
from 8.5 percent in the previous year.  The Indian automakers’ association may cut its sales growth
forecast for a second time this year as rising borrowing costs
and fuel prices deter customers,  Pawan Goenka , president of the
group, said on Sept. 7. Passenger car sales dropped 5.7 percent
in August from a year earlier, the second straight month of
decline.  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  may cut its
forecast should sales remain stagnant through the next month,
Goenka said on Sept. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  