-- 
Qatar Telecom’s Indosat Said to Draw Three Bidders for 4,000 Cell Towers

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-09-09T01:53:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/indosat-said-to-draw-three-bidders-interest-for-sale-of-4-000-cell-towers.html
PT Indosat,  Indonesia ’s second-
largest mobile phone carrier, plans to sell about 4,000 cellular
towers and has drawn interest from PT Tower Bersama
Infrastructure, PT Solusi Tunas Pratama and PT Sarana Menara
Nusantara, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  The sale may raise about $500 million, two people said,
declining to be identified as the process is private. Jakarta-
based Indosat may pick a preferred bidder for the towers as soon
as in two weeks, one of the people said.  Indosat said in an April filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission that it was  “considering various options” 
for the tower business, which accounted for about 20 percent of
revenue at its mobile-phone unit in the first half. Each tower
would likely fetch more than $125,000 in a sale, one of the
people said.  “In the near term, a towers sale could be a better
solution given Indosat is currently not running the towers
efficiently and it will be able to monetize the value from any
sale,” said Sachin Mittal, a Singapore-based analyst at DBS
Vickers Research. Mittal this week cut his rating on Indosat to
“hold” from “buy,” citing reduced estimates for sales
growth.  Indosat’s first-half profit jumped 138 percent from a year
earlier to 681.9 billion rupiah, the company said last month.
Revenue at the cellular-tower unit soared 112 percent, outpacing
Indosat’s 4 percent overall sales growth.  Tower Cost  Each cell-phone tower costs about $100,000 to build, and
the amount they’ll be worth in a sale depends on their location
and tenancy, Mittal said. Revenue from leasing out towers
accounted for 198 billion rupiah of Indosat’s 957 billion rupiah
of mobile-phone sales in the first half, according to a
 statement  last month.  “We are interested in acquiring any tower as a company or
an asset,” said Tower Bersama Finance Director Helmi Yusman
Santoso in a phone interview. He declined to comment on the
Indosat deal. “We have allocated $120 million for capital
expenditure this year, and some of it will be used for
acquisitions,” Santoso said.  Investor Daily Indonesia in July cited Santoso as saying
Tower Bersama planned to buy 4,000 towers from Indosat. The deal
may be worth more than $500 million, according to the report.  Djarot Handoko, head of corporate communication at Indosat,
didn’t respond to questions from Bloomberg News on the deal.
Officials at Solusi Tunas Pratama and Sarana Menara Nusantara
didn’t respond to calls seeking comment.  Indosat’s number of mobile-phone subscribers rose 25
percent from a year earlier to 47.3 million, the company said
last month. Qatar Telecom QSC, the Persian Gulf country’s
biggest company by revenue, controls 55.8 percent of Indosat and
the Indonesian government owns 14.3 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, led by Chief Executive Officer Harry Sasongko
Tirtotjondro, was established by the government in 1967,
according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  