-- 
Indowind Buys Shanghai Electric Turbines, May Set Up Venture

-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 
2011-09-09T04:10:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/indowind-buys-shanghai-electric-turbines-may-set-up-jv-in-india.html
  Indowind Energy Ltd. (IEL) , an owner of
wind farms in  India , is buying turbines for its next project
from Shanghai Electric Group Co. and said it may partner with
the Chinese company to assemble the machinery locally.  Chennai-based Indowind placed the 28-megawatt order three
months ago and expects Shanghai Electric to start shipments by
December, said A. Raja Sukumar, head of corporate communications
at BVK Group, Indowind’s parent.  “We’re looking at a long-term relationship with Shanghai
Electric now that we’ve made a deal,” he said. “We will try to
manufacture the same models here. This is the future plan.” A
phone call and e-mail to Shanghai Electric Group Co.’s investor
relations department weren’t answered today.  Sinovel Wind Group Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co., which rank among the world’s top five suppliers,
sell most of their turbines in  China . The state-run  China
Development Bank  has provided at least $12.5 billion in
financing to help these Chinese manufacturers expand abroad as
growth slows at home in the world’s largest wind market.  Shanghai Electric is supplying its 2-megawatt turbines to
Indowind’s project, slated to be completed by 2012. As part of
the deal, Shanghai Electric will train Indowind employees to
install the machines and service them so that the Indian company
can get a vendor license, Raja Sukumar said.  He declined to give a value for the deal. The average cost
of a wind turbine contract in India is about 65 million rupees
($1.4 million) per megawatt, he said.  Indowind shares surged as much as 10.3 percent and was up
4.2 percent at 16.25 rupees as of 9:35 a.m. in Mumbai trading.
Shanghai Electric slipped 1.8 percent to HK$3.22.  Cutting Out Suzlon  India, the biggest market for new wind installations after
China and the U.S., is dominated by Ahmedabad-based  Suzlon
Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , which installed 41 percent of new capacity in the
last financial year. Foreign suppliers are seeking to penetrate
the growing market, and Sinovel and Dongfang Electric Corp. were
among the first Chinese suppliers to win orders in India.  “This is another opportunity to try a 2-megawatt
machine,” said Sukumar. “We have nearly 250 machines and have
tried all the manufacturers,” he said.  Suzlon imports components from China and assembles its
turbines in India, he said. “It makes sense for us to directly
go there,” he said. “The margin that Suzlon charges is
saved.”  Indowind also had discussions with China Ming Yang Power
Group Ltd. and South Korean suppliers to get “the best deal,”
Sukumar said.  Assembly Plant  The two companies may consider setting up a joint venture
to assemble Shanghai Electric’s turbines in India after the
first wind farm is completed, he said.  In India, unlike most markets, the biggest turbine
suppliers like Suzlon, Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA and
local unit of  Germany ’s Enercon GmbH, in addition to providing
the machinery, also tend to develop projects. They acquire land
and deal with permits to hand over a ready wind farm to the
owner or investors.  Indowind, which plans to own  72 megawatts  of capacity by
March, wants to have its own turbines to avoid waits of up to
two years for projects because suppliers are backlogged, he
said.  “When we have money, they don’t have projects readily
available or they demand a premium,” he said. “It’s better to
have our own source.” A joint venture would allow Indowind to
do that without having to pay a “hefty” royalty to acquire the
technology to design and make turbines on its own, he said.  Shanghai Electric will operate and maintain the turbines
for the first two years at the project for which sites in Tamil
Nadu and Karnataka states have been identified, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  