-- 
Lingerie Workers Strike at Chinese Factory

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-09T05:24:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/lingerie-workers-strike-at-chinese-factory.html
Several hundred Chinese workers went
on strike at the factory of lingerie maker  Triumph International
AG (TRI)  in the southern province of  Hainan  over a new employment
incentive program.  About 800 workers in Haikou city stopped work yesterday
over a “misunderstanding” relating to the program, Olav Kratz,
a spokesman for Triumph, said in an e-mailed reply to questions.
The company’s local management is holding talks with workers’
representatives and the Hainan labor department, he said without
disclosing details of the negotiations.  Triumph “has introduced a number of process improvements
lately, none of which have affected wages or bonuses and
incentives in any way disadvantageous to employees,” Kratz
said. All initiatives have been discussed and approved by
employee representatives, he said.  More than 1,000 workers went on strike over pay, a
“tightened” work schedule and “faster work pace,”  China ’s
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing
unidentified employees.  Workers at companies including Toyota Motor Corp. supplier
Denso Corp. and Honda Motor Co. have staged strikes to demand
higher wages. Walkouts, riots and protests are increasing in
China as inflation remains high,  income inequality  grows and
real estate prices soar. China’s consumer prices climbed 6.2
percent in August from a year earlier, easing from July’s 6.5
percent gain.  The strike at Triumph was sparked by a text message sent by
the company’s human resources department yesterday to more than
800 workers who had complained about the policy, which set
efficiency targets employees must meet in order to earn a bonus
of 250 yuan ($39), Xinhua said.  The lowest monthly base pay at the factory is more than 930
yuan, with the average wage “considerably higher” than that
amount, Kratz of Triumph said without elaborating.  More than 20 Chinese provinces and cities raised minimum
wages last year to help companies recruit workers and to boost
domestic consumption, according to government figures.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at  
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  