-- 
Intel Said to Mull InterDigital Bid as Google Interest Wanes

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-09T20:14:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/intel-said-to-weigh-interdigital-bid.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  is among companies
considering submitting bids for InterDigital Inc.’s patent
portfolio this month, while  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is losing interest in
the assets, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Intel, Samsung Electronics Co., Ericsson AB and  HTC Corp. (2498) ,
are reviewing confidential InterDigital data as they weigh
offers for the company’s assets, said the people, who declined
to be identified because talks are private.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  have also looked, one person said. First-round bids
are due in two weeks, and bidders have been asked to indicate
initial interest in the coming days, the person said.  Some buyers may team up on proposals, the person said.
Google is backing away from an offer after agreeing to buy
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for $12.5 billion last month to
gain patents and a hardware business, the people said.
InterDigital, which had a market value of about $3 billion as of
yesterday’s close, may fetch more than $5 billion, according to
analysts at Algorithm Capital and Dougherty & Co.  InterDigital’s engineers invented some of the technology
for high-speed mobile phone networks now used by the world’s
biggest handset makers. The King of Prussia, Pennsylvania-based
company has about  8,800 patents  on inventions used in devices
ranging from Apple’s iPhone to Google’s Android-based handsets
and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry.  Officials at InterDigital, Google, Intel, Samsung,
Ericsson, HTC, Apple, Microsoft declined to comment.  Stock Gain  Companies won’t be required to submit detailed financing
information with their indications of interest, one person said.  InterDigital’s shares have gained 55 percent since July 18,
the last day of trading before the company said it hired
Evercore Partners Inc. and  Barclays Capital  to explore a sale or
other transaction. The stock dropped $2.85, or 4.3 percent, to
$64.28 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  The company has said its patents are deeper and stronger
than those Nortel Networks Corp. sold for $4.5 billion in June
to a consortium including Apple and Microsoft. The companies are
selling patent portfolios as smartphone sales are forecast to
almost double to 1.1 billion in 2015, according to estimates
from Gartner Inc.  During the second quarter, Apple and Samsung became the top
two makers of smartphones after their shipments trumped those of
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  for the first time, research firm  Strategy Analytics 
said in July. Apple’s iPhones accounted for 18.5 percent of
global smartphone shipments, followed by Samsung’s 17.5 percent
and Nokia’s 15.2 percent, according to the researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  