-- 
Investec to Buy Evolution in Deal Valuing U.K. Stockbroker at $372 Million

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-09-09T15:59:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/investec-to-buy-evolution-securities-valuing-company-at-372-million.html
Investec Plc (INVP) , the private bank and
wealth manager with operations in the U.K. and  South Africa ,
agreed to buy  Evolution Group Plc (EVG)  in a transaction valuing the
British stockbroker at 233.2 million pounds ($371.8 million).  Evolution shareholders will receive about 53.8 million new
Investec shares, the London-based company said in a statement
today. Canaccord Financial Inc. said in a separate statement
yesterday that it won’t make a rival offer to buy Evolution.  “The transaction strengthens our position in the U.K.,
giving us greater scale in both private client wealth management
and investment banking,” Stephen Koseff, chief executive
officer of Investec said in the statement.  Investec said on Aug. 4 it was in talks to buy Evolution in
an all-stock transaction. Investec is seeking to gain access to
Evolution’s wealth management unit, Williams de Broe, whose
assets increased by 7 percent to 6.2 billion pounds in the year
through April. London-based Evolution also runs a fixed-income
sales and trading platform, unlike most of its U.K. rivals,
which target equities.  The offer equates to a value of 100.24 pence per Evolution
share, the statement said. Evolution fell 1.6 percent to 92.5
pence in London trading. Investec fell 3 percent to 414.6 pence
in London.  ‘Under-Appreciated’  “The deal builds incremental funds under management in the
area which we believe is most under-appreciated and hence most
undervalued at Investec,” said Numis Securities Ltd. analysts
including  James Hamilton  in a note to clients today. “We expect
this to change in time as the market gives more valuation
benefit to what is now a large asset management business.”  Numis is keeping its “buy” recommendation on Investec.  Alex Snow, Evolution CEO, will become the executive
chairman of Investec’s U.K. investment banking division, while
David Currie will continue as head of Investec’s British
investment banking unit. Investec also said it aims to reduce
headcount at the investment banking unit to “avoid unnecessary
overlap with its existing activities.”  The Investec offer is conditional on regulatory conditions
and a document will be posted to Evolution shareholders followed
by a general meeting in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  