-- 
Italian Quarterly Growth Sluggish on Weak Household Demand, Slower Exports

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-09T11:52:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/italian-quarterly-growth-sluggish-on-weak-household-demand-slower-exports.html
Italy ’s growth remained sluggish in
the second quarter on slowing exports and weak domestic demand,
adding to concerns that austerity measures aimed at taming the
debt are straining the economy.  Gross domestic product rose 0.3 percent from the first
quarter, when it grew 0.1 percent, Rome-based national
statistics institute Istat said in its final GDP report today.
That matched a preliminary reading on Aug. 5. The economy
expanded 0.8 percent from a year earlier, Istat said.  “Looking ahead, data for the third quarter will likely
tell us a gloomier story,” Paolo Pizzoli, an economist at ING
Bank NV in Milan, wrote in a note today. The economy will shrink
0.2 percent in the three months through September and stall in
the final quarter amid “decent” order books, ING estimates.  Italy is struggling to persuade investors and the  European
Central Bank  that it can tame its finances after contagion from
the sovereign-debt crisis sent bond yields surging until the ECB
started buying the nation’s bonds on Aug. 8. The Senate approved
a 54 billion-euro ($75 billion) austerity plan on Sept. 7 aimed
at balancing the budget by 2013 and ensuring continued ECB debt
purchases.  Stocks Down  Italy’s stock benchmark FTSE MIB Index was down 1.7 percent
as of 1:20 p.m. in Milan. The yield on the country’s 10-year
bond gained 10 basis points to 5.37 percent, pushing the premium
that investors demand to hold Italian bonds instead of benchmark
German bonds to 353 basis points.  The austerity package, set for a final vote in Parliament
next week, may further damp economic growth. Italian GDP will
fall 0.1 percent in the three months through September and rise
0.1 percent in the fourth quarter, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development forecast in a report yesterday.  “It will be interesting to see how domestic demand
behaves, in particular next year, as the fiscal tightening
planned by the government is likely to weigh on  consumer
spending ,” Fabio Fois, an economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 London , wrote in a note published today. “Savings represent a
significant buffer for consumers, smoothing the effects of
fiscal austerity on private consumption.”  Consumers  Household spending increased 0.2 percent, up from 0.1
percent in the three months through March, according to the
report. Sales of goods abroad climbed 0.9 percent, down from the
first quarter, when exports rose 1.1 percent.  The government hasn’t revised its April 11 growth forecasts
that projected an expansion of 1.1 percent this year and 1.3
percent in 2012. Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said on Aug.
13 that he was sticking by those figures.  Barclays Capital said yesterday it expects Italian GDP to
grow 0.8 percent this year and 0.7 percent in 2012. UniCredit
SpA, Italy’s biggest bank, revised down its forecasts, saying in
a note today that GDP will probably grow 0.6 percent this year
and 0.4 percent next, compared with previous predictions of 1.1
percent and 1.2 percent, respectively.  As the austerity package takes hold in Italy, “we now
expect the economy to contract in 2012 and 2013,”  Ben May , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in a note to
investors yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  