-- 
Hitler Rants, Reich Burns, Officers Quake: Manuela Hoelterhoff

-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/hitler-rants-as-reich-burns-officers-quake-in-kershaw-s-the-end-books.html
Remember those scenes on YouTube of
Hitler in the bunker surrounded by embarrassed staffers as he
furiously pounds the table because he can’t get a jumbo mortgage
or tickets to “The Little Mermaid”?  During the last months of the Nazi empire, there were many,
many times when real life wasn’t so very different from these
jokey redubbings of a dark group moment in Oliver Hirschbiegel’s
movie “Downfall.”  Proof is provided by Ian Kershaw in his vivid “ The End:
The Defiance and Destruction of Hitler’s Germany, 1944-1945 .”  Top Nazis dream of wonder weapons, invent advertising
campaigns, film costume dramas and puzzle over Yuletide gifts as
their cities get barbecued and millions die.  The ridiculous finance minister thinks raising the property
tax might be a good idea.  All the while, the Fuhrer barks idiocies at the most
spineless men in uniform ever seen on this planet. One of the
worst, Albert Speer, architect and minister of armaments, slinks
from the Berlin bunker after his beloved patron orders up a
scorched-earth policy to destroy whatever real estate is still
standing (and possibly taxable).  By the summer of 1944,  Germany  had definitely lost a war
that had started going badly with the destruction of the Sixth
Army in the snows of Stalingrad and took another disappointing
turn with the liberation of  France  and the collapsing Western
Front.  Zombies  Yet the Germans would not give up. They killed their
enemies and each other with zombie-like energy until Hitler blew
out his brains on April 30, 1945.  “Even when it was faltering and failing in every other
respect, the Nazi regime managed to terrorize, kill and destroy
to the last,”  Kershaw  writes.  How and why? Going beyond his admirable two-volume Hitler
biography, Kershaw ponders the lingering memories of the First
World War, the fear of  Russia , the Fuhrer’s malign radiance, the
effectiveness of the terror apparatus and the mad sense of duty
afflicting his generals.  What cowards they were, hiding behind the oath of personal
fealty demanded by Hitler like some mythic lord from the saga of
the Nibelungs.  When a handful of officers finally conspired to assassinate
Hitler on July 20, 1944, the result was a high moment in German
tragicomedy -- even if you haven’t watched the “ Valkyrie ”
movie in which  Tom Cruise  can’t seem to remember which hand he
doesn’t have as the maimed Claus von Stauffenberg.  Bad Luck  Down to three fingers and one eye, Stauffenberg had trouble
loading one bomb and, of course, had really bad luck with the
other.  Hitler, barely wounded, continued bellowing orders for
another 9 months.  For Kershaw, Hitler’s “charismatic rule” created the
mentality that compelled sensible, even civilized men to follow
him into the abyss. Bathed in the flattering lights of the
Speer-designed rallies at Nuremberg, he had transformed himself
into everything -- chancellor, president, Fuhrer, commander-in-
chief -- and they were nothing but saluting vassals.  We glimpse tough generals quaking as they step into
Hitler’s presence to deliver bad news or exiting delirious with
joy because he praised them for some well-executed mass
slaughter or other.  As things got worse, the motivation to keep fighting
increased for true believers, who had nothing to lose. These
were the members of the SS or the proud carriers of Party cards.
They could not imagine a Reich without Hitler and they rightly
feared the approaching Russians.  Russians  Arriving in the little town of Nemmersdorf, for instance,
the Red Army may have nailed a few naked German women to barn
doors.  Kershaw draws harrowing pictures of the chaotic mass
migrations that unfolded with the collapse of the Eastern Front
and the evacuation of the camps. SS guards herded the survivors
through the snows, shooting many. Caravans of German nationals
struggled to return to their charred Reich.  The numbers are flabbergasting: an estimated 900,000
escaped from East Prussia over the  Baltic Sea ; 250,000 made
their way by land through the Pomeranian plains.  “The extent to which Germany had become an immense
charnel-house in the last months of the  Third Reich  is barely
imaginable,” Kershaw writes.  Postal Service   Yet Germans will be Germans. The bureaucracy just wouldn’t
die. Even as the Reich melted down, the postal service, for
instance, kept delivering the mail, though the responsible
minister did issue a plea for everyone to stop writing so much.  And Goebbels, the propaganda minister, kept ordering up
movies like “ Kolberg ,” for which he diverted real soldiers to
play soldiers in the time of Napoleon. I watched it recently on
DVD. A creepy melding of history, fantasy and reality, it extols
Germans who prefer to incinerate their town and live underground
to surrendering to the French.  “We will become moles!” exclaims the mayor, a man with a
message to any Nazis who saw the movie when they weren’t diving
into cellars.  “The End” starts with a disturbing scene of low-level
Nazis and Hitler youth lynching a 19-year-old theology student
for cutting the telephone wires to the commandant’s base just
hours before American troops enter the pretty baroque town he
was trying to save from destruction.  Kershaw concludes with the foot-dragging surrender by
Hitler’s successor, the odious Karl Doenitz, who, like just
about every unctuous murderer in the Fuhrer’s orbit, re-invented
himself once his great leader was dead.  Doenitz got off with a light sentence and died at the age
of 89 in some sweet town he hadn’t helped destroy.  “The End” is published by Penguin Press (564 pages, $35).
To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Manuela Hoelterhoff is executive editor of Muse,
Bloomberg’s arts and culture section. Any opinions are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New
York  at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Burke at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net . 