-- 
J&J’s Simponi Fails to Receive U.S. FDA Clearance for Wider Use

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T20:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/j-j-s-simponi-fails-to-receive-u-s-fda-clearance-for-wider-use.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  failed to win U.S.
clearance for wider use of Simponi, a two-year-old arthritis
drug.  The company said it would request a meeting with the  Food
and Drug Administration  to discuss what would be required to
gain approval for the drug as a method of curbing the
progression of joint damage from the type of arthritis linked to
psoriasis,  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J said today in a
statement.  J&J, the world’s second-biggest maker of health-care
products after Pfizer Inc., won FDA clearance for Simponi in
2009 to treat psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and a
form of spinal arthritis. The injectable drug, part of a class
of anti-inflammatory drugs known as TNF blockers, had sales of
$226 million last year. Simponi, also known as golimumab,
competes with  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ’s Enbrel and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’
Humira.  “We believe the data from the Simponi Phase 3 study
support the proposed label expansion in the treatment of active
psoriatic arthritis,” said Jerome A. Boscia, head of immunology
development for the company’s Centocor Research & Development
unit, in the statement. “We look forward to meeting with the
agency to identify a path forward.”  Psoriatic arthritis strikes 6 percent to  42 percent  of
people with  psoriasis , a chronic skin condition that affects
about 2 percent of the U.S. population, according to the
Atlanta-based  Arthritis Foundation . Symptoms of psoriatic
arthritis include joint pain and swelling.  J&J also wants to market Simponi as a treatment to inhibit
joint-damage progression from rheumatoid arthritis. J&J’s
Janssen Biotech unit said in July that it had received a
complete response letter from the FDA, asking for more
information on that proposed use.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  