-- 
Japan’s Economy Contracts More Than Initial Estimate as Yen Hurts Recovery

-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T h e r e s a   B a r r a c l o u g h
-- 
2011-09-09T01:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/japan-s-economy-contracts-more-than-preliminary-estimate-as-recovery-slows.html
Japan ’s economy contracted more than
the government initially estimated in the second quarter as
 capital spending  decreased, adding to concern the stronger yen
may derail the nation’s recovery from the March earthquake.  Gross domestic product shrank at an annualized 2.1 percent
rate in the three months ended June 30, more than the 1.3
percent contraction reported last month, the Cabinet Office said
today in  Tokyo . The reading was in line with the median forecast
of 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Reports in the past week indicate growth in the world’s
third-largest economy may stall toward the end of the year.
Machinery orders, a leading indicator of capital spending, fell
the most in 10 months in July and companies are also struggling
with a yen near a postwar record, risking an erosion of oversea
profits when they’re repatriated.  “Companies were put off from investing given the post-
earthquake slump in earnings,”  Takahide Kiuchi , chief economist
at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo, said before the report.
“Concerns that the economic environment abroad will weigh on
the Japanese economy are also increasing.”  The yen traded at 77.47 per dollar at 10:14 a.m. in Tokyo,
compared with 77.55 before the report. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average gained 0.1 percent.  Japanese Finance Minister Jun Azumi said on Sept. 6 he will
appeal to his Group of Seven counterparts meeting in Marseille,
France today about the danger a strong yen poses to the economy.
The yen rose to a postwar high of 75.95 on Aug. 19.  Reconstruction Package  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , a former finance chief who
replaced  Naoto Kan  last week, is drafting a third package to
rebuild after the March quake. He has said the government is
weighing measures to help companies deal with the rising yen.  The currency has climbed 3 percent against the dollar in
the past three months. The appreciation has been driven by
uncertainty about the outlook for the  U.S. economy  and  Europe ’s
debt woes, which have boosted the yen’s appeal as a safe haven.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa this week said
uncertainties continue to be “very high” and that conditions
haven’t improved much since the central bank added stimulus last
month.  Today’s report showed that capital spending decreased 0.9
percent in the second quarter from the previous three months.
The government initially estimated a 0.2 percent increase.  Denso Corp. (6902) , Toyota Motor Corp.’s biggest auto parts
supplier, said last month that the strong yen is undermining its
recovery from the March 11 earthquake and may prevent the
company from raising its full-year profit forecast. Every one
yen gain against the dollar cuts Denso’s operating profit by 2.9
billion yen, the company said.  Honda Motor Co.’s Chief Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike told
reporters Aug. 9 that he’s concerned the yen may strengthen to
the low 70s against the dollar, further hurting the nation’s
third-largest carmaker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Theresa Barraclough in Tokyo at 
 tbarraclough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  