-- 
Kenyan Presidential Aspirant Karua Urges Less Food Imports to Curb Prices

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-09T08:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/kenyan-presidential-aspirant-karua-urges-less-food-imports-to-curb-prices.html
Kenyan presidential hopeful Martha Karua said the government should increase spending on domestic
 food production  to cut import costs that are fueling inflation.  “We must give incentives to farmers to make them grow more
food,” Karua said in an interview on Sept. 6 in Nairobi. “Why
should we favor farmers from outside Kenya, buying their
products at exorbitant prices, when we could buy at reasonable
prices from our farmers?”  The worst drought in six decades in the Horn of  Africa  has
led to crop shortages, leaving many as 3.75 million Kenyans
requiring food assistance, according to the United Nations
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.  This year there had been an excess of food production in
some parts of Kenya, while in other areas hit by drought people
went hungry, Karua said. “What the government must facilitate
is mopping up of that excess food and making it available where
it is needed,” she said.  Kenyan inflation quickened for the 10th consecutive month
in August to 16.7 percent, partly driven by soaring costs for
imported food and fuel as the shilling weakened to a 17-year low
of 95.10 against the dollar on Aug. 9.  “In relation to the shilling, the government is failing in
its role as regulator, even the central bank, and it’s something
that should worry the minister of finance and the president,”
Karua, 53, said. “Any serious government ought to worry about
that, because those are the things that brew discontent and
bring people out on the streets.”  Appeasement  Kenya  has raised the  minimum wage  by 12.5 percent, cut
wheat- and corn-import duties and lowered levies on kerosene, a
cooking fuel, and diesel this year, trying to appease citizens
who took to the streets demanding lower living costs.  Kenya has not established a date for the next general
elections. Accusations of vote-rigging following the last vote
in 2007 triggered two months of ethnic violence that left 1,500
people dead and displaced another 300,000. The violence stopped
after President Mwai Kibaki signed a power-sharing accord with
his political rival  Raila Odinga , who was named prime minister.  Last year, the  International Criminal Court ’s Chief
Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo began an investigation that
identified six people most responsible for the violence,
including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  and lawmaker  William Ruto , also presidential aspirants.  A public hearing at  The Hague  began last week to decide
whether three of the accused will go to trial and the second
case is due to start later this month.  ‘Fight Against Impunity’  “I think the lesson with the ICC is it’s a great boost to
the fight against impunity,” said Karua, a lawyer. “For the
first time, it’s becoming clear to all that even if you are in
power and intend to protect yourself or if the system intends to
protect suspects, the international community will not sit
idle.”  Karua has been a lawmaker since 1992, when she won on the
ticket of Kibaki’s  Democratic Party  of Kenya in the country’s
first multi-party elections. She resigned as the minister for
justice, national cohesion and constitutional affairs in April
2009, saying the move would enable her to freely comment on
government reforms and corruption, and prepare her bid for the
presidency.  Karua would capture 5 percent of the vote in presidential
elections, trailing the frontrunner Odinga, according to a poll
of 2,000 adult Kenyans conducted between June 30 and July 8 by
research company  Synovate . She is the most admired Kenyan among
teenagers, according to a separate study of secondary school
students by Synovate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 