-- 
Keynes, Schumpeter and the Great Post-War Mistake: Sylvia Nasar

-- B y   S y l v i a   N a s a r
-- 
2011-09-09T00:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/keynes-schumpeter-and-the-great-post-war-mistake-sylvia-nasar.html
In January 1919, as the Allied
leaders met in Paris to hammer out a treaty ending World War I,
famine and pestilence raged from  St. Petersburg  to Istanbul. To
the Britons and Americans who came to survey the damage, the
whole continent seemed to be in extremis.  Eight weeks after the signing of the armistice, peace had
not been restored. The Allied blockade was still in effect.
Dozens of small wars erupted, involving hundreds of thousands of
troops. Entire populations were being terrorized by pogroms and
expulsions. Eight and a half million men had died. Nearly as
many were left physically disabled or psychologically maimed. A
generation in  Central Europe  was growing up underfed and
undersized -- the Kriegskinder, or children of war.  Victors and losers alike were saddled with massive debts
and faced pressure to compensate those who had sacrificed so
much. Yet every avenue back to normalcy was blocked. Trade was
at a standstill, credit frozen, production stymied by lack of
raw materials, the workforce idle. The economic mechanism of
 Europe  had to be unjammed, yet the men in Paris persisted in
believing that their nations’ losses could be recouped by
extracting reparations and redrawing borders.  The Wunderkind  “Starvation means Bolshevism,” a British general warned.
The word in Paris was that Vienna, flanked by two Red capitals,
would be the next to succumb. In April, thousands of gaunt and
ragged men -- unemployed factory workers, paid agitators,
demobbed soldiers, many with missing limbs -- descended on
Vienna’s Ringstrasse, setting the Parliament building ablaze and
attacking the police. The militia finally restored order, but
not before a horse was shot out from under a policeman. As the
animal lay dead in the street, a hungry mob tore it to pieces
and carried off hunks of bloody meat. For ordinary Viennese, who
adored the emperor’s white show horses the way Americans loved
boxing champions, the incident was a sign that civilization was
reverting inexorably to barbarism.  While the street battle raged a mile away, the bankrupt
government of a dismembered Austrian Republic -- surrounded by
hostile states, threatened by revolution, awaiting the Allied
peace terms being decided in Paris -- met in the freezing
chancellery. Its youngest member was the new finance minister,
 Joseph Schumpeter . The urbane, clever, ambitious Wunderkind of
the defunct Austro-Hungarian Empire had opposed the war, avoided
the draft and advised the now-exiled emperor to make a separate
peace with the Allies. A member of the conservative opposition
party, Schumpeter had nonetheless leapt at the chance to join a
government run by his Marxist university pals, gloomy men who
saw no future for Austria other than communism or “Anschluss” --
economic and political union with Germany.  If a nation decides to commit suicide, Schumpeter quipped,
a doctor had better be present. But he radiated optimism. Six
months after the armistice he had already unveiled a plan for
postwar economic recovery. The capitalist welfare state, which
he called the “Steuerstaat,” or “tax state,” would survive, he
predicted. Any crises would result not from the triumph of
socialism, but rather from the tendency of voters’ expectations
to race ahead of their willingness to pay taxes. The republic
would face constant pressure to run budget deficits and to ease
debt burdens by resorting to inflation.  Schumpeter’s ‘Intrigues’  He believed that a shrunken  Austria  had the means to
recover. As long as entrepreneurs were allowed to create new
enterprises, the financial system was functioning efficiently
and there were not too many barriers to trade, society could
regenerate itself. He rejected the popular assumption that
economic viability depended on vast territories, huge
populations and natural resources.  Switzerland , whose per-capita
income rivaled that of Britain, was no bigger than  Scotland . And
before the war, Vienna had been the most important center of
finance, transportation and trade in Central Europe.  As long as the Allies or neighboring countries did nothing
to prevent Austria from trading freely or its government from
restoring its creditworthiness, Schumpeter saw no reason Vienna
couldn’t resume its prewar economic role.  Frustrated by his own government’s paralysis and pessimism,
Schumpeter forwarded his plan for postwar recovery to a British
treasury official in Paris, whom he had met before the war. As
the treasury’s envoy in Vienna cabled, “The Austrian finance
minister does not share the general opinion that Anschluss to
Germany was Austria’s only salvation.” He added, “Suffice it to
say that it was a rare and fortunate privilege to have had to
deal with such a genial, open-minded expert.”  The Austrian foreign minister had another view. “Schumpeter
carries on with his intrigues,” he wrote to the prime minister,
“I shall do nothing for the time being, but after the conclusion
of the peace treaty it will be inevitable to force his
resignation.”  The Incorrigible Optimist  John  Maynard Keynes , the recipient of the cable containing
Schumpeter’s recovery plan, was also a man at odds with his
government. Although relatively junior, he was an expert on
inter-allied finance and reparations and was “one of the most
influential men behind the scenes” at the peace negotiations.
And he was by nature, according to his biographer Robert Skidelsky, “an incorrigible optimist.”  Precocious, supremely self-confident and abominably rude,
Keynes was certain that he knew what must be done. The
prosperous prewar economy, highly specialized and
interdependent, was at a standstill. To get it moving again, as
opposed to merely preventing mass starvation, required that the
Allies focus on removing barriers to trade, dealing with war
debts and stabilizing currencies.  Keynes tried vainly to get the ears of the Big Four -- the
leaders of Britain,  France ,  Italy  and the U.S. then negotiating
at the Paris Peace Conference. The French accused him of having
greater sympathy for German suffering than French, while Bernard
Baruch and other American officials were convinced that he
wanted the U.S. -- not the Germans or the British -- to foot the
bill for the war.  In the early morning hours of May 4, Keynes was pacing
through Paris’s deserted streets, pondering an early draft of
the Versailles  treaty , when he ran into two friends, one of them
 Herbert Hoover , head of the Allied food relief program. “We all
agreed it was terrible,” Hoover wrote in his memoir.  The incorrigible optimist retreated to bed, ill with the
flu and depressed by his failure to persuade the Big Four to
focus on economic recovery. Feeling like “an accomplice in all
this wickedness and folly,” Keynes made up his mind to resign,
he confided in a letter. “The Peace is outrageous and impossible
and can bring nothing but misfortune.”  Consequences of Peace  By Christmas, Keynes had exacted some measure of revenge on
the Big Four -- including his boss, British Prime Minister Lloyd
George -- by publishing a brilliant peroration, “ The Economic
Consequences of the Peace .” It savaged the treaty, and was as
memorable for its acid portraits of the men in charge as for its
gloomy conclusions. Keynes argued that the treaty had sown the
seeds of another war by adding to the loser’s debts while
wresting away their means of paying them. Vengeance will not
limp, he warned, “and nothing can then delay for very long that
final civil war between the forces of reaction and the
despairing convulsions of revolution.”  In the terrible years immediately after the war,  Germany 
and Austria succumbed to economic chaos, hyperinflation and a
catastrophic loss of faith in democracy by their middle classes.
The victorious Allies too suffered disillusioning economic
setbacks -- not exactly the heroes’ welcome that returning
troops were promised. Bruised from their losing battles, eager
for success on new fronts, Schumpeter became a banker and Keynes
went to work in the City,  London ’s Wall Street. For Schumpeter,
the most creative part of his career was over. For Keynes, the
rush of inspiration that led to his “economics of the whole” --
rooted in his experiences in the aftermath of the Great War --
still lay ahead.  (Sylvia Nasar, a former New York Times economics reporter
and the author of “ A Beautiful Mind ,” teaches journalism at
 Columbia University . This is the third in a five-part excerpt of
her new book, “ Grand Pursuit: The Story of Economic Genius ,” to
be published by  Simon & Schuster  on Sept. 13.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Sylvia Nasar at  szn1@columbia.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 