-- 
KKR, Blackstone Deal-Rig Antitrust Suit Expanded by Judge

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T19:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/kkr-blackstone-deal-rigging-lawsuit-over-lbos-expanded-by-federal-judge.html
Plaintiffs in a case accusing 11
firms, including KKR & Co. and  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , of
conspiring to rig the market for leveraged buyout deals can
expand their investigation, a federal judge ruled.  The plaintiffs, including a Detroit police and fire pension
fund, can seek information on 10 additional deals, U.S. District
Judge Edward F. Harrington said in a ruling Sept. 7. He didn’t
identify the transactions, which are described in a proposed
fifth amended complaint to be filed under seal. The firms argued
that adding the deals would be “unduly burdensome and
prejudicial,” according to court papers.  The lawsuit, initially filed in 2007, claims the firms
conspired to drive down prices in the largest leveraged buyout
deals in violation of federal antitrust laws. The case
previously was limited to 17 transactions. Harrington gave the
plaintiffs until April 17 to seek the information.  Among the deals in question is Neiman Marcus Group Inc.’s
$5.1 billion buyout by Warburg Pincus LLC and TPG Capital Inc.,
SunGard Data Systems Inc.’s $11.3 billion takeover by seven
private-equity firms and Aramark Corp.’s roughly $8.3 billion
purchase in January 2007.  Three plaintiffs are also shareholders of Freescale
Semiconductor Inc., which was taken private by a group including
Blackstone and  Carlyle Group . TPG and Carlyle are also
defendants in the suit.  ‘Bidding Clubs’  The firms allegedly formed “bidding clubs,” referred to
in the private-equity industry as “consortia” or “teams” to
rig the bidding, according to a redacted fourth amended
complaint made public yesterday. Use of the clubs limited the
number of bidders, depressing prices at target companies, the
plaintiffs said.  “We’re not going to have any comment on that,”  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG, said
in a phone interview today.  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR, said
the company “doesn’t comment on pending litigation.” New York-
based Blackstone’s spokeswoman  Christine Anderson  and Elizabeth
Gill of Washington-based Carlyle Group also declined to comment.  ‘Sham Bids’  The conspiracy began in at least 2003, plaintiffs said in
court papers. The so-called bidding clubs would orchestrate
competing bids and knowingly submit “inferior sham bids,”
according to the complaint. The average premiums paid to
shareholders in bids involving club deals were significantly
less than those paid in either sole-sponsor LBOs or acquisitions
by strategic bidders, the plaintiffs said.  The defendant firms were enriched through the conspiracy as
debt financing shields the income they pull out of target
companies from taxes. The annualized net returns to the firms
are 20 percent to 30 percent, according to the complaint.  The case was filed after the U.S. Justice Department began
probing bidding practices among private equity firms in October
2006. No actions were ever brought by the government.  Dealmaking effectively stopped in 2008 as the global
financial crisis, triggered by subprime mortgage defaults and
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., dried up
financing for new transactions.  Private-equity purchases have returned at a diminished
level. Managers have announced $278.5 billion in transactions so
far this year, less than half of the $682.8 billion during the
same period in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The reduced numbers of deals and smaller purchase prices have
made buyouts by groups of firms less prevalent.  The case is Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners LLC, 07-12388,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 