-- 
Tropical Storm Nate to Move West, Miss U.S. Oil Operations

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-10T00:37:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/nate-stops-temporarily-on-track-toward-mexico.html
Tropical Storm Nate is forecast to
turn west tonight in the  Gulf of Mexico , on a track that will
take it ashore early next week and away from U.S. energy
operations in the Gulf.  Nate, which halted temporarily off the Mexican coast, is
one of three storms being tracked in the Atlantic basin.
Tropical Storm Maria is heading for the Leeward Islands while
Hurricane Katia drifts toward the northern Atlantic.  Nate , with top winds of 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour,
stopped moving about 225 miles east-northeast of Veracruz,
Mexico, according to a  National Hurricane Center  advisory at 8
p.m. New York time. It’s forecast to strengthen to a hurricane
and approach the coast this weekend, prompting  Petroleos
Mexicanos ,  Latin America ’s largest oil producer, to “defer”
178,700 barrels of crude output from offshore facilities.  “As of right now, the risks to production in the northern
Gulf of  Mexico  are pretty low, given the changes in Nate’s
track,” said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda, Maryland. “We had a bit of a scare yesterday,
but now we’re seeing it mainly as a Mexico concern.”  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production. Four production platforms are
shut, or 0.7 percent of the 617 crewed structures, the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement said today.  Gulf Precautions  About 6.2 percent of Gulf oil and 4 percent of natural gas
production have been shut-in, the agency said. Last week’s
Tropical Storm Lee halted production of about 61 percent of Gulf
oil and 55 percent of natural gas.  BP Plc and Apache Corp. yesterday began evacuations of some
non-essential workers in the Gulf because of Nate. Pemex closed
three crude export terminals, according to a weather bulletin on
the website of Mexico’s Merchant Marine.  Mexico has issued a  hurricane watch  from Tampico to
Veracruz in anticipation of landfall as early as Sept. 11. It
also issued a tropical storm watch from Tampico to  La Cruz  and
from Veracruz to Punta El Lagarto.  To the east,  Tropical Storm Maria  was passing north of
Barbados and moving toward the Leeward Islands. Tropical storm
warnings have been posted throughout the Lesser Antilles,
including Guadeloupe, Saint Kitts and the U.S. and  British
Virgin Islands , and for  Puerto Rico , the center said. A warning
means storm conditions can be expected within 36 hours.  Storm Maria  Rogers said he expected Maria to move into the Atlantic
after passing through the islands, although there’s a chance the
storm may come close to the U.S. East Coast next week.  “She will have some struggles to become a threat to the
U.S.,” said Travis Hartman, meteorologist at MDA EarthSat
Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . “Bad environmental
conditions will prevent much, if any, strengthening over the
next few days and an incoming trough over the next few days
should help push her back out to sea as she nears the U.S.
Eastern Seaboard.”  Maria, 135 miles north of Barbados, is expected to reach
hurricane strength in four days, according to a center forecast.
Its top winds are currently 45 mph.  To the north of Maria,  Hurricane Katia  is halfway between
 Bermuda  and Nova Scotia on a track that will take it across the
Atlantic toward the U.K. by next week.  Katia, a Category 1 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale with winds of 85 mph, is 280 miles south of
Halifax, Nova Scotia.  Hartman said  Europe  should watch out for Katia because it
will still be a powerful storm when it arrives.  “It should still have enough energy to create strong winds
and waves for some of the North Sea interests for early next
week,” Hartman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vivek Shankar at 
 vshankar3@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  