-- 
New Zealand Starts Quest for Rugby World Cup Title by Beating Tonga 41-10

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-09T13:44:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/new-zealand-starts-quest-for-rugby-world-cup-title-by-beating-tonga-41-10.html
New Zealand  opened the Rugby World
Cup with a 41-10 win over Tonga as the top-ranked All Blacks
seek to end a 24-year title drought.  New Zealand got two tries each last night from Israel Dagg
and  Richard Kahui , and led 29-3 at halftime after Tonga scored
just before the whistle. The hosts got second-half tries from
 Jerome Kaino  and  Ma’a Nonu  in front of 60,214 people at
Auckland’s Eden Park.  Alisona Taumalolo scored 12th-ranked Tonga’s second-ever
try against New Zealand late in the second half. It was the
island nation’s closest loss to the All Blacks in four attempts.
The most recent meeting, in 2003, ended 91-7 in favor of New
Zealand.  “It’s a start,” All Blacks captain Richie McCaw said in
a televised interview. “There were definitely some good
patches. We brought the physicality. It was disappointing to
let them score but we had to defend for a while.”  The All Blacks, which haven’t won rugby’s four-yearly
championship since the inaugural event in 1987, face further
group matches against Japan, France and  Canada . Should they win
the pool, the All Blacks would play their quarterfinal at  Eden
Park , where they last lost in 1994. The stadium will also host
both semifinals and the Oct. 23 final.  Before the match, International Rugby Board Chairman
Bernard Lapasset officially opened the tournament during an
hour-long ceremony featuring Maori customs, fireworks and an
appearance from former All Blacks winger Jonah Lomu, the leading
try-scorer in World Cup history.  Losses  New Zealand entered this year’s tournament following back-
to-back losses in South Africa and  Australia . The hosts made 12
handling errors and 13 penalties, compared with 6 each by Tonga.  Fly-half Dan Carter kicked 9 points to extend his world
record Test tally to 1,238 points. He needs 3 more points to
become the first All Black to score 100 points in World Cup
matches.  New Zealand dominated the first half, with 61 percent of
possession. Its 29 points were a record first-half tally in a
World Cup opening match.  Tonga was able to regain some footing in the second half,
keeping the ball 51 percent of the period.  “In the first half, we managed to find some holes, but the
disappointing thing was we didn’t come out in the second half
and stick it to them,” Kahui said. “They started to tie us up
in the rucks and when you’re not getting that quick ball, the
holes aren’t there.”  New Zealand will take on  Japan  on Sept. 16, while Tonga
meets Canada two days earlier. In today’s games, Scotland takes
on Romania in Invercargill, Fiji plays Namibia in Rotorua,
France meets Japan in Auckland and Argentina faces England in
Dunedin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 