-- 
News Corp. Questioned Over New Board Member’s Links to Company, Murdochs

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 
2011-09-09T20:04:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/news-corp-questioned-over-new-board-member-s-links-to-company-murdochs.html
CtW Investment Group, an adviser to
union-sponsored pension funds with more than $200 billion in
assets, questioned  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s nomination of James W. Breyer to
its board, citing past ties to the company and management.  News Corp., facing inquiries into phone hacking by
employees of its now-defunct News of the World tabloid in the
U.K., should “disclose more fully” Breyer’s past relationship
to the company and senior executives, according to a letter
released by CtW today.  Breyer, 50, was nominated by News Corp. last week to serve
as an independent director. The partner with venture capital
firm  Accel Partners , has reportedly invested alongside Wendi Murdoch, the wife of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch , according to CtW. The letter, sent to  Viet Dinh ,
chairman of News Corp.’s nominating and governance committee,
lists other ties as well.  “This extensive series of interconnections between Mr.
Breyer and Accel on the one hand, and News Corp., News Corp.
employees, and Mr. and Mrs. Murdoch on the other, undermines the
claim that Mr. Breyer is a truly independent director who can
provide the objectivity and accountability that News Corp.
shareholders so desperately need,” CtW said in the letter.  MySpace China  Teri Everett and  Julie Henderson , spokeswomen for News
Corp., didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request for
comment.  News Corp., the New York-based owner of the Fox network and
Wall Street Journal, fell 29 cents to $16.03 at 4 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The Class A shares have
gained 10 percent this year.  The letter cited an investment more than a decade ago by
Palo Alto, California-based Accel and News Corp. in
BizTravel.com, and a 2007 investment in MySpace China by Accel,
at the same time Wendi Murdoch served as chief strategy officer
of that business.  This year, Breyer and Wendi Murdoch were reported by  CNN  to
be investors in Art.sy, an art discovery and shopping website,
according to the letter, which cited an April 26 broadcast by
the network.  “Mr. Breyer’s appointment continues Mr. Murdoch’s
nepotistic practice of installing family members, employees, and
friends on News Corp.’s board, precisely in order to avoid being
held accountable to public shareholders,” CtW said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  