-- 
Nigeria Buys ‘Well-Managed’ Yuan, Thailand Poised: China Credit

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-09T09:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/nigeria-buying-well-managed-yuan-as-thailand-to-diversify-china-credit.html
Central banks from Thailand to
Nigeria plan to start buying yuan as  China  allows conversion of
the currency for investment while slowing global growth spurs
the U.S. and  Europe  to keep  interest rates  below 2 percent.  Bank of Thailand opened an office in Beijing to assess
investments in the nation, Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee
said in an interview yesterday in Bangkok. Nigeria will shift 10
percent of its foreign reserves into yuan as soon as possible,
on bets the currency will appreciate because of China’s “well
managed” economy, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a
Sept. 7 interview in Hong Kong. Philippine Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima said in an interview in Xiamen, south-eastern
China, on Sept. 3 that buying yuan may be “prudent.”  Investment has become easier for central banks as issuance
of yuan-denominated bonds in  Hong Kong  more than tripled to 115
billion yuan ($18 billion) this year and institutions were
granted quotas to invest onshore. The HSBC Offshore Renminbi
Bond Index shows the notes’ average yield reached a record-high
3.22 percent on Aug. 29, three days before the rate on two-year
U.S. Treasury notes sank to an all-time low of 0.18 percent. The
yuan rose 6.2 percent against the dollar in the past year,
outperforming the currencies of  Brazil , India and  Russia .  “One of the steps to internationalize renminbi is to allow
more central banks to hold renminbi as part of their reserves,”
Brian Baker, chief executive officer at Pimco Asia Ltd., said in
an interview yesterday in  Shanghai , referring to the yuan by its
Chinese name. The success of this drive depends on “how quickly
they develop the financial markets so people have something to
invest in,” he said.  2015 Target  China limits the conversion of its currency for investment
purposes, increasing the risk of holding yuan securities as
assets to tap in an emergency. The 188 billion-yuan dim sum debt
market is dwarfed by the $10 trillion in global currency
reserves and the $9.5 trillion U.S. Treasury market.  Chinese officials told European Union business executives
that the yuan will achieve “full convertibility” by 2015, EU
Chamber of Commerce in China President Davide Cucino told
reporters on Sept. 7, declining to give details. People’s Bank
of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in  London  yesterday that
while there is no timetable for convertibility, the offshore
yuan market is “developing faster than what we had imagined.”  The yuan advanced 0.16 percent yesterday in Shanghai,
before weakening 0.07 percent to 6.3882 per dollar today,
according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System. Baker said
that appreciation in the next 12 months may be slower at about 5
percent because of faltering global growth. Pimco Asia is a unit
of Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., which has $1.3 trillion under management.  Beating BRICs  The yuan’s climb against the dollar in the past year was
greater than the 4 percent strengthening in the Brazilian real,
the 3.6 percent gain in the Russian ruble and 0.2 percent
advance for  India ’s rupee. The yuan will appreciate 1.4 percent
to 6.3 per dollar this year, based on the median estimate of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Dim sum bonds handed dollar-based investors a 4.4 percent
return this year, according to the HSBC index. Excluding yuan
appreciation, the debt earned 0.7 percent while the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  of shares in the city slumped 14 percent.  Central banks were among buyers when China’s Finance
Ministry sold 20 billion yuan of bonds in Hong Kong in August,
according to Tee Choon Hong, head of capital markets for
northeast Asia at Standard Chartered Plc, the second-biggest
underwriter of so-called dim sum bonds this year.  The ministry sold 2016 bonds at 1.4 percent, less than half
of the yield on similar-maturity bonds in onshore markets. The
yield on Chinese benchmark five-year bonds rose two basis points
to 3.943 percent in Shanghai yesterday, according to ChinaBond
data.  Big Order  “We have seen some central banks already go into action by
starting the process of taking renminbi as a reserve currency,
albeit at an early stage,” Tee said in Hong Kong. “We had
quite a big order from one central bank.”  Nigeria  plans to start holding the yuan next quarter and
prefers it as an investment to gold, said Governor Sanusi. The
currency has become “convertible” because of the offshore  bond
market  in Hong Kong and opportunities under discussion to invest
in onshore markets and swap currencies with the People’s Bank of
China, he said. Nigeria’s $32 billion in reserves are 79 percent
dollars with the rest largely held in euros and Swiss francs.  “Confidence in China doesn’t mean lack of confidence in
America,” Sanusi said. “Europe and America will continue to be
important parts of the world. Having said that, it will be
almost living in a dream world to ignore China. It’s the second-
largest economy in the world and it’s well managed.”  Growth Outlook  China’s gross domestic product rose 9.5 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, while the U.S. recorded a 1.5
percent gain for the period, official figures show. China’s
economy will expand 9.6 percent in 2011 and U.S. growth will be
2.5 percent, the  International Monetary Fund  forecast in June.
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its AAA rating for the U.S. by one level
on Aug. 5, while members of the European Union have been unable
to agree on the process for bailing out members saddled with
debt and slowing growth.  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet kept
the region’s benchmark interest rate at 1.5 percent yesterday,
saying the economy faced “particularly high uncertainty and
intensified downside risks.” Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke pledged on Aug. 9 to hold U.S. borrowing costs at the
record-low range of zero to 0.25 percent through mid-2013 to
bolster growth in the world’s largest economy.  Bond Risk  Government debt in China is equivalent to 18 percent of the
country’s 2010 gross domestic product, compared with the U.S.
debt level at 59 percent of GDP and  Germany ’s 79 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Chinese government debt against
default has jumped 16 basis points in the past month on concern
bad loans at banks will rise because of over-investment by local
governments.  Five-year credit-default swap contracts were 118 basis
points yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Not Realistic  “The yuan is getting more popular for trade settlement but
having the currency as central banks’ reserves isn’t that
realistic,” said Yim Fung, chief executive officer at Guotai
Junan International Holdings Ltd., a unit of China’s second-
largest brokerage. “There is a lack of investment channels for
banks to choose from.”  The Bank of  Thailand  was approved by China to invest 7
billion yuan in the onshore interbank bond market and won’t
class its investment as part of its reserves because the
currency “isn’t fully convertible,” said Atchana. The Hong
Kong Monetary Authority also received a quota to invest in
stocks and bonds in China, Chief Executive  Norman Chan  said Jun.
24.  Russia’s central bank will only consider including yuan in
its $543 billion reserves stockpile, the world’s third-largest,
once the currency becomes fully convertible, First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said in January. The share of global
reserves denominated in dollars dropped to 60.7 percent in the
first quarter, from as high as 72.7 percent in 2001,
International Monetary Fund data show.  Global Push  China is promoting use of the yuan in global finance and
reserve management to ease the impact of any future financial
crisis, after a shortage of dollars during the 2007 TO 2009
credit collapse hobbled commerce across the globe. Vice Premier
 Li Keqiang  outlined a range of measures to boost Hong Kong’s
status as an offshore yuan center last month, including rules
allowing holdings of the currency in the city to be used for
foreign direct investment in China. Central bank Governor Zhou
said yesterday that he was “very encouraged” that London had
expressed interest to help develop yuan offshore business.  Asia  plans to promote the use of the yuan in trade to
lessen the impact of currency swings that hurt exporters,
Indonesia Vice Trade Minister Mahendra Siregar said on Aug. 12.
The value of yuan transactions handled by Hong Kong banks,
started in 2009, totaled 506 billion yuan last year and reached
800 billion yuan in the first half of this year, according to
the city’s monetary authority.  “Central banks are making more enquiries about dim sum
bonds,” said Augusto King, co-head of debt capital markets for
Asia at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. in Hong Kong.
“Central banks are finding ways to diversify their reserves
from the dollar and the euro. It’s a natural consequence that
they have to re-balance and the yuan is a good choice for
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  