-- 
Nintendo Falls on Concern Price Cut Won’t Suffice for 3DS to Meet Target

-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-09-09T08:25:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/nintendo-price-cut-boosts-sales-of-handhelds.html
Nintendo Co., the world’s biggest
maker of video-game consoles, fell the most in more than two
weeks in  Osaka  trading on growing concern that price cuts won’t
be enough for the company to meet its full-year sales target.  Nintendo slid 2.3 percent to 13,160 yen, the biggest drop
since Aug. 24, at the 3:10 p.m. close in Osaka. The shares have
tumbled 45 percent this year.  Five months into the fiscal year, the company has sold
fewer than a fifth of the 16 million 3DS handheld game players
it’s targeting to sell by the year ending March 31, according to
estimates at research firms. Nintendo in July slashed 3DS prices
by as much as 40 percent after initial sales fell short of the
game maker’s expectations.  “Nintendo must adjust its expectations in a world
increasingly dominated by smartphones and tablets,” said
 Michael Pachter , an analyst at Los Angeles-based Wedbush
Securities Inc. “Nintendo will have two-thirds as much success
in handhelds and consoles as in the past.”  The company sold about 235,000 units of the 3DS in the U.S.
in August, Nintendo said in a  statement  on its website
yesterday. About 185,000 units were sold after the price was cut
to $169.99 on Aug. 12, almost four times more than in the same
period in July, the Kyoto, Japan-based company said, citing data
from NPD Group.   Sales of the 3DS in  Japan  totaled about 55,000 units in the
seven days ended Sept. 4, according to the Enterbrain data. The
figure is 74 percent fewer than sales made in the second week of
August when Nintendo cut the price.  President Satoru Iwata, who in July slashed Nintendo’s
full-year profit forecast 82 percent, decided to cut the price
of the 3DS within five months of the product’s introduction
after consumers flocked toward  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and online
games played on Facebook Inc.’s website.  Iwata is counting on games to be released in November and
December, including “Super Mario 3DLand” and “ Mario Kart ” to
drive sales of the devices in the  holiday shopping season .
Demand for the console in Japan slowed toward the end of the
last month, according to data from researcher Enterbrain Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 