-- 
NRC Wants Yucca Mountain License Work Finished by Sept. 30

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-09T17:41:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/nrc-wants-yucca-mountain-license-work-finished-by-sept-30-1-.html
  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, deadlocked on whether to move ahead with a nuclear-
waste dump at  Nevada ’s Yucca Mountain, directed an agency
licensing board to complete work on the matter by Sept. 30.  “The commission finds itself evenly divided on” whether
to overturn or uphold a decision by the board last year blocking
the Energy Department from withdrawing its request for a
license.  President Barack Obama’s administration, which opposes the
Yucca project, sought in 2010 to withdraw the government’s
application to build the proposed repository, located about 100
miles (161 kilometers) from  Las Vegas . Industry and government
have collectively spent about $15 billion on the project so far.
Most used commercial nuclear fuel is stored at  power plants .  Citing “budgetary limitations,” commissioners today
directed the licensing board to finish all pending tasks and
document the full history of the proceeding by the end of the
current fiscal year. “By Sept. 30, the agency’s orderly
closure” of the licensing review “should be complete,”  David McIntyre , an NRC spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Republicans have said NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , who has
led the commission since May 2009, halted the agency’s work on
the proposed repository for political reasons, which he has
denied. Jaczko is a former science adviser to Senate Majority
Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat and longtime opponent of
the Yucca project.  ‘Narrow Role’  “We have a very narrow role in the whole Yucca Mountain
debate,” Jaczko said in an interview Sept. 7. “Our job is
ultimately to ensure that whatever options are proposed meet
safety and security standards.”  A House subcommittee will “continue its ongoing
investigation into the Obama administration’s politically
motivated efforts to terminate the Yucca Mountain” waste site,
the Republican-led House Energy and Commerce committee said in a
statement Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  