-- 
NTT DoCoMo, Allergan, Microsoft, SAP: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-09T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ntt-docomo-allergan-microsoft-apple-intellectual-property.html
NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  said it got
assurances from Samsung Electronics Co. that  Japan ’s largest
phone operator will be able to continue selling the Galaxy
tablet in the country amid a patent dispute with Apple Inc.  “Samsung told us there won’t be any problem for the sale”
of the Galaxy devices, NTT President Ryuji Yamada told reporters
in  Tokyo  yesterday.  Apple filed a suit against Samsung’s Galaxy tablet computer
in Tokyo on Aug. 23, seeking compensation for alleged patent
violations, Nam Ki-Yung, a Samsung spokesman in  Seoul , said by
telephone. The two companies’ patent dispute is now being waged
across three continents as Apple claims the Galaxy devices
copied its iPhone and iPad.  The first hearing over the latest dispute took place Sept.
7 in Tokyo District Court, according to Samsung’s Nam. Kyodo
News reported that Apple wants 100 million yen ($1.3 million) in
damages from Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung.  Nam and Takashi Takebayashi, an Apple spokesman in Japan’s
capital, both declined to comment on the suit.  “The patent situation is different here from  Europe ,”
Yamada said.  Samsung had about a 16 percent share in the tablet market
in the first quarter, trailing the iPad’s 69 percent, according
to Strategy Analytics.  Allergan Patents Valid, Infringed by Teva, Judge Decides  Allergan Inc.’s patents for the glaucoma treatment Lumigan
are valid and are infringed by  Israel ’s  Teva Pharmaceutical
Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , a federal judge ruled yesterday.  Allergan, the maker of wrinkle-smoothing Botox, sued Teva’s
Barr Laboratories unit in 2009 over the two patents and a non-
jury trial was held in January and February, according to court
papers. In dispute were patents 5,688,819 and 6,403,649.  The company won approval from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration in December 2009 to sell a prescription drug
using the same ingredients as Lumigen to make eyelashes thicker
and darker. Allergan, based in  Irvine ,  California , sells that
product under the Latisse label.  “Allergan has met its burden” to prove Teva’s proposed
generic Lumigan infringes, and the defendants “have not proven
by clear and convincing evidence” that the patents are
invalid,” wrote U.S. District Judge Sue L. Robinson in
yesterday’s opinion released in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva, with $16.1 billion in
sales last year, is the world’s largest generic drugmaker.  Denise Bradley, a U.S. spokeswoman for Teva, said the
company has no comment on the ruling.  The newest of the patents expires in 2014, according to FDA
records.  The case is Allergan Inc. v. Barr Laboratories Inc.,
09CV333, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Microsoft, Acer Sign Patent License Pact for Tablets, Phones  Microsoft Corp. signed a patent-license deal with  Acer Inc. (2353) 
covering the Taiwanese computer maker’s tablets and phones,
which use Google Inc.’s Android platform.  The Redmond, Washington-based software maker disclosed the
agreement in a press release.  Microsoft has entered into more than 700 licensing
agreements since the company began its intellectual-property
licensing program in December 2003.  Marshall Phelps joined Microsoft in 2003 after a 28-year
career with International Business Machines Corp., where he was
vice president for intellectual property and licensing. There he
was credited with pioneering the patent monetization business.  Phelps helped Microsoft move toward viewing patents as an
asset that could make money or be used as a bargaining chip with
other companies.  Myhrvold Seeks U.S. Patents on Hurricane-Prevention Technology  Nathan Myhrvold , the former chief technology officer at
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , applied for six patents on a technology aimed
at preventing hurricanes.  The  six applications , published in the database of the U.S.
patent and Trademark Office, cover what he calls a “water
alteration structure and system having heat transfer conduit.”  The technology covered by the patent would lower the
temperature of the ocean through the use of myriad floating
devices with a downward conduit. As waves wash over the edges of
the device, warmer surface water is pushed downward, lowering
the water’s surface temperature, according to the patent
applications.  Hurricanes originate over tropical or subtropical waters
and lose much of their energy over colder waters,  according to 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.  The applications were filed between January 2008 and May
2009. In addition to Myhrvold, Microsoft Corp. co-founder  Bill
Gates  is also listed as an inventor, as are a number of
scientists who consult with or are part of Myhrvold’s
 Intellectual Ventures  invention company.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Apple Demands Chinese Noodle Company Change Its Logo  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  objected to a logo used by a Chinese company
that produces noodles and flour, the GoChengDoo.com English-
language news website  reported .  Sichuan Fangguo Food Go Ltd. was accused of using
conceptual elements in its logo that were taken from Cupertino,
California-based Apple, according to GoChengDoo.com.  Zhao Yi, chief executive officer of the noodle company,
said his company’s apple logo contains two Chinese characters
and is a totally different shape from the California company’s,
according to the website.  One of the reasons Apple objected, GoChengDoo.com reported,
is that the noodle company’s trademark application covered 16
different product categories, including “notebook computers”
and “electronic-game software,” which overlap some of the
California company’s product categories.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Book-Scanning Lawsuit Is Dropped by French Publishers  Three French publishers dropped a 9.8 million-euro ($13.8
million) lawsuit against  Google Inc. (GOOG)  over books scanned by the
search-engine company.  Editions Albin Michel SA, Editions Gallimard SA and
Flammarion made the decision in order to resume negotiations to
reach a deal on scanning copyright-protected works for Google’s
digital library.  “Google suspended negotiations” when the suit was filed,
Brice Amor, Gallimard’s legal director, said yesterday. The
publishers dropped their claims “with the goal that the
negotiations might resume.”  Google, based in Mountain View, California, has reached
agreements with  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Livre and La Martiniere
Groupe publishers to allow the scanning of out-of-print French
books since losing a copyright dispute with the latter in 2009.  “This is a great news,” Philippe Colombet,  Google Books ’
French director, said in an e-mail. “We are keen to discuss
constructively and work with publishers around the world to
preserve and disseminate our important cultural treasures, and
to find new business opportunities for authors and publishers.”  The decision was earlier reported on the website of trade
publication  Livres Hebdo . Calls to Albin Michel and Flammarion
for comment weren’t immediately returned.  SAP’s Former Unit Criminally Charged for Oracle Downloads  SAP AG (SAP) ’s former TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit was
criminally charged by the U.S. for downloading Oracle Inc.
programs.  SAP, which shut the Bryan, Texas-based unit in 2008,
reached an agreement with the  Justice Department  resolving the
charges, Jim Dever, a SAP spokesman, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. A confidential plea agreement was filed in
court and isn’t yet public, he said, without disclosing any
penalty.  “Any fine would be paid by SAP,” Dever said. “We look
forward to what we believe is fair and final resolution.”  TomorrowNow was accused in 11 counts of using login
credentials from Oracle customers to gain access to the
company’s software and one count of criminal copyright
infringement, according to a charging document filed yesterday
in federal court in  San Francisco  by U.S. Attorney Melinda Haag.  Jack Gillund, a spokesman for Haag, declined to comment on
whether there was a plea agreement with Walldorf, Germany-based
SAP, the largest maker of business-management software.  “We are very pleased that the Department of Justice
brought criminal charges against SAP for their widespread and
systematic theft of Oracle’s intellectual property, to which SAP
has repeatedly confessed,”  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for
Redwood City, California-based Oracle, said in an e-mailed
statement.  A federal judge in Oakland, California, last week threw out
a $1.3 billion jury verdict in Oracle’s civil lawsuit against
SAP and said that the damages for the improper downloading
should be no more than $272 million. If Oracle disagrees with
the amount, SAP should get a new trial, U.S. District Judge
Phyllis Hamilton ruled Sept. 1.  The criminal case is U.S. v. TomorrowNow, 11-642, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Denver Post’s Publisher Quits Contract with Righthaven  Media News Group Inc. said it’s dropping a contract with
Las Vegas-based Righthaven LLC, a copyright-enforcement entity.  The Denver-based company, publisher of the Denver Post,
said in a  statement in that newspaper  that it will let its 12-
month contract with Righthaven lapse when it expires at the end
of September.  Righthaven has brought numerous copyright-infringement
cases on behalf of the Post and Stephens Media Inc.’s Las Vegas-
Review Journal. Many of those suits have been stymied over court
interpretations of whether Righthaven has standing to sue for
infringement of the newspapers’ content.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 