-- 
To Pass Jobs Act, Obama Should Channel LBJ: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-09-09T15:11:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/to-pass-jobs-act-obama-should-channel-lbj-jonathan-alter.html
When I worked at a newsmagazine and
the editors needed a headline for the cover after some major
event, we often hauled out a hardy perennial:  “Now for the Hard Part.”  President  Barack Obama , almost marginalized in  Washington 
this summer by a crafty opposition, is back in the game with a
vigorous, sensible and, above all, muscular speech that led from
the front instead of the rear. Overnight, the conventional
wisdom in Washington went from “nothing will pass” to
“they’ll salvage something from this.”  The question is whether that something is sufficiently
potent to forestall a recession and nudge unemployment lower
next year. Republicans would like to do just enough to stop
Obama from reviving  Harry Truman ’s “Do Nothing Congress”
epithet without the economy improving enough to secure his re-
election.  (If you find that too cynical, how else do you explain
their insistence all year on a total focus on deficit reduction,
which does nothing in the short term to put people to work?)  To win passage of the full  American Jobs Act , Obama needs
to follow up with an autumn offensive worthy of another of his
Democratic predecessors. Recall the  iconic photos  of  Lyndon B. Johnson  towering over diminutive Rhode Island Senator Theodore
Green, his hot breath in Green’s face. Pundits of the period
called it “The Treatment.”  Obama is temperamentally incapable of “The Treatment,”
but he has a weapon that LBJ lacked: a bad economy. The flip
side of 9 percent unemployment is that it puts pressure on
members of Congress to support desperately needed jobs in their
districts.  With more than $245 billion in tax cuts, some version of
the Obama bill has a decent shot of clearing the Senate. The
problem will almost certainly be in the  House of
Representatives , where both parties may have trouble getting
their bases to accept the bill, especially after Sept. 19, when
the president specifies how he would pay for it.  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  told me in June that she
is adamantly opposed to any changes to Medicare, which Obama
said in his speech must be reformed. She and many other
Democrats don’t want to muddy their attacks on the  Republican
Party  over what they see as politically suicidal support for
Rick Perry-style gutting of entitlements. The president will
have to convince these Democrats that he’s not paying for
corporate tax cuts with Medicare benefits.  On the other side, the  Tea Party  will obviously put
enormous pressure on the Republican House leadership to strip
out investment in infrastructure (a word Obama blessedly avoided
in his speech), youth employment programs and anything else that
smacks of “spending.”  To win enough votes for passage, Obama’s Isaiah approach
(“Come now, let us reason together”) needs a touch of Jeremiah
(“A hammer that shatters a rock”).  The hammer approach should follow a new Obama dictum that
goes like this: “If you say you don’t want it, you won’t get
it.”  In other words, you vote for the jobs bill or no workmen
will be fixing any roads, bridges or schools in your district.
That’s the message Obama should deliver in the next week as he
stumps for the bill in Ohio and  Virginia , which are, not
coincidentally, home to House Speaker  John Boehner  and House
Majority Leader  Eric Cantor .  The president needs to make clear that there will be no
repeat of 2009, when some 70 Republican members of Congress
issued press releases and otherwise took credit for the arrival
in their districts of stimulus money they had all voted against.  Before you assume this kind of hypocrisy can’t be
prevented, look at the design of the infrastructure bank that’s
in the bill. The president said before Congress that the two
criteria for deciding what the bank will fund are, “how badly a
construction project is needed and how much good it would do for
the economy.”  Now who do you think has to sign off on how badly a certain
project is needed? To keep the projects clean and free of
earmark-style influence, they will no doubt have to be
designated as high priority by the  American Society of Civil
Engineers  and other experts. But these projects are slated to be
public-private partnerships, which means that buy-in will be
necessary both from local investors -- who will trumpet how much
good their projects would do for the local economy -- and from
politicians.  Call it the velvet-covered fist. With the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce  and AFL-CIO on board, Obama can say to the local
Republican congressman: “I’ve got two out of three of the main
players -- business and labor -- but will not authorize the
project in your district unless I have your political support
for the whole jobs bill. If you want to vote against the bill --
if you want to stand in the way of your local business
community’s backing of that new turnpike interchange -- that’s
fine. We’ll build it elsewhere.”  More than likely, they’ll come around. Especially if they
hear from their constituents. The hard part will be a lot easier
if the American people tell our elected representatives what we
tell  pollsters  in overwhelming numbers: that we want jobs, and
we want them now.  ( Jonathan Alter , a Bloomberg View columnist, is the author
of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 