-- 
Goldman, Moody’s Say Obama Plan Would Boost GDP as Much as 2%

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-09-10T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/obama-job-plan-would-boost-u-s-gdp-by-up-to-2-next-year-economists-say.html
The  U.S. economy  would get a boost
of up to 2 percent under President Barack Obama’s $447 billion
jobs plan, say economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Moody’s
Analytics Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “The U.S. is on the cusp of a recession,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “The plan would go a long way toward stabilizing
confidence, forestalling another recession and jump-starting a
self-sustaining economic expansion.”  The proposal, which would raise infrastructure spending and
cut in half payroll taxes paid by workers and small businesses,
would add 2 percent to next year’s GDP, create 1.9 million jobs
and lower the unemployment rate by one percentage point compared
with current policy, Zandi said.  Obama announced his plan to a joint session of Congress a
week after a government report showed that hiring unexpectedly
stalled in August, raising concern the recovery was grinding to
a halt. Unemployment has hovered at about 9 percent or more for
two years, damping consumer spending.  Tax cuts account for more than half the dollar value of the
plan, which includes a $105 billion in infrastructure spending
for school modernization, transportation projects and
rehabilitation of vacant properties. The proposal includes $35
billion in direct aid to state and local governments to stem
layoffs of educators and emergency personnel, according to a
White House fact sheet.  Unemployment Benefits  A reduction in government spending and the end of the
payroll-tax holiday and an expiration of extended unemployment
benefits would have cut GDP by 1.7 percent in 2012, according to
JPMorgan chief U.S. economist  Michael Feroli . Instead, the Obama
proposal more than makes up for that potential loss and may add
a net 0.1 percent to the economy, he estimates.  “It offsets what would otherwise have been a huge drag
from the fiscal restraint” that was due next year, he said.
“The plan reduces the risk of a recession in 2012, though it
doesn’t do much for growth in the second half of this year.”  Goldman Sachs estimated the plan would add 1.5 percent to
the economy, while Macroeconomic Advisers LLC said 1.3 percent
and UniCredit Research, up to 2 percent.  “This plan would reduce the odds of a recession to very
low levels,” said  Joel Prakken , senior managing director of
Macroeconomic Advisers in  St. Louis , which estimated it would
add 1.3 million jobs next year. “The biggest immediate boost is
from consumer spending from the payroll-tax holiday and
extension of  unemployment benefits . If people get more income,
they will spend it.”  Stocks, Treasuries  Stocks sank and 10-year Treasury yields fell to a record
yesterday as concern grew about  Greece ’s debt crisis. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 2.7 percent and has declined
15 percent since July 7. Ten-year Treasury yields slid as low as
1.89 percent. They have plunged from 3.18 percent in July amid
signs of a slowing economy.  Public opinion of Obama as well as Congress has plummeted
to new lows since a partisan fight in July and August over
raising the government’s debt limit that took the country to the
edge of default.  Obama’s monthly job-approval rating in a Gallup Poll
dropped to the lowest of his presidency, with 41 percent of U.S.
adults saying they approved of his overall performance.  Some economists were less impressed with his proposals.
With time running out for any measures to be felt before next
year’s election, limited options for providing a short-term
stimulus, and Republicans resisting more spending, Obama opted
for ideas that have already won a measure of bipartisan support.  ‘Pedestrian Package’  “It looks like an amalgam of things we’ve already seen,”
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Stamford, Connecticut-
based Pierpont Securities LLC. “I don’t know why you would
demand a joint session of Congress to deliver such a pedestrian
package.”  The Obama plan may result in less  consumer spending  than
expected because people may save tax cuts, said Harvard
University economics professor  Martin Feldstein , in an interview
on Bloomberg Television “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene .  “People are too nervous, they are paying down debt, they
are not going out and going to spend it,” said Feldstein, who
served as chief economic adviser to President  Ronald Reagan .
“Until we fix the housing program, it is hard to see how
consumers are going to have confidence, net worth and the
willingness to spend.”  Forecasts Cut  The U.S. economy will expand at a 1.6 percent rate in 2011
and 2.2 percent in 2012, according to the median forecasts of 63
economists surveyed Sept. 2 to Sept. 7 by Bloomberg News. The
median forecast has been cut from 1.7 percent and 2.4 percent a
month earlier. Economists have raised the odds of a recession to
35 percent.  The  unemployment rate  has averaged 9.5 percent the past two
years, and recent reports have shown manufacturing is slowing,
 consumer confidence  and home values are sliding. Bond prices are
climbing as investors shun stocks for safer fixed-income
securities.  “A substantial fiscal consolidation in the shorter term
could add to the headwinds facing economic growth and hiring,”
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a Minneapolis
speech this week. While Congress needs to put spending on a
sustainable path over the long run, “fiscal policy makers
should not as a consequence disregard the fragility of the
economic recovery.”  Hiring has been hurt by a decline in government payrolls
this year, with federal, state and local agencies cutting 17,000
jobs last month and 37,000 in July.  ‘Significant Dent’  The Obama plan “is a collection of stuff that collectively
could probably make a significant dent in unemployment, not
huge, but it would make a noticeable difference in the
economy,” Nobel Prize-winning economist Paul Krugman said in a
Bloomberg News interview in Yaroslavl, central  Russia .  Government spending  contributed a combined 1.1 percentage
points to growth from 2008 to 2010, as the economy overall
expanded 0.3 percent, according to the Bureau of Economic
Analysis. Zandi said growth was supported by Obama’s stimulus
package, which has been criticized by  House Republicans  as
ineffective.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  