-- 
Obama May Ease Rules for Technology Innovators to Create Jobs

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/obama-may-ease-rules-for-technology-innovators-to-create-jobs.html
The Obama administration said it
will review federal regulations in an effort to reduce costs for
small businesses trying to attract capital and hire workers.  The administration will work with the Securities and
Exchange Commission to review rules, including those put in
place by the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  passed in 2002 to impose
stricter accounting rules, Tom Kalil, senior adviser for
science, technology and innovation for the White House National
Economic Council, said yesterday in a conference call with
reporters in  Washington .  The announcement was made shortly after President  Barack Obama  unveiled at a joint session of Congress a plan to create
jobs by injecting $447 billion into the economy through
infrastructure spending, subsidies to stem teacher layoffs and
cutting in half payroll taxes paid by workers and small-business
owners.  Groups representing small technology companies in Silicon
Valley have said federal regulations such as those imposed by
Sarbanes-Oxley have hampered investments in startups. They have
said they planned to ask the White House to ease the rules.  “The President’s plan offered some glimmers of hope for
the technology industry, addressing some of the fundamental
issues required for the industry to continue to flourish, namely
trade, tax reform and talent,” Phil Bond, president and chief
executive officer of TechAmerica, a Washington-based technology
industry group, said in a statement.  One-Stop Portal  Obama also ordered U.S. Chief Information Officer Steven VanRoekel and U.S. Chief Technology Officer Aneesh Chopra to
create within 90 days a “one-stop, online portal for small
businesses to access government services,” according to a White
House fact sheet. The administration also promised to “announce
a plan to accelerate government payments to small contractors to
help put money in their hands faster,”  “The next 90 days are critical,” Dean Garfield, CEO of
the  Information Technology Industry Council , an industry trade
group, said in a statement. “We can accomplish big, practical
and politically-sensible things. However, if we miss this
opportunity for economic improvement, I worry about the
stagnation our industry, economy and workforce will face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  