-- 
Obama Turns to Old Playbook to Add Jobs With Tax Cuts, Spending

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-09-09T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/obama-turns-to-old-playbook-to-grow-jobs-with-tax-cuts-spending.html
President  Barack Obama ’s $447
billion jobs plan will sound familiar to anyone who has followed
the government’s struggles to boost the economy through tax cuts
and spending on roads, jobless benefits and education.  His call for payroll-tax breaks, extending unemployment
assistance, increasing infrastructure spending and aiding cash-
strapped state governments amounts to extending, tweaking or
reviving policies lawmakers have already tried in the years-long
effort to reduce unemployment.  “It looks like an amalgam of things we’ve already seen,”
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at  Stamford , Connecticut-
based Pierpont Securities LLC. “I don’t know why you would
demand a joint session of Congress to deliver such a pedestrian
package.”  With time running out for any measures to be felt before
next year’s election, limited options for providing a short-term
stimulus, and Republicans resisting more spending, Obama opted
for ideas that have already won a measure of bipartisan support.  The president, under mounting pressure to address an
economy that produced no net gain in jobs in August, presented
his plan last night, the centerpiece of which would extend a
payroll-tax break for millions of Americans. It would reduce the
levy by 3.1 percentage points, a deeper cut than the current 2-
percentage-point reduction that expires Dec. 31.  Payroll Tax Break  He called for a payroll tax break for small businesses as
well, to help promote hiring, a proposal similar to a bipartisan
plan enacted last year called the HIRE Act. He’s also proposing
$62 billion to extend unemployment aid for another year.  Obama called for $105 billion for schools, roads and other
types of infrastructure spending that was a major component of
his signature economic-stimulus package of 2009. He now wants
another round of assistance to state governments to help prevent
layoffs of public-sector employees. And his plan would extend an
expiring tax break for businesses that allows them more leeway
to write off investments.  He also promised to help more people refinance their
mortgages at “ interest rates  that are now near 4 percent.” The
administration’s Home Affordable Refinance Program, which allows
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  to guarantee loans worth up to 125
percent of a home’s value, is set to expire in June 2012. Banks
have been reluctant to make high loan-to-value mortgages and as
of June, fewer than 358,000 borrowers have permanently
refinanced under the program.  Representative Sander Levin, of  Michigan , the top Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Committee, said Obama is
intentionally proposing old ideas.  ‘Time to Act’  “The president’s whole pitch was that these are some ideas
we’ve heard before from Republicans and Democrats and now that
there is an economic crisis, it’s time to act,” said Levin.  Obama underlined that point by telling lawmakers, “There
should be nothing controversial about this piece of legislation.
Everything in here is the kind of proposal that’s been supported
by both Democrats and Republicans in the past, including many
who sit here tonight.”  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said “it shouldn’t be very surprising that there
would be two very different points of view about how to solve
this particular crisis.”  “What is surprising is the president’s apparent
determination to apply the same government-driven policies that
have already been tried and failed,” McConnell said.  Shrinking Paychecks  Some economists said there are good reasons why the
administration’s plan looks like ones he’s offered before.
Failing to extend the payroll tax break would mean millions of
Americans would suddenly see their paychecks shrink beginning in
January, which would do little to allay the public’s sour mood
over Washington’s handling of the economy.  “The president is picking the battlefields upon which he
wants to fight Republicans -- and this is one where he has the
crowd on his side,” said former Congressional Budget Office
Director  Robert Reischauer .  In his challenge, Obama said, “I know some of you have
sworn oaths to never raise any taxes on anyone for as long as
you live. Now is not the time to carve out an exception and
raise middle-class taxes.”  Republicans, who have been lukewarm on extending the break,
have signaled a willingness to consider the idea.  There “are areas that we can work together on,
specifically in the area of small-business tax relief,”
Representative  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia , the House’s No. 2
Republican, said in a Bloomberg Television interview after
Obama’s speech. Small businesses are “the real job engines,”
he said.  Economic Bind  Policymakers are also in a bind because failing to extend
economy-boosting measures -- such as allowing taxes to rise and
spending to fall -- can hurt growth.  “This is the challenge of any temporary stimulus
package,” said  Donald Marron , a former economic adviser to
President  George W. Bush . “On the front end, you get stimulus
and then on the back end you get anti-stimulus, and the economic
weakness has persisted so long that we’re now on the back end.”  If this was a more typical downturn, “you can do one round
of stimulus and then by the time it’s unwinding, the economy is
chugging away so that having things unwind isn’t that painful,”
Marron said. “But what we’re finding today is an economy that
is awfully weak.”  Post-Stimulus Hangover  That leaves lawmakers spending a lot of money just to
prevent a post-stimulus hangover.  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics, who advised Democrats on their $825 billion
2009 stimulus package, said if lawmakers failed to act it would
cut growth next year by 2 percentage points.  “It would be very hard on the economy,” he said. “Even
in a good economy it would be difficult. But in this economy, it
would raise the risk of recession to unacceptable levels.”  Payroll tax breaks, extending unemployment assistance and
business expensing tax breaks are among the most cost-effective
short-term stimulus measures, according to a February 2010
report by the nonpartisan CBO. Last month, the agency said in
its biannual economic outlook that “the slow pace of the
current recovery is broadly consistent with international
experience of recoveries following financial crisis.”  Said Reischauer: “There isn’t going to be a Eureka moment
where some policymaker suddenly discovers how to make gold out
of base metals. You’re basically dealing with the cards you knew
were in the deck.”  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist of JPMorgan Chase &
Co., said “if there was some great idea out there, why would
they wait until today” to try it? He said, “there is no silver
bullet” for unemployment.  “Offering up something new, even if it didn’t turn out to
work, would at least give the impression that you’re willing to
experiment and try different things and that you haven’t given
up,” Stanley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  