-- 
U.S., China Not in ‘Zero-Sum’ Competition: Locke

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-09T08:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/locke-says-u-s-china-not-engaged-in-zero-sum-competition.html
U.S. Ambassador to  China   Gary Locke 
said it is in the interests of both countries to deepen economic
and commercial ties through trade while also discussing issues
such as human rights.  “The  United States  welcomes the rise of a prosperous and
successful China that plays a greater role in world affairs,”
Locke said, according to the text of a speech at Beijing Foreign
Studies University. “I reject the notion that China and the
United States are engaged in a zero-sum competition, where one
side must fall for the other to rise. We can and must achieve
security and prosperity together.”  Locke’s speech, his first since taking office last month,
comes as China and the U.S., the world’s two biggest economies,
grapple with differences over economic policy. U.S. Vice
President  Joe Biden  spent four days last month traveling in
China with counterpart Xi Jinping in an effort to deepen ties.  The Obama administration is pressing China to let its
currency rise. U.S. and European companies say that China’s
policy of undervaluing the yuan gives it an unfair trade
advantage. China, the largest holder of U.S. Treasury notes, has
expressed concern over America’s debt problems.  Biden, while reassuring Premier  Wen Jiabao  that China has
nothing to fear when it comes to its investment in Treasuries,
also warned last month that stifling freedom of speech and
expression could hurt the country’s growth. Locke today echoed
those comments.  “We believe that societies that respect human rights and
address the aspirations of their people are more prosperous,
successful and stable,” he said.  After serving as President Barack Obama’s commerce
secretary, Locke was named  Jon Huntsman ’s replacement as
ambassador after Huntsman resigned in April to run for the 2012
Republican presidential nomination.  Locke, 61, a former governor of  Washington  from 1997 to
2005, also represented the state in Congress from 1982 to 1993.
From 2005 to 2008, he was a partner at Davis Wright Tremaine
LLP, a business and litigation law firm that represents clients
in the U.S. and China.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  