-- 
Ohio State Fires Gymnastics Assistant Coach Paul Hamm After Assault Charge

-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ohio-state-fires-gymnastics-assistant-coach-paul-hamm-after-assault-charge.html
Ohio State University  fired
assistant gymnastics coach  Paul Hamm  after his arrest for
allegedly hitting a cab driver and not paying his fare.  Hamm, 28, who in 2004 became the first American man to win
the all-around gymnastics Olympics gold medal, was arrested
around 2 a.m. on Sept. 3 after police found him sitting in a
front yard in the Columbus, Ohio, suburb of Upper Arlington.
The driver told police that Hamm refused to pay a $23 fare,
punched him and damaged a window in his cab.  “After meeting with Coach (Rustam) Sharipov and
considering his recommendations, Paul Hamm has been terminated
as an assistant coach with the Ohio State men’s gymnastics
team, effective immediately,” Gene Smith, Ohio State associate
vice president/director of athletics, said in a statement on
the school’s  website . “We have high standards for our coaching
staff, and unfortunately Mr. Hamm failed to meet those
standards.”  Hamm, who was hired as an assistant coach June 6, told
police he had “maybe eight drinks,” and said that “I’m going
to kill you guys” as they handcuffed him, according to a
police video.  The firing comes four months after Ohio State football
coach  Jim Tressel  resigned amid allegations that he knew that
players -- including his starting quarterback -- were trading
or selling uniforms and other memorabilia to the owner of a
tattoo parlor and failed to report it to the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association  until the season ended.  Hamm is a two-time Olympian and three-time Olympic
medalist. He also claimed a team silver medal and a silver
medal on the horizontal bar at the Athens Games, where he
became the first American male to win the Olympic gold medal in
the all-around.  Gold Medal  Hamm won the gold after a protest from South Korean
gymnast Yang Tae Young to the Court of Arbitration of Sport was
rejected. Yang said a scoring error by the judges that gave
Hamm the lead should have been reversed after the Games.  Hamm won five world-championship medals and was a nine-
time U.S. champion.  Hamm, who graduated from Ohio State magna cum laude with a
degree in accounting in 2007, was in his first year as a  coach 
with the school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  