-- 
Crude Oil Drops Most in a Week as Euro Tumbles on European Debt Crisis

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-09T20:10:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/oil-drops-most-in-week-as-bernanke-obama-don-t-boost-confidence.html
Oil dropped the most in a week in
 New York  as the euro tumbled against the dollar on concern that
Greece’s deteriorating debt crisis will lead to a default.  Oil fell 2 percent after  Europe ’s single currency declined
to a six-month low and European bank and sovereign credit risk
surged to all-time highs. A plan for jobs growth announced
yesterday by President  Barack Obama  failed to boost confidence
in the U.S., the world’s largest economy.  “The concerns out of Europe and the positive relationship
between oil prices and the euro are the catalyst,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory
company in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “The euro is getting
crushed and putting pressure on all our markets right now.”  Crude for October delivery dropped $1.81 to settle at
$87.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices rose
0.9 percent this week, the third consecutive advance. Futures
have fallen 4.5 percent this year.  Brent crude  for October settlement declined $1.78, or 1.6
percent, to $112.77 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Brent’s premium to Nymex-traded West Texas
Intermediate rose 3 cents to $25.53.  The euro fell 1.5 percent to $1.3669 at 3:23 p.m. in New
York, the lowest level since February. A weaker euro and
stronger dollar curb commodities’ appeal as an alternative to
the U.S. currency. The euro has plummeted 3.8 percent this week.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government is preparing
plans to shore up German banks in the event Greece fails to meet
the terms of its aid package and defaults, three coalition
officials said.  Stark’s Resignation  Juergen Stark of Germany resigned from the  European Central
Bank ’s Executive Board today after protesting the bank’s bond
purchases on a conference call earlier in the week, said a euro
area bank official familiar with the meeting. The purchase
program was expanded last month when the ECB started buying
Italian and Spanish bonds.  “When Stark stepped down, that signaled the possibility of
more German opposition to bailing out  Greece ,” said  Phil Flynn ,
vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Oil is
pricing the increasing odds of demand destruction on the
European concerns and following the president’s speech last
night.”  Obama challenged Congress to pass a $447 billion jobs plan
“right away” to boost spending on infrastructure, stem teacher
layoffs and halve payroll taxes paid by workers and small-
business owners. He addressed a joint session of Congress
yesterday and campaigned for the plan today in Virginia.  U.S. Economy  The president’s remarks came after Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke yesterday stopped short of outlining new plans
to revive growth.  “Bernanke didn’t give any further insight into stimulus
measures, and Obama’s speech has been received very tepidly,
which continues to weigh on concerns about the U.S. economy,”
said  Matt Smith , a commodities analyst for Summit Energy
Services Inc. in Louisville, Kentucky.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 2.7 percent to
1,154.23 at 4:03 p.m. in New York. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  dropped 2.7 percent to 10,992.13.  Oil also declined on signals that Libya may export a crude-
oil cargo this month for the first time since March from the
country’s west. The holder of Africa’s biggest oil reserves is
rebuilding production which plunged 97 percent during an armed
conflict to depose ruler  Muammar Qaddafi , based on Bloomberg
News output estimates.  Libyan Exports  “There are two critical factors dominating the outlook for
the oil markets at this time, what global economic developments
are doing to demand and the prospects for a pickup in Libyan oil
exports,” according to a report published today by Deutsche
Bank analysts including  Adam Sieminski , the company’s
Washington-based chief energy economist.  An 80,000-metric-ton cargo of crude is being offered for
shipment from the port of Mellitah this month, three people with
direct knowledge of the transaction said yesterday. The oil,
equal to 600,000 barrels, will be loaded from Sept. 15 to 17,
the people said, declining to be identified because the
consignment has yet to be publicly announced.  Oil also declined as the National Hurricane Center forecast
that Tropical Storm Nate will move toward the Mexican coast,
missing the biggest U.S. oil-producing region in the Gulf or
Mexico. Nate was 150 miles (240 kilometers) west of Campeche,
Mexico, at about 2 p.m. New York time.  Fourteen of 28 analysts, or 50 percent of those in a
Bloomberg News survey, forecast  oil prices  will decline next
week amid heightened concern that global economic growth is
slowing. Seven respondents, or 25 percent, predicted prices will
increase and seven estimated there will be little change. Last
week, 50 percent of surveyed analysts projected a drop.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 597,732
contracts as of 3:24 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 790,112
contracts yesterday, 16 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.5 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 