-- 
Oil Heads for Third Weekly Gain on Obama Job Plan, Storm in Gulf of Mexico

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 
2011-09-09T07:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/oil-erases-loss-in-new-york-after-obama-job-plan-nate-to-become-hurricane.html
Oil headed for a third weekly gain
as investors bet President  Barack Obama ’s job-creation plan will
support demand for fuel and as producers in the  Gulf of Mexico 
evacuated workers ahead of Tropical Storm Nate.  New York futures climbed as much as 0.5 percent, erasing a
drop of 0.8 percent, after Obama asked Congress to pass a
proposal that would inject $447 billion into the economy of the
world’s biggest crude user. Prices slid yesterday after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  stopped short of specifying
measures the central bank may use to bolster growth when policy
makers meet this month. Companies including BP Plc removed staff
in the Gulf, home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output.  “In the next month or so, it’s going to be very
uncertain,” said Jeremy Friesen, a Hong Kong-based commodity
strategist at Societe Generale SA. “We could see prices
continuing to sell off if the market doesn’t like what the Fed
says. But if the market likes it, the physical crude market is
reasonably tight, so that should support prices.”  Oil for October delivery gained as much as 45 cents to
$89.50 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $89.23 at 3:13 p.m. Singapore time. Prices
are 3.2 percent higher this week and up 20 percent the past
year.  Brent oil for October settlement was up 40 cents, or 0.4
percent, at $114.95 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe Exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $25.72 to U.S. futures, compared with a record
settlement of $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Nate, Stockpiles  Tropical Storm Nate is expected to become the third
hurricane of the Atlantic season today. Top winds are 70 miles
(113 kilometers) per hour, just under the threshold of 74 mph
needed to be upgraded, according to an advisory from the U.S.
National Hurricane Center before 1 a.m. Central Daylight Time.  BP and Apache Corp. said they were beginning evacuations of
some workers in the Gulf because of Nate. The BP decision
affects non-essential workers at the Atlantis, Holstein and Mad
Dog platforms, according to a message on a telephone hotline.
Apache’s removal of non-essential workers from facilities in the
far western Gulf hasn’t affected production, Bill Mintz, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  U.S. crude supplies fell 3.96 million barrels to 353.1
million last week as Tropical Storm Lee shut platforms, a report
from the Energy Department showed yesterday. They were forecast
to drop 2 million barrels, according to the median estimate of
14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Gasoline stockpiles
climbed 199,000 barrels, compared with a median forecast for a
drop of 1.4 million barrels.  Bernanke, Obama  Bernanke told economists yesterday that the Fed has
measures at hand and is “prepared to employ these tools as
appropriate.” Obama, speaking before a joint session of
Congress, demanded that lawmakers act on a plan that would boost
spending, stem layoffs and cut taxes.  “The price rise you’ve seen in WTI relates more to Obama’s
speech than the weather,” said Friesen. The energy department
report “was fairly supportive for crude,” he said.  Oil may fall next week amid heightened concern that global
economic growth is slowing, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Fourteen of 28 analysts, or 50 percent, forecast oil will
decline through Sept. 16. Seven respondents, or 25 percent,
predicted prices will increase and seven estimated there will be
little change during the period. Last week 50 percent of
surveyed analysts projected a drop.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  