-- 
Morgan Stanley Names Three to Replace Media Group Head Epstein

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-09-09T18:49:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/morgan-stanley-names-three-to-replace-media-group-head-epstein.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the top global
merger adviser last year, named three new heads of its media and
communications  investment-banking  group to replace Stuart J. Epstein, who left to become chief financial officer of NBC
Universal.  Jean Abergel, Max Herrnstein and Adam Shepard will serve as
global co-heads of the group, according to a internal memo
obtained today by Bloomberg News. Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for
the New York-based firm, confirmed the contents of the memo.  NBC Universal, the entertainment company controlled by
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , announced Epstein’s hire on Sept. 7. Epstein
played a key role in creating the venture that gave Comcast, the
largest U.S. cable service, a 51 percent stake in  NBC Universal ,
owner of the broadcast network, movie studio and cable channels
Bravo and USA, according to a statement.  “Stuart’s contributions to the division and the firm have
been tremendous and he will be greatly missed,” Paul J.
Taubman, co-president of the Institutional Securities Group, and
Franck Petitgas, global co-head of investment banking, said in
the memo. “We are confident that Jean, Max and Adam will
provide the strong leadership necessary to continue to build on
the strength and positive momentum in our Global Media &
Communications business.”  Abergel, a 12-year veteran of the firm, is currently head
of the media and communications team in  Europe , while Herrnstein
is head of media in  North America  and Shepard runs the telecom
group in that region, according to the memo. Herrnstein has been
with the firm for 13 years, and Shepard is an 11-year veteran,
according to the memo.  The New York Times reported the promotions earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  