-- 
Lorillard Label Challenge Should Be Rejected, U.S. Says

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-09T23:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/lorillard-challenge-to-new-cigarette-labels-should-be-rejected-u-s-says.html
The U.S. asked a judge to reject a
bid by  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , the maker of Newport cigarettes, and
three other tobacco companies to stop the government from
putting new warnings on cigarette packs.  The U.S.  Justice Department , in a filing today in federal
court in  Washington , said the Food and Drug Administration has
the authority to require labels warning of the health risks of
smoking. The companies are seeking a preliminary injunction
delaying the rule, scheduled to take effect Sept. 22, 2012.  The FDA regulation mandates that cigarette packs, cartons
and advertising display graphic warning labels. The warnings
will be accompanied by pictures of rotting teeth or damaged
lungs to deter smokers.  “The public interest strongly mitigates against delaying
health warnings that more effectively convey the extraordinary,
undisputed health risks created by the use of plaintiffs’
products,” the Justice Department said.  Lorillard, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Commonwealth Brands
Inc. and Liggett Group LLC sued last month saying the regulation
violates the First Amendment.  Ronald Milstein, Greensboro, North Carolina-based
Lorillard’s senior vice president and general counsel, didn’t
immediately return a telephone message after normal business
hours seeking comment on the filing.  Representatives in the public relations department of
 Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , R.J. Reynolds’s parent, didn’t
immediately reply to a phone message seeking comment.  The case is R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. v. U.S. Food and Drug
Administration, 11-cv-1482, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 