-- 
Horn of Africa Leaders Meet in Kenya to Discuss Strategies to Beat Famine

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-09T15:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/horn-of-africa-leaders-meet-in-kenya-to-discuss-strategies-to-beat-famine.html
Heads of state from Horn of  Africa 
nations met in Nairobi to discuss ways of ending a drought in
the region that the United Nations says is killing hundreds of
people every day.  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki, his Somali counterpart,
Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, and Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, are among five government leaders from the most affected
nations who attended the talks today.  A draft summit declaration urges donors to boost technical
and financial support for Somalia’s transitional federal
government and calls for the creation of a “multi-donor” trust
fund for regional disasters. It also requires governments to
increase land under irrigation, boost forest cover and improve
the livelihoods of farmers and pastoralists.  Following two unseasonably dry rainy seasons, about 13.3
million people are in need of assistance, up from a previous
estimate of 12.4 million, the  United Nations  Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The most severely affected country is Somalia, where six
areas in the south are experiencing a famine that has put
750,000 people at risk of starvation, Mark Bowden, the UN’s
humanitarian coordinator for Somalia, said on Sept. 5. Tens of
thousands of people have died from the crisis, Bowden said.  Aid agencies are mostly barred from operating in areas in
Somalia held by al-Shabaab, the al-Qaeda-affiliated rebel group
that has been fighting the Western-backed government since 2007.  Somali Exodus  The situation has prompted more than 250,000 Somalis to
flee the country since the start of the year, with the lion’s
share going to neighboring  Kenya  as well as  Ethiopia , Yemen and
Djibouti, according to OCHA, as the UN agency is known.  Dadaab in northern Kenya, the world’s largest refugee
complex, now hosts more than 500,000 people, Kibaki told the
conference today. It was designed to house 90,000 people when it
opened in 1991.  “The continuous flow of refugees undermines national and
regional security arrangements,” Kibaki said. “It has become
more difficult to control the smuggling of small arms and light
weapons into neighboring countries.”  The drought is a demonstration of climate change linked to
man-made greenhouse-gas emissions, which rich countries are
responsible for, leaving Africa with no choice but to “mitigate
and adapt,” said Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete.  Aid Pledges  Africa contributes less than 3.5 percent of global  carbon
emissions , according to the UN’s Environment Program.  African nations promised $351.7 million in cash and $28
million in other forms of aid at a conference in Ethiopia last
month. The crisis will persist until at least the end of the
year, because even if expected rains come in October it will
take time to cultivate crops, Bowden said.  About 62 percent of the $2.4 billion required to address
the crisis has been raised, according to the UN humanitarian aid
office.  “Often to get food aid is 10 times more in cost than
actually to have sustained production on the ground,”  Jeffrey Sachs , a Columbia University economist, told reporters today in
Nairobi. “If we look at the longer term, the idea of simply
going from crisis to crisis, from devastation to devastation, is
the most costly approach of all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 