-- 
Total Makes ‘Major’ Natural-Gas Discovery in Caspian Sea Off Azerbaijan

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n   a n d   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 
2011-09-09T14:50:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/total-claims-major-gas-discovery-in-azeri-caspian-sea-1-.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-biggest oil
company, has made a “major” natural gas discovery in the
 Caspian Sea  off Azerbaijan that may boost supplies of the fuel
pumped to the European Union.  “This discovery could be very significant in terms of
resources,” Marc Blaizot, Total vice president for exploration,
said in an e-mailed statement. The Absheron block well’s first
results show a potential of several trillion cubic feet of gas
and associated condensates, the company said.  The European Union wants to bring gas supplies from
Azerbaijan and the Caspian Sea basin to replace dwindling North
Sea output and reduce reliance on  Russia  and North Africa.  “Total’s Absheron discovery is extremely significant,”
Jennifer Coolidge, executive director of CMX Caspian and Gulf
Consultants Ltd., said today by e-mail. “It means the total
quantity of gas  Azerbaijan  will seek to move westward through
the Southern Corridor to Europe should increase, benefiting
pipeline projects designed for larger-scale deliveries or
multiple pipeline projects.”  State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan, also known as Socar, said in
June the country would have 25 billion to 30 billion cubic
meters of gas for export by 2020-2025. Azerbaijan has guaranteed
10 billion cubic meters of gas a year for Europe from the second
phase of the BP-led Shah Deniz deposit.  President ‘Confident’  “I am confident that all transit issues will be resolved
by year-end and new markets will be found for Azeri gas,” Azeri
President  Ilham Aliyev  told state news agency Azertac. “This
will certainly boost the importance of our state.”  Transit projects such as the OMV AG-led Nabucco pipeline,
the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline managed by  Statoil ASA (STL)  and EON AG,
and a third link led by Edison SpA, Depa SA and Boru Hatlari Ile
Petrol Tasima AS are vying to carry Azeri output to Europe.  Nabucco has the largest projected capacity among them,
seeking to transport 30 billion cubic meters of the fuel.  Total operates the Absheron development with a 40 percent
interest. The other shareholders are Socar with 40 percent and
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA with 20 percent.  The find at Absheron, which was previously abandoned by a
Chevron Corp-led group that included Total, marks a second
success since Socar announced a gas find at the Umid structure
in November.  Socar estimates the field holds 300 billion cubic meters of
gas, according to a presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku via the Moscow news room at
;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  