-- 
Hungary Stocks Plunge to Two-Year Low as OTP Drops on Loan Plan

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-09T15:31:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/otp-bank-falls-on-hungary-foreign-currency-loan-plan-report.html
Hungarian shares fell to the lowest
in two years, anchored by OTP Bank Nyrt.’s plunge after the
country’s ruling party proposed making lenders bear the cost of
early repayment of foreign-currency loans at fixed rates. The
forint slumped.  The BUX index slumped as much as 8.4 percent and was 6.2
percent lower at 17,041.97 by the 5 p.m. close in Budapest. OTP,
which was briefly suspended for breaching the 10 percent trading
limit, dropped much as 15 percent and traded 11 percent lower at
3,740 forint, the lowest level since July 2009.  Two-thirds of Hungarian mortgages are denominated in the
Swiss currency and the plan to fix the franc exchange rate at
180 forint and the euro at 250 forint for early repayments is
the latest effort to assist borrowers as a weaker forint sent
monthly installments soaring.  “This means serious losses for the financial system and
also puts the forint under pressure,” Attila Vago, an analyst
at Concorde Securities in Budapest, said by phone on the Fidesz
banking plan. “It weighs on the forint from two sides, partly
because such a step threatens the stability of the banking
system and because it creates a sudden demand for foreign
currency.”  The government will discuss the proposal and may make an
announcement on it on Sept. 12, Fidesz spokesman Akos Krakko
said in a telephone interview.  Hungary’s currency slumped 1.5 percent to 231.100 versus
the Swiss franc, snapping a three-day winning streak, and
weakened 1.1 percent against the euro to 279.84. Poland’s zloty
retreated 0.9 percent against the euro.  OTP Impact  The plan in the current form might have an impact of as
much as 700 forint ($3.43) per OTP share if fully implemented,
analysts at Equilor Befektetesi Zrt. led by Akos Kuti in
Budapest wrote in a research report.  “We don’t think the plan will be carried out in this form,
we expect some conditions to be softened later,” the Equilor
analysts said.  The loan proposal “whacked down” the forint and may lead
to further weakening of the currency, Elisabeth Andreew, a
Copenhagen-based strategist at Nordea Bank AB, wrote in an e-
mail today. “Putting all the burden on the banks could
seriously threat financial stability.”  The forint and zloty earlier weakened after the  European
Central Bank  said “downside risks” for the region’s economies
have increased, raising the likelihood borrowers with home loans
denominated in foreign currencies would default.  ‘Temporary Solution’  The Hungarian government agreed with lenders in May to
offer household borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the
chance to fix a franc exchange rate of 180 forint for their
installments until the end of 2014. The difference between the
fixed-rate payments and those that would have resulted under
actual exchange rates will be recorded in separate forint
accounts to be settled from 2015.  That plan only offered “temporary solution” and the
demand for a “permanent solution beyond a temporary one is
justified,” Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said on Sept. 2.  OTP competes mostly with units of international banks,
including  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and
 Bayerische Landesbank , and in the mortgage market with Foldhitel
es Jelzalogbank Nyrt., or FHB.  FHB slid 5.5 percent to 589 forint, the lowest closing
level since April 2009.  Hungary’s government bonds maturing in June 2022 slumped,
lifting the yield 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to
7.246 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  