-- 
Ousted Moscow Mayor Living in U.K., Russian Ambassador Tells BBC

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-09-09T15:48:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ousted-moscow-mayor-living-in-u-k-russian-ambassador-tells-bbc.html
Ousted Moscow mayor Yury Luzhkov,
whose billionaire wife agreed last week to sell her construction
empire, is living in the U.K.,  Russia ’s ambassador to Britain
said.  “I know he is living in Britain, but this is his personal
affair,” Alexander Yakovenko said in an  interview  with the
British Broadcasting Corp. posted on its website.  Russian state media ran a series of critical reports
against Luzhkov and his wife,  Yelena Baturina , in the runup to
the ex-mayor’s sacking last September by President  Dmitry Medvedev . They accused the mayor, 74, of corruption and
favoritism toward his wife, Russia’s richest woman, during his
18-year stewardship of  Europe ’s largest city. Both denied any
impropriety.  Sberbank Investments, a unit of Russia’s state-run lender,
and B&N Bank Chief Executive Officer Mikhail Shishkhanov said
Sept. 6 they had agreed to buy Baturina’s ZAO Inteco
construction company. Lukhkov’s wife decided to sell the company
after getting a fair offer, statements cited her as saying.  In the almost two decades her husband ran  City Hall ,
Baturina, 48, built up a fortune estimated by Forbes in June
2010 at $2.9 billion. Her wealth fell to $1.2 billion, Forbes
said in March.  Inteco is worth about $1.2 billion, according to the sale
announcement, which didn’t specify the price. The company had
debts of around $1 billion, meaning Baturina will get $200
million in cash, the  Vedomosti  newspaper reported Sept. 7.  Prominent Russians  The U.K. is home to other prominent Russians who have
sought exile, including one-time billionaire  Boris Berezovsky ,
provoking friction with Russia. Berezovsky, who received
political asylum in the U.K. after fleeing Russia in 2001, has
been sentenced in absentia to prison for embezzlement.  “Today, there are of course well-known figures like Mr.
Berezovsky” in the U.K., Yakovenko said. “There are also
around 40-50 people who, according to Russian law, are just
criminals.”  “They are linked to various drug deals and to organized
crime and money-laundering and we will work with the U.K.
authorities to ensure they are handed over to the Russian
judiciary,” the ambassador said.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  will hold talks in Moscow
on Sept. 12 with Medvedev and Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ,
becoming the first British leader to visit Russia since 2005 as
relations soured to a post-Cold War low after the 2006 murder of
ex-KGB agent  Alexander Litvinenko  in London.  Deathbed Statement  In a deathbed statement, Litvinenko, a Berezovsky associate
who died of radiation poisoning in London, blamed then-President
Putin for his murder. The Kremlin dismissed the accusation as
“absurd.”  The former chief executive officer of Bank of Moscow,
Andrei Borodin is the subject of an international arrest warrant
by Russian authorities over his connection to a $428 million
loan alleged to have ended up in the accounts of Baturina.
Borodin’s current whereabouts are unknown. The state-run RIA
Novosti news service initially said he was in  London .  Investigators haven’t provided any proof of wrongdoing and
the loan is being repaid on schedule, Borodin’s Moscow-based
attorney Mikhail Dolomanov said in July. Gennady Terebkov, a
spokesman for Inteco, said April 6 that Baturina hasn’t done
anything wrong.  The criminal proceedings against Borodin and state-run VTB
Group’s February takeover of Bank of Moscow, formerly owned
46.5-percent by the Moscow City Hall, were a “political” move
to change the bank’s shareholders, Borodin said Aug. 24 in e-
mailed comments to Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  