-- 
Papandreou Defends Greek Austerity

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-09-10T10:07:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/papandreou-to-defend-greek-austerity-policies-as-opposition-doubts-mount.html
Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
will seek today to counter mounting domestic opposition to
budget cuts and increasing doubts that Greece can avoid default
as a three-year recession worsens.  With the country’s bond yields at records and European
officials increasing pressure on the premier for more cuts
before they dole out a sixth tranche of bailout loans,
Papandreou will deliver a nationally televised address on the
economy from the northern city of Thessaloniki at 8 p.m.  A total of 4,500 police officers are being deployed in the
city to keep order as unions rally, students march against
education reforms, and taxi drivers across Greece strike to
oppose new licensing rules. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, who on Sept. 6 promised to speed austerity measures
pledged in return for emergency loans, said today the situation
was “critical” and urged unity among Greeks.  “The policies to solve the crisis are worse than the Greek
economy’s disease,” said Yiannis Panagopoulos, the head of the
biggest private-sector union federation GSEE “They will deepen
the recession and increase unemployment. For the first time
ever, we will not attend the prime minister’s speech.”  Euro Slump  Papandreou speaks a day after the euro slumped to a six-
month low and the yield on Greek two-year notes surged to a
record 57 percent on concern the country is sliding closer to
default as policy makers remained divided on how to respond.
Those divisions were laid bare yesterday when  Juergen Stark 
resigned from the European Central Bank’s Executive Board in
protest over the bank expanding its bond buying program that
started with Greece.  Speculation of a Greek default is aimed at the euro and
it’s important that it be countered if the region is to stem the
problem, Venizelos said in a speech today in Thessaloniki. “If
the euro zone can’t solve the Greek problem, it will show that
it can’t solve its own.”  Venizelos said the next two months were “decisive for our
existence.” The government must draft a credible 2012 budget,
proceed with state asset sales and complete a voluntary debt
swap by the end of October, he said.  “We can’t survive as a country or emerge from this crisis
without structural reforms,” the minister said, adding that the
country was committed to honoring pledges to the European Union,
 European Central Bank  and International Monetary Fund. “Greece
should be thankful for euro-area help,” he said. “Greece is in
a dire situation.”  Euro Concerns  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said European
nations must show they have the “political will” to get
through the continent’s debt crisis.  “They’re moving, but I think they’re going to have to
demonstrate to the world they have enough political will,”
Geithner said in a Bloomberg Television interview today from
Marseille,  France , where he is attending a meeting of Group of
Seven finance ministers and central bankers. “This is not a
question of financial or economic capacity.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , at a meeting of
Group of Seven nations in Marseille, France, said yesterday
Greece may have to leave the euro if it fails to press ahead
with its budget-cutting plans. The comments echoed remarks by
Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  this week that countries
breaking the region’s budget rules should face expulsion.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  reiterated that
Greece must fulfill the conditions laid down in its adjustment
program to get the next tranche of international aid.  “There can be no doubt” that the two are linked,
Schaeuble told reporters in Marseille, France. “Everybody must
stand by the agreements.”  Germany  is preparing a plan to shore up the nation’s banks
in the event that Greece fails to meet the terms of its aid
package and misses a payment on its debt, three members of
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s coalition said yesterday.  Default Odds  Fears have deepened since a scheduled quarterly review of
Greece’s progress by the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  was unexpectedly suspended for 10 days last week.
Greek sovereign debt jumped 212 basis points yesterday to a
record 3,238, according to CMA. The five-year contracts signal
there’s a 92 percent probability the country won’t meet its debt
commitments.  Venizelos expects the economy to shrink by about 5 percent
this year, worse than the June estimate of 3.8 percent from the
EU and IMF, and a deeper contraction than in the past two years.
The forecast damps hopes that Greece will lower its deficit to
7.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, with the
government blaming the slump for a  budget deficit  that widened
25 percent in the first seven months of the year.  Greece  is aiming at an additional 6.4 billion euros ($9
billion) in savings through the end of the year to meet the 2011
deficit target, part of a 78 billion-euro package of state-asset
sales and budget measures that threatened to topple Papandreou
in June.  Policy Promises  Venizelos this week pledged to immediately transfer state
assets to a fund for sale and place civil servants in a
“reserve” system to retrain them and cut expenses, as well as
merge and shut down dozens of agencies.  Greece’s economy shrank more than previously reported in
the second quarter even as a seasonal pick-up in tourism helped
bring down the June jobless rate, the Athens-based  Hellenic
Statistical Authority  said in an e-mailed statement on Sept. 8.  Gross domestic product shrank 7.3 percent from a year
earlier after declining 8.1 percent on an annual basis in the
first quarter. The figure, based on constant prices and
available non-seasonally adjusted data, is higher than an Aug.
12 preliminary estimate for a 6.9 percent contraction. A
seasonally adjusted figure wasn’t provided.  Nine in 10 Greeks are dissatisfied with the way the
government has handled the country’s economic crisis, according
to a poll by researcher  VPRC  for  Epikaira  magazine on Sept. 8.
Greek opposition New Democracy party’s lead over the governing
Pasok party is widening, while a majority of voters don’t want
early elections, according to opinion polls published over the
weekend.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  