-- 
Payback Feels Right, But Leads to More Terrorism: Robert Wright

-- B y   R o b e r t   W r i g h t
-- 
2011-09-09T00:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/payback-feels-right-but-leads-to-terrorism-commentary-by-robert-wright.html
Just shy of 10 years ago, on Sept.
12, 2001, Secretary of State  Colin Powell  said the U.S. and its
allies would “go after terrorism wherever we find it in the
world” and “get it by its branch and root” so that it could “be
brought to an end.” Things haven’t worked out that way.  Sure, we’ve had our successes. We’ve killed the No. 3 guy
in al-Qaeda at least three times, and we finally even killed the
No. 1 guy. Yet al-Qaeda itself seems to be multiplying. There’s
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb and so on, not to mention various off-brand groups (al-
Shabaab in Somalia, Boko Haram in  Nigeria ) that are on al-
Qaeda’s team. This growing terrorist infrastructure has us mired
in far-flung hostilities -- boots on the ground in Afghanistan
and  Iraq , drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia -- and these
hostilities, in turn, foster the very hatred of America that
keeps the jihadist recruits coming.  So far, these chickens haven’t come home to roost en masse.
In the 10 years since 9/11, only 14 Americans have been killed
by Muslim terrorists on American soil -- several hundred fewer
than have died from lightning strikes. But if we judge by the
number of thwarted acts of home-grown terrorism, the ranks of
American jihadists, though small, have grown. Obviously, if the
terrorists keep multiplying at home and abroad, the terrorism
itself is unlikely to stay in check forever.  Where did we go wrong? Much of the answer may lie in
evolutionary psychology. The human brain was designed by natural
selection to deal with threats effectively, but it was designed
to do that in a particular environment -- a small hunter-
gatherer society. When we take natural impulses tailor-made for
this ancestral environment and deploy them in a modern
environment, bad things can happen. Maybe our big mistake in the
war on terrorism has been to trust our instincts.  ‘Punish Those Responsible’  One of these guiding instincts has been the urge for
retribution. A few hours after the 9/11 attacks, President
 George W. Bush  vowed that “the  United States  will hunt down and
punish those responsible.”  Few things feel more naturally appealing than the idea that
people who harm us should suffer. The appeal works at two
levels. First there’s vengeful rage. Second, there’s something
less visceral -- an intuition, felt long after the rage has
subsided, and felt by bystanders as well as victims, that
wrongdoers deserve punishment, that some sort of balance has
been restored when they’ve paid a price. Together, these two
feelings form a powerful engine for retribution, and
evolutionary psychologists say they’re both in our genes.  The Darwinian logic behind them is simple. In the hunter-
gatherer villages where our ancestors lived, people who were
habitual victims -- who, say, had their food stolen or their
mates stolen -- would be less likely to pass their genes on. So
genes that led to feelings that made people discourage this kind
of exploitation would be favored by natural selection. And
nothing discourages your exploiter from exploiting you again
quite like a series of blows to the head, fueled by rage and
righteous indignation.  Moreover, nothing discourages other villagers from
emulating your exploiter quite like seeing or hearing about this
comeuppance. Indeed, the main value of retaliation for our
ancestors probably lay in this second-order effect, in deterring
lots of would-be transgressors with a single show of force. In a
hunter-gatherer village, you’re usually performing before an
audience, and news of your performance reaches just about
everyone you’ll be dealing with in the future.  So even if retaliation meant sustaining further injury,
even if it meant suffering more harm than you inflicted, it
could make sense as a way of conveying that attempts to exploit
you would carry a cost. In this fact -- that retribution was a
useful tool of pre-emptive self-defense in a particular
environment long ago -- seem to lie the roots of our intuitive
conviction that retribution, in some larger sense, is just.  Moral Intuition  You may wonder where I’m going with this. Am I questioning
our obedience to the retributive impulse? Am I saying Osama bin Laden shouldn’t have been punished? That people who commit mass
murder should go free? We’ll get to this question in the next
paragraph. For now, I’d just point out that the disbelief, even
indignation, that typically accompanies such questions
illustrates my point. Humans are under the sway of a moral
intuition so powerful that questioning it gets them upset. And
if you persist in the questioning -- if you ask why wrongdoers
should be punished -- people sometimes have trouble answering,
because the rightness of retribution is an intuition so widely
shared that we’re rarely asked to justify it.  Of course, you might justify the retribution in pragmatic
terms: If we don’t punish the bin Ladens of the world, they’ll
multiply. Retaliating, in other words, is a good way to protect
our long-term interests. That claim, if true, is powerful. My
point is just that the intuitive appeal of retribution doesn’t
mean the claim is true. It means the claim was true back in the
environment in which our ancestors evolved. But if our species
had instead evolved in an environment where retaliation usually
brought us more harm than good, our moral intuitions would be
different. And it’s at least possible that they’d then be better
suited to the modern world -- that the costs and benefits of
retaliation have changed since the evolution of those
intuitions.  The classic example of our retributive instincts misfiring
in the modern world is road rage. It consists of risking your
life to teach a lesson to a driver you’ll never see again in
front of an audience of drivers you’ll never see again. Not a
lot of upside there.  To President Bush’s credit, his response to 9/11 wasn’t as
assuredly unproductive as road rage. After all, bin Laden wasn’t
going to drive off into the sunset, never to bother us again.
And all possible future attackers of the U.S. were in the
audience, waiting to see how we’d respond. So delivering
negative reinforcement at an acceptable cost would have made
sense. But that didn’t happen.  Attack on  Afghanistan   We began by invading Afghanistan. The move had overwhelming
popular support -- not just because bin Laden was there, but
because the Afghanistan government had knowingly harbored al-
Qaeda and thus naturally evoked our retributive instinct. There
was, as well, a plausible reason for attacking the Afghanistan
government: Punishing Afghanistan’s leaders would discourage
other leaders from letting terrorists build high-profile
training camps in their countries.  The value of delivering this message is debatable; 9/11 was
orchestrated largely from apartments in  Germany , with little
need for high-profile camps. But such fine distinctions are
exactly the kind of thing that the retributive urge overwhelms.  Nor, in our national indignation, did we give a lot of
thought to the possible costs of the war. We now know that, to a
terrorist recruiter, an American invasion of a Muslim nation is
good news, for it feeds the narrative that the U.S. is at war
with Islam. And if American troops get bogged down and wind up
killing innocent civilians every so often -- well, so much the
better. In the new age of transparency, where every mourning
mother can be videotaped and then seen from any country on
YouTube, the value to a terrorist recruiter of a U.S. invasion
and occupation has increased. The retributive instinct, built to
reflect a cost-benefit ratio that prevailed 200,000 years ago,
has in this sense undergone significant obsolescence even within
the last 20 years.  There are people who say the Afghanistan war could have
been wrapped up nicely, without becoming a fiasco, if only we
hadn’t gotten distracted by the  Iraq war . I’m not so sure. I
don’t recall a moment when a graceful exit from Afghanistan
seemed near. Besides, driving the Taliban out of Afghanistan was
bound to exert a destabilizing effect on Pakistan, and that
destabilization -- in a nation with nuclear weapons -- is in
retrospect one of the biggest costs of the war. But, anyway,
let’s grant the premise that the Iraq war was the bigger
blunder. How did human nature draw us into that particular
quagmire?  Once again, our retributive instincts came into play. This
may seem odd, since  Saddam Hussein  played no role in the 9/11
attacks. But supporters of the invasion, apparently determined
not to let any instinct go to waste, strained to argue that the
Hussein regime had “links to al-Qaeda.” So attacking him was a
kind of retributive justice; he deserved to be deposed.  Terrorists in Iraq  It didn’t take long for the costs of this adventure to
become apparent. Iraq turned into a playground and a spawning
ground for jihadists. A whole new al-Qaeda affiliate -- “al-
Qaeda in Mesopotamia” -- sprang up and the presence of U.S.
troops in yet another Muslim country was a blessing for
terrorist recruiters everywhere.  And, alarmingly, this narrative started to take hold with
some American Muslims. Major Nidal Hasan, who at Fort Hood,
 Texas , perpetrated the biggest post-9/11 terrorist attack on
American soil, was, his colleagues said, enraged by the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars. Faisal Shahzad, the would-be Times Square
bomber, was incensed by the killing of Muslims in Afghanistan
and  Pakistan .  Both men had been inspired by, and in Internet contact
with, Anwar al-Awlaki, the infamous jihadist cleric thought to
be in Yemen. This growing contagiousness of jihadism is just a
special case of the growing contagiousness of sentiment in
general, as the Internet makes it easier for people of like mind
to find one another and rev each other up. That’s one reason
people wondered, after the U.S. finally killed bin Laden,
whether the death of any single terrorist leader really matters
much anymore. Thanks to the Internet, there will always be an
Anwar al-Awlaki within reach of aspiring jihadists, and the
question is how much of that sort of aspiration there will be.  So maybe our biggest enemy is the source of the aspiration
-- hatred of the U.S. In which case focusing on killing
terrorist leaders, and in the process creating more hatred of
the U.S., just may not be a winning strategy, regardless of what
our retributive impulses say.  As homegrown terrorism becomes a real prospect, a whole new
self-defeating dynamic can kick in. When frightened Americans
mobilize to stop the building of mosques, and to fight the
imagined threat of Shariah law, more American Muslims see the
U.S. as a country that has declared war on Islam. So we’ll
probably see more homegrown terrorism, which will lead to more
Americans mobilizing against mosques and Shariah law, and hence
more terrorism … and so on.  Nature of Fear  Sustaining this cycle is one of the most ancient of our
impulses for dealing with enemies: fear. Fear has its virtues --
like getting us so energized about threats that we address them.
But it’s in the nature of fear to make threat detection
relatively undiscerning. Indeed, the more fearful you are, the
more likely you are to misidentify things as threatening. Hence
the classic thriller scene where, in a tense moment, a
frightened character jumps out of his skin in reaction to some
noise that turns out to be innocuous. Fear seems to have been
designed for situations in which the costs of not sensing the
peril were high, while the costs of false positives -- of
misidentifying something as a threat -- were low.  But in the current environment, the cost of misidentifying
threats seems pretty high. If Americans think mosques in general
are to be combated, or that Shariah law needs to be checked,
that will alienate Muslims and thus increase the likelihood of
terrorism. Once again, the modern environment renders an ancient
impulse less useful, if not downright counterproductive.  There’s a second sense in which fear is now misfiring. Back
in the ancestral environment, when you heard that someone had
been, say, attacked by a wild beast -- or, scarier still, when
you actually witnessed the attack -- it was cause for alarm.
After all, you only caught wind of things that happened in your
village or one nearby. That area encompassed a small population,
so the chances of your being the next victim were nontrivial.  But these days, when you hear about an attempted terrorist
attack somewhere in the U.S. -- or, scarier still, see the
attempted attack on TV -- there is little real cause for alarm.
After all, the American community is big, so the chances of your
being the next victim are small. But, judging by the recent
behavior of Americans, the mind isn’t naturally good at doing
this math. We seem to respond to scary images on TV almost as if
they reflected nearby threats -- which, after all, is what scary
images always reflected in the ancestral environment, well
before the invention of TV.  Threat Assessment  How would we assess news of terrorism if we weren’t
laboring under ancient impulses? Let’s suppose that the Times
Square bomber had been successful and killed, say, 100 people.
Even if you live in  New York City , your chances of being killed
in a New York terrorist attack of that magnitude would be about
1 in 80,000. If you live in the Midwest, such a bombing is even
less relevant to your welfare. Yet, judging by the TV coverage,
Midwesterners were pretty concerned about the Times Square
incident. And if they weren’t concerned before  Fox News  and  CNN 
got through with them, they were afterward. Thus does TV news
put Americans in a frame of mind that makes them vulnerable to
the manipulation of fear mongers like  Newt Gingrich and Frank
Gaffney and indeed the entire Islamophobia industry .  In short, we’re starting to do on the domestic front what
we did abroad after 9/11: respond to the threat in a way that
exacerbates it. And with both domestic and foreign threats, this
can mean a vicious circle. More terrorism leads to more
counterproductive reactions, which leads to more terrorism, and
so on. Once these dynamics are in play both at home and abroad,
and are reinforcing each other, it’s not crazy to imagine that
we could see a true clash of civilizations -- a clash that could
eventually involve nuclear or biological weapons.  If so, the root cause may be disarmingly simple: that we’re
operating under the influence of brains that were designed for a
very different environment. We weren’t built to survive in the
modern world, and I’m not taking it for granted that we will.  (Robert Wright, a fellow at the  New America Foundation  and
Editor-in-Chief of  Bloggingheads.tv , is the author of “The Moral
Animal: Evolutionary Psychology and Everyday Life” and, most
recently, “ The Evolution of God .” The opinions expressed are his
own.)  For Related News and Information:  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Wright at  wright@newamerica.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  