-- 
Perry’s Ponzi-Talk Implies Fraud in Social Security

-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/perry-s-ponzi-talk-implies-fraud-in-long-popular-social-security.html
Charles Ponzi was a legendary Boston
swindler who promised investors 100 percent returns in 90 days
if they joined a scheme to buy and sell international postal
coupons. In 1920, after roughly seven months of easy riches, he
was exposed as a fraud and arrested.  Social Security is a government-run insurance program that
provides the typical retiree with single-digit returns on
contributions deducted from their paychecks over the course of
their working lives. The program has operated for 76 years amid
praise from presidents of both parties. In 1983, even as staunch
a critic of big government as President  Ronald Reagan  vowed:
“The Social Security system must be preserved.”  To presidential hopeful Texas Governor  Rick Perry , however,
the country’s most expensive entitlement program is a financial
con that would have made Charles Ponzi blush. “It is a  Ponzi
scheme  to tell our kids that are 25 or 30 years old today,
you’re paying into a program that’s going to be there,” Perry
said during a Sept. 7 debate of the Republican presidential
candidates, reprising a theme from his 2010 book “Fed Up.”  Experts on both Ponzi schemes and Social Security say Perry
is wrong. “Ponzi schemes are, by definition, fraud,” said
Mitchell Zuckoff, author of “Ponzi’s Scheme: The True Story of
a Financial Legend.”  “Social Security is above board,” he added. “We can
argue about whether it’s a good system. But you can’t call it a
fraud.”  Changes Needed  Peter Diamond , a Nobel Prize-winning economist at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in Cambridge, said changes
are needed to make Social Security financially viable for the
long run. People are living longer than in the 1930s and there
are fewer workers for each retiree.  Even so, Perry’s remarks are “inherently misleading,”
Diamond said. The economist favors a mix of benefit cuts and
revenue increases to shore up the current system.  Ponzi schemes pay investors with money from subsequent
participants. Once new people stop handing over their money,
such schemes collapse. To critics of Social Security, such as
Perry, the program’s use of  payroll tax  revenue from today’s
workers to pay benefits for those who preceded them in the
workforce smacks of such an arrangement.  “He’s basically correct on the structure of it,” said
Michael Tanner, an analyst at the Washington, D.C.-based Cato
Institute. “The government can just make people pay more taxes.
But the basic idea of transferring money from one generation of
individuals to the next is the same.”  Millions Benefit  Zuckoff says there’s a big difference between tricking
innocents into making doomed investments and a social insurance
program that has benefitted millions of Americans. In December
2010, 54 million Americans received either retirement or
disability payments under the Social Security program.  Poverty among elderly Americans was endemic before the
program was created in 1935. The first benefit checks weren’t
issued until 1940, and as late as 1959 more than 35 percent of
the elderly were living below the poverty line, according to the
 Social Security Administration . In 2009, the most recent Census
Bureau data available shows, the figure was 8.9 percent.  In 1983, Congress enacted the recommendations of a
bipartisan commission aimed at solidifying the program’s
finances. Earnings of high-income Social Security recipients
were taxed and the age at which full benefits were received was
slowly increased to 67 for those born after 1959.  Those fixes sufficed until now. Last year, for the first
time since 1983, Social Security spent more than it collected in
revenues. A $49 billion deficit was covered with withdrawals
from the program’s so-called “trust fund,” an accounting
mechanism that tracks revenues from a dedicated payroll tax.  Deficits Projected  The Social Security and Medicare Trustees project a deficit
this year of $46 billion and continuing annual shortfalls until
the $2.5 trillion fund is exhausted in 2036. Beyond that point,
the program is expected to have sufficient funds from continuing
infusions of payroll taxes to pay about 75 percent of promised
benefits.  Perry’s aversion to the program is nothing new. In his 2010
book “Fed Up,” he lambastes Social Security as a “crumbling
monument to the failure of the New Deal” and likens it to “a
bad disease.”  The  Texas  governor’s remarks tap a deep vein of
conservative antipathy to Social Security that dates to the
program’s founding. In April, Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of
Texas, a member of the House Republican leadership, said Social
Security -- along with Medicare and Medicaid -- were “morphing
into cruel Ponzi schemes.”  ’Pay-As-You-Go’  Those running the program are accustomed to beating back
accusations of shady behavior. The Social Security
Administration’s historian produced a research note in 2009
distinguishing between the program and various financial scams.  “Social Security is and always has been either a ‘pay-as-
you-go’ system or one that was partially advance-funded,”
concluded Larry DeWitt, a program historian. “Its structure,
logic and mode of operation have nothing in common with Ponzi
schemes or chain letters or pyramid schemes.”  Yesterday, House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  defended
Perry’s language. “The point the governor was trying to make is
the math doesn’t lie and the numbers don’t add up,” Cantor said
at a Christian Science Monitor lunch. “We need to face the fact
that people are expecting government to live up to its
promises.”  Other Republicans said the Texas governor’s take-no-
prisoners language risked spooking voters. Calling Social
Security a Ponzi scheme was “dumb,” said Governor Gary Herbert
of  Utah .  Democrats crowed over a statement they regarded as
political gold. “Ponzi Perry just lost the general election,”
former Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm tweeted during the
debate.  As for Charles Ponzi, after bouncing between prison and
fresh scams in  Florida  and his native  Italy , he died in 1949 in
the charity ward of a Rio de Janeiro hospital. He was 66. Says
biographer Zuckoff: “He could have used Social Security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  