-- 
Peru Central Bank Signals Readiness to Cut 4.25% Rate to Safeguard Economy

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-09T17:18:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/peru-signals-readiness-to-cut-4-25-rate-to-safeguard-economy.html
Peru ’s central bank kept its
benchmark lending rate unchanged for a fourth month yesterday
and indicated its readiness to cut borrowing costs to protect
the country’s economy from a global slowdown.  The seven-member board, led by central bank President Julio Velarde, held the overnight rate at 4.25 percent, matching the
estimates of all 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This decision reflects the deceleration in economic
activity and heightening of international financial risks,”
policy makers said in their  statement  posted on the bank’s
website. “The central bank will modify monetary policy if these
trends continue.”  Europe ’s debt crisis and stagnation in the U.S., the
world’s largest economy, may undermine Peru’s commodity-
dependent growth, policy makers said when they left rates
unchanged at their last meeting on Aug. 11. Though  Mexico  has
been on hold since 2009,  Colombia ,  Chile  have also halted rate
increases in the past few months, while Banco Central do Brasil
cut its key rate for the first time in more than two years on
Aug. 31.  “The central bank introduced an indirect, although clear,
easing bias going forward given heightened concerns with the
global economic backdrop and evidence that domestic activity has
now slowed down to a more moderate pace,”  Alberto Ramos , a
senior  Latin America  economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in
New York, wrote in a research note e-mailed to investors.  Domestic Slowdown  The central bank expects Latin America’s sixth-biggest
economy to expand 6.3 percent in 2011, and 6 percent in 2012,
down from previous forecasts of 6.5 percent for both years,
Velarde told congress on Sept. 6. Over the past five years,
Peruvian growth averaged 7.2 percent.  A 35 percent surge in imports that increased company
inventories in the first half of the year masked a slowdown in
investment sparked by concern President  Ollanta Humala , who took
office July 28, would reverse policies that made Peru the
region’s fastest growing economy in the past decade.  The $153 billion economy expanded 6.6 percent in the second
quarter, the slowest pace in more than a year, as construction
output stalled and manufacturing growth weakened.  The national statistics institute is scheduled to report on
gross domestic growth for July on Sept. 15. GDP rose 5.3 percent
in June from a year earlier, the institute said Aug. 15, the
slowest pace in 17 months.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7272 per dollar at 1:16
p.m. New York time to pare its gain since April 29 to 3.6
percent, the best performance among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Make Adjustments’  Though the central bank is focused on reining in inflation,
which is running at a two-year high of 3.35 percent, policy
makers stand ready to adjust rate policy if the global economy
deteriorates, Velarde said.  “We have an array of munitions on the monetary and fiscal
side and can act quickly if the more negative scenario
materializes,” Velarde said. “We can cut  interest rates , lower
 reserve requirements , and inject liquidity.”  Policy makers are concerned slower global growth may
exacerbate a deceleration in private investment that banks
including Barclays Capital Inc. expect to become more apparent
in the third quarter of this year.  “The board will monitor the outlook for inflation and its
internal and external determinants and make adjustments to
monetary policy instruments in order to guarantee inflation
converges to the target range in a context of economic growth,”
policy makers said in their statement yesterday.  ‘Conservative’ Plans, Prices  The government has drafted what Finance Minister Miguel Castilla on Sept. 1 called “conservative” 2012 spending plans
in case metal prices drop, and is ready shore up demand if a
slowdown threatens metal exports and a projected $73 billion of
private investment over the next five years.  Slower activity and declining international food and energy
prices will keep monthly inflation around the central bank’s
target of 0.2 percent for the rest of the year, said Isaac
Foinquinos, an economist at  BBVA Banco Continental , in a Sept. 1
note to investors.  Consumer prices rose 0.27 percent in August on a monthly
basis, after jumping 0.79 percent in July. Annual inflation will
probably end 2011 at 4 percent, BNP Paribas analysts including
Italo Lombardi wrote in a Sept. 2 report.  The central bank targets inflation of 1 percent to 3
percent.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent
sol-denominated bond due August 2020 fell one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 5.42 percent at 12:34 p.m. in  New
York , the lowest since May 2009, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘The Next Move’  The global slowdown led  Brazil ’s central bank to
unexpectedly cut its benchmark rate last week even as inflation
runs above target. The reduction marked the start of monetary
easing in the region, according to Bank of America.  With the exception of Colombia, Latin America’s central
banks will “move swiftly and cut policy rates much sooner”
than their Asian counterparts, the bank said in a Sept. 1
report. Peru’s central bank will reduce its key rate by 25 basis
points by the end of next year, Bank of America said.  “In all, we are of the view that the central bank has now
signaled that it has ended/closed the rate normalization cycle
and that the next move may well be a rate cut; at a time that
the evolution of the domestic and the increasingly relevant
external factors will dictate,” Ramos wrote in his report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 