-- 
Philippine Stocks: Atlas Mining, Lepanto, PAL, San Miguel

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T04:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/philippine-stocks-lepanto-manila-mining-nihao-mineral.html
Shares of the following companies
had unusual moves in Philippine trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the noon close in Manila  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 0.2 percent to
4,346.07, snapping a two-day rally and extending this week’s
loss to 1.1 percent.  Gold, copper producers:  Lepanto Consolidated Mining (LC)  Co.’s
Class A shares (LC PM), which are reserved for Filipinos,
climbed 1.4 percent to 1.42 pesos on speculation gold and copper
prices will rise next week.  Atlas Consolidated Mining &
Development (AT)  Corp rose 1.7 percent to 20.50 pesos, the
highest close since Aug. 16.  Gold may gain next week as concern about economic growth
spurs demand for the metal as a protection of wealth, according
to 22 of 26 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Seven of 15 respondents in a separate Bloomberg
survey expect copper to rise on speculation  China  will
accelerate imports.  PAL Holdings Inc. (PAL)   decreased 2.8 percent to 6.30
pesos, the first loss in three days, after its unit said it will
raise debt so employees it fired will be paid their benefits.
Philippine Airlines Inc., the nation’s biggest carrier and a
unit of the company, said it will borrow $50 million from Credit
Suisse Group AG to pay for the separation and other benefits of
about 2,400 workers who will lose their jobs because of the
company’s outsourcing program.  San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  , the largest Philippine food and
drinks company, increased 2.1 percent to 124.50 pesos, the
sharpest advance since Aug. 18.  San Miguel  will stay as a listed
company and “contemplate” listing all its operating
subsidiares, President Ramon Ang said. Ang issued the statement
following a comment that he would prefer the company to buy back
its shares and become privately held, because disclosure
requirements hamper acquisition plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  