-- 
Pinera Sends Bill to Lower Interest-Rate Cap on Small Loans

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-09T17:29:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/pinera-sends-bill-to-lower-interest-rate-cap-on-small-loans-2-.html
Chile ’s President Sebastian Pinera
will send a bill to Congress that would lower the maximum
 interest rate  on loans to consumers and smaller businesses.  The measure is part of the government’s efforts to reach a
more “harmonious” balance between lenders and borrowers and
prevent abuses, Pinera said in a speech today before signing the
document in a ceremony at the presidential palace in Santiago.  Chilean authorities are toughening consumer lending rules
and supervision after retailer Empresas La Polar SA detected
credit irregularities affecting about a million of its
customers. The bill unveiled today aims to protect borrowers
with less financial knowhow without reducing their access to
formal credit markets, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said.  “The most important thing to us is that there is more
concern for consumers here than the level of bank earnings,” he
told reporters. “Our concern is that consumers are treated well
and that debtors receive fair treatment and fair coverage.”  The bill cuts the maximum rate on peso-denominated loans of
more than 90 days for an amount less than $9,500, according to a
government statement. The ceiling will fall to 1.35 times the
market average, from 1.5 times, or the average plus 12
percentage points, whichever is lower. The maximum annual rate
may fall from above 50 percent to below 40 percent.  The government also plans to establish an agency that acts
as a watchdog for financial consumers and a service that
discloses people’s full borrowing status.  Banco Santander Chile (BSAN)  and Banco de Chile, the country’s two
largest lenders, fell 4 percent to 38.5 pesos and 1.1 percent to
64 pesos, respectively, at 1:22 p.m. New York time in Santiago
trading. Chile’s Ipsa index slid 1.9 percent.  The two banks last year reported their highest annual
profit since Bloomberg records begin in 1991.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 