-- 
Polish Opposition Leader Says Cutting Polish Deficit ‘Tough’

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-09T13:50:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/polish-opposition-leader-says-cutting-polish-deficit-tough-1-.html
It will be “tough” to cut the
Polish  budget deficit  to within 3 percent of gross domestic
product next year,  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , head of  Poland ’s largest
opposition party, said today in an interview in Krynica,
southern Poland.  The deficit reduction is still “possible,” he added.  The government of Prime Minister Donald Tusk has said it
will lower the general government deficit to within the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP in 2012 from 7.9 percent last
year. The budget gap has more than quadrupled since 2007 and
exceeded the EU’s ceiling for a third year in 2010. The European
Commission has given Poland until next year to exit the so-
called excessive deficit procedure.  Poland will be voting in parliamentary elections exactly a
month from now. Support for the prime minister’s Civic Platform
rose to 35 percent, while backing for Kaczynski’s Law & Justice
grew 1 percentage point to 22 percent, a Sept. 1-4 survey of 983
adult Poles found. Relations between the Platform and Law &
Justice, a one-time ally, hit a low after former President  Lech
Kaczynski  was killed in a plane crash last year. Kaczynski’s
twin brother, the party leader, has said the government is
partly to blame for the accident.  According to Kaczynski, concerns expressed by economists
and investors in Poland’s assets that he may introduce a looser
fiscal policy that would increase the budget deficit and swell
public debt further is “an effect of propaganda.”  “When we were in government, Poland’s public finances
improved significantly,” he said. “I’m convinced that if we
were in government now, they would be in a far better state than
they are now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz in Warsaw at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  