-- 
Postal Service Needs ‘Dramatic Action’ From Obama, Carper Says

-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 
2011-09-09T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/postal-service-needs-dramatic-action-from-obama-carper-says.html
President  Barack Obama  should take
“immediate and dramatic action” to save the U.S. Postal
Service from insolvency, Senator Thomas Carper, a Delaware
Democrat, told him in a letter.  The service, which says it will run out of cash within a
year without relief from laws governing it, must make changes
akin to what the U.S. auto industry did two years ago, Carper
said yesterday in a letter to Obama. The service needs help from
the White House to do so, wrote Carper, the chairman of a Senate
subcommittee overseeing the service.  Obama proposed two postal changes in his budget this year
and has since left the debate to Congress. Carper said he
expects the administration to send a proposal “in the coming
days” to a 12-member congressional committee charged with
coming up with a long-term deficit plan.  “While the situation is dire, it is not hopeless,” Carper
wrote in the letter. “Like the American troubled automobile
manufacturers did as they faced a crisis that threatened their
survival, the  Postal Service  needs to rightsize to reflect the
changing demand for the products and services it offers.”  Carper asked Obama to allow the Postal Service to end
Saturday mail delivery, sell more products and services, get a
refund of overpayments to federal retirement programs and to
restructure mandated payments for health-benefit costs for
future retirees.  One Week’s Cash  Carper, who is sponsoring a bill to allow the Postal
Service to make the changes he suggested, sent his letter two
days after Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe told a Senate
panel his agency is operating with a week’s worth of cash and
increased the loss forecast for the fiscal year ending Sept. 30
to $10 billion.  The service is trying to close post offices and processing
plants, cut the number of employees and end Saturday delivery.
Carper said moving to five days of delivery from six “would be
especially necessary if the Postal Service is unsuccessful in
working with its two letter-carrier unions during the collective
bargaining process in the coming months in making Saturday
delivery more cost-effective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  