-- 
San Diego Utility Restores Power to Almost Half of Blacked-Out Households

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n ,   L y n n   D o a n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-09-09T10:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/power-outage-affects-thousands-of-people-in-southern-california-arizona.html
Sempra Energy (SRE) ’s San Diego Gas &
Electric said electricity supplies were restored to almost half
of its customers in Southern  California  after a transmission
line failure yesterday cut power to 1.46 million homes.  About 694,000 homes have been reconnected, the company said
in a message posted today on Twitter. Electricity at San Diego
International Airport is also restored, Jennifer Ramp, a
spokeswoman for the utility, said by telephone. Local power
plants are in the process of restarting, she said.  The fault snarled traffic, crippled emergency response
systems and knocked out President  Barack Obama ’s televised
speech. The blackout hit San Diego just before rush hour, on the
night Obama addressed Congress on jobs and the economy and the
NFL pro football season kicked off. Commuters languished as
traffic lights went out in the region and emergency services
were hampered as SDG&E lost power to its entire service area of
1.4 million customers.  “As we are energizing our system, we need Californians to
conserve so we can safely restore the power,” Ramp said. “We
are going to have high temperatures again.”  San Diego temperatures will reach as high as 78 degrees
Fahrenheit today (26 Celsius) according to AccuWeather.com data
on Bloomberg.  Worker Activity  A 500-kilovolt electric transmission line near Yuma,
 Arizona , tripped off, probably because of a worker’s activity,
Arizona Public Service, one of the line’s owners, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. The company said it is investigating
why safeguards failed to isolate the problem.  San Diego International Airport, which handles about 300
flights daily, was operating on backup generator power and
halted all outgoing flights, Rebecca Bloomfield, a spokeswoman,
said yesterday.  The California National Guard was placed on alert, and the
state’s Emergency Management Agency is on standby, said Jordan
Scott, an agency spokesman.  “We’ve been in contact with everybody to make sure that at
least the 911 lines are working,” he said.  The downed line, also owned by SDG&E and the Imperial
Irrigation District, carries power from Arizona to  Southern
California , Ramp said yesterday. While it was back in service by
around 7 p.m. local time, power to SDG&E customers won’t be
restored until today, she said.  Nuclear Units Shut  Arizona emergency management officials were monitoring
power losses to about 56,000 residents and businesses in the
Yuma County area on the California border.  Edison
International (EIX) ’s twin nuclear units at San Onofre, California,
also shut down, leaving about 2,000 customers in Riverside and
Orange counties without power, Charles Coleman, a spokesman for
the utility, said in an e-mail.  The failure caused no safety problems at San Onofre, said
Gil Alexander, a spokesman for Southern California Edison.  California ISO, the state’s electricity grid operator,
suspended its power wholesale market at 6 p.m. local time “due
to a transmission emergency.” The administrative price is set
at $250 per megawatt-hour.  “The ISO has suspended its Automatic Dispatch System and
will be providing verbal dispatches until further notice,” the
grid operator said in an e-mailed notice to members.  Protect Against Surges  The ISO issued a Flex Alert asking people to conserve power
and for customers without power to turn off air conditioners and
appliances to protect against surges, it said in a statement.  Laureen Salvagnini, a  Maryland  resident, said her daughter
and grandson in Yuma retreated to their car to keep cool in the
118-degree heat.  “They don’t have AC, so where can they go to get out of
the heat?” Salvagnini said in an e-mail. “We are dealing with
flooding here in Maryland and she’s with no power.”  Southern California Edison and the Los Angeles Department
of Water and Power are increasing output to compensate for the
loss in Southern California, said Don Boland, executive director
of the California Utilities Emergency Association, which
coordinates response to major power failures.  Residents of San Diego were caught off guard. A mile-long
commute home from her Solana Beach office, north of  San Diego ,
took about an hour, said Rachel Kay, president of Rachel Kay
Public Relations.  “I saw tons of sirens and cops but I’m not sure where they
were going,” she said. “Fire engines were blazing.”  Emergency Plans  Kay, reached by telephone at home yesterday, said she was
barbecuing the food in her refrigerator before it went bad and
said her neighbors were doing the same.  “Living in San Diego, I think most of us don’t have
personal emergency plans, we just don’t have severe weather,”
she said. “I don’t know where my flashlights are, I don’t have
bottled water and I don’t have food after today.”  People were turning to their car radios for news,  Jim
Farley , chief executive officer of Leichtag Family Foundation in
Carlsbad, said. Farley said he remained in his office near
Legoland for a while after the lights went out, and canceled a
charity reception at the La Costa resort.  The California ISO said it was coordinating with SDG&E and
its neighboring utilities in Arizona and  Mexico  on restoring
service to customers.  In February 2008, a field engineer diagnosing a
malfunctioning switch on a substation in west Miami caused
cascading power failures that affected millions of Florida Power
& Light Co. customers in South Florida for hours. The utility
eventually agreed to pay a $25 million civil penalty as part of
a settlement with the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission .  The biggest blackout in the U.S. occurred on Aug. 15, 2003,
triggered by the loss of several transmission lines in the U.S.
Midwest. Those failures caused additional lines and plants to go
out of service and disrupted power to 49 million households in
eight states and Ontario.  The power failures shut the New York City subways, the
nation’s largest transit system with 4.6 million riders daily.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net 
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 