-- 
PPR Held Talks to Buy Italian Suitmaker Brioni

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-09-09T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ppr-held-talks-to-buy-italian-suitmaker-brioni.html
PPR (PP)  SA, the French owner of Gucci,
has held talks to acquire Italian luxury suitmaker Brioni Roman
Style SpA and could consider buying a Chinese brand, Chief
Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said.  “We have had discussions with them, like others, but it’s
not finalized,” Pinault said in an interview today in Beijing,
referring to Penne, Italy-based Brioni.  The CEO said PPR is competing against rivals and private-
equity investors for the clothier, which is controlled by three
families and had revenue of about 206.5 million euros ($286.3
million) in 2008, the last year for which figures are available.
He declined to comment on whether he’s made a binding offer.  Acquiring Brioni would mark a further step in PPR’s
strategy to focus on its  luxury-goods  and sports and lifestyle
units, while exiting retail. Pinault is also keen to expand in
 China , where luxury-goods sales are set to rise 18 percent a
year to 180 billion yuan ($28 billion) between 2010 and 2015,
consultant McKinsey & Co. has estimated.  PPR would be interested in acquiring a Chinese brand “with
its own identity,” Pinault said. “I’ve never seen such an
opportunity yet. There’s no reason why it couldn’t happen.”  Sales at PPR’s luxury division rose 23 percent in the first
half, boosted by Chinese demand for the Gucci and Bottega Veneta
lines, the company said in July. Pinault said at the time that a
“very strong” appetite for luxury goods, particularly in  Asia ,
should help it achieve better results this year.  Focusing on Luxury  PPR isn’t interested in Chinese brands “following the
European concept of luxury goods,” Pinault said. “It has to
have its own personality.”  Rival  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, the French maker of Kelly
handbags, opened its first store under the Shang Xia label in
 Shanghai  last year.  PPR is interested small- or medium-sized companies with
potential for growth, Pinault has said. The company, which seeks
to add to its jewelry portfolio, “looked at a brand that was
born in  Hong Kong , but it’s too small,” he said.  China is the biggest market for PPR’s luxury division,
exceeding the U.S., he said. China “delivering growth and
profitability will offset maybe some weakness that could arise
in Europe or America,” Pinault said.  Still, “as of today I didn’t see any sign of weakness
anywhere in the world, not even in  Europe ,” the CEO said.  PPR is reorganizing to focus on its luxury-goods division,
which includes Gucci, and a sports and lifestyle unit headed by
Puma to tap rising demand for branded clothing and accessories
in Asia and  Latin America . The company, which sold furniture
retailer Conforama in March, also plans to dispose of online
retailer Redcats and the Fnac electronics and media chain, with
some of the proceeds being used on acquisitions.  Pinault said “access to finance by the potential acquirers
is a crucial point” in PPR’s efforts to sell Redcats. “There
is a risk, for sure,” he said, declining to comment further.  Redcats may draw bids from buyout companies including TPG
Capital, Bain Capital LLC and Permira Advisers LLP, people with
knowledge of the matter said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  