-- 
Providence Is Increasing Blackboard Buyout Loan as Fund Outflows Subside

-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 
2011-09-09T13:27:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/providence-is-increasing-blackboard-buyout-loan-as-fund-outflows-subside.html
Providence Equity Partners Inc.
leads private-equity firms this week in seeking $5.18 billion of
leveraged-loans backing buyouts as outflows from funds that buy
the debt moderate.  The financing backing Providence’s purchase of education
software maker  Blackboard Inc. (BBBB)  was increased to $1.23 billion
from $1.15 billion as the investment firm looks to merge the
company with Edline LLC, a provider of K-12 Web-based
communication solutions, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Telx Group Inc. set the initial rate on $340 million
of debt it’s seeking to finance its leveraged buyout by Abry
Partners LLC and Berkshire Partners LLC.  Investors pulled $598 million from funds that buy floating-
rate bank debt for the week ended Sept. 1, down from outflows of
$853 million the week before, according to data from EPFR
Global. Leveraged-loan prices have risen 0.04 cent this month,
compared with a decline of 5.25 cents during August, according
to the Standard & Poor’s LSTA Leveraged 100 index.  “Recently there has been money coming back into the system
and redemptions are subsiding, which makes the forward calendar
look less daunting,” Douglas Antonacci, the New York-based co-
head of loan sales at Bank of America Corp., said in a telephone
interview.  Floating-rate funds recorded a record outflow of $1.88
billion in the week ended Aug. 17, according to Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based EPFR Global. Outflows during August totaled
$4.32 billion.  Loan Prices  The S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan 100 Index, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, rose to
89.54 cents on Sept. 8, from 87.47 cents on Aug. 26. First-lien
debt is repaid first in a bankruptcy or liquidation, second-lien
debt is repaid next.  High-yield bonds and leveraged loans are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Only $1.6 billion of leveraged loans were sold in August, a
two-year low, according to a Citigroup Inc. research report
dated Sept. 7 led by  Michael Anderson . About $14.3 billion of
leveraged loans are in the pipeline as of a week ago, according
to the New York-based lender.  Blackboard is seeking a $780 million first-lien term loan
due in seven years, a $350 million second-lien term loan
maturing in eight years, and a five-year, $100 million revolving
line of credit, Bloomberg data show.  Blackboard Financing  Bank of America, Deutsche Bank AG, and Morgan Stanley are
arranging the debt, which is covenant-lite, meaning it doesn’t
contain any financial maintenance requirements, according to the
data.  S&P yesterday lowered its corporate  credit rating  on
Blackboard to B from B+, and assigned the first-lien debt
facilities B+ and the second-lien credit CCC+. The ratings
company cited higher leverage, or debt to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, of about eight
times as a result of the leveraged buyout.  “We expect it to decline somewhat over the coming year,
given our expectation for continued revenue and Ebitda growth,”
Jacob Schlanger, New York-based credit analyst, wrote in the
report.  The Washington-based company initially was seeking to
borrow $1.15 billion in loans and had outlined price guidance on
a $700 million, first-lien  term loan  of 4.75 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, according to an
Aug. 5 regulatory filing. The company proposed to sell the
second-lien debt at 8 percentage points more than the lending
benchmark. Libor on both loans has a 1.5 percent floor.  Telx Loan  Telx is seeking $340 million of loans, including a $290
million term loan B, Bloomberg data show. The company is
proposing to pay 6.25 percentage points more than Libor on the
six-year debt, and the lending benchmark will have a 1.25
percent floor.  Morgan Stanley and Toronto-Dominion Bank are arranging the
financing, which includes a $50 million, five-year revolving
line of credit. The debt will pay 4.5 percentage points more
than Libor. New York-based Telx is proposing to sell the loan
and revolver at 96 cents to 97 cents on the dollar. A term loan
B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as collateralized loan
obligations, bank loan mutual funds and  hedge funds . In a
revolving credit, money can be borrowed again once it’s repaid;
in a term loan, it can’t.  BJ’s Wholesale Club  BJ’s Wholesale Club Inc. (BJ)  will begin selling $2.58 billion
of loans to back its buyout by private-equity firms Leonard
Green & Partners LLP and  CVC Capital Partners  on Sept. 12,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter who declined
to be identified because the deal is private.  Renaissance Learning Inc. (RLRN)  will begin selling a $270 million
term loan next week to support its acquisition by Permira
Advisers LLC, according to another person familiar with the
transaction who also declined to be identified because it’s
private.  “Borrowers are conceding that there’s volatility in the
market now and that they will have to pay higher rates to
complete a transaction,”  Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New
Jersey-based special situations, merger arbitrage strategist at
Tullett Prebon Plc, said in a telephone interview. “And they
are still moving forward and announcing deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 