-- 
Rajaratnam Protests ‘Grotesquely Severe’ Government Sentencing Request

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/raj-rajaratnam-court-filing-argues-against-grotesquely-severe-punishment.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam said the punishment sought by the government for his
insider-trading convictions is “grotesquely severe” and should
be rejected by the court. The U.S. said a long prison sentence
is warranted.  Rajaratnam, 54, yesterday asked U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in  Manhattan  for a sentence “substantially below” what
is called for by federal guidelines. The government’s requested
sentence of 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years “would guarantee Mr.
Rajaratnam’s death in prison,” he said in a court filing.  “This court’s role is not to validate a prosecutorial
public relations effort, nor is it to single out one man to
serve as the whipping boy for Wall Street misdeeds,” Rajaratnam
argued.  Rajaratnam was convicted in May of all 14 criminal counts
of conspiracy and securities fraud he was charged with. He’s
scheduled to be sentenced Sept. 27. Rajaratnam argued that the
government’s requested sentence is more than the average
sentence imposed for kidnapping and hostage-taking, sexual
abuse, robbery, arson and child pornography.  Government Response  Assistant U.S. Attorneys  Reed Brodsky  and Jonathan Streeter, who prosecuted the case, asked Holwell in a filing
yesterday to reject Rajaratnam’s pleas for leniency based on his
poor health and charitable contributions.  “In arguing for leniency because of his health, Rajaratnam
overlooks that he committed his crimes for years after he knew
about his medical problems and thus he is in no position to seek
leniency now based on them,” they said.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office, declined to comment on the
Rajaratnam filing.  After the verdict, prosecutors sought to have Rajaratnam,
who is free on $100 million bond, taken into custody. Streeter
said Rajaratnam, who holds U.S. and Sri Lankan citizenship, had
incentive to flee. Streeter said that in the 22 years the U.S.
has had an extradition treaty with  Sri Lanka  “not one single
Sri Lankan citizen has ever been extradited.”  Holwell denied the request after defense lawyer  John Dowd 
said Rajaratnam had also placed $70 million in a U.S. escrow
account.  ‘A Serious Crime’  In yesterday’s filing, Dowd called his client’s conviction
“a serious crime to be sure, but there is nothing about Mr.
Rajaratnam’s conduct, as found by the jury, to justify a
sentence decades longer than the sentences ordinarily imposed in
insider trading cases.”  In court papers filed late yesterday, prosecutors said
reductions in prison terms for health reasons are only warranted
under an “extraordinary health condition” that the U.S. prison
system isn’t equipped to handle.  They said Rajaratnam hasn’t submitted any information about
his medical condition in any public filings and said they may
ask the court to unseal “substantial portions” of defense
submissions relating to Rajaratnam’s medical conditions.  “Rajaratnam is arguably the most egregious offender of the
insider trading laws prosecuted to date,” Streeter and Brodsky
said. “Rajaratnam has only himself to blame for his criminal
conduct, the sentence he receives, and the collateral
consequences of being a convicted felon.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 