-- 
Randgold Says W. African Gold ‘Juniors’ Struggle to Find Buyers

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-09-09T10:23:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/randgold-says-w-african-gold-juniors-struggle-to-find-buyers.html
Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS) , the best-
performing London-traded gold producer this year, said West
African gold developers’ discoveries are too small to make them
attractive takeover targets for major producers.  “You have all these little projects being developed, and
the juniors promoted them in the expectation that someone would
buy them and develop the mine,”  Mark Bristow , chief executive
officer of the St. Helier, Jersey-based company said yesterday
in an interview. “The juniors overpromoted their projects, the
big guys didn’t come and buy them, and now they’re stuck there
holding them.”  Companies are working to boost gold production as prices
for the precious metal hit record highs and are on course for an
11th straight annual gain due to concerns over global growth and
sovereign debt. There were $20 billion of gold takeovers during
the second quarter, the most in at least 10 years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Consolidation will be more amongst West African gold
juniors rather than any major taking them over,” Anna Kassianos, resources analyst with Austock Securities Ltd. in
Sydney, said by phone. She named  Perseus Mining Ltd. (PRU)  and
Resolute Minerals Ltd. as examples of companies that could be
merged to make a good-sized gold business.  Randgold gained 0.4 percent to 7,070 pence at 11:14 a.m.
London time, boosting gains since the start of this year to 34
percent.  20 Percent Return  Randgold’s development projects must contain at least 3
million ounces of gold reserve and offer a 20 percent return at
a gold price of $800 an ounce, Bristow said.  “If you look at these juniors in West  Africa , they’re
worth more than $1 billion and they haven’t even got 1 million
ounces,” said Bristow.  Bristow plans to boost output from Randgold’s mines in
Africa to over 1.2 million ounces in 2015 from about 750,000
ounces this year.  Gold for immediate delivery was little changed at $1,865.97
an ounce at 11:13 a.m. in  London  after gaining 31 percent since
the start of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  