-- 
RBS’s Sinche Sees ‘Downside Risks’ for Euro on Policy Outlook

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-09-09T03:24:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/rbs-s-sinche-sees-downside-risks-for-euro-on-policy-outlook.html
Robert Sinche, the global head of
currency strategy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut  at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, said he sees “downside risks” for the
euro.  The European Central Bank yesterday slashed its 2011 growth
forecast to 1.6 percent from 1.9 percent and to 1.3 percent from
1.7 percent for 2012. While the ECB left the benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged, traders are betting it will cut rates by 29
basis points over the next 12 months, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG index based on swaps.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday said
policy makers will discuss the tools they could use to boost the
recovery at their Sept. 20-21 meeting and stand ready to use
them if necessary.  The euro traded at $1.3933 as of 11:54 a.m. in  Tokyo  today
and has retreated against 13 of its 16 major peers in the past
three months.  On the euro:  “We do think that the euro is going to be the weakest”
among the dollar, yen and euro.  “We’ve been expecting we finish the year somewhere just
under $1.40.”  “I think that markets, to a great extent, have already
discounted easing from the ECB, so we don’t think there’s a lot
more downside in expectations, but certainly of the three, we do
expect downside risks for the euro on a broad basis, not
terribly against the dollar, but I think on a broader basis
against other currencies.”  “If Asian growth can be maintained as inflation pressures
start to come down and central banks can be less restrictive
than they’ve been,” then commodity currencies may perform
reasonably well.  “Right now, short euro versus a basket of Asian currencies
and commodity currencies is probably the direction you want to
be looking at.”  On  monetary policy :  “Monetary policy can address liquidity issues, and they
have addressed liquidity issues. The Fed has addressed liquidity
issues. There’s a tremendous amount of excess liquidity. The ECB
has helped address liquidity issues in sovereign-debt markets in
 Europe  by buying up. But they view that as a temporary solution,
not a permanent solution. A permanent solution needs to come
from the fiscal authorities.”  “I think there’s certainly a part of  Ben Bernanke  that
probably wants to say: ‘You know what? We have nothing else.
It’s you. I’m giving you the game ball. We don’t want to do
anymore. We’ve done what we can. It’s time for fiscal policy to
take up the leadership.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 