-- 
Treasury 10-Year Yields Fall to Record on Greece Default Concern

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-09-09T21:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/treasuries-decline-after-obama-speech.html
Treasuries rallied, pushing 10-year
note yields to a record low, as a surge in European bank and
sovereign-credit risk to all-time highs on speculation  Greece 
may default bolstered the refuge appeal of  U.S. government debt .  Benchmark 10-year securities gained for a second week as
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government prepared plans to
shore up the nation’s banks in the event that Greece fails to
meet the terms of its aid package and misses a payment on its
debt. Greece rejected default talk as “organized speculation,”
according to an e-mailed statement from the  finance ministry .  “Fear is driving everything right now,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at Bank of Nova Scotia in New
York. “People are nervous about Greece defaulting this weekend.
That’s why you’re getting this kind of jump in the market.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.92 percent at 5:20 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent
securities maturing in August 2021 gained 17/32, or $5.31 per
$1,000 face amount, to 101 27/32.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index tumbled 2.7 percent. The
Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 2.6 percent. Gold futures for
December delivery gained 0.2 percent to $1,861.20 an ounce.
Prices rose to a record $1,923.70 on Sept. 6.  The 10-year yields had a weekly drop of seven basis points
after falling yesterday to 1.8942 percent, the lowest level on
record in Federal Reserve data going back to 1953. The yields
earlier advanced four basis points to 2.02 percent.  Germany’s Plan  An emergency plan in  Germany  involves measures to help
banks and insurers that face a possible 50 percent loss on their
Greek bonds if the next tranche of Greece’s bailout is withheld,
said three people who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the deliberations are being held in private.  The successor to the government’s bank-rescue fund
introduced in 2008 may be enrolled to help recapitalize the
banks, one of the people said.  Credit-default swaps insuring Greek government bonds jumped
701 basis points to a record 3,727 basis points, according to
CMA. The five-year contracts signal there’s a 94 percent
probability the country won’t meet its debt commitments.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters in
Marseille,  France , that Greece may have to leave the euro if it
fails to press ahead with its budget-cutting plans.  Greece Responds  Greece is committed to “full implementation” of its
bailout agreement, the nation’s finance ministry said in its
statement. The next government bond will mature Dec. 19 and is
worth 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion), according to Bloomberg
data. Until then, Greece faces redemptions on Treasury bills,
which are typically rolled over by a group of primary dealers.  Adding to European sovereign-debt turmoil, Juergen Stark
resigned from the European Central Bank’s Executive Board.
During a Sept. 4 conference call, Stark expressed opposition to
a bond-purchase program, which was expanded last month when the
ECB started buying Italian and Spanish debt, said a euro-area
bank official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
discussions are confidential.  Two-year interest-rate swap spreads, a gauge of fear in the
debt markets, rose to the highest since July 2010 as the cost to
protect European financial and sovereign debt surged.  The difference, or spread, between the two-year swap rate
and the comparable-maturity Treasury note yield climbed as much
as 4.4 basis points to 35.61 basis points. The measure has
climbed from 23.37 since the end of July.  Obama’s Jobs Plan  In the U.S., President  Barack Obama  presented to Congress
last night in  Washington  a $447 billion jobs plan that would
include infrastructure spending, subsidies to local governments
to stem teacher layoffs and cutting in half payroll taxes paid
by workers and small-business owners. Tax cuts account for more
than half the plan’s dollar value.  “For the first time, the administration recognizes how
deep our economic challenges are and is trying to get ahead of
them,” Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief
investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
Betty Liu. The firm manages the biggest bond fund.  Treasuries rallied yesterday as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech to economists in  Minneapolis  that
policy makers will discuss what they may need to do to boost the
recovery at their meeting this month. The Fed begins a two-day
policy meeting on Sept. 20.  Bernanke’s Outlook  Policy makers are prepared to use the tools they have “as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery in the
context of  price stability ,” Bernanke said. He said in previous
remarks the options include lengthening the average duration of
securities in the Fed’s $1.65 trillion Treasury portfolio and
buying more government bonds.  The Fed acquired $3.345 billion of Treasuries maturing from
April 2018 to August 2018 today. The purchases are part of the
central bank’s policy of reinvesting the proceeds of maturing
assets on its balance sheet to keep borrowing costs low and
support the economic recovery.  “The growth outlook looks sour, there is no guarantee that
anything else comes from the Fed, there is little willingness
for more fiscal stimulus from Washington, and  Europe  is a mess,
which make owning Treasuries a good idea, despite these
yields,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in
New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of the 20 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  