-- 
Treasuries Fall, U.S. Futures Gain on Obama Jobs Plan; Dollar Fluctuates

-- B y   S h i y i n   C h e n
-- 
2011-09-09T07:47:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/treasuries-dollar-fall-after-obama-speech.html
Treasuries declined and Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index futures climbed after President  Barack Obama 
detailed his $447 billion plan to boost hiring in the U.S.
Stocks in  Europe  and  Asia  fell for the first time in three days.  Ten-year yields increased two basis points to 2 percent as
of 8:46 a.m. in London. S&P 500 futures gained 0.3 percent,
after earlier decreasing as much as 0.6 percent. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent, while the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index sank 0.6 percent. Nickel and copper paced a
retreat among metals. The Dollar Index was up less than 0.1
percent, following an earlier drop of as much as 0.3 percent.  Obama called on Congress to pass his package after jobs
growth stalled last month, fueling concern the U.S. recovery is
faltering. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday
stopped short of detailing new plans to boost growth, while
European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
“downside risks” for the region’s economies have risen.
Ministers from the Group of Seven nations will meet in Marseille,
 France , amid mounting bets on a Greek default.  “The headline number was better than expected but it comes
down to how he’s going to fund it and how soon the plan will be
implemented,” Khiem Do, head of multi-asset strategy at Baring
Asset Management, said in a Bloomberg Television interview from
 Hong Kong . “We need some action right now as far as the  U.S.
economy  is concerned.”  Obama’s Job Plan  Longer-maturity bonds led losses after Obama detailed his
jobs package, which includes infrastructure spending, subsidies
to local governments to stem teacher layoffs and cutting in half
the payroll taxes paid by workers and small-business owners. Tax
cuts account for more than half the dollar value of the stimulus.
The Treasury Department will sell $66 billion in three-, 10- and
30-year debt next week.  “Overall, it’s a net positive for equity markets,” said
Brian Jacobsen, the chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo
Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls, Wisconsin. Still, the
proposal will be “will be subject to amendments. As there’s so
much uncertainty as to what the final product will be, it’s
difficult to game this from an investment perspective,” he said
in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Futures signal the  S&P 500  may rebound from a 1.1 percent
retreat yesterday. Bernanke said risks to the economic outlook
have increased and policy makers will discuss tools they could
use to boost growth at their meeting this month. As in a speech
on Aug. 26, the Fed chief stopped short of signaling what he
thinks is the central bank’s best option to aid the economy.  The U.S. Department of  Homeland Security  said it has
“specific, credible but unconfirmed threat information” as the
10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks nears.  Europe, Asia Stocks  More than three stocks slid for every one that gained on
the Stoxx 600. Porsche SE plunged 8.8 percent after Volkswagen
AG said it will no longer complete its merger with the carmaker
by the end of the year because of pending lawsuits. Infineon
Technologies AG and STMicroelectronics NV slipped after  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN)  cut its sales forecast.  About four shares declined for every three that advanced on
MSCI’s Asia Pacific Index, which is headed for a 2.2 percent
weekly loss.  Japan ’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average lost 0.6 percent
after data today showed the nation’s economy contracted more
than the government initially estimated in the second quarter.
 Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.2 percent and  South Korea ’s
Kospi Index dropped 1.8 percent.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.1 percent after
Caixin magazine reported the northeastern province of Liaoning
defaulted on about 85 percent of its debts servicing payments in
2010. The index earlier jumped as much as 1.2 percent after data
today showed inflation eased to 6.2 percent in August from the
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July.  Dollar, Gold  The dollar declined weakened 0.4 percent to $1.0617 versus
Australia’s currency and slid 0.4 percent to 87.35 U.S. cents
against its New Zealand counterpart. It traded little changed at
$1.3877 per euro. The Dollar Index has gained 1.9 percent this
week, the largest weekly increase since the period ended May 6.  Gold for immediate delivery rose 0.3 percent to $1,875.63
an ounce. Bullion declined 0.4 percent this week, after reaching
an all-time high of $1,921.15 on Sept. 6. Three-month copper
retreated 0.7 percent to $9,047.50 a metric ton on the  London 
Metal Exchange, while nickel lost 1.8 percent to $21,675 a ton.  Oil climbed as much as 0.5 percent to $89.50 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange  before trading at $89.03. The contract
for October delivery earlier fell as much as 0.8 percent.
Futures have gained 3.1 percent this week and 20 percent the
past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  