-- 
Reliance Traders Push Bearish Bets to Two-Year High on Gas

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-09-09T10:54:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/reliance-options-traders-push-bearish-bets-to-2-year-high-on-gas-outlook.html
Options traders are the most bearish
on  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  in two years as India’s biggest
company by market value faces a decline in natural-gas
production that may take two years to reverse.  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell the shares versus
calls to buy reached 1.43 yesterday, the highest open interest
ratio since October 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Reliance has dropped 21 percent this year, compared with a 16
percent slide in the benchmark BSE India Sensitive Index.  The company, controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , has
been struggling to reverse a decline in gas production from the
KG-D6 block, which has cut supplies to utilities and fertilizer
makers in  Asia ’s second-fastest growing major economy. Boosting
output may take a couple of years, Sashi Mukundan, the head of
BP Plc’s  India  unit, said Sept. 6. BP owns 30 percent of KG-D6.  “Gas output is the biggest worry for Reliance and there’s
been no real clarity or timeline on this,”  Arun Kejriwal , a
director at Kejriwal Research & Investment Services Pvt., said
by phone from Mumbai. “The company has been an underperformer
by a fair distance. Gas will keep dragging it down.”  The shares fell 3.1 percent to 825.75 rupees at the 3:30
p.m. close in Mumbai, ending three days of advances. Reliance
last month briefly lost its position as India’s most valuable
company and the stock, with the highest weighting in the Sensex,
touched a 29-month low of 719.4 rupees on Aug. 26.  “An addition of 200,000 shares yesterday in 780 rupees and
800 rupees strike shows negative momentum,” said Yogesh Radke,
analyst at Edelweiss Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai.
“Traders are buying protection as the stock may cool off on
falling gas output.”  Doubling Supplies  The KG-D6 block started in April 2009 and production rose
to 60 million cubic meters a day in June last year, according to
Reliance filings. Output has since slid because of technical
issues, the company has said, without elaborating. The field was
expected to produce as much as 80 million cubic meters a day,
more than doubling India’s domestic gas supplies.  Lower-than-expected gas output has resulted in Reliance
failing to beat analysts’ earnings expectations in five of the
last six quarters. Profit in the June quarter rose 17 percent to
56.6 billion rupees ($1.3 billion), meeting forecasts, the
company announced July 25.  Reliance plans to tap BP’s expertise to reverse the drop in
production. The British company bought stakes in the KG-D6 block
and 20 other areas operated by Reliance locally in a $7.2
billion deal announced in February and completed last month.  A  call option  gives investors the right to buy a security
at a set price by a specific date. A  put option  gives the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the prices of securities they own, speculate on share-price
moves or bet that volatility will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  