-- 
Renaissance Plans Congo City Bigger Than Kenya’s $5 Billion Tatu

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-09-09T09:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/renaissance-plans-congo-city-bigger-than-kenya-s-5-billion-tatu.html
Renaissance Partners, the investment
unit of Moscow-based Renaissance Group, plans to build a 6,400-
acre city in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo as it seeks to
benefit from  Africa ’s urbanization.  The Russian firm is working on a master plan for the new
urban center after securing the land outside Lubumbashi, the
country’s second-largest city, Arnold Meyer, Renaissance
Partners’ managing director in charge of real estate in Africa,
said in an interview in  London . Renaissance is considering
similar projects in  Ghana ,  Nigeria ,  Senegal  and  Rwanda , he said.  “The West has peaked in terms of economic growth and the
new markets are in Africa,” Meyer, 39, said. “And the main
drivers of this growth in Africa are going to be cities.”  Renaissance’s Lubumbashi project will be more than double
the size of Tatu City, the $5 billion center that the Russian
firm is building from scratch outside the Kenyan capital of
Nairobi. The Moscow firm, headed by Stephen Jennings, plans to
take advantage of Africa’s economic growth and emergence of a
growing urban middle class demanding better infrastructure.  In Nairobi, where the population has been increasing about
4 percent a year over the last decade, one in four residents
lacks access to piped water and about 40 percent of people use
open-pit toilets, according to  Kenya ’s statistics agency. Tatu
City, a 2,500-acre site about nine miles north of the capital,
will eventually have 62,000 residents and include a stadium,
technology park, hospital, shops, office towers and playgrounds,
the firm said in October, when it started the project. The
 Nairobi Stock Exchange  is in talks with Renaissance about
relocating there, Meyer said.  Tatu Construction Schedule  “We’ve had two meetings with the stock exchange, and we
have another presentation in two weeks,” Meyer said. “We
created a zone which would be ideal for them.”  Renaissance is now installing electricity and water lines
in Tatu, which will function as an independent municipality, and
expects the first buildings to be erected by the end of 2013,
Meyer said. The firm will sign an agreement with Kenya’s
government next week to include Tatu in the country’s Vision
2030 plan, designed to boost infrastructure.  Renaissance is in a legal dispute with a local partner over
the ownership of coffee lands north of Tatu, some of which Meyer
says could be used as an extension of the city. The dispute
hasn’t affected the Tatu development itself, he said.  The firm is also working on the design of two projects of
about 2,500 acres each outside Accra and Takoradi in Ghana,
Meyer said. It is considering buying land near  Port Harcourt ,
Nigeria’s oil harbor, as well as near Dakar, the capital of
Senegal, and Kigali, the capital of Rwanda, he said.  “In 1980, you had 400 million people on the continent,”
Meyer said. “Last year they went through the 1 billion barrier.
And in another 30 years, that doubles to 2 billion. Imagine the
combined energy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 