-- 
Restaurant Stocks Reflect U.S. Spending Doubt, Signaling Fed May Ease More

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-09-09T14:53:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/restaurant-stocks-show-fed-may-ease-more-on-spending-doubt.html
Full-service chains owned by  Darden
Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  and  Brinker International Inc. (EAT)  are
underperforming as investors bet on a slowdown in dining out, a
signal to the  Federal Reserve  to do more to bolster consumption.  The Bloomberg Full Service Restaurant Index, which includes
 Cheesecake Factory Inc. (CAKE) , Darden and Brinker, has fallen 21
percent since July 5, while the Bloomberg Quick Service
Restaurant Index -- made up of fast-food chains such as
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and Wendy’s Co. -- has declined 5 percent. The
difference indicates Americans may treat themselves to fewer
sit-down meals away from home, according to Todd Hooper a San
Francisco-based restaurant strategist at consulting company Kurt
Salmon.  “Both sectors are down, and this shows the stock market is
concerned we’re either in for a double-dip recession or at least
another slowdown,” Hooper said. “If the market is right, full-
service restaurants, because they are more discretionary than
quick-service, will take the brunt of weaker  consumer
spending .”  This is “a signal by investors to the Fed that additional
monetary accommodation is needed to support the U.S. consumer,”
said  David Rosenberg , the chief economist at Gluskin Sheff &
Associates in Toronto. With a deteriorating labor market
deterring purchases, “investors are concerned that consumer
frugality may take on a new head of steam, which helps explain
why full-service eateries are falling out of favor now.”  ‘Unexpected’ Weakness  Most Federal Reserve policy makers indicated at their
August meeting that household-spending weakness in recent months
was “unexpected.” Since peaking at an annualized increase of
3.2 percent in November 2010, personal consumption expenditures
adjusted for inflation slowed to 2.3 percent in July, according
to the  Bureau of Economic Analysis . Spending on restaurants and
accommodations rose 2.9 percent annually in July compared with
5.1 percent in November.  One-third of Americans said they plan to spend less on
dining out during the next 90 days, the highest since October
2010, according to a monthly survey of 2,517 consumers conducted
by  RBC Capital Markets . Along with higher savings intentions,
this “could portend slowing restaurant sales,” said  Larry Miller , an RBC analyst in Atlanta.  Political ‘Stalemate’  “Concerns about the economy and the political stalemate in
 Washington  contributed to these weaker spending plans,” Miller
said. Full-service eateries were “hit the hardest,” as 22
percent of companies in another RBC survey reported a “large
negative impact” to their sales, compared with 5 percent of
quick-service operators.  What remains to be seen, Miller said, is whether consumers
are having a “psychological reaction” to recent political
events and stock-market volatility, which may cause a temporary
sales slowdown, or if weak employment data is resulting in lower
restaurant sales.  Protracted joblessness -- above 9 percent for 26 of the
past 28 months -- means dining out is “often first on the
chopping block,” Hooper said.  Weaker-than-expected sales at the  Olive Garden  -- down 2.9
percent in the three months ended Aug. 28 -- contributed to
Darden missing analysts’ projections for first-quarter profit,
according to Miller. The  Orlando , Florida-based operator of the
Red Lobster and Olive Garden chains said profit from continuing
operations was 78 cents a share, according to a Sept. 6
statement of preliminary earnings; the average of analyst
estimates was 87 cents.  Disappointing Results  While Olive Garden’s disappointing results may show
consumers are starting to cut back, Darden’s preliminary August
sales indicate “the consumer hasn’t significantly reduced
spending yet,” Miller said. Same-restaurant sales for the Olive
Garden, Red Lobster and Longhorn were up 2.1 percent, in line
with the growth during the past four months.  “It’s a glass half-empty, glass half-full kind of
report,” said Miller, who maintains an “outperform” rating on
Darden.  Conversely, more people are eating at quick-service chains,
which translates into higher revenue. System-wide same-store
sales at  Jack in the Box Inc. (JACK)  restaurants increased 3.2 percent
in the three months ended July 10, the San Diego-based company
said Aug. 10.  “Sales momentum including higher traffic” has continued
into the fourth quarter, President and Chief Executive Officer
Linda Lang said on an Aug. 11 conference call.  Rising Sales  Similarly, sales at company-owned Wendy’s restaurants in
 North America  rose 2.3 percent in the three months ended July 3
compared with a year ago, driven by 1.4 percent higher average
checks and a 0.9% increase in transactions, President and Chief
Executive Officer Roland Smith said on an Aug. 11 conference
call.  “We’re starting to see more customers in the store and our
check was up slightly,” Smith said. “So we’re also seeing them
spend more money.”  While this helps explain some of the relative
outperformance of quick-service dining stocks, there is also a
seasonal trend at play, according to Steve West, a St. Louis-
based analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Vacationing Americans
tend to eat more fast food during summer months, which
temporarily boosts sales -- and shares.  Seasonal Business  Some restaurants may enjoy higher seasonal business, even
though real personal income still lags behind the 2007 total by
about $450 billion. As a result, consumers remain cautious
because they’re living in a “muted recovery,” according to
 John Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at State Street
Global Markets LLC in  Boston . Even the Fed holding interest
rates near zero since December 2008 has done little to stimulate
spending in a “subpar” recovery, he said.  “The only thing to help accelerate sales and to place
sales on a sustained trajectory is for households to acquire a
stronger conviction about  job security , income growth and the
government-policy outlook,” Herrmann said. “Consumers remain
nervous as the economy will have to stand on its own two feet
with increasingly less fiscal support beyond 2011.”  Some policy makers on the  Federal Open Market Committee 
said at their August meeting that “additional accommodation was
warranted,” while others “judged that none of the tools
available to the committee would likely do much to promote a
faster economic recovery.”  Fed Forum  Even Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  acknowledged that the Fed
alone can’t keep the recovery afloat in an Aug. 26 speech to
central bankers and economists at an annual forum in  Jackson
Hole ,  Wyoming .  “Most of the economic policies that support robust
economic growth in the long run are outside the province of the
central bank,” he said.  President  Barack Obama , speaking before a joint session of
Congress yesterday, challenged lawmakers to pass a $447 billion
jobs plan that would boost spending on infrastructure, stem
teacher layoffs and cut in half the payroll taxes paid by
workers and small business owners.  “The question is whether, in the face of an ongoing
national crisis, we can stop the political circus and actually
do something to help the economy,” Obama said.  Persistent concerns about growth suggest that restaurant
sales could continue to slip as autumn approaches, according to
Hooper.  “The expansion is showing signs of stalling,” Hooper
said. “So full-service restaurants are vulnerable to additional
underperformance compared to their more defensive quick-service
counterparts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  