-- 
Richard Li’s PCCW Said to Win Approval for First Hong Kong Business Trust

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-09T01:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/richard-li-s-pccw-said-to-win-approval-for-first-hong-kong-business-trust.html
PCCW Ltd. (8)  received approval from
Hong Kong’s stock exchange to list its telecommunications assets
as the city’s first publicly traded business trust, a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  PCCW, led by Chairman  Richard Li , plans to raise as much as
$2 billion from the sale in late October, people with knowledge
of the matter said last month. Assets of the trust include
fixed-line, broadband Internet and mobile-phone services, PCCW,
Hong Kong’s biggest phone carrier, said in June.  Hong Kong moved to allow business trusts, a structure that
allows investors to receive dividends from operating cash flow,
after  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  picked Singapore for the $5.5
billion initial public offering of a trust backed by its port
assets. Spinning off its telecom assets as a business trust will
allow PCCW to raise money for investing in faster-growing areas
like pay-television.  “The markets have been quite volatile and people are
interested in investment products with steady income,” said
Vivian Lam, a Hong Kong-based partner at Paul Hastings LLP who
worked on the listing of Perennial China Retail Trust in
 Singapore  earlier this year. “It’s the flavor of the month.”  The Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times reported
the approval earlier, citing people they didn’t identify. PCCW
said late yesterday in a statement that the listing application
was “reviewed” by the stock exchange, without saying whether
it had received approval.  Investor Protection  The PCCW trust aims to start trading on Oct. 21, people
familiar with the deal have said. After the spinoff, PCCW will
retain operations including divisions that offer pay-television
and computer services, it said in June. Anita Choi, a
spokeswoman at PCCW in Hong Kong, and Hong Kong Exchanges &
Clearing Ltd. spokesman Scott Sapp declined to comment on
whether the listing was approved.  Hong Kong  Exchanges said in March it may amend rules to
allow listings of business trusts. A business trust holds assets
that produce recurrent income and pays dividends out of
operating cash flows rather than profits.  The Chinese territory does allow listings of real estate
investment trusts. Market regulators were studying how to
protect investors in business trusts, Hong Kong’s Secretary for
Financial Services and the Treasury, K.C. Chan, told the city’s
legislature in June.  “We consider it essential for investor protection that
listed business trusts are subject to the relevant SFO
provisions,” Chan said, referring to Hong Kong’s insider
trading, disclosure of interest and other market misconduct
laws. “The approach being considered is to ensure that the
regulatory regime for a listed business trust mirrors that of a
listed company.”  ‘Stapled’ Securities  China International Capital Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing
the PCCW trust offering, people with knowledge of the matter
have said. Proceeds from the sale will be used to reduce debt
and for investment in faster-growing businesses, PCCW said on
June 2.  The proposed structure would have each unit of the trust
linked to a specific share in HKT Ltd., the holding company for
the telecommunications assets, according to yesterday’s exchange
filing. Each trust unit will be “stapled” to a preferred share
in HKT, PCCW said. The units and preferred shares will trade at
a single price and can’t be unbundled, it said.  PCCW will own at least 55 percent of the trust company and
100 percent of the trustee-manager for the trust, which will pay
out all cash received from HKT, according to the filing. As the
trust won’t be a legal entity, the trustee-manager will hold its
assets.  Buyout Rejected  Hutchison Whampoa, controlled by Li’s father  Li Ka-shing ,
sold units in Hutchison Port Holdings Trust in March, raising
$5.5 billion in Singapore’s biggest IPO. At the time, Hutchison
Whampoa said it picked Singapore because Hong Kong didn’t allow
listings of business trusts.  In 2009, Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission won
a court ruling to block Li’s HK$15.9 billion ($2 billion) buyout
of PCCW, after the regulator alleged that some insurance agents
were given free PCCW shares to boost support for the takeover.  Some investors split up their holdings of PCCW shares into
smaller tranches and distributed them to others, making more
people eligible to vote in favor of the transaction at a
shareholders meeting, the SFC alleged.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  