-- 
Ringgit Has Biggest Weekly Loss in a Month on Rate; Bonds Gain

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-09-09T08:39:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/ringgit-has-biggest-weekly-loss-in-a-month-on-rate-bonds-gain.html
Malaysia’s ringgit headed for its
biggest weekly loss in more than a month after the central bank
left borrowing costs unchanged for a second straight meeting,
citing a slowing global economy.  Bank Negara Malaysia  kept its overnight policy rate at 3
percent yesterday, joining counterparts in  South Korea ,
 Indonesia  and the  Philippines  who also held off from raising
 interest rates . Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
the central bank is ready to take steps to ensure a stronger
recovery in the world’s largest economy. Government bonds gained.  “Slower growth globally is being priced in by the
markets,” said Jasmine Poh, a Singapore-based foreign exchange
and rates strategist at BNP Paribas SA. “Asian currency gains
are still there over the medium term on stronger fundamentals
versus the U.S. and the  euro zone ” even if rates are maintained,
she said.  The ringgit slumped 1.2 percent this week to 3.0015 per
dollar as of 4:20 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , its biggest drop since
the five-day period ended Aug. 5, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It declined 0.2 percent from yesterday and reached a
four-week low of 3.0075.  “Prolonged uncertainties in the financial markets,
weakness in the labor market and the prevailing fiscal
conditions in the advanced economies have heightened the
downside risks and fragility of the global economy,” Bank
Negara Malaysia said in its  policy statement . “In the domestic
economy, recent indicators point to slower growth in external
demand.”  The ringgit extended losses after the government said today
industrial production unexpectedly shrank 0.6 percent in July
from a year earlier. Exports grew 7.1 percent in July, easing
from a revised 9.6 percent in June, the trade ministry said
yesterday. Shipments grew by 6.8 percent on average this year,
compared with 26 percent in the same period of 2010.  Bonds Advance  Bank of America Corp. lowered its 2011 and 2012 growth
forecasts for the Malaysian economy on Aug. 5. HSBC Holdings Plc
reduced its U.S. growth estimate in a Sept. 6 research report,
putting it on “recession watch” for the rest of the year.  Malaysia’s five-year  government bonds  completed a second
weekly gain before a debt auction. The yield on the 4.262
percent notes due September 2016 fell eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 3.27 percent from a week ago,
according to Bursa Malaysia. The rate declined two basis point
today.  The treasury will sell on Sept. 14 an additional 4 billion
ringgit ($1.3 billion) of Shariah-compliant notes maturing in
November 2016. The Islamic debt was last sold on May 30 at an
average yield of 3.71 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  