-- 
Risk of Worldwide Recession Has Increased to 50%, Krugman Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-09T09:24:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/risk-of-worldwide-recession-has-increased-to-50-krugman-says.html
The risk of another global recession
has increased to one-in-two, said Nobel-prize winning economist
 Paul Krugman .  “There is a pretty good chance of an actual stall which
would lead the global economy to slide backward,” he said in an
interview in Yaroslav, central  Russia , yesterday, describing the
risk of a recession as “quite high, maybe 50 percent.”  Krugman, who last month said the risk of a global decline
may be “a bit higher” than one-in-three, urged advanced
economies to reverse fiscal belt-tightening and central banks to
adopt a more expansionary monetary policy.  Three years after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., the global recovery is faltering and the euro-region debt
crisis is roiling markets and clouding growth prospects across
the 17-nation euro region.  “They need to realize that for those countries which are
not having financing problems -- at least five of the G-7 are
able to borrow quite freely -- that they need to postpone
austerity measures on the fiscal side and that the central banks
need to be expanding, not tightening,” Krugman said, referring
to the Group of Seven major industrialized nations.  Krugman, a columnist for the New York Times who was invited
to give a speech at Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s  global
policy forum  in Yaroslav, said  China ’s fast-growing economy
isn’t large enough to help reverse the slump.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, on Sept. 7
raised its growth estimate for 2010 to 10.4 percent.  ‘Close to Zero’  Krugman also said President  Barack Obama  has “close to
zero chance” of getting his $447 billion jobs plan passed by
the Republican-held Congress, which means unemployment will stay
persistently high.  “Realistically, the chance of getting any of it is very
close to zero,” Krugman said before Obama unveiled his plan.
“That’s a bad thing. We’re going to be seeing unemployment at
something like its current levels, perhaps even higher, right
through next year and beyond.”  Job growth in the U.S. stalled last month and the
 unemployment rate  has hovered at or above 9 percent for more
than two years. Obama, who faces re-election next year, has job-
approval ratings at new lows as public doubts about his
stewardship of the economy rise. Public opinion of Congress has
dropped even lower.  Courting Republicans  U.S. gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual
rate from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior
estimate, figures released by the Commerce Department on Aug. 26
showed. Combined with the 0.4 percent annual rate of growth in
the first three months of the year, the past two quarters were
the weakest of the recovery that began in mid-2009.  Tax cuts account for more than half the dollar value of the
president’s latest plan to turn the economy around, and
administration officials said they believe that will have the
greatest appeal to Republicans in Congress, who favor austerity
over higher taxes and new spending. Obama dared his adversaries
to oppose a provision that would extend and deepen payroll tax
cuts due to expire on Dec. 31.  “The underlying situation is that with the fading out of
the tail end of the original stimulus, plus cutbacks at state
and local level, we’re effectively in a regime of fairly harsh
fiscal austerity with the economy still dead in the water, so
this is a very bad scene,” Krugman said.  Obama’s jobs plan follows the contours of his $830 billion
infrastructure spending and assistance to local governments.
Krugman said the plan is big enough to make “a significant
dent” in unemployment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  