-- 
Storm Nate Turns to Mexico, Away From Gulf

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-09T18:29:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/tropical-storm-nate-turns-toward-mexico-away-from-u-s-oil-rigs-in-gulf.html
Tropical Storm Nate is forecast to
veer westward into  Mexico , away from U.S. energy platforms and
rigs in the Gulf, as Maria bears down on the Lesser Antilles and
Hurricane Katia drifts toward the northern Atlantic.  Nate’s  top winds dropped today to 50 miles (80 kilometers)
per hour from 65 mph, according to a  National Hurricane Center 
advisory at 2 p.m. Eastern time. It probably will strengthen to
a hurricane by tomorrow, and that prompted Mexico to issue a
 hurricane watch  from Tampico to Veracruz in anticipation of
landfall as early as Sept. 11.  “As of right now, the risks to production in the northern
 Gulf of Mexico  are pretty low given the changes in Nate’s
track,” said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland . “We had a bit of a scare yesterday,
but now we’re seeing it mainly as a Mexico concern.”  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural gas production. Four production platforms are
shut, or 0.7 percent of the 617 crewed structures, the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement said today.  About 6.2 percent of Gulf oil and 4 percent of natural gas
production have been shut-in, the agency said. Last week’s
Tropical Storm Lee halted production of about 61 percent of Gulf
oil and 55 percent of natural gas.  Gulf Precautions  BP Plc and Apache Corp. yesterday began evacuations of some
workers in the Gulf because of Nate. The BP decision affected
non-essential workers at the Atlantis, Holstein and Mad Dog
platforms, according to a message on a telephone hotline.
Apache’s removal of non-essential workers from facilities in the
far western Gulf didn’t affect production, Bill Mintz, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Petroleos Mexicanos , the state-owned  oil company , closed
three crude export terminals in the Gulf after Nate formed,
according to a weather bulletin on the website of Mexico’s
Merchant Marine.  In addition to the hurricane watch, which means winds of at
least 74 mph are possible within two days, Mexico has issued a
tropical storm watch from Tampico to La Cruz and from Veracruz
to Punta El Lagarto. A storm watch on the Yucatan Peninsula has
been dropped.  Nate is currently about 150 miles west of Campeche, Mexico,
according to the center.  Storm Maria  To the east,  Tropical Storm Maria  is bearing down on the
Lesser Antilles and a tropical storm watch has been changed to a
warning for  Puerto Rico  and  Dominica , the centers said.  A warning means storm conditions can be expected within 36
hours. The alerts have been posted throughout the island chain
including Guadeloupe, Saint Kitts and the U.S. and  British
Virgin Islands .  Rogers said he expected Maria to move into the Atlantic
after passing through the islands, although there’s a chance the
storm may come close to the U.S. East Coast next week.  Maria, 135 miles northeast of Barbados, is expected to
reach hurricane strength in four days, according to a center
advisory issued at 2 p.m. Its top winds are currently 45 mph.  To the north of Maria,  Hurricane Katia  is halfway between
 Bermuda  and Nova Scotia on a track that will take it across the
Atlantic toward the U.K. by next week.  Katia, a Category 1 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale with winds of 85 mph, is 385 miles south-southwest
of Halifax, Nova Scotia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  