-- 
Tropical Storm Nate Likely to Become Hurricane

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-09-09T12:49:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/tropical-storm-nate-to-become-hurricane-in-gulf-katia-and-maria-weaken.html
Tropical Storm Nate is expected to
become the third hurricane of the Atlantic season today or
tomorrow as it forced energy companies to evacuate platforms in
the  Gulf of Mexico  and shut oil ports.  Tropical Storm Maria is forecast to strengthen, churning
through the Virgin Islands today or tomorrow, the  U.S. National
Hurricane Center  said in an advisory. Hurricane Katia may weaken
in the Atlantic.  Nate’s top winds are 65 miles (100 kilometers) per hour,
below the threshold of 74 mph needed to be a hurricane,
according to an NHC advisory at 8 a.m. East Coast time. The
storm has been lashing Petroleos Mexicanos rigs in the Bay of
Campeche and its final track is still in question.  “Nate is expected to become a hurricane either today or
tomorrow,” the Miami-based NHC said in an  advisory .
“Conditions appear to be generally favorable for some
intensification.”  The storm is about 125 miles west of Campeche,  Mexico ,
moving northwest at 2 mph. Nate will gather pace and turn west
by Sept. 11, the NHC said.  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5
percent of natural-gas production. About 14.8 percent of the oil
and 6.8 percent of gas output are still shut because of Tropical
Storm Lee, which passed through the Gulf last week, the  Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement said
yesterday.  Northwesterly Course  The  hurricane center track  takes Nate on a northwesterly
course toward the Texas-Mexico border. Most computer models take
the storm farther to the west, while at least one brings Nate
across the central Gulf of Mexico.  BP Plc and Apache Corp. began evacuations of some workers
in the Gulf because of Nate. The BP decision affects non-
essential workers at the Atlantis, Holstein and Mad Dog
platforms, according to a message on a telephone hotline.
Apache’s removal of non-essential workers from facilities in the
far western Gulf hasn’t affected production, Bill Mintz, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Petroleos Mexicanos , the state-owned  oil company , closed
three crude export terminals in the Gulf of Mexico because of
Nate, according to a weather bulletin on the website of Mexico’s
Merchant Marine. The company shut the terminal at Coatzacoalcos
port yesterday, while two other Gulf ports,  Dos Bocas  and Cayo
Arcas, have been closed since Sept. 7, it said.  Price Floor  The storm’s potential to disrupt Gulf oil and gas
production may limit losses for crude oil in  New York , which was
down 1 percent at $88.17 a barrel as of 12:40 p.m. London time.  “It’s the supply side providing a floor to price,” said
Andy Sommer, a senior trader at EGL AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland .
“We’re in the high point of the  hurricane season , and every day
there’s news of another storm.”  Two of the major forecasting models used by meteorologists
showed different tracks for the storm, said Travis Hartman, a
meteorologist with MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . One model took Nate into the oil- and gas-producing
regions, he said. The other showed the storm heading into
Mexico.  ‘Uncertain Situation’  “It is a very uncertain situation right now,”  Tom Downs ,
a meteorologist with Weather 2000 Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “The computer model runs are
bouncing all over the place.”  “We don’t have any sort of agreement that is going to make
us feel comfortable,” Hartman said by telephone yesterday. “It
still bears watching.”  Downs said the exact track Nate takes may also influence
its strength.  “Texas is pretty much like a desert right now,” he said.
“The northwestern Gulf of Mexico is dry and it would be choked
off. Basically you have a stronger storm if it stays farther to
the south and a weaker storm that moves farther north.”  Tropical storm warnings for Maria were in effect for the
 U.S. Virgin Islands ,  British Virgin Islands , Antigua, Anguilla,
Barbuda, Montserrat, Nevis, Saint Kitts,  St. Martin , Saba and
St. Eustatius and Guadeloupe, the NHC said in the  advisory .
Tropical storm conditions are expected in those areas within 36
hours.  “Some slight strengthening is possible during the next 48
hours,” the center said.  Downgrade  Maria was 185 miles east-northeast of Barbados, with 40 mph
winds, down from 45 mph earlier, and the storm was moving west-
northwest at 18 mph. The system may be downgraded to a tropical
depression in the next couple of days, the hurricane center said
in an earlier notice.  In Bermuda, tropical storm watches posted because of
Hurricane Katia have been dropped, the center said. The
hurricane’s top winds have fallen to 85 mph from 90 mph, and it
may create “life-threatening surf and rip current conditions”
in the U.S. East Coast and  Bermuda .  Katia was  395 miles north-northwest  of Bermuda and is
moving northeast at 24 mph, according to a 5 a.m. advisory. The
storm is expected to move northeast into the Atlantic through
the remainder of the week, remaining “well south” of Nova
Scotia and Newfoundland, according to the center. Katia is a
Category 1 hurricane on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale.  It will be near the coast of  Norway  by next week and will
have 60 mph winds in five days, the center’s forecast showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  