-- 
Rugby World Cup Gives New Zealanders Respite After Deadly Quake, Recession

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 
2011-09-09T12:09:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/rugby-world-cup-gives-new-zealanders-respite-after-deadly-quake-recession.html
New Zealand ’s hosting of the  Rugby
World Cup  will lift the mood of a nation bruised by deadly
earthquakes, a fatal mine disaster and an economic recession,
according to the tournament’s top local official.  “It is incredibly important for that very reason,” Martin Snedden, chief executive officer of Rugby New Zealand 2011 Ltd.
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “It has been 12
months of tough stuff for New Zealanders. I think everyone in
New Zealand is ready to take a bit of a break from all that
stuff and have a party.”  The nation marked the one-year anniversary earlier this
month of the first in a series of earthquakes that devastated
the South Island city of Christchurch, killing more than 180
people. On the island’s West Coast the bodies of 29 workers
remain in the Pike River coal mine more than nine months after
an explosion in the pit.  New Zealand, today globally recognized as the home of “The
Lord of the Rings” films and for achievements of men like Mount
Everest conqueror Edmund Hillary, owes much of its identity to
rugby. A century ago, the young nation introduced itself to the
world through the success of its national All Blacks teams,
especially their wins in  Great Britain  where the game began.  “Rugby and the All Blacks were significant parts” of the
nation’s identity in the late 19th century, said Ron Palenski,
chief executive of the  New Zealand Sports Hall of Fame  in
Dunedin, who wrote a doctoral thesis on the subject. “One of
the reasons was that New Zealanders proved to be extraordinarily
good at the game.”  Focal Point  New Zealand’s lone World Cup win in 1987 and five
successive failures since cut deep in many communities where
clubs are often a focal point of social activity, where children
as young as 5 or 6 years of age are introduced to the sport by
skills-focused, non-tackle games.  “It strikes at the very soul of New Zealand that while we
may still be ranked No 1, we have five times tried to win the
cup and five times failed,” said Palenski.  Rugby showed its healing abilities at the 1995  World Cup  in
 South Africa . A year after elections marked an end to the
apartheid era,  Nelson Mandela  donned the green-and-gold jersey
of the then predominantly white national rugby team to present
the Cup to the captain of the winning South African side. The
act of reconciliation was caught by  Clint Eastwood  in the 2009
movie “Invictus,” which starred  Morgan Freeman  as the former
South African president.  A Bigger Opportunity  The All Blacks, who won their opening game against Tonga
41-10 in the six-week tournament in Auckland, are looking to rid
themselves of the mantle of “chokers” for their successive
failures. While many have a hunger for an overdue home victory,
Snedden says the bigger benefit will be how the nation presents
itself to the world.  About 95,000 foreign fans will attend the tournament,
spending NZ$700 million ($585 million) according to central bank
estimates. Games from the 2007 tournament in  France  were
televised in 238 countries.  “This opportunity is much bigger than just an opportunity
for the All Blacks to win the World Cup,” Snedden said. “It’s
about the country having an opportunity to host an event that is
far bigger than anything we’ve ever done before. The most
benefit that we would derive from this is if we can be assessed
at the end of it as having been a fantastic host.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  