-- 
Russian ‘Petro-Economy’ Doesn’t Belong Among BRICs, Krugman Says

-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-09T14:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/russian-petro-economy-doesn-t-belong-among-brics-krugman-says.html
Russia ’s reliance on oil and natural
gas means the world’s largest energy exporter doesn’t belong
among the so-called BRIC nations, Nobel economics laureate Paul Krugman said.  “Russia really doesn’t belong in the group, it’s a petro-
economy in terms of world trade,” Krugman said in an interview
late yesterday in Yaroslavl, central Russia. “There are a lot
of people and a lot of technical skills and at least potentially
Russia could be a part, but its role in the world right now is
not at all similar to  China .”  Oil and gas account for 17 percent of Russia’s gross
domestic product, compared with less than 10 percent in  Brazil ,
and contribute about 40 percent to government revenue. Russia’s
sovereign credit rating was last raised by Moody’s Investors
Service in 2008 to the third-lowest investment grade.  Goldman Sachs economist Jim O’Neill coined the BRIC term in
2001 to describe the fast-growing economies of Brazil, Russia,
 India  and China, which he says will collectively match the size
of the U.S. by 2020.  South Africa  was invited in December to join the group,
which held its first summit in 2009 in Russia, followed a year
later by a meeting in Brazil.  “There’s China and India, which in important ways belong
together -- labor-abundant rapid-growth economies,” said
Krugman, who was invited to give a speech at Russian President
 Dmitry Medvedev ’s  global policy forum  in Yaroslavl.  “Brazil is a middle-income, not a lower-income country and
still more than half of its exports are raw-material oriented.
But it does have a strong manufacturing sector,” he said.
“Russia doesn’t fit at all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  