-- 
Saab Auto’s Shares Plunge After Court Rejects Creditor Protection Request

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-09T09:19:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/saab-auto-plunges-after-creditor-protection-rejected-correct-.html
Swedish Automobile NV, the owner of
the 64-year-old Saab car brand, plunged in the first day of
trading since seeking protection from creditors.  The shares, which haven’t traded since Sept. 6 after being
suspended at the request of Dutch financial-markets regulator
AFM, fell as much as 47 percent to 38 cents and were down 33
percent as of 11:09 a.m. in Amsterdam trading, valuing the
company at 13.2 million euros ($18.3 million).  A Swedish court yesterday rejected  Saab Automobile ’s
petition for protection from creditors, increasing the risk that
the carmaker is headed for bankruptcy as suppliers and workers
seek the money they’re owed.  The  Vaenersborg District Court  ruled against the request
for a voluntary reorganization that Trollhaettan, Sweden-based
Saab filed Sept. 7 in a bid to win time to raise money to
restart operations and avoid a bankruptcy petition. Saab said
today that it will file an appeal of the ruling on Sept. 12.  Union representatives at Saab, which are seeking payment of
last month’s wages, are monitoring the situation before deciding
whether to seek a bankruptcy application that would be aimed at
securing state funds to pay workers.  Joint Action  “We’re waiting a few days,” Per Branneby, head of Saab’s
engineering union, which has about 500 members, said in a phone
interview. “We likely would take action only together with the
other unions.”  IF Metall, the biggest union with about 1,500 members at
the carmaker, is meeting daily to discuss the situation,
spokesman Lars Ankarfjall said. The union plans to “wait a few
days” before taking action, though doesn’t rule out making a
decision sooner, he said.  The carmaker, which employs 3,600 people worldwide, was
seeking a court-administered restructuring for the second time
since 2009, when previous owner  General Motors Co. (GM)  began
liquidating Saab. GM eventually sold Saab to Spyker Cars NV,
which was later renamed Swedish Automobile, in February last
year for about $400 million in cash and shares.  Saab hasn’t produced cars for months after suppliers halted
deliveries because they weren’t being paid. Assembly lines at
the Trollhaettan factory were first halted in late March. After
brief restarts, the plant has been quiet since early June.  The company was unable to pay August wages on time, the
third consecutive delay, prompting unions to start a process
that could have led to a bankruptcy declaration. The unions
halted that move Sept. 7 to support the reorganization request.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  