-- 
Scene Last Night: Hayden Panettiere, Stuart Weitzman, Jim Gold

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/scene-last-night-hayden-panettiere-stuart-weitzman-jim-gold.html
Led by Vogue editor in chief  Anna Wintour , Fashion’s Night Out started three years ago in response
to economic doldrums.  “The idea was to get the economy rolling,” said shoe
designer Stuart Weitzman. “Now it’s become one of the giant
charity events in America.”  At his Madison Avenue boutique Thursday night, Weitzman
stood next to a display of the four shoes he designed with
celebrities to raise money for ovarian cancer research.  Michelle Trachtenberg was wearing her contribution to the
Young Hollywood Cares Collection, a pair of dark blue snakeskin
platforms with studs on the heels.  “They’re perfect for Georgina,” she said, referring to
her character on “Gossip Girl.”  Hayden Panettiere had climbed into a green Fendi jumpsuit,
with black suede booties from the Cares collection.  “If I were wearing stilettos, I wouldn’t be standing
here,” said the actress of “Heroes” and “Scream 4” fame.
She’d been on her feet for an hour.  As for getting involved in a project that supports ovarian
 cancer research  -- specifically the lab of Dr. Marsha A. Moses
at the Folkman Institute in  Boston  -- “it makes you feel much
better about indulging in guilty pleasures, like shopping,” she
said.  The shoes retail for between $425 and $498. In the month of
September, which is Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, 100 percent
of that amount will go to Dr. Moses.  No Karaoke  Barneys  New York  Inc. donated 10 percent of sales at its
flagship store Thursday to the National September 11 Memorial &
Museum.  “We’ve had a great day, the customer really responded,”
said Barneys Chief Executive Mark Lee. It was 7:20 p.m., and Lee
was outside the store waiting for the arrival of former Vogue
Paris editor Carine Roitfeld, the current star of Barneys
windows.  Barneys didn’t offer karaoke this year. The shop floors
were free of distractions.  Not so at  Bergdorf Goodman , where visitors could partake in
purple cotton candy and tarot readings. Folks crammed the
sidewalks in front of the store all evening watching live
windows featuring models doing fashion things like cut and sew.  The scene was tame by Bergdorf benchmarks.  “It’s much more civilized this year,” said Jim Gold, the
president of specialty retail at the Neiman Marcus Group, which
operates Bergdorf Goodman Inc.  Gold explained that in the past, major celebrities created
gridlock, making it difficult to look at the clothes for sale.  Fashion for Dogs  One event has become a Fashion’s Night Out tradition: the
“BG Best in Show,” a fashion show for dogs.  Designer Wes Gordon dressed up Coco -- the dog of his
Bergdorf Goodman buyer, Mariko Ichikawa -- in a look from his
fall collection. Ichikawa got to wear a sample of the outfit.  Gordon squeezed in a fitting with Coco on Monday, as he was
working on his spring/summer 2012 presentation, which took place
yesterday.  “Now I know I want a dog,” Gordon said at the
presentation. “First I need some sleep.”  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 