-- 
Schaeuble and Baroin Seek ‘Broad Base’ for EU Transactions Tax

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-09T15:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/schaeuble-and-baroin-seek-broad-base-for-eu-transactions-tax.html
The European Union’s planned tax on
financial transactions should have a “broad base” covering
equities, bonds, currencies and derivatives to ensure it can’t
be evaded, the finance ministers of  France  and  Germany  said.  The levy should be imposed when at least one party to a
trade is located in the EU, with territorial coverage in the
region to be “as broad as legally permissible,” Germany’s
Wolfgang Schaeuble and France’s  Francois Baroin  said in a joint
letter to the European Commission published today.  “We believe the European Union should lead the global
mobilization on this issue,” the ministers said in the letter,
addressed to  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
commissioner, and Algirdas Semeta, the taxation commissioner.
Implementation of an EU tax “would be a crucial step on the
path to reaching a global consensus,” they said.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, last
month said it will draw up proposals for a transaction tax
before a summit of world leaders in November, backing calls by
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  and German Chancellor Angela Merkel for the levy.  The region’s lenders have criticized the plans, warning
that such a measure will harm economic recovery.  “The financial-services industry should not be seen as an
additional source of tax revenue, but as an essential part of a
stable and sustainable economy,” the  Association for Financial
Markets in Europe , which represents companies including  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA, said last month in response to the
commission’s announcement. A “tax would be a brake on economic
growth.”  Discussions among nations on how the money raised by the
tax should be spent shouldn’t delay progress in setting it up,
the ministers said.  “A low  tax rate  should be considered in order to minimize
the risk of distortions and circumvention,” they said. The
final decision on the rate will depend on the tax base agreed by
the EU, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 