-- 
Scott Stymied on Outsourcing as Florida’s Prison Health-Care Plan Falters

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/scott-stymied-on-outsourcing-as-florida-s-prison-health-care-plan-falters.html
Florida ’s plan to outsource health
care in the third-largest U.S. prison system to save $30 million
has stalled, hindering efforts by Governor  Rick Scott  and
lawmakers to hire private operators for state services.  Requests for proposals on the prison work were withdrawn
last month less than a week after they were issued. Days later,
an outside adviser overseeing the process and Corrections
Secretary Edwin Buss left. Lawmakers also cut funds to check
inmate care.  “There certainly have been snags,” said Senator Mike Fasano, Republican chairman of the budget subcommittee on
criminal and civil justice appropriations.  Ken Tucker , the new
corrections secretary, “has his work cut out for him.”  Scott, 58, a Republican former hospital executive,
campaigned on promises to cut costs by hiring companies. He
wants them to run all prison activities in South Florida, build
roads and bridges and care for 3.1 million recipients of
Medicaid, the federal and state health insurance for the poor.  Florida, with more than 100,000 prisoners, would be the
largest system to hire private providers for inmate medical
care. It would join 23 states, including Michigan and  Illinois ,
using companies, according to a March 28 report from  MHM
Services Inc. (MHMI) , a health-care provider to state and local
governments.  Arizona  passed a bill  April 27  allowing private
services.  Rising Costs  Average health-care costs per prisoner more than doubled
for  22 states  from 2000 to 2009, according to a November study
by Michigan’s Senate Fiscal Agency. Florida’s expense rose 37
percent from 2000 to 2008, according to Corrections Department
 annual budgets .  Florida lawmakers heard from four companies in March about
how they could lower costs for prisoner care: MHM Services,
Wexford Health Sources Inc., Prison Health Services Inc. and
Correctional Medical Services Inc. The latter two have merged to
form  Corizon Inc.   On May 7, the Legislature passed a fiscal 2012 budget that
authorized private prison care to save 7 percent, or about $30
million, from 2010 levels by fiscal 2013. Scott signed the
measure May 26.  Last month, Florida issued and then withdrew requests for
proposals to run the service in three of its four corrections
regions. The requests were pulled on Aug. 15 for “interagency
review and consultation,” Jo Ellyn Rackleff, a Corrections
Department spokeswoman, said in a Sept. 6 e-mail.  Adviser Fired  On Aug. 22, the 10-month contract of the adviser on the
process, Elizabeth Gondles, was canceled two months early. Her
solicitation required that any company hired be accredited by
the  American Correctional Association , whose executive director
is her husband, James.  “My understanding was that it was terminated on direction
of the governor’s chief of staff, allegedly for the ‘conflict of
interest’ of being married to the executive director of ACA,”
Gondles said in an e-mail.  She said the accreditation requirement wasn’t in her draft
of the invitation for proposals and that it was added later
because it’s “routine policy” for all Florida prisons.  Gondles left by “mutual agreement,” said Rackleff, the
Corrections Department spokeswoman. She had “completed her
work,” Rackleff said.  The departure of Gondles was followed on Aug. 24 by that of
Corrections Secretary Buss, hired by Scott in December.  The governor had praised Buss for negotiating the
“nation’s lowest medical per diem rate” and using company
partnerships when he was commissioner of  Indiana ’s prisons. In a
 statement  about Buss’s resignation, Scott cited “differences in
philosophy and management styles.”  ‘No Brainer’  Buss didn’t make a statement at the time. In an interview
on Aug. 15, he called health-care outsourcing a “no brainer.”  It “will deliver the best medical care to the offenders as
well as offer the lowest cost to taxpayers,” he said.  Buss’s departure hasn’t changed plans for prison health
care, said Lane Wright, a Scott spokesman. A new date for
proposals will likely come “soon,” he said.  Should the outsourcing proceed, there will be one less
agency keeping tabs on the company chosen. Lawmakers seeking to
close a $3.8 billion deficit in the 2012 budget didn’t provide
 $717,680  to fund the independent Correctional Medical Authority.  The agency was unlikely to catch any “emergency issues”
because it inspects prisons only once every three years, said
Representative Matt Hudson, the Republican sponsor of the bill
killing the authority.  Previous Attempt  In a truncated attempt in 2001 to use companies for inmate
care in South Florida, the  Correctional Medical Authority  found
“numerous start-up difficulties,” including “unacceptable”
pharmacy systems, “poor or non-existent” tracking mechanisms,
and lack of internal controls, according to its  2002 annual
report .  To protect itself in the new effort, Florida asked for a
$100 million performance bond from winners of the three regional
contracts. The state would be able to draw on the money should a
company not fulfill its obligations.  The requirement may limit competition for the work, said
Lori Roscoe, president of  Correctional Healthcare Consultants  in
Monticello,  Georgia , which advises prisons.  “A performance bond of that size would be prohibitive for
many companies,” she said in a telephone interview.  In the South Florida outsourcing of 2001, the performance
bond was $1 million for a contract about a third the size.  Wendelyn Pekich, a Wexford spokeswoman; John Van Mol of
Corizon, and Bob May of MHM Services declined to comment on the
performance bond.  Difficult Goal  Florida, which provides most prison health services in-
house, spent $414.7 million on inmate care in 2010, according to
a department  budget summary . Under the state  budget  passed in
May, it must pay 7 percent less to a contractor, which would
decrease outlays by about $30 million a year.  Those savings may be difficult after the state already cut
costs by 9 percent in the previous two years. Indiana estimated
it saved about 6 percent, or $5 million annually, in 2010 by
expanding its contract with Correctional Medical Services.  Scott, who aims to lower prison expenses by a cumulative
$1 billion over seven years, said any new company bids for
inmate care must produce the desired result.  “We have to make sure that it saves the state money,” he
said at an Aug. 19 news conference in Miami. “You’ve got to
make sure it’s right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 