-- 
Scotiabank Buys Almost 20% of Bank of Guangzhou in China for $727 Million

-- B y   C h i t r a   S o m a y a j i ,   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-09-09T20:06:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/scotiabank-buys-almost-20-of-bank-of-guangzhou-in-china-for-727-million.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,  Canada ’s third-
largest lender, plans to acquire a stake in closely held Bank of
Guangzhou for about C$719 million ($727 million) to add branches
and deposits in China.  Scotiabank was selected as the winning bidder to buy a 20
percent stake, the Toronto-based company said in a statement
today. It expects to complete the deal in December. The
transaction, which is subject to regulatory approval, will add
to earnings next year, it said.  Scotiabank’s fifth-biggest acquisition would give it funds
as well as corporate and treasury operations in China as it
seeks to develop  consumer banking  and  wealth management  in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy. The Canadian lender,
which has had operations in the Asian nation for 29 years, has
spent about $2 billion on foreign acquisitions in the last five
years.  “We really like the footprint of this bank,” Brian Porter, group head of international banking, said today in a
telephone interview. “It’s in an exciting region in  China .”  Scotiabank fell C$1.18, or 2.2 percent, to C$51.63 in 4
p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have
fallen 9.6 percent this year, compared with a 4.8 percent drop
on the 10-stock S&P/TSX Banks Index.  Bank of Guangzhou, which has 84 branches, is No. 29 among
lenders in China, Scotiabank said. The city of Guangzhou is
China’s third-largest after  Shanghai  and Beijing, with a
population of more than 11 million people and gross domestic
product of 1.06 trillion yuan ($166 billion) last year, it said.  Long-Term Strategy  “If you’re a bank with international interests, it’s
absolutely compelling to get a foothold in China,” said Jim Antos, a financial analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. in  Hong
Kong . “A key part of Bank of Nova Scotia’s long-term strategy
seems to be to pursue international investments. With a stake in
this bank in Guangzhou, which is a vibrant part of the Chinese
economy, they’re plugging a missing link.”  The lender has operations in Guangzhou, Chongqing,
Shanghai, Hong Kong and Taipei. Last year, the bank and partner
Thanachart Bank paid C$2.2 billion purchase for Thailand’s Siam
City Bank Pcl and the bank will hold a quarterly board meeting
this year in Thailand.  Scotiabank is also awaiting regulatory approval to increase
its stake in China’s Bank of Xi’an to more than 18 percent from
14.8 percent, Porter said. Foreign banks can own two 20 percent
stakes in Chinese banks, he said.  50 Countries  Scotiabank reported third-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates, led by its international business. Net
income for the three months ended July 31 rose 22 percent to
C$1.29 billion, it said Aug. 30. That was the eighth straight
quarter of earnings growth.  The bank, which has operations in 50 countries including
Mexico and  Thailand , said profit from international banking
climbed 27 percent to C$350 million on increases in commercial
lending and higher consumer loans in Chile and  Peru .  “We believe its presence in Asian and emerging markets
( Latin America ) helps to provide a growth engine for BNS that is
unique among the Canadian banks,” KBW analyst  Brian Klock  said
today in a note to investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chitra Somayaji in Hong Kong at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  