-- 
Senators Query Geithner on Credits to Unauthorized Workers

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-09-09T21:15:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/senators-query-geithner-on-tax-credits-for-unauthorized-workers.html
The Democratic chairman and the top
Republican on the Senate Finance Committee are pressing the
Obama administration for information on tax credits paid to
people who may not be eligible to work in the U.S.  In a letter sent to Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and Internal Revenue Service Commissioner Douglas Shulman dated
today, Democrat  Max Baucus  of  Montana  and Republican  Orrin Hatch 
of  Utah  cited an inspector general’s report released Sept. 1
showing that the IRS awarded $4.2 billion in additional child
tax credits to people with taxpayer identification numbers
rather than Social Security numbers.  The letter asks Treasury and the IRS to provide a legal
analysis of the agencies’ ability to deny tax credits to people
with those identification numbers. If they lack that authority,
Congress could provide it and generate revenue to reduce the
federal  budget deficit .  Several aspects of the report “raise serious concerns
about which we are requesting further information and that
require the immediate attention of the Department of Treasury
and IRS,” the letter said.  In addition to Hatch, the letter was signed by the
committee’s 10 other Republicans on the committee.  Child Tax Credits  The additional child tax credit was established in 1997, a
year after Congress prohibited taxpayers without Social Security
numbers from receiving other tax credits.  The law authorizing the child tax credit didn’t include
language explicitly limiting recipients to filers with Social
Security numbers. The IRS has said that it doesn’t have the
authority to deny the credit to people who use a taxpayer
identification number to file.  Spokesmen for the IRS and Treasury Department didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment today.  In a statement when the inspector general’s report was
released, IRS spokeswoman Michelle Eldridge said the law is
clear that “eligibility for these credits does not depend on
work authorization status or the type of taxpayer identification
number used.”  “If the law were changed, the IRS would change its
programs accordingly,” Eldridge said.  The child tax credit is refundable, meaning that the
portion of the credit that exceeds a tax liability is paid to
the taxpayer.  Taxpayer identification numbers are provided by the IRS so
that workers who don’t have work authorization needed for a
Social Security number can still comply with tax law. Even money
earned illegally in the U.S. is subject to taxation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  