-- 
Republican Senator Crapo Terms Obama Jobs Plan Discouraging, Unaffordable

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-09-10T04:00:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/senator-crapo-calls-obama-s-employment-proposal-discouraging-unaffordable.html
U.S. Senator  Mike Crapo  called
President Barack Obama’s $447 billion jobs proposal
discouraging, saying the administration is relying on
unaffordable spending initiatives rather than the more
fundamental policy changes needed to battle unemployment.  Crapo said that while he supports Obama’s push to expand a
payroll tax break set to expire at year’s end, the president’s
other proposals such as providing more aid to state governments
will only make it harder for Congress’s recently created
supercommittee to reduce the federal deficit. He also said he
doesn’t think added the administration takes seriously the issue
of overhauling government regulations.  Crapo, an Idaho Republican, served on the administration’s
debt commission last year and also was a member of the “Gang of
Six” senators who supported bipartisan  deficit reduction .  Obama “continues to look at temporary solutions that are
very expensive -- he continues to try to spend our way into a
prosperous economy,” Crapo, 60, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s ‘Political Capital with  Al Hunt ’ airing
this weekend. “I interpreted his remarks about regulatory
reform to be pretty much ‘No, we’re not going to do it.’”  “That’s one of the biggest problems we face right now with
uncertainty in the economy and the business world,” Crapo said.  ‘Fundamental Reform’  He said expanding a payroll tax break is “something that
can be helpful in the small business arena and, frankly, with
individuals as they deal with incredible troubles right now.”
Still, he said, it isn’t the sort of “fundamental reform of our
 tax code  and our economic policy that we really need.”  Crapo said it’s “hard to see” how the supercommittee will
be able to strike a deal on the budget after the failure of “so
many” previous attempts for a grand bargain on the issue.  He termed the price tag for Obama’s jobs plan discouraging
because the president “appears to be saying that if we meet the
minimum target of about $2 trillion or $2.5 trillion” -- the
10-year budget-cut target lawmakers agreed to last month as part
of a deal to raise the government’s debt limit -- “then we can
start spending again.” Lawmakers really need to cut $4 trillion
or $5 trillion over the next decade “before we can really just
keep our head above water,” Crapo said.  Crapo has broken with other Republicans on revenue
increases, saying they are necessary to reduce the deficit.
“You really do” have to deal with both sides of the budget
ledger, he said in the interview.  He declined to criticize Republican presidential candidates
who rejected a theoretical deal to cut $10 in federal spending
for every $1 in tax increases, saying instead they should have
focused on pushing broader tax overhaul.  ‘Ultimate Solution’  “I was not disappointed in the sense they were all holding
firm on saying not raising taxes, but I was disappointed that
they didn’t focus the debate on the kind of  tax reform  that will
generate greater  tax revenue  -- and that’s what I believe is
going to be the ultimate solution.”  Crapo hasn’t endorsed any candidate, saying he is waiting
to see who has the best chance of defeating Obama in November of
next year. Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney may be a
“little more electable” than the frontrunner in Republican
polls, Texas Governor Rick Perry, “but I don’t know, and
frankly I have to say I don’t know Perry very well,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
1919 or  bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  