-- 
Shipping Loan Attrition Is Faster Than Anticipated, DnB Says

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 
2011-09-09T07:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/shipping-loan-attrition-is-faster-than-anticipated-dnb-says.html
DnB NOR ASA (DNBNOR) , the largest lender to
the shipping industry, said attrition from its loan book is
faster than expected as vessel-owners fail to renew loans and
demand for financing wanes amid a market slump.  The bank’s value of loans to the industry will remain flat
through 2011 as more financing is repaid early, including
through vessel sales, said Harald Serck-Hanssen, the Oslo-based
bank’s head of global shipping, offshore and logistics.  “The attrition rate has been higher than we expected,” he
said by phone on Sept. 7. “We’ve done about $4.5 billion of new
business on our balance sheet this year. With that number we
still have a more or less stable loan book and I would expect
the number to remain fairly stable for the rest of the year.”  DnB NOR, which in April said it expected its shipping loan
portfolio to grow by as much as 10 percent in 2011, will keep
lending in check in the second half because of a limited number
of borrowers with an “acceptable risk profile,” he said.  The market is beset by a glut of ships. Supertankers that
carry about a fifth of the world’s oil aren’t earning enough to
cover daily running costs, according to data from the  Baltic
Exchange  in  London  and Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. Vessels
that transport manufactured goods to  Europe  from  Asia  are
earning “practically nothing,” according to Menno Sanderse, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley.  Increased Pressure  The pressure to write down loans may increase in the second
half from the first six months because of the weak outlook,
Serck-Hanssen said. The unit didn’t write off any loans in the
second-quarter, according to the bank’s quarterly report.  Hans Christian Kjelsrud, head of shipping, offshore and oil
services of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the second-biggest shipping lender,
also said capital is “becoming more discriminating.”  “You really see the banks focusing on the big names with
larger fleets and bigger balance sheets that have better access
to capital,” he said. “You have strong companies and you have
weak companies and it all depends on how your portfolio is
positioned.”  Kjelsrud’s unit  reported  a doubling of loan losses to 24
million euros in the second quarter, while DnB NOR said in its
second-quarter  report  that persistent low spot rate for dry bulk
carriers and tankers could “generate higher risk in the
shipping segment.”  Nordea had 12.8 billion euros ($17.9 billion) in shipping
and offshore loans at end of the quarter, down from 14.5 billion
euros a year earlier. DnB’s portfolio of such loans fell to 130
billion kroner ($24 billion) from 140 billion a year earlier.  The executives declined to comment on amounts for loan
write downs in the second half.  “We’re going to see continued consolidation in the tanker
industry driven by the availability of finance and also driven
by continuously tougher compliance rules and so on by the  oil
companies ,” Serck-Hanssen said. “We have mainly been focusing
on large, leading operators within the different segments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  