-- 
Slovakia’s Slower Growth to Cut Budget Revenue, Miklos Says

-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 
2011-09-09T07:53:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/slovakia-s-slower-growth-to-cut-budget-revenue-miklos-says-1-.html
Slower-than-projected Slovak
economic growth will cut budget revenue next year, prompting the
government to seek revenue-boosting measures to maintain its
fiscal target, Finance Minister Ivan Miklos said.  The  Finance Ministry  last month revised its forecast for
2012 gross domestic product to rise 3.4 percent compared with
4.4 percent, on which the budget is based. The slower pace of
expansion will probably cut 2012 budget revenue by 240 million
euros ($333.6 million) next year, Miklos said today.  Decelerating growth in western  Europe , Slovakia’s main
trading partner, is hurting the eastern euro-area member’s
efforts to improve public finances amid the region’s persistent
debt crisis. The government will need to take steps to ensure
the fiscal deficit is cut to 3.8 percent of GDP in 2012 from a
projected 4.9 percent this year, Miklos said.  “The measures mainly will address boosting revenue,”
Miklos said in an interview in Krynica,  Poland .  The minister said the ministry will among other measures
negotiate with ruling parties to allow for an increase in excise
taxes as well as an introduction of a bank tax next year.  The revenue measures should yield about 140 million euros,
while the remaining 100 million euros will be saved on expected
lower interest rate costs, Miklos said.  In 2011, economic growth is set to reach 3.3 percent,
compared with the originally expected 3.6 percent, according to
the revised forecast. The impact of the growth revision on the
2011 budget won’t be significant, Miklos said.  The coalition government began debate on the budget last
month and is obliged to submit a spending plan to parliament by
October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrea Dudikova at 
 adudikova@bloomberg.net  