-- 
Software Leader Norton to Sell $25 Million of Art at Christie’s

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/software-leader-norton-to-sell-25-million-of-art-at-christie-s.html
Sixty contemporary artworks from
the collection of computer-software developer Peter Norton are
heading to the auction block at Christie’s in New York this
fall.  The group, which includes pieces by Matthew Barney,  Takashi Murakami  and Paul McCarthy, is expected to bring in more than
$25 million during the auction house’s evening and daytime
contemporary-art sales in Nov. 8-9.  Norton’s interest in three-dimensional art is represented
by McCarthy’s 7-foot-high “Tomato Head (Green).” Robert Gober’s 1992 “Prison Window” features a two-foot-square cutout
in a wall with iron bars and blue sky in the background.  There is also Kara Walker’s sprawling 1996 frieze
“African’t,” made with 25 cut-paper silhouettes, and
Murakami’s cheerful sculptural mushroom ensemble, “DOB in the
Strange Forest,” from 1999.  “One of my ideals for an artwork is that there are
thoughts and ideas behind it, but that the work nevertheless has
so much visual content that it appeals to viewers who have no
understanding of those ideas,” Norton said in a statement.  The creator of Norton AntiVirus and other software
programs, now produced by  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , Norton is a collector
of emerging art and a philanthropist. A trustee of the Museum of
 Modern Art  in  Manhattan , he gave more than 1,000 works from his
collection to 32 institutions around the world in 2000.  Family Foundation  He has supported hundreds of organizations through the
Peter Norton Family Foundation, including the Los Angeles County
 Museum  of Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art and  Symphony
Space  in New York.  “We have long been donating works to museums we’re
involved in, and now is a time to be increasing that. The sale
will allow us to further our giving in other ways, as the
proceeds will go toward establishing a new charitable trust,”
he said in the statement.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 