-- 
South Korean Stocks Drop Most in Asia on Growth Concerns Before Holiday

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-09-09T07:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/south-korean-stocks-drop-most-in-asia-on-growth-concerns-before-holiday.html
South Korean shares fell, driving
the  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  to the biggest drop in  Asia , amid lingering
concerns that the global economy is slowing, and as some
investors sold shares before the Chuseok Thanksgiving holiday.  The benchmark  stock index  retreated 1.8 percent to 1,812.93
at the close in  Seoul , ending the week 2.9 percent lower, the
first weekly drop in three. Local financial markets will be
closed on Sept. 12 and 13.  Samsung Electronics Co., South Korea’s biggest exporter of
consumer electronics, and Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the
world’s biggest shipbuilder, led losses. U.S. President  Barack Obama  called on Congress to pass his $447 billion job-creation
package after employment growth stalled last month, fueling
concern the U.S. recovery is faltering. Federal Reserve Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke yesterday stopped short of detailing new plans
to boost growth, while European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said “downside risks” for the region’s
economies have risen.  “Investors appear to be playing safe before they head into
the holiday break, which shows sentiment is still weak,” said
Chung Yun Sik, chief investment officer for equities at ING
Investment Management Korea Ltd., which oversees about $16
billion. “While Obama’s package may gradually aid the economy,
we still have debt issues in  Europe .”  Export Demand  The Kospi sank 12 percent in August, the steepest monthly
loss since October 2008, as signs of slowing U.S. economic
growth and concern Europe’s debt crisis is spreading fueled
speculation that demand for South Korea’s exports will fall.  Stocks on the Kospi traded at 9.2 times estimated profit,
the second-lowest valuation in Asia after Pakistan’s benchmark
gauge, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares
with 10.1 times for the MSCI Emerging-Markets Index.  Samsung Electronics, Asia’s biggest maker of chips, flat
screens and mobile phones, fell 2.3 percent. Hyundai Heavy lost
3.3 percent.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest automaker,
slipped 2 percent.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , South Korea’s second-largest
electronics maker, retreated 4.6 percent after Mirae Asset
Securities Co. cut its stock rating to “hold” from “buy,”
saying growth of smartphone sales may slow, according to a
report today.  Daewoo Securities Co. lost 4.7 percent, extending
yesterday’s 15 percent drop, spurred by the brokerage’s plan to
sell new shares. The stock fell to the lowest level since
November 2008.  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , the world’s second-largest
computer-memory chipmaker, rallied 3.1 percent after the
Economic Daily News reported Taiwan’s Powerchip Technology Corp.
has cut production and shipments of dynamic random-access
memory, or DRAM, by 50 percent since August.  Hynix gained on speculation the company will benefit from
production cuts by smaller rivals and on expectation the mobile
DRAM market will recover, Jeff Kang, an analyst at Daishin
Securities Co., said by phone today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  