-- 
South Edge Wins Court Approval to Seek Creditor Vote on Reorganization

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-09T19:16:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/south-edge-wins-court-approval-to-seek-creditor-vote-on-reorganization.html
South Edge LLC, the Las Vegas-area
developer co-owned by  KB Home (KBH) ,  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  and  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , won bankruptcy court permission to send its
reorganization plan to creditors for a vote.  Under the plan, the builders and co-owner Pardee Homes of
Nevada would retain ownership of South Edge’s main asset, the
2,000-acre home development in Henderson, Nevada, called
Inspirada. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell agreed to let
South Edge seek the creditor vote in an order filed yesterday in
Las Vegas.  Any alternative proposal “would result in significant
delays, litigation, and additional costs and, ultimately, would
lower the recoveries for holders of allowed claims,” the four
homebuilders said in a disclosure statement describing the plan.  Markell will take the vote of creditors into account when
deciding whether to approve the plan. The plan is built on a
settlement between the builders and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
agent for lenders that financed Inspirada. Under the deal,
lenders will be paid between $330 million and $340 million of
the $367 million they are owed.  JPMorgan, based in New York, forced South Edge into
bankruptcy in December, accusing the builders of mismanaging the
project and of trying to escape liability for a $585 million
loan. In February, Markell ordered the appointment of a trustee
for South Edge.  South Edge has four other investors in addition to the four
homebuilders. KB Home, based in Los Angeles, is the lead
investor. Two investors in the project are in bankruptcy and two
others, Focus South Group LLC and  Meritage Homes Corp. (MTH) , oppose
the reorganization plan.  The case is in re South Edge LLC, 10-32968, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Nevada ( Las Vegas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  