-- 
South Korea Should Raise Electricity Prices, Policy Adviser Says

-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 
2011-09-09T04:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/south-korea-should-raise-electricity-prices-policy-adviser-says.html
South Korea ’s government should
raise electricity prices to reflect higher generation costs and
curb excessive demand, a state adviser on  energy policy  said.  Prices should be boosted by another 10 percent, following a
4.9 percent increase in power tariffs on Aug. 1, to cover a
surge in the cost of generation, Kim Jin Woo, president of the
 Korea Energy Economics Institute , said in an interview yesterday
at his office in Uiwang-si, Gyeonggi-do.  “Government controls to rein in inflation are hindering
rational energy consumption,” Kim said. “If the current price
scheme goes on, it will magnify imports of expensive energy
commodities and affect the development of the country’s long-
term energy supply-mix plan.”  The government has restricted state-run  Korea Electric
Power Corp. (015760)  from passing the increasing cost of coal, natural
gas and oil to customers, causing the utility to post four
straight years of operating losses. Electricity consumption has
more than doubled in the past 12 years, compared with a less
than 10 percent increase in most developed nations, Kim said.  The government is revising its primary energy supply mix
plan for the period to 2030 following the Fukushima nuclear
plant disaster in  Japan . The Energy Economics Institute aims to
make recommendations by the end of this year after talks with
energy researchers.  While Fukushima, the worst atomic crisis since Chernobyl in
1986, prompted Japan to reduce dependence on nuclear power and
shift to liquefied natural gas and renewable energy sources,
South  Korea  should continue to increase atomic-power generation,
Kim said.  Renewable Cost  “If we shift more to renewable energy sources, it would
generate enormous costs, which prompts the question of whether
consumers could endure it,” Kim said. “There’s no other
alternative than nuclear power in terms of cost and
feasibility.”  In an energy plan announced in 2008, South Korea targeted
59 percent of its energy generation from nuclear plants by 2030,
compared with 31 percent in 2010.  The revised plan is unlikely to reduce or increase the
supply targets on nuclear power while the portion of renewable
energy is likely to increase from 12 percent, according to Kim.  “We may increase the renewable energy portion and reduce
the portion of fossil fuel, mainly oil products, by as much as
the increase,” he said.  Dependence on renewable energy by 2030 may be between 12
percent and 15 percent, he said, citing Korea’s climate and
availability of land as reasons why the proportion won’t
increase more.  Use of LNG for power generation may rise 7 percent to 14.49
million metric tons next year, he said, citing estimates by the
power  exchange . Use of thermal coal may be little changed and
oil consumption may drop 11 percent, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  