-- 
Springboks Pick Rugby’s Most-Experienced Team; Ticket Scam Foiled: Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-09T06:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/springboks-pick-rugby-s-most-experienced-team-ticket-scam-foiled-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011  Rugby World Cup  in  New Zealand .  Test Record  South Africa ’s starting lineup for the opening match of its
Rugby World Cup title defense is the most-experienced in the
sport’s history, tournament organizers said.  The combined tally of 815 Test appearances breaks the
record of 810 set by the Springboks against  Australia  last
month. Nine of the 15 starters to face  Wales  in Wellington in
two days featured in the 2007 final victory against  England .  Apart from Tendai Mtawarira, Jannie du Plessis, Heinrich
Brüssow, Pierre Spies, Morné Steyn and Jean de Villiers, all of
South Africa’s players began the final in Paris four years ago.  Fraud Foiled  New Zealand Police  charged two men for being part of an
alleged ticket fraud at the 48-game tournament.  Police recovered 933 tickets worth more than NZ$500,000
($417,500) after raids today and the men appeared in the
Auckland District Court, Auckland City police said in an e-
mailed statement. The tickets were bought from overseas using
false credit card details.  “Initial analysis indicated police have recovered the
majority of the tickets which were fraudulently purchased,”
Detective Superintendent Andy Lovelock said in the statement.  Irish First  Brian O’Driscoll will become the first Ireland player to
play at four World Cups after being named as captain for his
team’s tournament opener against the U.S. in two days.  O’Driscoll, who made his  World Cup  debut against the same
opponent in 1999, already holds the Irish record for matches
played (13) and tries scored (6) at the four-yearly showpiece.
He’s won 49 of his 76 Tests as Ireland captain.  “Teams that have won the World Cup have played simple,
very effective rugby,” O’Driscoll, 32, said today in comments
distributed by tournament organizers. “I hope we can play a
physical, uncompromising brand.”  MacDonald Milestones  U.S. prop Mike MacDonald will reach two milestones himself
after being named in the starting lineup to face Ireland.  MacDonald, 30, will play a record 63rd Test match for the
Eagles, lifting him one clear of the the mark he shared with the
retired Luke Gross. MacDonald and center Paul Emerick will take
part in their third World Cup, tying the U.S. record of Alec Parker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  