-- 
Sprint Said to Plan Unlimited Data Offer With Apple’s IPhone

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-09T20:39:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/sprint-is-said-to-plan-unlimited-data-with-iphone-5-to-stand-out-from-pack.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  will offer  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone next month with unlimited data service plans to
distinguish itself from rivals  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Wireless ,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, plans to
begin selling the device in mid-October under a deal with Apple
for the next model, the iPhone 5, said the people, who wouldn’t
be identified because the plans aren’t public. Becoming the
country’s only operator to offer the device with unlimited data
service for a flat fee may help Sprint draw customers from AT&T
and Verizon Wireless, which already carry the phone, they said.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , is struggling to
compete against larger rivals and has lost money for 15
consecutive quarters. The addition of the iPhone to Sprint’s
lineup will help it win customers, said Matthew Thornton, an
analyst at Avian Securities LLC.  “It’s a competitive disadvantage if your two larger
competitors have the iPhone and you don’t,” Thornton said in an
interview. “Getting the iPhone closes that gap.”  Michelle Leff Mermelstein, a spokeswoman for Sprint, said
the company doesn’t comment on products or services it hasn’t
announced.  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined
to comment on rumors or speculation.  Sprint already offers unlimited data plans for smartphones
such as  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s BlackBerry and  HTC Corp. (2498) ’s
Evo, which runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.
Sprint’s unlimited voice and data service costs $99.99 a month.  AT&T and Verizon  AT&T and Verizon charge for data service on top of voice-
service plans. AT&T, which has unlimited voice service for
$69.99 a month,  offers 200 megabytes  of data for $15 a month, 2
gigabytes of data for $25 a month, or 4 gigabytes of data for
$45 a month. Verizon’s data plans for the iPhone start at $30 a
month for 2 gigabytes and rise to $80 for 10 gigabytes, in
addition to unlimited voice service for $69.99 a month.  Unlimited data plans are a draw because they allow
customers to surf the Web, share photos or watch videos as much
as they want. They’re particularly valuable for people who use
mobile devices for applications such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s movie
service or Pandora Media Inc.’s streaming music.  “The advantage of unlimited is, it’s cheaper for the big
users,” Peter Rhamey, an analyst at Bank of Montreal, said in
an interview. The plans may draw other customers because
“people don’t like bill shock,” he said. “Consumers will pay
a premium for unlimited.”  IPhone vs. Android  The iPhone may not lead to more data use per customer than
Sprint already sees from customers who have Android phones. In
the first quarter, Android smartphone owners in the U.S.
consumed an average of 582 megabytes of data each month,
compared with 492 megabytes for iPhone owners, according to
 Nielsen Co.’s analysis  of nearly 65,000 cell-phone bills.  Apple’s iPhone has proved to be a valuable recruitment tool
for rivals: Of the 5.6 million smartphones AT&T sold in the
second quarter, the device accounted for 3.6 million. A quarter
of the subscribers who bought the iPhone were new to AT&T, the
company said.  Sprint has been using the iPhone’s launch as retention tool
with its executives, as it expects the addition of the device to
boost its stock price, said one person familiar with the
situation.  Sprint was unchanged at $3.45 at 4 p.m. on the New York
Stock Exchange, and has declined 18 percent this year. Apple
dropped $6.66, or 1.7 percent, to $377.48 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading and has climbed 17 percent this year.  To prepare for the introduction, Sprint has postponed the
September debut of a rival smartphone that uses fourth-
generation, or 4G, wireless technology, said one person familiar
with the situation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  