-- 
Stocks, Euro Tumble as European Credit Risk Surges on Greece Debt Concerns

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-09T20:44:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/stocks-tumble-worldwide-after-obama-speech.html
Stocks sank, while the euro touched
a ten-year low versus the yen and a six-month low against the
dollar, as concern grew about  Greece ’s debt crisis. European
bank and sovereign credit risk reached all-time highs as 10-year
Treasury yields slid to a record. Oil fell 2 percent.  The MSCI All-Country World Index retreated 2.9 percent and
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 2.7 percent to 1,154.23
at the 4 p.m. close in New York, wiping out a weekly gain. The
euro sank as much as 2.1 percent to 105.3 yen and fell 1.8
percent to $1.3627 before trimming losses. Ten-year Treasury
yields slid as low as 1.89 percent. Credit-default swaps
signaled a more than 90 percent probability Greece will default.  Stocks extended losses as three German officials said
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is preparing plans to
shore up banks in the event that Greece defaults. The  European
Central Bank  said  Juergen Stark  resigned from the executive
board, suggesting policy makers are divided over how to fight
the debt crisis. U.S. President Barack Obama called on Congress
last night to pass a $447 billion plan to boost employment after
jobs growth stalled last month.  “There’s that nagging thought that we can continue to have
a downward spiral in Europe,” James Dunigan, chief investment
officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management, said in a
telephone interview. The firm oversees $109 billion. “There’s
concern of a default, of risk in banks, of a liquidity crisis.
In the U.S., even as President Obama made an effort to put that
plan together, there’s not a whole lot of confidence that
Congress will pass.”  Week’s Performance  The  S&P 500  lost 1.7 percent since Sept. 2 to cap a sixth
weekly drop in the past seven and closed at the lowest level
since Aug. 22. The gauge is down more than 15 percent from an
almost three-year high at the end of April, while still up 3.1
percent from its low for the year last month.  Financial, technology and energy companies were the biggest
drags on the index as all 10 main industry groups dropped at
least 1.2 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. lost 4.3 percent and
Wells Fargo & Co. slid 3.6 percent, while Alcoa Inc. and Exxon
Mobil Corp. lost at least 2.5 percent. McDonald’s Corp. sank 4
percent after August sales trailed estimates.  Hewlett-Packard Co. and American Express Co. dropped at
least 4.5 percent to lead declines in all 30 stocks in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , which fell 303.68 points, or 2.7
percent, to 10,992.13.  Obama Plan  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis overshadowed President
Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan that economists at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Moody’s Analytics Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. say
would boost U.S. gross domestic product by as much as 2 percent
in 2012. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian
said President  Barack Obama  is moving for the first time to “get
ahead” of U.S. economic challenges because the  Federal Reserve 
is unable to revive employment on its own.  "My hope is that there’s enough there for both parties so
that they can coalesce to the center," El-Erian, chief executive
and co-chief investment officer of the world’s biggest manager
of bond funds, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
"In the Loop" with Betty Liu. "The risk is they may not, but
this is the first time the administration really recognizes how
deep our economic challenges are and tries to get ahead of them.
So hopefully this is a building
block. But the jury is still out."  The Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six trading partners, rose 1.2 percent to the highest
level since March as the currency strengthened against all 16
major peers.  European Stocks, Euro  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lost 2.6 percent, extending this
week’s retreat to 3.7 percent. Porsche SE tumbled 14 percent
after Volkswagen AG said it will no longer complete its merger
with the sports-car maker by the end of the year because of
pending lawsuits. Verbund AG,  Austria ’s biggest power company,
sank 12 percent after cutting its guidance for 2011.  The euro weakened 3.8 percent against the dollar since
Sept. 2, its biggest weekly decline in more than a year. The
yield on the two-year German note dropped to as low as 0.377
percent, with the 10-year bund yield sliding as low as 1.77
percent, the lowest on record for both.  Greek Bonds  Greek two-year note yields added as much as 203 basis
points to 57.08 percent, a euro-era record. Credit-default swaps
insuring Greek sovereign bonds jumped 475 basis points to a
record 3,500, according to CMA. One-year Greek note yields
jumped 325 basis points to a record 97.96 percent. Spanish and
Italian 10-year yields increased 14 and 13 points respectively.  The cost of insuring sovereign debt climbed, with the
Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit swaps on 15
governments up 17 basis points at 340. The Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of swaps on 25 banks and insurers rose 26 basis
points to 290 at 4:30 p.m. in London, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  Germany ’s emergency plan if Greece defaults involves
measures to help banks and insurers that face a possible 50
percent loss on their Greek bonds if the next tranche of
Greece’s bailout is withheld, said the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the deliberations are being held
in private. The successor to the German government’s bank-rescue
fund introduced in 2008 might be enrolled to help recapitalize
the banks, one of the people said.  ‘Only The Beginning’  “It is our belief that a 50 percent writedown is only the
beginning,”  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at BTIG LLC
in  New York , wrote in a note to clients. “With Greece’s
debt/GDP ratio hitting 160 percent, debt will probably have to
be reduced by as much as 75 percent in order to provide a more
sustainable starting point.”  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s biggest lender, slid 7.3
percent. The benchmark DAX Index lost 4 percent.  Questions over Greece’s ability to meet the terms of its
first rescue package are dogging the indebted nation as
bondholders weigh whether to participate in a debt exchange
that’s crucial to a second bailout. Greece sought responses
today from bond investors to the proposed debt swap, part of a
159 billion-euro ($220 billion) European Union rescue plan
agreed upon in July.  Greece is committed to “full implementation” of its
bailout agreement, the country’s finance ministry said in a
statement. The country rejected default talk as “organized
speculation,” according to an e-mailed statement from the
ministry.  Greece has no plans to publish details of anticipated
participation in its debt-swap this week or next, said  Petros
Christodoulou , head of the country’s debt management office. The
response so far has been “very positive,” he said in a
telephone interview. “There will not be a number coming out of
 Athens  today or next week. At this moment, more than half of the
Europeans have not even responded. It is too early.”  Commodities Retreat  Oil retreated 2 percent to $87.24 a barrel in New York.
Copper lost 3.4 percent to $4.0025 a pound in New York.
Aluminum, nickel and zinc also declined at least 2 percent. Gold
futures gained 0.1 percent to $1,859.50 an ounce, with gains
limited as the stronger dollar reducing demand for an
alternative asset.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell 2.1 percent, dropping
for the first time in three days. OTP Bank Nyrt. led  Hungary ’s
BUX Index 6.2 percent lower after the ruling party proposed
letting foreign-currency borrowers repay loans early at a fixed
rate with banks covering costs. The Shanghai Composite Index
slipped less than 0.1 percent, erasing gains of as much as 1.2
percent, after  China ’s industrial output growth trailed
estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  