-- 
Strip-Club Bills Paid With Union Cash as Corruption Cases Rise

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-09-09T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/strip-club-bills-paid-with-union-cash-as-corruption-cases-rise.html
Shawn Clark, a  New Jersey 
carpenters’ union officer, used his local’s credit card to run
up $50,000 in bills over seven years at Double D’s, a Morristown
strip club, according to an indictment. Now he’s in prison for
28 months.  Clark, 46, is among an increasing number of U.S. union
officials and members accused of stealing from organized labor
to feed gambling habits, buy jewelry and show horses or pay
personal bills, a review of U.S. Labor Department reports by
Bloomberg Government found. Convictions of union leaders and
staff on embezzlement and related criminal charges in fiscal
2010 were the most since 2006, the review showed.  The department’s investigations led to convictions of 130
union members and staff in the year that ended Sept. 30, up from
121 in 2009 and the highest since 133 in 2006, according to
agency  data  on federal and state prosecutions. The government
won cases against 1,608 union members from fiscal 1998 through
last year, an annual average of 123.  “Corruption and misuse of union funds has been a
significant issue for labor,”  Harley Shaiken , a labor-relations
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley, said in
an interview. “It has a big impact because it’s corrosive to
the confidence people have. Unions don’t want to be tarred by
that.”  The money stolen was as much as $500,000 in an extortion
case involving the pension-fund administrator of a New York City
bus drivers’ union who was its former president and more than
$400,000 embezzled by the president of a union in  Puerto Rico ,
according to a Labor Department report this year. The average
for the 128 cases reviewed by Bloomberg Government was about
$53,000.  Casinos, Laptops  Union funds were spent at casinos and strip clubs, used to
buy home-entertainment systems or  laptop computers  and pay
personal bills, prosecutors said in federal court records.  Convictions for embezzlement and related criminal
violations led to about $105 million in restitution in the past
10 years, the Labor Department reported last year. Since fiscal
2007, union officials and staff have been ordered to pay about
$30 million for financial crimes.  “We’re talking about lots and lots of money they can play
hanky-panky with” from union dues, Representative Phil Roe, a
Tennessee Republican and chairman of a House Education and the
Workforce Committee panel on health, employment, labor and
pensions, said in an interview. “More oversight needs to be
done, absolutely. Without oversight, the temptation to misuse
funds is there.”  Legislation may be needed to strengthen financial reporting
requirements for unions, Roe said, without providing specifics.  Pales Against Madoff  Union organizations such as the AFL-CIO, the nation’s
largest labor federation, say embezzlement isn’t rampant and new
laws aren’t necessary. Financial crimes by union leaders are a
fraction of the fraud by Bernard L. Madoff, said Josh Goldstein,
a spokesman for the Washington-based  AFL-CIO . Madoff, 73, is
serving a 150-year sentence for defrauding investors of an
estimated $19 billion.  “Unions are diligent in protecting these things from
happening,” Goldstein said in an interview. “Look at
embezzlement cases like  Bernie Madoff . The percentage for
unions, if you compare to  Wall Street , pales in comparison.”  Union officials and employees sentenced to detention for
financial crimes spent an average of more than 12 months in
prison or home confinement, according to the review of 128 cases
from January 2010 through last month in which they pleaded
guilty or were sentenced for crimes such as embezzlement and
theft. Other sentences ordered probation and restitution.  Presidents, Treasurers  About eight in 10 of those convicted were presidents of
locals or treasurers with responsibility to safeguard union
funds. Union members pleaded guilty or were convicted of crimes
involving more than $6.5 million in the cases reviewed.  Financial corruption has bedeviled unions for decades,
culminating in the 1967 jailing of Jimmy Hoffa, president of the
2.5 million-member  International Brotherhood of Teamsters , who
was convicted of fraud and bribery. After his release, Hoffa
disappeared in 1975 near  Detroit . Under Hoffa, the union’s
 Central States Pension Fund  made loans to Las Vegas casinos with
ties to organized crime, prosecutors said.  The Teamsters pension fund has been under a 1982 consent
decree that requires it to be monitored by the Labor Department,
according to the agency.  Corruption remains a public-relations challenge for unions,
Shaiken said. Its persistence may make it difficult for unions
to fight efforts by Republican governors to rein in the
collective-bargaining power of public workers, he said.  Gambling Debts  Among recent cases, James Drury, a secretary-treasurer of
 Communications Workers of America , Local 3121, in Hialeah,
 Florida , embezzled more than $300,000, according to U.S.
District Court records. He was sentenced in March to two years
in prison.  Thomas Pokrywczynski, who pleaded guilty to embezzling from
a union of bus drivers in Buffalo,  New York , spent more than
$200,000 on gambling, according to court records. He was
sentenced in August 2010 to two years in prison.  Melissa King, a benefits-fund administrator hired by a New
York City union of workers who dig tunnels, was charged in 2010
with embezzling more than $40 million from 2002 through 2008,
according to an indictment filed by the U.S. Attorney for the
Southern District of New York. She pleaded not guilty.  A company she controlled, King Care LLC, managed the
benefits program for the 1,000-member Laborers’ International
Union of  North America , Local 147, known as the Sandhogs,
according to the indictment. Prosecutors said she transferred
millions of dollars to her company in seven years.  Jewelry, Clothing  She spent $300,000 at  Neiman Marcus  on women’s clothes, $1
million for jewelry and watches at a  Newport Beach ,  California ,
store, $5 million on show horses and $7 million for American
Express bills, according to the indictment.  Her federal trial is scheduled for Nov. 9 in New York,
Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
the Southern District of New York, said in an interview. Michael
Handwerker, a lawyer representing King, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Clark was business manager for the International
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners, Local 455, in Somerville,
New Jersey. He used the group’s American Express Co. credit card
from 2000 through 2007 to bill charges at 14 strip clubs, the
government said. A federal jury convicted Clark in 2010 for
embezzling about $85,000 in union funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in  Washington  at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net . 