-- 
Sunoco Worth 53% More in Pieces With Refinery Exit: Real M&A

-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-09T20:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/sunoco-worth-53-more-sold-in-pieces-as-oil-refinery-exit-looms-real-m-a.html
Sunoco Inc. (SUN) , the world’s least
profitable owner of refineries under pressure to reward
beleaguered shareholders, already has a valuation 53 percent
greater broken up or sold in pieces.  Sunoco, which this week said it will sell or shut its last
two refineries and explore all options for the company, was the
only oil refining and marketing company greater than $1 billion
to lose money in the last 12 months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Breaking up the company and valuing its operations
separately, Philadelphia-based Sunoco may be worth as much as
$2.17 billion more, according to Barclays Plc.  The operator of refineries  since 1895  has seen profits
curbed as steeper costs for Brent crude oil and lower gasoline
prices on the U.S. East Coast crimped margins. Still, Sunoco’s
7,600 miles of pipelines may attract Kinder Morgan Inc. and
 Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA) , according to Morgan Keegan &
Co. Once valued at $13 billion, Sunoco may also weigh a spinoff
of its 4,900 gas stations, said energy consultancy Muse Stancil.  “When the sum of parts is being overlooked and
undervalued, it’s incumbent upon management teams to benefit
shareholders to unlock that value,” Todd Lowenstein, who helps
oversee $17.2 billion for Highmark Capital Management Inc., said
in a telephone interview from  Los Angeles . Breakups are “part
of an industry trend. Investors have lost interest in unwieldy
conglomerates,” he said.  All Options  Sunoco hired Credit Suisse Group AG to conduct a
“comprehensive” review of the company to determine how to
boost shareholder value, according to a Sept. 6 statement. It
also plans to idle the  two remaining refineries  in Philadelphia
and  Marcus Hook ,  Pennsylvania , if buyers can’t be found for the
unit that lost money in eight of the last 10 quarters.  All options are on the table, including a sale of the whole
company, converting to a master-limited partnership or buying
pipelines, storage and retail fuel assets to expand in those
businesses, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lynn Elsenhans
said on the Sept. 6 conference call.  “With the exit from refining, the company is undergoing a
fundamental change that presents an opportunity to take a fresh
look at all aspects of our business,” Thomas Golembeski, a
spokesman for Sunoco, said in an e-mail. “We will consider all
possible options to determine the best next steps.”  Companies from  ConocoPhillips (COP)  to  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  have been trimming refining holdings to focus on
offshore oil drilling and North American crude production.  Only Unprofitable Refiner  Since its market value peaked at $13.1 billion in January
2006, Sunoco shares declined 61 percent to $37.56 through
yesterday as profits shrank and the company began to shed
assets. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Energy Index rose 16 percent
in the same period, the data show.  Sunoco rose as much as 2.8 percent in  New York  today before
ending trading down 1.2 percent at $37.12. That was the best
performance of any energy company in the  S&P 500 , as the broader
index tumbled 2.7 percent.  Sunoco lost $74 million during the last 12 months, the only
unprofitable firm among 44 companies with market values greater
than $1 billion in the oil refining and marketing industry
worldwide, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Formerly known as the Sun Oil Co. of  Ohio , Sunoco started
operating its first refinery 116 years ago, according to its
 website . In the past year, the company has already been paring
back assets with the spinoff of its metallurgical coke-producing
unit and the sale of two refineries and its chemicals business.  Sum of Parts  A sum-of-the-parts analysis by  Paul Cheng , an analyst at
Barclays in New York, shows Sunoco is worth between $48 a share
and $58 a share. That would give it a combined equity value of
$5.18 billion to $6.23 billion, as much as 53 percent more than
the market capitalization yesterday.  Cheng based the projections on 2012 estimates for earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization at each of
Sunoco’s units and applying earnings multiples for comparable
companies. The analysis includes the potential sale of the
refining business for $400 million to $1 billion.  Sunoco’s “sum-of-the-parts far exceeds its current market
valuation,” Cheng wrote in the Sept. 6 report. “This string of
announcements provides evidence of management’s dedication to
unlocking shareholder value by breaking apart the weaker
businesses.”  According to Macquarie Group Ltd.’s analysis that assumes a
shutdown of the refinery business and liquidation of the
inventory, Sunoco’s businesses may be worth $44 a share to
$49.30 a share. The estimate from Chi Chow, a Denver-based
analyst at Macquarie, in a Sept. 7 report, would be 17 percent
to 31 percent more than the market value yesterday.  Oil Pipelines  Plains All American and Kinder Morgan may be interested in
Sunoco’s oil and refined product pipelines, John Edwards, an
analyst at Morgan Keegan in Houston, said in a phone interview.
Sunoco owns a 31 percent interest in  Sunoco Logistics Partners
LP (SXL) , a publicly traded partnership with typically fixed contracts
for its  pipelines  and storage tanks concentrated in the U.S.
Northeast, Midwest and South Central regions.  “It would create a presence in the Northeast for Plains,”
Edwards said. “The footprints match up.”  Kinder Morgan’s  Plantation  pipeline system moves refined
products to the East Coast from the Gulf, and Sunoco could
provide additional access, he said.  Roy Lamoreaux, a spokesman for Plains All American in
Houston, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. Larry Pierce, a spokesman for Houston-based Kinder Morgan, declined to
comment.  Coke for Steel  Sunoco also owns 81 percent of SunCoke Energy Inc., which
it spun off in July. The stake in the biggest independent
metallurgical coke producer in the Americas may draw interest
from  ArcelorMittal (MT)  and  AK Steel Holding Corp. (AKS) , Arun Viswanathan,
an analyst with Susquehanna International Group LLP in New York,
said in a phone interview.  Large steelmakers without their own supply of metallurgical
coke, used as fuel to make steel, may be interested in such a
producer, Viswanathan said.  Alan McCoy, a spokesman for AK Steel, declined to comment
on potential acquisitions. Representatives for ArcelorMittal
didn’t respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  Sunoco could split off its gas stations as it did with
SunCoke, Neil Earnest, vice president at Dallas-based
consultancy Muse Stancil, said in a phone interview. Stand-alone
retail store owners such as  Pantry Inc. (PTRY)  or closely held QuikTrip
may then be potential buyers, he said.  Brandon Bryce, a spokesman for Pantry, owner of Kangaroo
Express convenience stores, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment. Mike Thornbrugh, a spokesman for QuikTrip, said the
company is not interested in Sunoco’s stores.  No Refinery Buyers  Sunoco may not find a buyer for its refineries, which
together can process 505,000 barrels a day of crude, Macquarie’s
Chow wrote in the report.  Refineries on the East Coast have struggled to turn a
profit due to the higher prices they pay for crude, depressed
U.S. demand and competitive gasoline prices in the East Coast
market, Skip York, vice president for downstream oil in Houston
for consultancy Wood Mackenzie, said in a phone interview.  The company’s two plants process costlier imported oil with
prices linked to Brent crude production in the U.K.’s North Sea.
The difference between what Sunoco pays for a Brent barrel and
the benchmark for what inland refiners pay has averaged $15.26
this year, according to Bloomberg data. Sunoco’s refineries also
face competition from  Europe , which is exporting excess gas,
York said.  ‘Business Is Tough’  Sunoco would reap $200 million after taxes from shuttering
the refineries, selling petroleum products inventory, unwinding
derivatives contracts and other expenses, CEO Elsenhans said at
a conference in New York yesterday.  “The refining business is tough, to say the least,”  Mark Demos , a  fund manager  who helps oversee about $18 billion for
Fifth Third Asset Management in Minneapolis, said in a phone
interview. “Sunoco may be seeing that if there’s a time to get
rid of these assets, it’s probably now.”  Selling or closing the last of its refineries may put the
whole company in play, Tim Ghriskey, who oversees $2 billion as
chief investment officer of  Bedford Hills , New York-based
Solaris Group LLC, said in a phone interview.  “They’re getting out of the cyclical, dirty,
environmentally challenged, often money-losing part of the
business,” Ghriskey said. “Certainly a full breakup or sale of
the company might evolve during the process of selling the
refining business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 