-- 
Swaziland Unions Protest for a Fifth Day to Demand End to Monarchy, Change

-- B y   V u y i s i l e   H l a t h s w a y o
-- 
2011-09-09T12:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/swaziland-unions-protest-for-a-fifth-day-to-demand-end-to-monarchy-change.html
Labor groups in Swaziland, sub-
Saharan  Africa ’s last absolute monarchy, held a fifth day of
protests after the government failed in a court bid to stop the
demonstration, said Barnes Dlamini, president of the Swaziland
Federation of Trade Unions.  About 5,000 protesters marched in the capital, Mbabane, to
demand political change, Dlamini said in an interview in the
city today. The week of demonstrations were to mark the
anniversary of independence from the U.K.  The protests to raise awareness about multiparty democracy
“has been a great success because we were able to reach out to
the people outside the cities,” he said. “It’s unfortunate
that the police action against our Cosatu colleagues led to
their deportation.”  Police clashed with protesters in Siteki, a town in the
southern African nation’s eastern region, on Sept. 7. Some
leaders from the Congress of South African Trade Unions joined
the demonstrations in  Swaziland  to force the country’s king to
relinquish powers and end a ban on political parties. The unions
also want Tibiyo TakaNgwane, an  investment company  controlled by
King Mswati III that isn’t taxed, to be nationalized.  Mswati, 43, appoints the country’s prime minister, while
its lawmakers aren’t allowed to belong to political parties. He
has ruled the nation for 25 years, has more than 10 wives and a
personal fortune of $200 million, according to Forbes magazine.  South African Bailout  Swaziland, Africa’s third-biggest sugar producer, is
struggling to emerge from a fiscal crisis that sparked riots in
April. Neighbor South Africa agreed last month to give the
government a 2.4 billion rand ($331 million) loan to help it
plug a budget shortfall. The landlocked country of 1.2 million
people raised taxes and cut state spending this year after
losing a third of its revenue when the global economic crisis
slashed income from a regional customs union.  The first tranche of the loan, which was supposed to have
been paid over by Aug. 31 “has still not been dispatched,”
Treasury spokeswoman Bulelwa Boqwana said by phone from
 Pretoria . “They haven’t signed the memorandum of understanding
that had the conditions attached to it. I’m not sure why. There
is no indication as to when” this will happen, she said.  The money from  South Africa  is conditional on the Swazi
government holdings talks with “all stakeholders” in the
country, according to Pravin Gordhan, South Africa’s finance
minister. Cosatu, part of an alliance with the ruling  African
National Congress , is opposed to the loan.  Swaziland, which also borders  Mozambique , is in a customs
union with South Africa and its currency is pegged to the rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vuyisile Hlathswayo in Mbabane at 
 vshlatshwayo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  