-- 
Swiss Stocks Decline for First Day in Four as Holcim, ABB Slip

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-09-09T15:50:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/swiss-stocks-decline-for-first-day-in-four-holcim-abb-retreat.html
Swiss stocks declined, halting three
days of gains, as investors speculated that U.S. President
Barack Obama’s jobs plan will fail to stimulate the world’s
largest economy.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-biggest cement producer,
fell 5.2 percent, while ABB Ltd. declined 3.7 percent.  Swatch
Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the two biggest Swiss
watchmakers, slipped, paring weekly gains.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the biggest and most
actively traded companies, decreased 1.8 percent to 5,430.77 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, paring this week’s gain to 1.3
percent as every stock in the 20-member gauge dropped. The
benchmark measure rose for the past three days as the central
bank set a ceiling on the Swiss franc’s exchange rate for the
first time in more than three decades. The broader Swiss
Performance Index dropped 1.3 percent today.  U.S. president  Barack Obama  yesterday challenged the U.S.
Congress to pass a $447 billion jobs plan tilted toward the
Republicans’ preference for tax cuts.  “When the U.S. president believes there’s a need to spend
$447 billion to revive growth, investors are buying the argument
there’s a need to do it”, said Henrik Drusebjerg, senior
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “The problem is
they don’t believe he has any chance of getting the Republicans
onboard after the battle over the budget.”  The president, addressing a joint session  of Congress,
demanded six times that lawmakers act “right away” on a plan
to boost spending on infrastructure, stem teacher layoffs and
cut in half the payroll taxes paid by workers and small-business
owners.  Holcim, ABB Slip  Exporters such as Holcim and  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , which provides power
and automation technologies, dropped. Holcim fell 5.2 percent to
45.49 Swiss francs, while ABB slipped 3.7 percent to 16.09
francs.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s biggest supplier of temporary
workers, slid 5.5 percent to 33.64 francs.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest bank
fell 5.9 percent to 20.27 francs after Tages-Anzeiger reported
that the bank is investigating some of its employees in the U.S.
for ignoring the bank’s rules for U.S. customers, including
sending e-mails from private addresses and for lying to the
company’s lawyers. The newspaper cited unnamed people familiar
with the matter.  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss lender, dropped 5.6
percent to 10.55 euros.  Swatch and Richemont, which sells Cartier watches and
Montblanc pens, declined 4 percent to 354.20 francs and 3.3
percent to 46.28 francs, respectively. Both shares have gained
at least 6 percent since Sept. 6 when the  Swiss National Bank 
set a limit on the franc’s exchange rate with the euro, boosting
the value of the watch makers’ revenue from the region.  Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the biggest supplier of computer
mice, decreased 3.3 percent to 8.46 francs as a gauge of
European technology companies fell after Texas Instruments Inc.
cut its sales forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  