-- 
Syrian Forces Kill 7 Protesters as Army Clashes With Defectors

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-09-09T05:38:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/syrian-forces-kill-7-protesters-as-army-clashes-with-defectors.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least seven protesters yesterday, while clashes took place
between army units and defectors, an activist said.  The protesters were killed in the central region of Homs
and the northern province of Idlib, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the
Arab Organization for Human Rights, said in an interview today
from Damascus.  The violence follows the killing of 34 protesters the day
before and the deaths of eight soldiers in fighting between army
units and defectors.  More than 3,100 civilians have been killed in  Syria  this
year during a crackdown on dissent by President Bashar al-Assad
that began in mid-March, according to Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of
the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria. About
30,000 people have been detained and 13,000 of them are still
being held, the activists estimate.  U.S. and European leaders have stepped up sanctions against
Assad and called on him to cede power. The measures haven’t
halted the suppression of what Syria’s government calls foreign-
backed terrorism. The protests spread after popular uprisings
toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt .  Russia warned this week that any efforts to overthrow Assad
by military force would unleash chaos in the  Middle East , saying
it categorically opposes external intervention.  Russia , which
maintains its only Middle Eastern military facility in Syria, a
Soviet-era ally, has rejected U.S. and European calls for Assad
to step down.  The European Union announced on Sept. 3 that it added four
people and three companies to the list of those targeted by an
asset freeze and travel ban against Syria. A day earlier, the EU
banned imports of Syrian oil, worth about $4.5 billion last
year. The U.S. imposed a similar restriction last month.  Syria will seek buyers for its oil outside  Europe , Finance
Minister Mohammad Al-Jleilati said in an interview this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  