-- 
Syrian Protesters Urge Russia to Play Bigger Role in Middle East

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-09T11:58:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/syrian-protesters-urge-russia-to-play-bigger-role-in-middle-east.html
Syrian opposition leaders want
 Russia  to be more active in mediating an end to unrest in the
Middle Eastern country and to back the ouster of President
Bashar al-Assad.  “The development of the Russian position is slower than we
hope,”  Ammar Qurabi , chairman of the executive bureau of the
Syrian Conference for Change, an exile group, said in an
interview today in Moscow. “Events on the ground are faster
than we hope.”  Qurabi led a delegation of Assad’s opponents, who met with
 Mikhail Margelov , President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s envoy to  Africa 
and the  Middle East , in the upper house of the Russian
parliament. Today’s meeting was the second between the
representatives of the opposition and Russian authorities since
anti-government rallies began in  Syria  in mid-March.  “Our hopes are not too great,” said Qurabi, who is also
head of the National Organization for Human Rights in Syria.
“At least we have a few hopes,” including the possibility
Russia can persuade Assad to step down.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov will meet with
Assad’s media adviser, Bouthaina Shaaban, next week. She is one
of three Syrian officials who are the target of sanctions by the
U.S. Treasury Department.  Syria’s opposition won’t meet with Assad’s representatives,
according to Qurabi, who said he welcomes Margelov’s initiative
to send a group of Russian senators on a monitoring mission to
Syria. Senators will seek permission from Assad’s
representatives for their mission, Margelov said.  Political Solution  The senators want to “see with their own eyes what is
going on on the ground,” Margelov told journalists. “With pain
we see the escalation of the violence in Syria,” he said,
adding that protesters would consider a political solution to
the crisis.  Medvedev said Russia may back a “variety of approaches”
provided any measures target both sides of the conflict.  “They should not be based on a unilateral condemnation of
the government,” Medvedev told Euronews in Yaroslavl, Russia,
where he attended a global policy  forum  yesterday, according to
a transcript of the interview released by the Kremlin. “They
must send a convincing message to all the parties to the
conflict.”  The European Union tightened sanctions against Assad’s
government last week, banning imports of crude oil from Syria
after Russia blocked efforts by the EU and the U.S. to impose
punitive measures through the  United Nations . The efforts
haven’t halted the crackdown on what the Syrian administration
calls foreign-backed terrorism.  “There are very different people among them,” Medvedev
said. “Some of them are extremists, and some can even be called
terrorists.”  Qurabi said the violence in Syria “came from that
regime.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  