-- 
Syrian Defector’s Relatives Killed as Activists Appeal to Russia for Help

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-09T18:45:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/syrian-military-defector-s-relatives-killed-as-activists-appeal-to-russia.html
Syrian security forces killed at
least seven anti-government protesters, including a child and a
brother of a defecting military officer, as opposition groups
urged  Russia  to abandon its backing for President Bashar al- Assad.  A brother of Colonel Hussein Harmoush, the most senior army
commander to switch sides, and a child were killed today in the
northern province of Idlib, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab
Organization for Human Rights, said in a telephone interview
from Damascus. At least five other people were killed during
protests today, with at least 11 wounded in the suburbs of the
capital, where gunfire was heard by residents, he said.  Seven protesters died yesterday in Idlib and the central
region of Homs, Merhi said. More than 3,100 civilians have been
killed in Syria since protests began in March, according to
Merhi and Ammar Qurabi of the National Organization for Human
Rights in  Syria .  About 30,000 people have been detained and 13,000 of them
are still being held, the activists estimate.  Security forces “forcibly” removed 18 wounded people from
al-Barr hospital in Homs on Sept. 7, including five from the
operating room,  Human Rights Watch  said late yesterday, citing
witnesses, including doctors. The forces also prevented medical
personnel from reaching the wounded in a number of the city’s
neighborhoods, the New York-based organization said.  U.S. and European leaders have stepped up sanctions against
Assad and called on him to cede power. The measures haven’t
halted the suppression of what Syria’s government calls foreign-
backed terrorism.  Russian Warning  Qurabi led a delegation of Assad’s opponents who met with
 Mikhail Margelov , President  Dmitry Medvedev ’s envoy to  Africa 
and the  Middle East , in the upper house of the Russian
parliament.  “The development of the Russian position is slower than we
hope,” Qurabi, who is also chairman of the executive bureau of
the Syrian Conference for Change, an umbrella organization of
exile groups, said in an interview today in Moscow. “Events on
the ground are faster than we hope.”  Russia warned this week that any efforts to overthrow Assad
by military force would unleash chaos in the Middle East, saying
it categorically opposes external intervention. Russia, whose
only Middle Eastern military facility is in Syria, an ally since
the Soviet era, has rejected U.S. and European calls for Assad
to step down.  Medvedev said Russia may back a “variety of approaches”
on Syria as long as the measures target both sides of the
conflict, which he said includes “extremists” and
“terrorists” among protesters.  “They should not be based on a unilateral condemnation of
the government,” Medvedev told Euronews yesterday in the
Russian city of Yaroslavl.  The European Union and U.S. have announced sanctions
against Syria including bans on oil imports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  