-- 
U.K. Producer Prices Advance Least in a Year Amid Decline in Energy Costs

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-09T08:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/u-k-producer-prices-advance-least-in-a-year-amid-decline-in-energy-costs.html
U.K. output prices increased the
least in a year in August as a drop in energy costs eased
pressure on manufacturers’ margins.  Prices charged at factory gates rose 0.1 percent from July,
when they gained a revised 0.3 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. The increase is the smallest
since September 2010 and matched the median forecast of 18
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Input prices dropped 1.9
percent on the month, the most since April 2009.  A drop in raw material costs is easing pressure on
manufacturers as a cooling global recovery limits their ability
to charge customers more. The  Bank of England  maintained
emergency stimulus for the economy yesterday, though inflation
at more than double its 2 percent target has for now kept policy
makers from buying more bonds in so-called quantitative easing
to bolster growth.  “Commodity prices have been coming down so a fall in
output prices would be a relief,” Victoria Cadman, an economist
at Investec Securities in  London , said before the report. “The
downside risks to the economy and global headwinds may be enough
for the bank to pull the trigger on more quantitative easing.”  Oil prices  have dropped about 20 percent from their 2011
high in May, and wheat prices are down about 25 percent from
their peak for this year in February.  The gain in monthly output prices was led by a 1 percent
increase in chemicals and pharmaceuticals, the statistics office
said. Prices for petroleum products fell 0.6 percent. From a
year earlier, overall output prices rose 6.1 percent.  Energy Prices  The pound remained higher against the dollar after the data
were published. It traded at $1.5988 as of 9:32 a.m. in London,
up 0.2 percent from yesterday.  The drop in monthly input prices was led by a 5.9 percent
decline in crude oil. On the year, raw-material costs increased
16.2 percent, down from 18.3 percent in July.  Core producer prices, which exclude costs of food, alcohol,
tobacco and petroleum, rose 0.2 percent in August from the
previous month, and were up 3.6 percent from a year earlier.  Birmingham, England-based  IMI Plc (IMI) , a maker of fluid
controls and retail displays, said August 25 net income in the
first half was little changed as it predicted “good progress”
for the second half. The company said it has been able to raise
prices even as global economic growth falters.  U.K. factory output barely grew in July, increasing just
0.1 percent from the previous month, adding to signs Britain’s
recovery has lost momentum. Gauges of manufacturing, services
and construction all declined in August and the Bank of England
cut its 2011 growth forecast to 1.5 percent from 1.9 percent.  In a separate report today, the statistics office said the
volume of construction output fell 2.8 percent in July from June
and was down 3.3 percent on the year.  The central bank held the key  interest rate  at a record low
of 0.5 percent yesterday, and its bond-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds ($320 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  