-- 
U.K. Stocks Halt Three-Day Gain as Banks Drop; Tullow Rallies

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-09-09T16:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/u-k-stocks-halt-three-day-gain-as-banks-fall-tullow-rallies.html
U.K. stocks retreated, snapping
three days of gains for the  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , as financial
companies declined amid growing concern the European debt crisis
is spreading.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  tumbled more than
5 percent as borrowing costs for U.K.-based lenders climbed to
the highest level in more than a year.  Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  slumped
4.2 percent after the U.K. banned so-called insurance referral
fees for injuries.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  jumped 15 percent after
finding oil offshore French Guiana.  The FTSE 100 lost 125.73, or 2.4 percent, to 5,214.65 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in London, bringing this week’s slide to 1.5
percent. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  and Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost
2.3 percent and 3.2 percent, respectively, today.  “The banking sector is weighing on sentiment today,” said
Ben Critchley, a sales trader at IG Index in  London . “Although
there have been signs of some bottom fishing amongst bank shares
in recent days, investors still remain very nervous and it seems
unlikely this will be changing in the short term.”  Stocks extended declines as the European Central Bank said
that Juergen Stark resigned from its Executive Board, suggesting
policy makers are divided over the best way to combat the euro
area’s sovereign-debt crisis.  U.K. stocks climbed yesterday after a rally in retail
shares helped offset the Bank of England’s decision to resist
extending stimulus measures and the ECB said that economic
threats had “intensified.” The FTSE 100 has lost 14 percent
from its high this year on Feb. 8.  Banks Fall  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest lender by assets,
dropped 9.4 percent to 144 pence, the lowest since March 2009.
Lloyds slid 5.7 percent to 31.04 pence and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  slipped 5.5 percent to 21.5 pence.  The rate at which banks say they pay for three-month loans
in dollars, or the London interbank offered rate, climbed to its
highest level since 2010.  The Independent Commission on Banking is due to release a
report next week. The government-sponsored panel in April
recommended that the U.K.’s biggest lenders boost capital,
implement plans for an orderly bankruptcy and erect fire breaks
around their consumer units to protect taxpayers from further
 bank failures .  Admiral sank 4.2 percent to 1,307 pence after Britain’s
Ministry of Justice banned referral fees in personal injury
cases to stem rising insurance costs. Referral fees account for
9 percent of Admiral’s U.K. ancillary income and 6 percent of
profit, according to Shore Capital.  Admiral yesterday fell 2.4 percent after regulators said
they will begin a probe into the car-insurance industry.  Tullow Jumps  Tullow Oil surged 15 percent to 1,413 pence after the oil
and gas explorer said its Zaedyus exploration well encountered
72 meters of so-called net oil pay. Exploration Director Angus McCoss said the field may hold 700 million barrels in gross
reserves.  Northern Petroleum Plc (NOP) , which has an interest in the French
Guiana oil discovery, rallied 29 percent to 93 pence.  Elsewhere,  JD Wetherspoon Plc (JDW)  dropped 4.3 percent to 398
pence after Finance Director Kirk Davis said “it will be a
challenge to maintain margin,” following August’s riots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  