-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Copper Declines on Slowing Economies

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-09T12:37:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-copper-declines-on-slowing-economies.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Copper Erases Weekly Gain as Slowing Economies May Curb Demand  Copper fell in  London , erasing a third weekly gain, amid
concern slowing economies may dampen demand for industrial
metals.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Reliance Traders Push Bearish Bets to Two-Year High on Gas (2)  Options traders are the most bearish on Reliance Industries
Ltd. in two years as India’s biggest company by market value
faces a decline in natural-gas production that may take two
years to reverse.  Libya Said to Ship First Crude From West as Production Resumes  Libya may export this month its first crude cargo since
March from the country’s west as the holder of Africa’s biggest
oil reserves rebuilds production after deposing former ruler
 Muammar Qaddafi .  Kenyan Presidential Aspirant Karua Urges Cut in Food Imports (1)  Kenyan presidential hopeful Martha Karua said the
government should increase spending on domestic  food production 
to cut import costs that are fueling inflation.  Fortress Commodity Fund Said to Beat BlueGold in August (1)  The $1.1 billion Fortress Commodities Offshore Fund Ltd.
had its best month ever in August by betting on price declines
for oil and copper, beating bigger rivals Clive Capital LLP and
BlueGold Capital Management LLP.  Shipping Loan Attrition Is Faster Than Anticipated, DnB Says  DnB NOR ASA, the largest lender to the shipping industry,
said attrition from its loan book is faster than expected as
vessel-owners fail to renew loans and demand for financing wanes
amid a market slump.  Steelmakers Set to Curb Output as Costs Surge: Chart of the Day  Steel companies have little choice except to curb output as
weakening economic growth and demand for their products prevents
them from passing on surging raw-material costs to customers,
said MEPS International Ltd.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Aluminum Usage in Cars Will Double in Four Years, Novelis Says  The use of aluminum by the automotive industry should more
than double in four years, Tadeu Nardocci, the president of
European operations at Novelis Inc. said in an interview.  MINING:  Glencore Increases Stake in Optimum Coal to 25.8% From 24.7%  Glencore International Plc has increased its stake in
Optimum Coal Holdings Ltd. to 25.8 percent from 24.7 percent,
the South African coal producer said in a statement today.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Drops in London as Dollar’s Rise Prompts Investors to Sell  Gold dropped in London as a stronger dollar cut demand for
an alternative asset and prompted investors to sell the metal
after its climb to near a record.  AGRICULTURE:  India ’s Cotton Exports May Jump 21% Next Year, Group Says (1)  Cotton exports from India, the world’s second-biggest
grower, may jump as much as 21 percent next year on a record
crop and as the government scraps restrictions on shipments, a
producers’ group said.  Palm Oil  Gains as Wider Discount to  Soybean Oil  Raises Demand  Palm oil advanced to the highest level in a week as a wider
discount to soybean oil increased demand for the cheaper cooking
oil and soybeans rallied on lower U.S. output forecasts.  Brazil ’s Coffee Growers Concerned About Dry Weather, Broker Says  Coffee growers in Brazil, the world’s largest producer, are
concerned about dry weather before the flowering of next year’s
crop, according to broker Flavour Coffee.  Corn Rebounds on Lower Yield Estimates; Soybeans, Wheat Climb  Corn rose in  Chicago , rebounding from the longest losing
streak in two months, on forecasts of lower production in the
U.S., the world’s biggest exporter. Soybeans and wheat advanced.  Coffee Falls on Demand Concerns Before Large Crops; Sugar Rises  Robusta coffee fell on concerns the economic slowdown will
dent demand before a large crop in Vietnam, the world’s biggest
producer of the variety. Sugar advanced.  SHIPPING:  North Sea October Aasgard Oil Exports to Fall to Eight Cargoes  Exports of North Sea Aasgard crude will drop to eight
cargoes of 855,000 barrels each in October, one less than this
month, according to a loading program obtained by Bloomberg
News.  ECONOMIES:  Stocks Fall Worldwide After Obama Speech; German Yield Slumps  Stocks fell worldwide for a second day and the yield on
Germany’s two-year note declined to a record after President
 Barack Obama  detailed his $447 billion plan to boost hiring in
the U.S. Oil dropped and gold gained.  China Inflation Slows From 3-Year High, Output Growth Eases (3)  China’s inflation eased in August from a three-year high
and industrial output growth slowed for a second month, giving
policy makers more room to pause monetary tightening as the
economy cools and a global slowdown threatens exports and jobs.  Hundreds of Chinese Workers Strike at Triumph Lingerie Factory  Several hundred Chinese workers went on strike at the
factory of lingerie maker Triumph International AG in the
southern province of  Hainan  over a new employment incentive
program.  China’s Inflation Cools to 6.2%, Easing From Three-Year High (2)  China ’s inflation eased in August from a three-year high as
gains in food costs moderated, giving policy makers more room to
pause monetary tightening as the economy cools and a global
slowdown threatens exports and jobs.  Obama Channels Economic Frustration With $447 Billion Plan (1)  President Barack Obama channeled the national frustration
with the economy that threatens his political standing and
challenged the  U.S. Congress  to pass a $447 billion jobs plan
tilted heavily toward the Republican prescription of tax cuts.  Trichet Clears the Decks for Draghi to Use All ECB Tools (2)  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet is
clearing the decks for  Mario Draghi  to step up the fight against
 Europe ’s worsening debt crisis.  Bernanke Says Tighter Budget May Hurt Growth as Fed Weighs Aid  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned that quick
deficit reduction may hurt the recovery and said the central
bank this month will consider steps to bolster growth and spur
hiring.  Lagarde Says Policy Makers Must Act Boldly to Boost Recovery (1)  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine
Lagarde  said governments and policy makers in developed
economies must take action to support the recovery as the risk
of recession outweighs the threat from inflation.  OTHER MARKETS:  Oil Drops a Second Day as Rising Dollar Counters Storm Concerns  Oil fell for a second day in  New York  as a rising dollar
undermined the appeal of commodities, offsetting concerns that a
tropical storm off Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula will limit the
supply of crude.  SPORTS:  Torres May Be Dropped After Goal Drought, Mirror Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Springboks Pick Rugby’s Most-Experienced Team:  World Cup  Roundup  The following is a roundup of stories from the 2011  Rugby
World Cup  in  New Zealand .  Rugby World Cup Gives New Zealanders Respite After Deadly Year  New Zealand’s hosting of the Rugby World Cup will lift the
mood of a nation bruised by deadly earthquakes, a fatal mine
disaster and an economic recession, according to the
tournament’s top local official.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  