-- 
U.S. Wholesale Inventories Increased by 0.8% in July as Sales Stagnated

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-09T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/u-s-wholesale-inventories-increased-by-0-8-in-july-as-sales-stagnated.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more in July than a month earlier, boosted by automobiles and
computer equipment, as sales stagnated.  The 0.8 percent increase in inventories followed a 0.6
percent rise in June, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists projected a 0.7 percent gain, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. Sales were
little changed in July.  Weaker demand gives distributors less reason to build up
stockpiles, a sign production may cool and contribute less to the
recovery. At the current sales pace, wholesalers had enough goods
on hand to last 1.17 months, the longest since October 2010.  “Businesses are remaining very cautious about expanding
their inventories because of uncertainty in demand,”  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto,
said before the report. “If demand weakens further, clearly some
companies will be stuck with excess inventories.”  The median projection for wholesale inventories was based on
a survey of 33 economists whose estimates ranged from increases
of 0.4 percent to 1.8 percent.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 1 percent in July, today’s report
showed. The gain reflected a 0.6 percent increase in automobile
and parts imports after a 4.3 percent surge a month earlier as
Japan supply-chain constraints eased.  Inventories of computer equipment climbed 3.7 percent for a
second month. Stockpiles of machinery increased 1.3 percent in
July.  Non-Durable Goods  The value of unsold non-durable goods inventories increased
0.5 percent after falling 0.2 percent. Stockpiles of apparel and
petroleum rose. Sales of non-durable goods dropped 1.1 percent,
the third straight decrease.  After helping drive the early stages of the economic
recovery, inventory rebuilding slowed in the second quarter of
2011. Stockpiles subtracted 0.2 percentage point from gross
domestic product from April through June after adding 0.3 point
the prior three months, according to Commerce Department data.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a 1 percent annual rate during
the last quarter following 0.4 percent growth in the first
quarter, raising concerns of a prolonged slowdown.  The  Federal Reserve  said the economy grew at a slower pace
in some regions in the six weeks through Aug. 26 as shoppers
limited their spending and factories curbed production.  Beige Book   “Economic activity continued to expand at a modest pace,
though some districts noted mixed or weakening activity,” the
Fed said in its Beige Book survey released this week.  Consumers may temper their spending the rest of this year as
the labor market stagnates, reducing the need for companies to
step up additions to inventories. Household spending rose at 0.4
percent pace in the second quarter, the weakest since the final
quarter of 2009.  “Consumers are being cautious, and appropriately so, but
they are not retrenching,”  Don Johnson , General Motor Co.’s vice
president of U.S. sales, said on a Sept. 1 conference call. “I
don’t see inventory being a significant constraint on our ability
to hit our numbers for the rest of the year.”  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, grew 0.5 percent in July, the Commerce Department
said Aug 31. Retail stockpiles, which make up the rest, will be
included in the Sept. 14 business inventories report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  