-- 
U.S. Corporate Credit Risk Set For Biggest Rise in Three Weeks

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-09-09T21:22:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/u-s-bank-credit-default-swaps-surge-on-greek-debt-concern.html
The cost to protect U.S. bank debt
against losses surged and a benchmark gauge of corporate credit
risk rose by the most in four weeks as investor concern grew
that Greece’s debt crisis may be spreading.  Credit-default swaps on Charlotte, North Carolina-based
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  added 21.5 basis points to 358.7 basis
points, according to data provider CMA. Contracts on  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  climbed 20.1 basis points to 335.1, the data show.  Swaps on European and U.S. financial institutions’ debt
jumped as three German officials said Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
government is preparing plans to shore up banks in the event
that Greece defaults. Two-year interest-rate swap spreads, a
gauge of fear in the debt markets, rose to the highest since
July 2010.  Investors are looking for more decisive action from the
 European Central Bank , said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist
with LPL Financial Corp. in  San Diego , which oversees $340
billion.  “The ECB is increasingly being seen as out of touch and
not doing enough to stimulate growth,” Valeri said in a
telephone interview. “If you’re not doing enough to stimulate
growth, in particular with Europe, there’s concerns over the
banks and ultimately that’s what’s hit the hardest.”  Contracts on the debt of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added 7.5
basis points to 135, and those on  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  increased
7.5 basis points to 133.6, the CMA data show. Credit-default
swaps on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  added 23.2 basis points to
255, and contracts on  Citigroup Inc. (C)  increased 17.7 basis points
to 247.3.  Pessimistic View  “The markets are taking a more pessimistic view that we’re
looking at the risk of another Lehman in Europe,” Valeri said,
referring to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
September 2008, which sparked the seizure of credit markets.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, rose to its highest since June
2010, increasing 6.8 basis points to a mid-price of 131.5 basis
points as of 4:51 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group
Ltd.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, has added 10.5
basis points this week, the most since the week ended Aug. 12.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The difference, or spread, between the two-year swap rate
and the comparable-maturity Treasury note yield climbed 3.70
basis points to 34.89 basis points in New York. The measure has
climbed from 23.37 since the end of July as investor concern has
mounted that  Europe ’s fiscal imbalances will spread and harm
bank balance sheets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 Mchilds5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  