-- 
U.S. Urges Turkey, Israel to ‘Cool It’ in Diplomatic Dispute

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-09T18:21:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/u-s-urges-turkey-israel-to-cool-it-in-diplomatic-dispute-1-.html
The U.S. government is “quite
concerned” about tensions between Turkey and  Israel , State
Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said today.  “We are urging both sides to refrain” from heated
rhetoric, Nuland told reporters. “We would like to see both
sides cool it and get back to a place where they can have a
productive relationship.”  Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said his
country will increase its naval presence in the eastern
Mediterranean and accompany aid ships to prevent a repeat of the
attack by Israeli commandos on a Gaza-bound ship last year.  The first priority of the Turkish navy will be “to protect
our own ships,” Erdogan told Al Jazeera television, according
to a transcript published by Turkey’s state-run Anatolia news
agency. “From now on, our humanitarian aid missions won’t be
subject to attacks like the Mavi Marmara was.”  Relations between  Turkey  and Israel, both U.S. allies,
chilled after Israel refused last week to apologize for a May
2010 attack on a Gaza-bound aid convoy that left nine Turks
dead. The refusal prompted Turkey’s announcement that it would
increase patrols in the eastern Mediterranean.  A United Nations report made public last week found that
Israel had acted within its rights in the May 2010 incident,
though it used excessive force.  Ties Soured  Relations between the two Mediterranean nations, which had
been close for decades, became strained after the 2008 Israeli
war in Gaza. Erdogan repeatedly condemned Israel’s treatment of
Palestinians, calling Gaza an “open air prison” and describing
Israel as the main threat to regional peace.  In 2009, Erdogan walked out off a panel with Israeli
President  Shimon Peres  in protest of Israeli bombing of the  Gaza
Strip . The May 2010 raid further soured ties.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Sept. 9 that
his government is discussing options in the diplomatic dispute
with Turkey.  “Our policy was and remains to prevent a deterioration in
relations with Turkey and to calm tensions between our
nations,” Netanyahu said, according to a text message from his
office.  Speaking in Washington, Nuland also referred to reports
that Egyptian protesters have torn down part of a wall
surrounding the Israeli embassy in Cairo.  The spokeswoman said “Egypt and Israel are working
together,” in the wake of the wall’s razing. “Egypt has a
Vienna Convention obligation to help Israel,” she said,
referring to the international agreement on protocol protecting
embassies and diplomats in foreign countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  