-- 
U.S. Stocks Tumble on Speculation Greece May Default on Its Debt

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-09T20:27:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/u-s-stock-futures-gain-after-obama-outlines-447-billion-program-for-jobs.html
U.S. stocks fell, erasing a weekly
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, on speculation  Greece 
could default on its debt and deepen an economic slowdown.  Financial stocks tumbled as  Germany  set plans to shore up
the nation’s banks in the event Greece defaults, according to
three coalition officials who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc. slumped at least 4.2
percent.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  lost more than 3.2 percent
as a rising dollar undermined the appeal of commodities.
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  fell 4 percent as sales trailed estimates.  The S&P 500 retreated 2.7 percent to 1,154.23 at 4 p.m. in
New York, the lowest since Aug. 22. The benchmark measure fell
for a second straight week, sinking 1.7 percent since Sept. 2.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined 303.68 points, or 2.7
percent, to 10,992.13 today. The 30-stock gauge has posted
triple-digit moves in 19 of the past 24 trading days.  “We’re dealing with a confidence crisis,”  Matt McCormick ,
a money manager at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which
oversees $4 billion, said in a telephone interview. “You look
at the possibility of a Greek default. Investors are making a
decision now that they don’t want to be long over the weekend. A
lot of people think that Germany will pull out a rabbit from the
hat and fix Greece. Germany is fighting its own issues. It
cannot be the sugar daddy for all of Europe.”  The  S&P 500  has fallen as much as 18 percent from a three-
year high on April 29 on concern about Europe’s debt crisis and
an economic slowdown. It closed as low as 1,119.46 on Aug. 8,
within 29 points of a  bear market , or a 20 percent drop.  Rescue Package  Questions over Greece’s ability to meet the terms of its
rescue package are dogging the nation as bondholders weigh
whether to participate in a debt exchange that’s crucial to a
second bailout. The nation is seeking preliminary responses from
bond investors to the proposed swap. Greece has no plans to
publish details of anticipated participation in its debt-swap
program this week or next, said  Petros Christodoulou , head of
the country’s debt management office.  Greece is committed to “full implementation” of its
bailout agreement, the country’s finance ministry said in a
statement. The country rejected default talk as “organized
speculation,” according to the statement.  In a sign officials are increasingly split over the best
way to fight  Europe ’s debt crisis,  Juergen Stark  resigned from
the European Central Bank’s Executive Board. Stark stepped down
after protesting the bank’s bond purchases on a conference call
earlier this week, said a euro-area central bank official
familiar with the meeting.  ‘Right Away’  Stocks also fell on speculation Congress won’t pass
President Barack Obama’s $447 billion plan to boost the economy.
The president, speaking before a joint session of Congress
yesterday, demanded six times that lawmakers act “right away”
on a plan that would boost spending on infrastructure, stem
teacher layoffs and cut in half the payroll taxes paid by
workers and small business owners.  “For people hoping for a quick injection of economic
activity, that’s not what Obama’s plan portends,”  Peter Sorrentino , a senior  money manager  at Huntington Asset Advisors
in Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees
$14.8 billion. “There’s a perception that it’s going to be
difficult to pass it. Some people are concerned that it might
not have worked last time. So, why would this be any better?”  Benchmark gauges fell yesterday as Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  disappointed investors by not detailing new
plans to boost growth in a speech to economists in Minneapolis.
Bernanke repeated points from his speech on Aug. 26 in  Jackson
Hole , Wyoming.  Most-Tied  All 10 groups in the S&P 500 declined today. The Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to economic growth
dropped 2.9 percent. The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks slid 3.4
percent.  JPMorgan declined 4.3 percent to $32.08. Citigroup fell 4.4
percent to $26.74. Chevron lost 3.3 percent to $95.19. Alcoa
retreated 3.7 percent to $11.58.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, slumped 4
percent to $85.03. Sales at stores open at least 13 months rose
3.5 percent in August, the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts projected a gain of 5
percent, the average of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
U.S. sales advanced 3.9 percent, missing analysts’ estimates for
a 4.5 percent gain.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, which
measures the cost of using options as insurance against declines
in the S&P 500, soared 12 percent, the most since Aug. 18, to
38.52.  Too Optimistic  The S&P 500 may sink to as low as 970 because Wall Street
analysts’ earnings estimates are too optimistic, according to
MKM Partners LLC’s Michael Darda.  The 2012 forecast for S&P 500 company profits of about $108
a share may have to come down by as much as 30 percent, said
Darda, chief market strategist at the Stamford, Connecticut-
based research and trading firm. He cited the history of U.S.
business cycles and the relationship between bond yields and
earnings in making the prediction.  “We believe the S&P 500 will fall to 970-1,030 before
bottoming,” Darda wrote in today’s report titled “Profit
Squeeze Coming.” He added, “If conditions are less favorable
than average, the S&P 500 could surely fall more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  