-- 
UAW Said to Seek Record $10,000 Signing Bonuses in Talks With Automakers

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n ,   J o h n   L i p p e r t   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/uaw-said-to-seek-record-10-000-signing-bonuses-in-talks-with-automakers.html
The  United Auto Workers , bargaining
a new contract with U.S. automakers, is seeking a signing bonus
of as much as $10,000, more than three times higher than the
payment workers received for endorsing the current accord,
according to four people familiar with the proposal.  UAW bargainers are seeking the increased signing bonus and
new work in U.S. factories in exchange for not increasing fixed
labor costs at  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler
Group LLC. Union negotiators have proposed a signing bonus of
$8,000 to $10,000 for each member, said the people, who asked
not to be identified revealing internal discussions.  The union’s contracts covering 113,000 workers at GM, Ford
and Chrysler expire Sept. 14. UAW President  Bob King  has said
he’s open to compensation that may include lump sum payments,
rather than raises, that are tied to profit sharing and
achieving productivity and quality goals. A sizable signing
bonus would help sell the deal to union members looking to be
repaid for concessions that helped U.S. automakers survive.  “A signing bonus in this range would get some attention
and is meant to serve as a down-payment on something negotiators
want workers to view positively,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley. “It’s
serves as a statement that says, ‘The gains this contract offers
are real.’ There’s nothing as real as a check up front.”  There may be resistance to a large payout, said one person
familiar with the discussions. A $10,000 signing bonus for each
UAW member would cost about $470 million at GM, $410 million at
Ford and $250 million at Chrysler. Such a large cash outlay may
be untenable, said the person, who asked not to be identified.  $3,000 in 2007  Workers at GM, Ford and Chrysler received signing bonuses
of $3,000 after they ratified the current contract in 2007.
Prior to that, signing bonuses had been around $1,000, Shaiken
said.  “The signing bonus is relatively new,” Shaiken said.
“It’s meant to be a statement of good faith and to offer an
incentive” to ratify a contract.  The size of the signing bonus will first be crafted at GM,
which continues to take the lead in negotiations with the UAW,
said two people familiar with the pace of discussions. Talks at
GM and Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , will continue this
weekend while meetings at Ford are scheduled only for today,
said three people familiar with the plans.  Michele Martin , a spokeswoman for the UAW, denied that the
union is seeking such large bonuses.  “It’s inaccurate and it creates false expectations,” she
said.  Marcey Evans , a Ford spokeswoman, declined to comment. GM
and Chrysler, in e-mails, also declined to comment.  UAW Leader’s Speech  The UAW’s King said in an Aug. 29 speech to the Detroit
Economic Club that he would not raise fixed labor costs at the
U.S. automakers. GM and Chrysler required government-sponsored
bankruptcies in 2009 to survive and their workers have agreed
not to strike in these contract talks. Workers at Ford, which
avoided bankruptcy, rejected a no-strike pledge.  “We are going to make sure the companies are competitive
coming out of these agreements,” King said in the speech. “We
are not going to disadvantage the companies we work with. Heck,
we all want a wage increase, but is that the best way?”  King has said the union won’t make concessions while
keeping labor costs competitive. King has said workers must be
rewarded for the $7,000 to $30,000 in concessions they each gave
since 2005 to help the U.S. automakers.  Raises Surrendered  Previous concessions included surrendering raises, bonuses
and cost-of-living adjustments as well as agreeing to a two-tier
wage system, where new hires are paid about half of more senior
employees. Now that GM and Ford are profitable, workers have
said they want to recover what they gave up.  Workers at Ford have filed an “equality of sacrifice”
grievance against the automaker for restoring raises and bonuses
to salaried workers last year. An arbitration hearing on that
dispute is schedule for Sept. 15, the day after the company’s
contract with the UAW expires.  “A large signing bonus is not just a nice chunk of
money,” Shaiken said. “It’s a statement that says, ‘Look, we
understand what you want and you will share in the gains of
these companies going forward.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net ;
John Lippert in Chicago at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  