-- 
Tullow’s Offshore French Guiana Find Mirrors Ghana’s Jubilee

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-09-09T08:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/tullow-oil-makes-oil-discovery-offshore-french-guiana.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , the U.K. explorer
behind West  Africa ’s biggest offshore discovery in a decade,
said an offshore find in  French Guiana  opened up a new
hydrocarbon basin on the other side of the Atlantic.  The Zaedyus exploration well was drilled to test whether
the Jubilee field in Ghana was mirrored in  South America , the
London-based company said today in a statement. Tullow jumped as
much as 13 percent in London trading, the biggest gain in more
than 2 1/2 years.  Zaedyus is the first well to test the “Atlantic mirror”
theory and Tullow’s Exploration Director Angus McCoss said the
field could hold 700 million barrels in gross reserves. The well
encountered 72 meters of so-called net oil pay.  “The discovery at Zaedyus has proved the extension of the
Jubilee-play across the Atlantic and made an important new
discovery in French Guiana,” McCoss said in today’s statement.  Jubilee, which was discovered in 2007, has potential
resources of 1.8 billion barrels, according to Tullow.  The world’s largest oil companies missed out on the Jubilee
find. In French Guiana,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP) ,
 Europe ’s largest and third-biggest oil companies, bought into
the field.  Shares Gain  Tullow surged as much as 162 pence and traded at 1,372
pence as of 8:57 a.m. local time. The stock is up 9 percent this
year.  Geologists believe that when the Atlantic Ocean started
opening between South America and Africa, organic sediment
resulted in hydrocarbon deposits known as the Late Cretaceous
turbidite sands. They haven’t been drilled to date because they
are less visible than other types of deposits and drilling at
such depths has only recently become viable.  The well found light oil, in line with expectations, and
cost $200 million to drill. Tullow had delayed announcing
drilling results from the “high-impact” Zaedyus well until
September from August.  Tullow is the operator of the Guyane Maritime license with
a 27.5 percent stake, while Shell has 45 percent, Total 25
percent and Northpet 2.5 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  