-- 
Humala’s Drug Czar Vows to Halt Growth in Peru Coca Output

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-09T21:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/humala-s-drug-czar-vows-to-halt-growth-in-peru-coca-output-1-.html
Peruvian President Ollanta Humala
will stem rising production of coca leaf that has made the
country the world’s largest exporter of cocaine, using crop
eradication he’s previously criticized, the Andean nation’s new
drug czar said.  Peru  will increase spending 20 percent next year, step up
drug seizures and tighten controls on chemicals used to process
cocaine, said Ricardo Soberon, who was named last month to head
the nation’s counter narcotics agency, known as Devida.  The government suspended an eradication program last month,
sparking concern Humala planned to enact pledges during his
election campaign to end forced eradication at the expense of
reduced foreign aid. Soberon said the pause, which lasted about
a week, was necessary as the government weighs a new drug
strategy.  Humala will implement a “sustainable” eradication program
that replaces coca, a native plant whose leaves are used to make
cocaine, with alternative crops such as coffee and cocoa,
Soberon told reporters in  Lima  today. Soberon, himself a critic
of eradication in the past, said the government will contribute
more to the fight against drug-trafficking as foreign aid
declines, he said.  Alternative Crops  “Crop reduction must be definitive, which means replacing
coca with an economically viable alternative,” said Soberon, a
lawyer and expert on drug policy. “This problem is well beyond
our ability to confront alone so we’re worried about the trend
of declining international aid.”  Peru rivals  Colombia  as the world’s largest producer of
coca leaf after land dedicated to production of the crop rose
2.2 percent to 61,200 hectares in 2010, according to the  United
Nations .  Though Colombia produces twice as much cocaine as Peru, the
country’s 50 percent seizure rate limits the amount available
for export, Julio Castro, Soberon’s chief adviser, said in an
interview in Lima.  Money laundering has increased to about $4.3 billion a year
in Peru compared with $3.5 billion 18 months ago, the banking
regulator said Sept. 7. Drug trafficking accounts for about 80
percent of the total.  Opposition lawmakers this week called for Soberon’s
resignation saying his previous opposition to eradication as a
means of fighting drug-trafficking makes him unfit for the job.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 