-- 
Hungary May Start Forcing Banks to Swallow Swiss Franc Mortgage Losses

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-09-09T16:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/hungarian-party-seeks-fixed-franc-rate-for-early-loan-repayment.html
Hungary may force lenders to swallow
losses on foreign-currency  mortgage loans  by fixing the Swiss
franc as much as 20 percent below prevailing rates. Banks said
the plan may have a “severe” economic impact.  The plan would fix the Alpine currency’s rate at 180 forint
and the euro at 250 forint for early repayment of foreign-
currency mortgages, Janos Lazar of the ruling Fidesz party told
a news conference today in Hajduszoboszlo, eastern Hungary. OTP
Bank Nyrt., the country’s largest lender, plunged and the
Hungarian Banking Association warned of dangers to the financial
system, which includes foreign lenders such as  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and  Erste Group Bank AG. (EBS)   “This proposal significantly endangers the stability of
the financial system and may result in very severe macroeconomic
consequences,” the association said today by e-mail. It wasn’t
consulted on the plan, senior adviser Janos Muller said in a
phone interview. OTP, Raiffeisen and Erste declined to comment.  Eastern European countries including  Hungary  and  Poland  are
struggling to contain the damage from the franc’s rise of about
50 percent from five years ago, when many of the mortgage loans
were taken out. Two-thirds of Hungarian mortgages and 54 percent
of Polish loans are based in francs, accounting for 16 percent
and 10 percent of gross domestic product, respectively,
according to UBS Wealth Management.  Shares, Forint Drop  The benchmark BUX index dropped 6.2 percent to close at
17,041.97, the lowest in two years. OTP declined as much as 15
percent and closed at 3,740 forint, the lowest level since July
2009. The forint slumped 1.9 percent to 232 versus the Swiss
franc at 5:33 p.m. in Budapest, snapping a three-day winning
streak, and weakened 1.2 percent against the euro to 280.2.  The franc soared to records against most of its
counterparts as investors took refuge in the Alpine currency
amid weaker U.S. growth and the worsening debt crisis in the
euro region. This week’s decision by the Swiss central bank to
cap the advance of the franc against the euro didn’t stop
Hungary from proposing new measures to aid its foreign-currency
borrowers.  Today’s proposal will be discussed by the Cabinet on Sept.
11, with a decision possible the next day, according to a party
spokesman. The move would trigger “serious losses” for the
financial system, said Attila Vago, an analyst at Concorde
Securities in Budapest.  Stability Threatened  “It weighs on the forint from two sides, partly because
such a step threatens the stability of the banking system and
because it creates a sudden demand for foreign currency,” Vago
said by phone from Budapest.  Government plans to help foreign-currency borrowers
shouldn’t threaten financial stability, the central bank said
today in a statement. Any plan should be discussed with the
bank, the financial regulator and lenders, the Magyar Nemzeti
Bank said.  If everyone were to repay their loans, the plan may cause a
loss of as much as 200 billion forint ($1 billion) to OTP and
cut its share price by as much as 700 forint, the Equilor Zrt.
brokerage said today by e-mail.  “We don’t think this proposal will be implemented in its
current form and we expect some conditions to loosen,” Equilor
said. “The most likely scenario is a 20 billion-25 billion
forint cost for OTP. This could change as details of the plan
emerge.”  ‘Underweight’  Investors should be “underweight” on Hungarian equities
and should “stay away from unhedged forint bonds” as the risk
of the government implementing a plan to the detriment of banks
has “increased strongly,” Simon Quijano-Evans, a London-based
economist at ING Groep NV, said by e-mail.  The plan would “significantly reduce” Hungary’s economic
vulnerability, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s spokesman,  Peter Szijjarto , said today, MTI state news service reported. The
proposal may help the situation of as many as 300,000 borrowers,
out of 1.5 million with foreign-currency loans, Lazar said.  “The financial burden of the transactions must be
shouldered entirely by banks,” Fidesz’s Lazar said. He said
borrowers may tap savings or borrow in forints to rid themselves
of foreign-currency loans.  The Cabinet agreed with lenders in May to offer household
borrowers who aren’t late with repayments the chance to fix a
franc rate of 180 forint until the end of 2014. The difference
between the fixed-rate payments and those that would have
resulted under real exchange rates will be recorded in separate
forint accounts to be settled at a future date.  That proposal only offered a “temporary solution” and the
people’s demand for a “permanent solution beyond a temporary
one is justified,” Orban said Sept. 2.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Zoltan Simon at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Edith Balazs at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  