-- 
Union Pacific CEO Sees Rail-Crash Systems as ‘Terrible Waste’

-- B y   B e r n a r d   K o h n
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/union-pacific-ceo-sees-rail-crash-systems-as-terrible-waste-.html
Crash-avoidance technology being
imposed on U.S. railroads will be a “terrible waste of money,”
and President  Barack Obama  should junk the idea,  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP)  Chief Executive Officer Jim Young said.  Forcing adoption of the systems at carriers such as Union
Pacific, the biggest in the U.S. by sales, could strand goods on
tracks and in terminals, Young said yesterday in an interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . The technology “is not
proven to work,” he said.  The Obama administration decided last month to scale back a
Federal Railroad Administration rule on so-called positive train
control technology, which is designed to automatically apply
brakes when engineers miss a signal. Amending the rollout was
part of a regulatory overhaul intended to save U.S. business $10
billion over five years.  For railroads, the administration’s projected $1 billion in
savings over 20 years is “a token amount,” Young said. Omaha,
Nebraska-based Union Pacific will spend $285 million on positive
train control this year and $300 million to $350 million in
2012, he said.  “It’s like I’m going to charge industry $10 billion to put
investment in and roll back $1 billion of it,” Young said.
“That’s a cost that will be borne by every customer that uses
the railroad.”  Positive train control was mandated in a 2008 law after a
fatal crash between a Union Pacific freight train and a  commuter
train  in  Los Angeles . The  National Transportation Safety Board 
said the commuter engineer was sending and receiving text
messages seconds before the accident.  2015 Deadline  Railroads must install the technology by the end of 2015 on
routes shared by passenger trains or where freight carriers haul
chemicals that are toxic when inhaled.   Young also reiterated that Union Pacific would reduce
 capital investment  if the  U.S. Surface Transportation Board 
forces competitive service to customers whose only shipping
outlet is a single railroad line.  The STB, the railroad industry’s economic regulator, held
hearings in  Washington  in June on whether to require carriers
serving those so-called captive shippers, which include
manufacturers such as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , to share tracks with
competitors. Young testified at the hearing against a system.  Young said he doesn’t expect the board to require
competitive access.  “I quite honestly don’t see it,” he said. “I think
there’s too much at risk to get it wrong. The STB talked about
doing an experiment. Well, it’s not going to be an experiment to
me. It’s going to be a real issue in terms of what we do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bernard Kohn in New York at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  