-- 
Turkish Bonds Fall After Industrial Output Exceeds Estimates

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 
2011-09-09T14:32:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/turkish-bonds-fall-after-industrial-output-exceeds-estimates.html
Turkish bond yields rose for a third
day this week after industrial output in July exceeded
economists’ forecasts, further cooling speculation the central
bank will lower  interest rates .  Yields on the two-year benchmark debt jumped 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 7.92 percent at 5:15 p.m.
in Istanbul. The yield has increased 12 basis points this week.  Turkish industrial output grew 6.9 percent in July from a
year ago, the statistics office in Ankara said today, beating
the median estimate of 4 percent in a Bloomberg survey of five
economists. The yield on two-year bonds has dropped 73 basis
points since the central bank unexpectedly cut the benchmark
rate on Aug. 4.  “After today’s industrial production data, we do not think
that the central bank will decide on easing its monetary
policy” this month,  Ozgur Altug , chief economist at BGC
Partners in Istanbul, said in an e-mailed note to clients.  Yields jumped the most in six weeks on Sept. 7 after a
central bank survey showed forecasts for inflation in 12 months
rose to 6.83 percent, compared with an estimate of 6.77 percent
two weeks earlier.  The lira has dropped 14 percent against the dollar this
year, the biggest decline among more than 20 emerging market
currencies, on concern  Turkey  will struggle to rein in its
current-account deficit. The lira weakened 1.1 percent today.  Turkey’s current account is expected to be $5.2 billion in
July, the narrowest since October last year, according to the
median estimate of seven economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
gap was $7.5 billion in June and reached a record $9.7 billion
in March as surging demand for imported goods swelled the trade
deficit.  “Strong economic activity is not desirable amidst ongoing
concerns about the large current-account,” said Nilufer Sezgin,
chief economist at Istanbul-based broker Ekspres Invest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net  