-- 
Top Four Men’s Seeds Reach U.S. Open Semifinals for First Time Since 1992

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-10T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/murray-reaches-fourth-straight-grand-slam-semifinal-with-win-against-isner.html
The top four men’s seeds reached
the semifinals at the U.S. Open for the first time in 19 years,
with  Rafael Nadal  and  Andy Murray  joining Novak Djokovic and
 Roger Federer  in the final four.  Defending champion Nadal of Spain, the second seed, won 6-
2, 6-1, 6-3 yesterday against 2003 champion  Andy Roddick  of the
U.S. Murray, the fourth seed from Britain, won in four sets
against American John Isner and will face Nadal in one of
today’s two semifinals.  Top seed Djokovic, of Serbia, and five-time champion
Federer, the third seed from Switzerland, advanced to the other
semifinal with wins two days ago.  “I think it’s good for tennis, I think everyone has played
great tennis in the slams this year and I think that’s what
people would like to see,” Murray said at a news conference.
“It’s been great consistency, and I’m glad to be part of
that.”  The same four top seeds also reached the semifinals at this
year’s French Open. That hadn’t happened at the  U.S. Open  since
1992, when No. 1 Jim Courier, No. 2 Stephan Edberg, No. 3  Pete Sampras  and No. 4 Michael Chang reached the semifinals.  Williams vs. Wozniacki  The women’s semifinals also are scheduled for today, with
three-time champion  Serena Williams  of the U.S. facing top seed
 Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark and Samantha Stosur, the ninth
seed from  Australia , facing unseeded German Angelique Kerber.  The losses by Roddick and Isner meant there will be no
American in the U.S. Open men’s semifinals for the fifth
straight year. Roddick is the last American to make the
semifinals at the National Tennis Center in New York, in 2006.  That’s a stark contrast to the last time the four top men’s
seeds advanced to the semifinals, in 1992. Courier, Sampras and
Chang all are Americans, while Edberg is from  Sweden .  Nadal did not lose his serve in the 1-hour, 53-minute match
against Roddick, who took a medical timeout in the third set and
had a trainer work on his leg. Roddick said he came onto the
court with “zero reserves” after a four-set win the day
before.  ‘In Control’  “It was evident early on that he was in control of
things,” Roddick said in a news conference. “That’s the most
aggressive I’ve seen him play this summer.”  Nadal and Murray will be meeting in their third straight
Grand Slam semifinal. Nadal won both of the earlier encounters,
at the French Open and Wimbledon.  Murray defeated Isner 7-5, 6-4, 3-6, 7-6 (7-2) in a 3-hour,
24-minute match in Arthur Ashe Stadium and reached his fourth
Grand Slam semifinal of the year. Murray lost in the Australian
Open final against Djokovic and then was eliminated by Nadal at
the French Open and Wimbledon.  The win makes Murray the seventh man to reach the
semifinals of all four Grand Slams in the Open era of
professional tennis, which began in 1968.  Rod Laver  and Tony Roche both accomplished the feat in 1969, Ivan Lendl in 1987,
Nadal in 2008 and Djokovic this year. Federer advanced to every
Grand Slam semifinal from 2005 to 2009.  Both the men’s and women’s finals were pushed back one day
following rain that washed out almost the entire schedule for
two straight days. The women’s final now will be held Sept. 11
and the men the following day, the fourth straight year in which
weather conditions dictated a Monday finish.  In the mixed doubles final, U.S. teens  Melanie Oudin  and
Jack Sock defeated Gisela Dulko and Eduardo Schwank of
Argentina. Nineteen-year-old Oudin, a quarterfinalist in the
2009 U.S. Open, and Sock, 18, won 7-6 (7-4), 4-6, 1-0 (10-8),
with the match decided in a super-set or super-tiebreak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 