-- 
Usiminas Rallies on Report Gerdau Mulls Counter Bid for Stake

-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-09-09T14:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/usiminas-rallies-on-report-gerdau-mulls-counter-bid-for-stake.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA (USIM3) , Brazil’s second-largest steelmaker, rallied in Sao Paulo
trading after a news report that  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  may seek to make a
counter offer for a 26 percent stake in its rival.  Common shares in Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-
based company is known, rose 85 centavos, or 3.6 percent, to
24.50 reais at 10:06 a.m. New York time, leading Brazil’s
benchmark Bovespa index for a second straight day. Preferred
shares, the most-traded type of stock, rose 1.2 percent.  Porto Alegre , Brazil-based Gerdau, Latin America’s largest
steelmaker, may seek to counter an offer from Cia. Siderurgica
Nacional SA to buy the stake in Usiminas from Camargo Correa SA
and Votorantim Participacoes SA, O Estado de S. Paulo reported
today, without saying where it got the information. Gerdau is in
talks with Usiminas shareholder  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  about making
a potential bid for the shares, the newspaper said.  CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known, offered to
pay 4.3 billion reais to 5.1 billion reais ($2.6 billion to $3
billion) for the 26 percent stake, Estado reported, citing an
unidentified person close to Usiminas. CSN said in a regulatory
filing late yesterday that news reports about an offer for the
Usiminas stake were “groundless.” Usiminas said it has no
knowledge of any offer from CSN to buy shares in the company,
according to a regulatory filing today.  A Gerdau official in Porto Alegre, who declined to be named
citing corporate policy, wouldn’t immediately comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News today.  Gerdau lost 23 centavos, or 1.6 percent, to 13.88 reais.
CSN,  Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker by output, fell 33
centavos, or 2.1 percent, to 15.46 reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  