-- 
Vietnam Banks Cut Commercial Lending Rates for Businesses

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-09T08:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/vietnam-banks-cut-commercial-lending-rates-for-businesses-1-.html
Six Vietnamese commercial banks,
including the country’s two biggest listed lenders, cut
borrowing costs for businesses as the government strives to make
credit cheaper to protect economic growth.  VietinBank, or  Vietnam  Joint Stock Commercial Bank for
Industry & Trade, Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade
of Vietnam, also known as Vietcombank, and others lowered dong
lending rates for loans to businesses and manufacturers to a
range of 17 percent to 19 percent, according to a statement on
the  State Bank  of Vietnam’s website today.  Asian nations from Vietnam to India face a growth slowdown
as the global recovery falters, adding pressure to prop up
expansion even as inflation remains elevated. Vietnam’s
government, which faces a 23 percent inflation rate, said last
month the central bank will keep policy  interest rates  unchanged
for now and consider cutting them if price gains slow.  “We do see a lot of other Asian central banks stopping in
their tracks, more or less putting the tightening cycle on the
backburner right now,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at
 Capital Economics  ( Asia ) Pte in  Singapore . “A similar concern
could be ripping through the policy circles in Vietnam. While
they do remain cognizant it’s still too premature to reverse out
the cycle, they’re afraid of stifling the productive sector.”  Growth Challenges  Some Vietnamese firms have faced growth challenges as the
cost of capital has risen as high as 30 percent, Le Xuan Nghia,
an adviser to the premier, wrote last month in a statement
released at a conference in Hanoi. State Bank of Vietnam
Governor Nguyen Van Binh said in August the monetary authority
aimed to lower dong lending rates through to the end of 2011.  Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and  Rural Development , or
Agribank, the country’s largest bank by assets, is expected to
also lower rates to 17 percent to 19 percent soon, the central
bank said in today’s statement.  Thirty-four of Vietnam’s 42 commercial banks implemented a
request to comply with the caps on interest rates payable for
dong and dollar deposits, it said. Banks are expected to report
violations of the rate cap at other lenders to the monetary
authority, according to the statement.  Vietnam’s consumer prices increased 23.02 percent in August
from a year earlier, the fastest pace among 17 Asian economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  