-- 
Bone Drugs Need Label Changes on Use Duration, Panel Says

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-09T21:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/warner-merck-bone-drugs-need-label-changes-on-use-duration-panel-says.html
Bone drugs from  Warner Chilcott Plc (WCRX) ,
 Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,  Merck & Co. and  Novartis AG (NOVN)  need labeling
changes to reduce the risk of fractures, a U.S. panel said.  The FDA should call for clarifications on the length of
time that osteoporosis patients should take the medicines,
outside advisers to the  Food and Drug Administration  said today
in a 17-6 vote in Adelphi, Maryland. The FDA isn’t required to
follow its panels’ recommendations.  The agency has evaluated the safety of the drugs, known as
bisphosphonates, for almost  four years  and cited possible links
to unusual thigh fractures and jawbone deterioration in 2010.
The drugs are taken most often by post-menopausal women who have
osteoporosis. The agency said in July it also was examining
conflicting studies on whether bisphosphonate pills such as
Warner Chilcott’s Actonel, Merck’s Fosamax and Roche’s Boniva
raise esophageal cancer risks.  A revised label should “be very clear that efficacy may
fall off after a period of time, perhaps five years,” panelist
Lewis Nelson, director of the medical toxicology fellowship
program at  New York University , said after the vote. “Serious
concerns have been raised about risk, and those need to be
continually evaluated as well.”  Drug Sales  Bisphosphonates generated $4.2 billion in U.S. sales last
year and $7.6 billion worldwide, according to IMS Health Inc. in
Norwalk,  Connecticut .  Warner Chilcott, based in Dublin, had $1.03 billion in
Actonel sales in 2010, according to Bloomberg data. Boniva
generated $975 million, while Fosamax had $926 million and
Novartis’s Reclast had global sales of $579 million.  Merck’s Fosamax won approval in 1995 as the first
bisphosphonate to treat and prevent osteoporosis in older women.
Revenue from Fosamax reached $3.19 billion in 2005, then dropped
as Merck, of  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , faced competition
from generic copies.  About 8 million women and 2 million men in the U.S. have
osteoporosis, and 34 million Americans have low bone mass that
puts them at risk for the disease, Theresa Kehoe, a medical
officer and team leader in the FDA’s Division of Reproductive
and Urologic Products, said in a presentation to the panel.  The question of how long osteoporosis patients should take
bisphosphonates, and whether temporary breaks from the treatment
would prove beneficial, “is really front and center to primary
care,” said  Douglas Bauer , a professor of medicine at the
 University of California ,  San Francisco .  Patient Questions  “Many of our patients are calling, asking what to do about
long-term use of bisphosphonates,” Bauer, a guest speaker
invited by the FDA, told the panel.  Some people who take the medications have experienced
“atypical fractures of the thigh” that account for less than 1
percent of all hip and femur breaks, the FDA said in an October
 safety announcement . The agency required Warner Chilcott, Roche,
Novartis, Merck and makers of generic Fosamax to update the
drugs’ labels to warn of the possible link.  Unusual fractures “appear to have a strong association
with bisphosphonates, although causality has not been
determined,” FDA staff said Sept. 7 in a preliminary  review  of
the drugs. “There is no agreement on the extent to which
cumulative use of bisphosphonates increases the risk of atypical
fractures.”  The agency also is reviewing conflicting studies, based on
data from the U.K., on whether oral bisphosphonates can increase
the risk of esophageal cancer.  Inconclusive Evidence  “The available evidence regarding the possible association
between oral bisphosphonates and esophageal cancer is
inconclusive,” FDA reviewers said in the report. “No
conclusion can be reached as to whether long-term use of
bisphosphonates is associated with esophageal cancer.”  Data from a 10-year Merck clinical trial show that
Fosamax’s benefits outweigh its potential hazards in
osteoporosis patients who are at risk for regular  bone
fractures , said Arthur Santora, executive director of clinical
research at Merck Research Laboratories.  Temporary cessation of Fosamax treatment, known as a drug
holiday, “may be considered for patients who are no longer
considered to have a sufficiently high fracture risk,” Santora
told the panel. “However, neither restricting the duration of
use nor implementing a drug holiday is likely to be beneficial
for patients at sufficiently high fracture risk who require
long-term treatment.”  Patient advocates urged the FDA to require label changes
limiting the drugs’ use to five years in osteoporosis patients.  ‘Serious Risks’  Treatment with bisphosphonates for more than five years
“needlessly exposes patients to serious risks with no evidence
of any clinical benefit,” Sammy Almashat, a staff researcher at
 Public Citizen’s  Health Research Group, told the panel during a
public comment period.  Committee members said the FDA should call for more
research into the drugs’ long-term safety and effectiveness.  “We don’t have evidence of benefit” after five years,
“but that doesn’t mean there is evidence of a lack of
benefit,” panelist  Maria Suarez-Almazor , a professor of
internal medicine at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center in Houston, said before the vote. “I don’t think we have
enough data to restrict anything at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Adelphi,  Maryland  at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  