-- 
Western Balkans to Get $6.9 Billion as Regions Seeks EU Path

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-09-09T11:06:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/western-balkans-to-get-6-9-billion-as-regions-seeks-eu-path-1-.html
The European Union will spend 5
billion euros ($6.9 billion) to help the Western Balkans as it
seeks to integrate the region into the world’s largest trading
bloc, EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said.  Van Rompuy called on  Serbia  to continue talks with Kosovo
as the nation works to gain EU candidate status year’s end.
Serbia, the largest of the former Yugoslav republics and the
slowest to embrace the EU until the arrest of the last war-
crimes suspects, refuses to recognize its former province.  “I want to see all of the Western Balkans become part of
the world’s largest trading bloc,” Van Rompuy said at an EU -
Serbia forum in Belgrade today. “Negotiations to join the EU
remain a strictly performance-based process and Serbia, which
has done a lot on its EU path, needs to continue its dialogue
with Kosovo to accelerate the process.”  Serbia is looking to additional financial aid as part of
its integration process with the EU as it seeks to find a
compromise solution with  Kosovo , a predominantly Albanian
country. The Balkan nations are continuing talks under EU
auspices to ease tensions after a trade dispute escalated into
violence in July, when a Kosovo policeman was killed and a
border post in north Kosovo was set on fire.  Serbian Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremic said the chances for
Serbia to be invited to start entry talks with the EU by year-
end are “very small.”  “One should be cautious,” he told reporters today in
Belgrade, when asked if the country will at least get the
candidate status. “The important thing is that we continue with
reforms and recognition of our efforts will surely follow.”  Judicial Overhaul Needed  Still, Serbia has “made remarkable progress since 2008 and
after it arrested all of the remaining war crimes suspects,”
 Van Rompuy  said. “Serbia must complete the overhaul of its
judicial system and have friendly relations with neighbors as
one of the most important EU principles. This region which saw
terrible bloodshed needs regional cooperation more than any
other part of the world.  The Western Balkans will get the EU aid in the next two
years, while Serbia is set to receive 600 million euros in the
period, Van Rompuy said.  Serbia and Kosovo struck an agreement on ‘‘status-neutral
documents’’ on Sept 2., according to the Serbia’s chief
negotiator for Kosovo, Borislav Stefanovic. Under the
compromise, Serbia will recognize stamps on documents that say
‘‘Kosovo Customs’’ without any state insignia such as the Kosovo
flag or coat-of-arms, he said.  Equal Treatment  ‘‘Serbia expects to be treated as other EU candidate
nations aspiring to join the EU,’’ Serbian President Tadic said
at the same event. ‘‘We don’t ask for any privileges, but we
cannot accept the imposition of additional conditions for us.’’  Kosovo, wedged between Serbia,  Montenegro , Albania and the
 Republic of Macedonia , declared independence in 2008, nine years
after North Atlantic Treaty Organization troops drove out
Serbian forces from the province. Kosovo is recognized by 22 out
of EU’s 27 members.  -- Editor: James M. Gomez  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Belgrade at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net 
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  