-- 
Wilbur Ross’s IAC Unit Said to Delay Its Initial Public Offering to 2012

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-09-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/wilbur-ross-s-iac-unit-said-to-delay-ipo-to-12.html
International Automotive Components
Group, the auto-parts supplier owned by billionaire  Wilbur Ross ,
is delaying its planned initial public offering until at least
January because of market turmoil in the U.S. and Europe, two
people familiar with the matter said.  IAC hired  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Deutsche Bank AG and filed a registration statement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year, said
one of the people, who asked not to be identified because the
plans are private. The company initially aimed to hold the
offering in the first half of the year, that person said.  Some large acquisitions and IPOs have been held up because
consumers and corporations in the U.S. and Europe are
constrained by tighter lending standards, budget and debt
concerns and lower  consumer confidence , Tim Leuliette, who runs
an advisory firm that works with Chinese companies, said in an
interview.  “Things are on pause, but you don’t know whether they’re
up or down,” said Leuliette, a former chief executive officer
of supplier Metaldyne Corp. “Until there’s some certainty on
the budget side, on the Euro, until there’s some confidence from
the consumer, everyone’s just kind of hanging fire.”  Ross, who built his fortune buying bankrupt steel, coal and
textile companies, assembled IAC through 14 takeovers starting
in 2006. IAC, which makes instrument displays, door panels and
headliners, had sales of about $3.75 billion in 2010 and employs
about 22,000 people in 16 countries.  IAC Profits  The company had net income of $25 million last year and $3
million in this year’s first half, according to the filing by
Luxembourg-based IAC.  John Yiannacopoulos, a spokesman at Bank of America,
declined to comment, as did  Tasha Pelio , a JPMorgan spokeswoman,
and Scott Helfman, a Deutsche Bank spokesman. IAC declined to
comment in an e-mail.  IAC’s largest customers are  General Motors Co. (GM) , Ford Motor
Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, which is controlled by  Fiat SpA. (F)   IAC’s decision to delay its offering comes as industrywide
sales in the U.S. have slowed from the pace of early this year.
U.S. light-vehicle sales may rise to 12.7 million cars and light
trucks this year, the average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed
last month by Bloomberg. The average estimate in April was for
2011 sales of 13 million light vehicles.  Ford said yesterday U.S. vehicle sales may not reach the
low end of the company’s forecast range for 2011. Ford had
projected industrywide 2011 sales of 13 million to 13.5 million,
including medium- and heavy-duty trucks.  ‘Pent-Up Demand’  “We see signs of pent-up demand,” Chief Financial Officer
 Lewis Booth  said yesterday, speaking at a UBS conference in
 London . “What it’s going to take for that pent-up demand to
emerge is some confidence in what the future will look like.”  Ford, based in Dearborn, Michigan, anticipated a modest
U.S. recovery, “but we didn’t expect it to be quite as slow as
it’s been,” Booth said.  U.S. automobile sales rebounded 11 percent to 11.6 million
vehicles last year from a 27-year low in 2009, according to
Autodata Corp. in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . They averaged 16.8
million annually from 2000 to 2007.  IAC’s North American headquarters are in Southfield,
Michigan. Jim Kamsickas is president of IAC North America and
 Asia , which represents about two-thirds of the company’s sales.
Jens Hohnel is president of the  Europe  division. The two are co-
chief executive officers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  