-- 
Yahoo Chairman Roy Bostock Risks Losing Own Job After Ousting Carol Bartz

-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-09-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/yahoo-chairman-roy-bostock-may-lose-own-job-after-firing-bartz.html
Yahoo! Inc. Chairman Roy Bostock,
who ousted Chief Executive Officer  Carol Bartz  this week, now
risks losing his own job.  Third Point LLC, a New York investment firm that has
accumulated a 5.2 percent stake in Yahoo, urged Bostock and his
fellow directors to resign yesterday, citing their
responsibility for the company’s poor performance. The letter
added to a drumbeat of investor criticism leveled at the board
for spurning  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s takeover bid in 2008 and failing
to pick leaders who could restore the fortunes of a company that
helped pioneer the World Wide Web.  “Yahoo’s current board of directors has made a number of
decisions that have directly harmed the company and resulted in
a stock price far below the company’s intrinsic value,” Third
Point said in a regulatory filing.  As board chairman since early 2008, Bostock has presided
over major company decisions, including rebuffing the $47.5
billion offer by Microsoft three years ago and recruiting Bartz
as CEO in early 2009. Once a company with a market value of more
than $100 billion, Yahoo’s stock has declined 49 percent since
Bostock, a former ad-industry executive, became chairman.  He fired Bartz on Sept. 6 by telephone, another decision
that has stirred criticism among some executives. Bostock didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  Divorce by E-Mail  “Firing someone on the phone is like telling your spouse
you want a divorce in an e-mail,” said Carl Bass, CEO of
Autodesk Inc., who succeeded Bartz in that position. Bass said
he hasn’t spoken to Bartz since she was fired from Yahoo.  Bostock had scheduled a meeting with Bartz in a  New York 
area airport to deliver the bad news, though stormy weather
intervened, according to a person familiar with the day’s
events, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Now Bostock must lead the search for a new CEO and also
possibly consider a sale or breakup of the company. Yahoo has
named Chief Financial Officer Tim Morse interim CEO and hasn’t
yet said whether it has retained an executive search firm.  Bostock and other directors are as culpable for Yahoo’s
troubles as Bartz, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BCG Partners
in New York, who has a “hold” rating on Yahoo shares and doesn’t
own the stock.  “The board needs to look in the mirror and realize that
the state Yahoo is in now is a product of their leadership and
vision,” he said. “It’s difficult for me to see the board
cutting Carol loose without any changes being done at the
board.”  ‘Critical Challenges’  Yahoo shares have climbed almost 12 percent since Bartz’s
ouster was announced. The stock rose 83 cents to $14.44
yesterday on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  In a statement responding to the Third Point filing,
Yahoo’s board said it “recognizes the critical challenges
facing the company and appreciates constructive input from all
shareholders. Accordingly, the Yahoo board welcomes a dialogue
about the concerns that have been raised by the Third Point
filing. The board is committed to acting in the best interests
of shareholders.”  Bostock became a Yahoo director in 2003, after a 38-year
career in advertising. He sold BCom3 Group, the global ad agency
where he was chairman, to Publicis Group in 2002 for $3 billion.
Outside the corporate world, he’s chairman emeritus at  the
Partnership at Drugfree.org  and has donated money to  Duke
University , his alma mater, where a  library  is named after him.  Autodesk Experience  Critics say Bostock’s pick of Bartz showed a
misunderstanding of Yahoo. She had previously led Autodesk, a
software maker for architectural and engineering firms.  “Bartz more than proved herself at Autodesk, but running
Yahoo wasn’t the right job for her,” said  Jeffrey Sonnenfeld ,
associate dean of  Yale School of Management . “Yahoo didn’t need
an applied systems person -- it needed a consumer products
executive.”  Bostock has been embattled from, literally, his first day
as Yahoo chairman. On Feb. 1, 2008, Microsoft announced a $31 a
share, or $44.6 billion, offer for the company. While  Jerry Yang , a Yahoo co-founder and then CEO, handled much of the
negotiations with Microsoft, it was Bostock who co-signed a June
12 letter announcing that takeover talks were over and saying
Yahoo had better prospects going it alone. They termed
Microsoft’s bid, though sweetened to $33 a share, or $47.5
billion, “not in the best interests of Yahoo stockholders.”  ‘Doomsday Machine’  Investor  Carl Icahn , who bought 59 million shares of Yahoo
that May, said Yang and other directors were a “self-destructive
doomsday machine” and vowed a proxy battle to change the board’s
makeup.  Yahoo reached an accord with Icahn in July 2008, giving him
three board seats and expanding the number of directors from
eight to 11. Icahn sold the last of his Yahoo stake in the third
quarter of 2010. He left the Yahoo board in 2009, and the other
two Icahn representatives went off the board in 2010.  The total ranks of Yahoo’s independent board members
underwent 60 percent turnover in the past three years, with six
of the 10 outside directors in 2008 departing. Four of the
current members -- David Kenny, president of Akamai Technologies
Inc.;  Brad Smith , CEO of Intuit Inc.; Patti Hart, CEO of
International Game Technology; and Susan James, a retired Ernst
& Young partner -- have joined the board in the past two years.
The other current directors, in addition to Bostock, Bartz and
Yang, are Vyomesh Joshi, a  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  executive; Arthur Kern, a co-founder of American Media; and Gary Wilson, a former
Walt Disney Company executive.  Past Mistakes  “The board has to make up for past mistakes, the most
glaring one being the turndown of Microsoft’s offer in 2008,”
said  Ryan Jacob , chairman of Jacob Asset Management, whose fund
has  invested  in the technology industry since 1999 and holds
Yahoo stock.  While he drew flak at Yahoo, Bostock enjoyed success as
chairman of  Northwest Airlines , guiding it in 2008 through a
$2.75 billion merger with  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , where he is now
vice chairman.  Third Point faulted the board for taking so long to realize
that Bartz was ill-suited to the job of CEO. “We fail to
understand why this decision was so long in coming given her
abysmal performance over the last two and a half years,” the
firm said.  In a statement welcoming Bartz to Yahoo in January 2009,
Bostock said she was “the exact combination of seasoned
technology executive and savvy leader” the company needed.  He continued to support Bartz publicly, including at
Yahoo’s annual meeting in June, when a shareholder frustrated
with the company’s lack of growth called for her ouster. Bostock
defended Bartz that day, praising the company’s “hard-won
progress” on her watch.  “This board is very supportive of Carol and the management
team,” he said.  Eleven weeks later, Bostock fired her.  “The board is definitely under some pressure to show that
they’re actually acting in shareholder interest,” said Ken Sena,
an analyst at New York-based Evercore Partners Inc.  To contact the reporters for this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 womack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Carol Hymowitz at   chymowitz@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  