-- 
Yuan Forwards Snap Five-Day Losing Streak on Easing Inflation

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-09T02:54:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/yuan-forwards-snap-five-day-losing-streak-on-easing-inflation.html
China ’s yuan forwards snapped a
five-day losing streak as easing inflation and the slowing
global economy reduced the chances policy makers will raise
 interest rates .  Consumer prices climbed 6.2 percent from a year earlier in
August, compared with 6.5 percent in July, official data showed
today. The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a 6.2 percent gain. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned yesterday that policy makers should not
disregard the “fragility” of the U.S. economic recovery. The
international financial situation is uncertain, Chinese Vice
Premier Wang Qishan said in London yesterday.  “China may restrain from further monetary tightening as
inflation is easing and given the turbulence in the global
economy,” said Daniel Chan, chief economist at BWC Capital
Markets in  Hong Kong . “Consumer-price gains in August were
within market expectations. However, there’s room for yuan
appreciation as inflation is still at a relatively high level.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.13 percent to
6.2847 per dollar today as of 10:35 a.m. in  Shanghai , paring
their weekly loss to 0.03 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts were at a 1.6 percent premium to the
onshore spot rate.  The yuan declined 0.07 percent this week and 0.05 percent
today to 6.3873 per dollar, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The central bank set the currency’s
reference rate 0.05 percent weaker at 6.3922. The yuan is
allowed to trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the fixing.  Offshore Market  People’s Bank of China governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in
 London  yesterday that while there is no timetable for
convertibility, the offshore yuan market is “developing faster
than what we had imagined.”  In Hong Kong, the yuan gained 0.05 percent to 6.3568 per
dollar today, limiting this week’s loss to 0.06 percent.
Producer prices climbed 7.3 percent last month from a year
earlier, the statistics bureau said today. That compared with a
7.5 percent jump in July and the 7.2 percent median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey.  -- Editors: Andrew Janes, Simon Harvey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  