-- 
Zloty Weakens to Two-Year Low as Polish Growth May Lag on Europe Growth

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-09T15:54:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-09/zloty-slides-for-second-day-heads-for-worst-weekly-drop-in-five.html
The zloty tumbled to the weakest
level in more than two years and bond yields rose amid concern
Europe’s economic slowdown will curb Polish growth and scupper
the government’s attempt to cut the  budget deficit .  The currency depreciated as much as 2.2 percent to 4.3483
per euro, the weakest intraday level since July 2009 and traded
0.9 percent lower at 4.2883 at 5:02 p.m. in Warsaw. The zloty
has lost 2.8 percent in the past five days, the biggest weekly
drop since the week ended Aug. 12. The yield on notes due April
2016 rose 11 basis points to 4.99 percent.  The European Central Bank yesterday cut its growth forecast
for the euro area this year and next and its President Jean- Claude Trichet said the region’s economy faces “particularly
high uncertainty and intensified downside risks.” Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday stopped short of
detailing new plans to boost growth.  The zloty’s decline is driven by “global factors, but
people hate the zloty more than the other currencies,”  Benoit Anne , head of global emerging-market strategy at Societe
Generale SA in  London , said by phone. “You would remember that
the zloty was not so long ago the darling of EMEA. These days
are gone.”  Poland sends 55 percent of its exports to countries that
share Europe’s common currency, according to statistics office
data.  Poland’s currency pared its decline after state-owned Bank
Gospodarstwa Krajowego sold dollars for zloty, two bank traders
with direct knowledge of the transactions said, declining to be
identified because the information isn’t public.  ‘Definitely Lose Money’  “Somebody will definitely lose money” betting against the
zloty, central bank Governor Marek Belka said in an interview
with TVN CNBC television today, saying policy makers wouldn’t
react to investors’ attempts to “provoke” them to intervene on
the market.  The  currency market  is “testing” the Polish central bank
to see whether it will intervene to support the zloty, Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, the top economic adviser to Prime Minister
Donald Tusk, said in an interview with TVN CNBC television in
Krynica, southern Poland, today.  There’s “no justification” for the current weakening of
the zloty because the country’s economic fundamentals are “very
strong,” Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said in a
text message.  The government will sell as much as 14 billion euros ($19.4
billion) of European Union funds in 2011, acting through the
bank known as BGK, Radziwill said in April. It may also exchange
proceeds from the sale of bonds in foreign currencies,  Piotr Marczak , director at the  Finance Ministry ’s debt department,
said on May 9.  Changing Momentum  “It is time to buy the zloty,” Anders Svendsen and
 Elisabeth Andreew , analysts at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients. The zloty may advance to 4
per euro by the end of this year as the “momentum may change in
favor” of the Polish currency after BGK is rumored to have
stepped into the market, they said.  The 14-day relative strength index for the zloty fell to
25.2 today, or below the 30 level that signals an asset is due
for an advance. The RSI identifies possible turning points in
indexes or securities by measuring the degree that gains and
losses outpace each other in a given time period.  The zloty has lost 7.6 percent this quarter and is poised
for its worst performance since the three-month period ended
March 2009.  Poland ’s economy, the only one in the EU to avoid
recession through the credit crisis, expanded at an annual rate
of 4.3 percent in the second quarter.  ‘No Doubt’  “The best explanation we can find for the zloty sell-off
is a more fundamental change in the market perception about the
growth outlook for Poland,”  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-
market analyst at Danske Bank AS in Copenhagen, wrote in a note
to clients. “Poland has weathered the global economic crisis so
far, but there is no doubt that the combination of a global
manufacturing-sector slowdown and the continued up move in Swiss
franc-zloty is likely to hit Polish growth.”  The zloty lost 1.8 percent to 3.5588 against the Swiss
franc for a second day of declines. The total value of franc-
denominated home loans in Poland reached 162.2 billion zloty
($51.9 billion) at the end of July and represented 54 percent of
all mortgages outstanding, according to the financial market
regulator’s website.  Prime Minister Donald Tusk is counting on economic growth
of 4 percent next year to help him bring down the general
government deficit to less than 3 percent of gross domestic
product. The gap stood at 7.9 percent last year, the highest
since at least 1996, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There is cause for “moderate optimism” on the growth of
Poland’s economy, which is showing “resilience” in the context
of turmoil in  Europe , Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said in
an interview with TVP Info television from Krynica, southern
Poland. The government has no plans to cut the eastern European
nation’s economic growth forecast for 2012, Rostowski told
reporters yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  