-- Apple Judge Proposes Remedies in E-Books Pricing Case
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-08-10T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/apple-judge-proposes-remedies-in-e-books-pricing-case.html
The federal judge who ruled that
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  conspired to fix prices of digital books proposed
remedies she said would prevent the iPad maker from further
harming competition in the e-books market.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  yesterday
considered the federal government’s proposed injunction against
Apple, the world’s largest technology company. She told the
parties to discuss her proposals for an order and said she would
hold another hearing in a couple of weeks.  “I want to fashion as narrow a remedy as possible to
restore competition to retailers of e-books,” Cote said
yesterday in court. “We do need an injunction here. There was
blatant price-fixing.”  Cote, ruling after a nonjury trial, found in July that
Apple violated U.S. antitrust law by conspiring with publishers
on prices. A second trial will be held to determine damages
that, according to Apple lawyer  Orin Snyder , could be “hundreds
of millions of dollars.”  The federal government and 33 states submitted a proposal
on Aug. 2 asking Cote to order Apple to terminate its e-book
agreements with five publishers who were also sued by the U.S.
The proposal also called for the court to appoint someone to
monitor antitrust compliance at Apple for 10 years. The
injunction “would halt Apple’s anticompetitive conduct, restore
lost competition and prevent a recurrence of the illegal
conduct,” U.S. Justice Department officials said.  Staggered Negotiations  Cote proposed yesterday that Apple be required to hold
staggered contract renegotiations with the five publishers over
a period of several years to ensure that the company wouldn’t be
in contract discussions with more than one publisher at a time.  She also said that instead of appointing a monitor she
would prefer that Apple “adopt a vigorous internal antitrust
program and convince the court there’s no need for a monitor.”  The U.S. sued Apple and the five publishers in April 2012,
claiming the Cupertino, California-based company pushed
publishers to sign agreements that would allow it to sell
digital copies of their books under a model that raised prices
and harmed consumers.  The conspiracy was designed to force Amazon.com Inc., the
largest e-book seller, to change its pricing model, the U.S.
said. At the time, Amazon was selling electronic versions of
best-selling books for $9.99, which was often below cost.  Agency Model  When Apple entered the e-book market in 2010 to boost the
appeal of its iPad tablet as a reading device, it reached
agreements with the five publishers to sell digital copies of
their books under the agency model, by which the publishers set
the prices and Apple takes a 30 percent commission. A so-called
most favored nation clause in the contracts meant that Apple
could match lower prices charged by Amazon and other e-book
retailers.  The publishers, Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s
 Macmillan  unit,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster ,  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s
 Hachette Book Group ,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and News Corp.’s
 HarperCollins , settled with the government before the trial for
a total of at least $164 million. The largest publisher,
Bertelsmann SE’s Random House, didn’t sign an agency agreement
with Apple and wasn’t involved in the U.S. suit. Penguin was
merged with Random House this year.  On Aug. 7, publishers who settled with the U.S. filed an
objection to the government’s proposal to force Apple to
terminate its contracts with them. They claimed that they would
be punished by the proposed order.  Settlement Criticism  Cote criticized the publishers in court Aug. 8 for not
admitting wrongdoing in the antitrust matter.  The judge also considered a letter she received yesterday
from Apple’s lawyers saying that she had erred in excluding some
evidence from the trial.  Testimony from a  Random House  Inc. executive that the
publisher adopted an agency model for sales based on its
discussions with  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  and “not because of any
actions by Apple” was excluded, while e-mails and testimony
that would have rebutted the judge’s findings were disregarded,
Apple’s lawyer Snyder said in the letter.  “These evidentiary issues demonstrate that Apple has a
substantial possibility of prevailing on appeal,” Snyder said
in the letter.  Cote addressed each of the points in the letter and
concluded that she didn’t “believe Apple has shown that it is
likely to succeed on appeal.”  Cote denied a bid by Apple to halt proceedings in the case
pending the outcome of the appeal.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  