-- Asian Currencies Post Best Week in a Month
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-08-10T03:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/asian-currencies-post-best-week-in-a-month-spurred-by-china-data.html
Asian currencies posted the biggest
weekly rally in a month after a rebound in  China  trade data
boosted the outlook for regional exports and growth.  South Korea’s won led the advance, helping spur a 0.4
percent gain in the Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index.
Overseas shipments from the world’s second-biggest economy rose
5.1 percent in July, while imports increased 11 percent, with
both figures beating forecasts and recovering from a contraction
in June. The numbers come amid concerns about a possible end to
the  Federal Reserve ’s monetary stimulus that has driven demand
for emerging-market assets.  “China’s better-than-expected trade data turned sentiment
and supported many Asian currencies,” said Jahng Won, a
foreign-exchange trader at  Shinhan Bank  in Seoul. “External
factors such as the Fed’s tapering schedule are what investors
are more concerned about.”  The won strengthened 1 percent this week to 1,112.30 per
dollar in Seoul, and reached 1,107.55 yesterday, the highest
level since May 14, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
 yuan  gained 0.12 percent, the best five-day performance in three
months, and touched 6.1143, the strongest since the government
unified the official and market exchange rates in 1993.  It was a shortened week for many Asian currencies due to
holidays to mark the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.
Financial markets in Malaysia, India and the Philippines were
closed yesterday, while Indonesia remained shut since Aug. 2.  Positive Sentiment  South Korea’s economy is growing “moderately,” led mainly
by exports,  Bank of Korea  said this week after keeping interest
 rates  at 2.5 percent. A slowdown in China and odds of an end to
U.S. asset purchases pose downside risks, it said.  China reported yesterday that consumer prices climbed 2.7
percent in July from a year earlier, less than the median
estimate for a 2.8 percent gain in a Bloomberg survey. Data also
showed factory production increased 9.7 percent from a year
earlier and retail sales advanced 13.2 percent.  “We see a modest acceleration of growth of industrial
output, exports, imports and retail sales, and widening of the
 trade surplus ,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based strategist
at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a note yesterday. “Firmer and
higher-than-expected activity numbers, combined with stable and
lower-than-anticipated price pressures, would be positive for
sentiment towards the country and in emerging-market Asia.”  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s dollar advanced 0.6 percent
this week to NT$29.955 against its U.S. counterpart and the  Thai
baht  appreciated 0.1 percent to 31.24. The Malaysian ringgit
last traded at 3.2545 on Aug. 7 versus 3.2578 on Aug. 2. The
Philippine peso rose 0.1 percent to 43.585 and the  Indian rupee 
climbed 0.4 percent to 60.86 in the four days markets were open.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  