-- Australia Opposition Regains Election Lead as Economy Slows
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-10T03:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/australia-opposition-regains-election-poll-lead-amid-slowdown.html
Australia’s opposition has regained
the lead over Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd ’s government, with 52
percent of respondents in an opinion poll published today saying
they’d support the coalition in a Sept. 7 election.  The ruling Labor party had a 48 percent share of the final
two-party preferred vote in the poll of 1,400 people, conducted
Aug. 6-8 by Nielsen and published in  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) 
newspapers. It’s the first national poll to be conducted since
Rudd kicked off a five-week election campaign Aug. 4.  The Liberal-National coalition led by  Tony Abbott  was
preferred for its ability to steer the economy by 56 percent, to
36 percent for the government, up from a 52 percent to 41
percent lead in the previous survey. Rudd, who led Australia as
it escaped recession after the 2008 financial crisis, has said
since returning to the leadership in June that the nation faces
challenges as  China’s economy  slows and the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia lowers its growth outlook.  “It was always Abbott’s election to lose, and he’s not
losing it. He’s not giving Rudd a chance to claw back a lead,”
 Andrew Hughes , a lecturer in marketing and politics at
 Australian National University  in Canberra, said by phone. “He
won’t win by much, but he doesn’t have to win by much.”  The opposition’s four-point lead compares to a 50-50 tie in
the previous such Nielsen poll, conducted July 11-13. Rudd still
leads Abbott as the preferred prime minister by a margin of
50-42, narrowed from a previous 55-41, according to the Nielsen
telephone survey, which reports a maximum margin of error of 2.6
percent.  ‘Underdogs’  “I said on the day that I called the election that we
enter this election as the underdogs,” Rudd said at a press
conference in the Tasmanian capital Hobart today. “That remains
the case. I don’t gild the lily about any of that, so we remain
the underdogs.”  The government’s deficit is still short of the 57-43 two-party result from Nielsen’s June 13-15 poll, the last taken
before Rudd replaced  Julia Gillard  as prime minister after an
internal vote of the governing Labor party. Abbott was preferred
by 50 percent in that poll, compared to 41 percent who backed
Gillard.  “The Rudd honeymoon has well and truly come to a
shuddering halt,”  Christopher Pyne , shadow education minister,
said on  Sky News  today. “The Australian public is starting to
remember all the reasons why they wanted him gone three years
ago.”  Benign Inflation  In its quarterly monetary policy statement released in
Sydney yesterday, the central bank said gross domestic product
will rise 2.25 percent in the year to December, down from a
forecast of 2.5 percent growth three months earlier. Governor
 Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced  Australia ’s key interest
rate to a record 2.5 percent this week amid benign inflation and
a slowing in mining investment.  The two-party result matches the most recent Newspoll
conducted for the Australian newspaper, which showed the
coalition with a  52-48 lead  among 1,141 voters July 19-21. Rudd
led Abbott as preferred prime minister in that survey by a 50-34
margin.  A separate poll conducted by Galaxy Research for Brisbane’s
Courier-Mail newspaper showed the government trailing with a
final vote of 44 percent in Rudd’s home state to 56 percent for
the opposition. Former Queensland Premier Peter Beattie
announced this week he would run for the seat of Forde as the
government looks to pick up marginal electorates in the Liberal
National-run state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  