-- Barak Optimistic About Progress in Middle East Peace Talks
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-10T15:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/barak-optimistic-about-progress-in-middle-east-peace-talks.html
Former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak said peace in the Middle East can be achieved as leaders
from  Israel  and the Palestinian Authority prepare to meet next
week.  “There are more chances than the eye meets -- the reason
is that both sides understand it,” Barak said in an interview
on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” set to air tomorrow.  U.S. envoy Martin Indyk will travel to the region next week
for talks that begin in  Jerusalem  and continue in Jericho in the
West Bank.  “Of course both sides will have their complaints,” Barak
said. “I personally believe that the Palestinians are much more
responsible for where we are stuck than the Israeli government.
But it doesn’t matter, because without tough decisions of both
sides, nothing can move.”  President  Barack Obama  and Secretary of State John Kerry
last month began the new round of peace negotiations, winning a
commitment from Israel and the Palestinians to negotiate for at
least nine months. Kerry has insisted on discussing the region’s
most difficult issues -- borders, the return of Palestinian
refugees, the future of Jerusalem, settlements and security.  “I’m basically an optimist,” Barak said. “Even if it
will end up that a full, permanent peace cannot be achieved,
it’s worth the effort to strike even an interim agreement where
borders and security arrangements are made.”  Israeli View  An Israeli Peace Index poll from the Israel Democracy
Institute and Tel Aviv University this month found growing
intransigence about trading land for peace, a foundation for
negotiations since the 1993 Oslo accords. Sixty-three percent of
Israelis told pollsters they wouldn’t support a deal on that
basis even if it included security for Israel and a
demilitarized Palestinian state.  In the weeks since Israel committed to the new talks, the
military administration of the occupied West Bank has moved
almost 1,100 additional housing units closer to approval, some
of them in two isolated settlements that Israel previously had
deemed to be illegal, according to the Los Angeles Times.  On  CNN , Barak also said Israel is prepared to protect
itself, if necessary, from  Iran .  “All options remain on the table,” Barak said. “When we
say that we are determined to prevent Iran from turning nuclear,
we mean what we say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  