-- Canadian Currency Climbs Most in a Month as China Data Fuel Bets
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-08-10T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/canadian-currency-climbs-most-in-a-month-as-china-data-fuel-bets.html
Canada ’s dollar gained the most in a
month as stronger-than-forecast Chinese economic data added to
signs global growth is accelerating, stoking speculation that
demand will increase for the nation’s raw materials.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, briefly pared its weekly
advance yesterday as Canada unexpectedly lost jobs and the
 unemployment rate  rose.  China  will become the world’s biggest
net importer of oil, the largest Canadian export, by October,
the U.S. Energy Information Administration said yesterday.  “The real driver of global themes this week was just
stronger Chinese data,”  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at
Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said by telephone
from Toronto. “This does help to perk up Canadian growth
expectations, and with them the Canadian dollar.”  Canada’s currency appreciated 1 percent to C$1.0289 per
 U.S. dollar  this week in Toronto, the biggest jump since the
five days ended July 12. One Canadian dollar purchases 97.19
U.S. cents.  Benchmark 10-year government  bonds  gained for the first
time in three weeks, with yields slipping one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 2.48 percent. The yields touched 2.60
percent on Aug. 2, a two-year high. The price of the 1.5 percent
securities maturing in June 2023 added 8 cents to C$91.54.  Bond Auction  The  Bank of Canada  will auction C$2.8 billion ($2.7
billion) of 10-year bonds on Aug. 14. The 2.5 percent securities
mature in June 2024.  The central bank sold C$2.7 billion of three-year bonds
Aug. 7 at a 1.373 percent average yield. The 1 percent
securities due in August 2016 drew C$7.1 billion in bids for a
bid-to-cover ratio of 2.64. The average ratio at the past five
sales of the debt was 2.76.  The currencies of  Australia  and  New Zealand , which like
Canada export commodities, climbed this week on China’s economic
data. The U.S. dollar fell versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts as demand for safety faded.  In a basket of 10 developed nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the loonie slipped 0.3
percent on the week. The Aussie dollar strengthened 2.2 percent,
and New Zealand’s dollar gained 1.3 percent, while the greenback
dropped 1.5 percent.  Bets Decreased  Hedge funds  and other large speculators decreased for a
fourth straight week their bets that the Canadian dollar will
decline against the greenback, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers on a decline in the loonie compared with those
on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 10,436 on Aug. 6, the
narrowest since February.  Canada’s currency  jumped  as much as 1.1 percent on Aug. 8,
the most since June 29, 2012, when compared with closing prices,
after the government statistics agency in Beijing reported
China’s exports rose 5.1 percent in July from a year earlier,
while imports gained 10.9 percent.  Chinese factory production increased 9.7 percent in July
from a year earlier, data from the country showed yesterday.
Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had forecast an 8.9 percent gain.  Retail sales  in the world’s second-biggest economy advanced
13.2 percent, while fixed-asset investment excluding rural
households grew 20.1 percent in the first seven months of the
year, other reports showed.  ‘Risk Currency’  “The Canadian dollar is a risk currency, and what we’ve
seen lately coming out of China, and this week was a very heavy
China-data week, was much better than expected,” Eimear Daly, a
currency-market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd., said by phone from
 London . “The Canadian dollar as a commodity currency is
obviously going to gain in line with that.”  China’s oil imports will reach 6.45 million barrels a day
by October, surpassing the America’s 6.23 million barrels, the
U.S. energy-information agency forecast in a short-term energy
outlook. It cited “steady growth in Chinese demand” and
increased American production.  Crude climbed yesterday, paring a weekly loss. Futures
ended the week down 0.6 percent to $105.97 a barrel in  New York .  Oil slid for the previous five days amid concern the
 Federal Reserve  will curb monetary stimulus to Canada’s biggest
trade partner as soon as next month. U.S. policy makers are
discussing whether the world’s biggest economy has improved
enough for them to start slowing the pace of their monthly
purchases of $85 billion in bonds to put downward pressure on
borrowing costs and spur growth.  Employment Drops  The loonie fell briefly yesterday after  Statistics Canada 
reported the nation  lost  39,400 jobs in July and the
unemployment rate rose to 7.2 percent, from 7.1 percent.
Economists in a Bloomberg survey forecast a 10,000-job gain and
an unchanged jobless rate.  Even after the losses, Canada has had a monthly average of
an additional 18,400 jobs over the past three months, thanks to
the 95,000 positions that were added in May, the most in a
decade.  The average in the second half of 2012 was 27,820.  “We are still seeing some adjustment from that
extraordinarily strong figure in May, so taken as the average
over the last three months it doesn’t look quite as bad as the
headline suggests,” said  Adam Cole , head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, by phone from London.
“It’s a soft reading, no doubt, but it’s not catastrophic, and
the trend is still moderately higher.”  The jobs number will likely not affect Bank of Canada
policy, Cole said. The central bank said in a July 17 statement
its next policy move will be to raise  interest rates , which
policy makers have held at  1 percent  since 2010 to support the
economy. The bank boosted 2013 growth estimates to 1.8 percent,
up from a prediction in April of 1.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  