-- China Urbanization to Hit Roadblocks Amid Local Opposition
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-12T04:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/china-must-address-migrants-needs-in-urbanization-advisers-say.html
China ’s plan to encourage hundreds
of millions of rural residents to settle in cities to boost
growth faces opposition from local governments, according to Li
Tie, an official with the nation’s top economic planning agency.  Officials, researchers and company executives highlighted
challenges at an urbanization forum in Beijing on Aug. 10. They
cited the strain on local-government finances, the dangers of
overbuilding and the cost of scrapping the hukou, or residence
permit, system that denies migrants the welfare, health and
education benefits of city dwellers.  Premier Li Keqiang has championed urbanization as a “huge
engine” for growth as he seeks to shift the world’s second-largest economy toward a model that relies on consumption rather
than investment and exports. As policy makers draft plans for
the new leadership’s reform agenda ahead of a key Communist
Party meeting later this year, Li is grappling with vested
interests that could stymie some of his plans.  “Nobody wants such a big group of migrants to be their
neighbors and share their so-called civilized space. This is a
conflict of interest,” Li, director-general of the China Center
for Urban Development under the National Development and Reform
Commission, said at the forum. “We are facing rejection from
the hearts of so many mayors and city elites who have enough
ability to influence decision making.”  Stocks Climb  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.3 percent as of 12:06
p.m. local time today amid optimism that government measures
will arrest an economic slowdown.  The South China Morning Post reported today that
Agricultural Bank of China signed an agreement with the Shanghai
city government for a 250 billion  yuan  ($41 billion) loan that
will help to fund developments including a free-trade zone and a
Disneyland. Nomura Holdings Inc. cited the reported deal as a
sign of the government’s willingness to support growth.  Li Keqiang is banking on more than 260 million migrant
workers and their families becoming permanent urban residents to
boost consumption and sustain growth at his bottom line of 7
percent a year, as the government restructures an economy that’s
expanded at an average 10.2 percent a year over the last two
decades.  Gross domestic product may rise 7.5 percent this year,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
55 economists last month, the least in 23 years. The World Bank
estimates annual GDP growth will slow to an average 7 percent in
the five years through 2020 and 5.9 percent through 2025.  Boosting Consumption  Speaking at his first news conference after becoming
premier in March, Li said, “Urbanization will usher in a huge
amount of consumption and investment demand, increase job
opportunities, create wealth for farmers, and bring benefits to
the people.”  HSBC Holdings Plc estimated in an October report that the
movement of 10 million rural residents to become urban residents
every year for the next 20-30 years would create more than 100
billion yuan ($16.3 billion) a year in additional consumer
spending.  Policy makers, planners and government advisers are
drafting proposals on how to implement Li’s urbanization vision
that will be presented to the Communist Party’s top leaders at a
meeting later this year. The event, known as the third plenum,
may decide on economic and social reforms after a once-a-decade
 leadership  transition that was completed in March.  “Urbanization isn’t only about changing people’s
residency, it’s about their overall development and an
improvement in the quality of their lives,” Li Lianzhong, head
of the economy bureau at the Policy Research Center of the
Communist Party Central Committee, said at the Aug. 10 forum.
Ending the hukou system and replacing it with identity cards
will signal the “victory of reforms,” he said.  Welfare Costs  One of the thorniest issues facing policy makers is who
pays for urbanization - the cost of the physical infrastructure
and the recurring annual spending on providing millions of new
urbanites with health care, welfare and education services.  In a report last month, HSBC estimated the total fiscal
cost for local and central governments on public housing and
children’s education would be 6.24 trillion yuan for 260 million
migrant workers in cities, equivalent to 53 percent of China’s
national fiscal revenue in 2012.  Local authorities are barred from directly selling bonds or
borrowing from banks and can’t run budget deficits. To raise
money to fund spending they set up thousands of financing
vehicles, racking up debts that Fitch Ratings Ltd. said in April
increase risks to the country’s financial stability.  Too Expensive  Mao Daqing, executive vice president of  China Vanke Co. (000002) ,
the biggest developer by market value traded on the country’s
stock exchanges, told the forum some local governments may be
hard pressed to pay for urbanization.  Taking Beijing as an example, Mao said that assuming
700,000 people moved into the city each year, it could cost the
local government at least an extra 77 billion yuan a year in
urbanization-related spending, equivalent to doubling its annual
land sales or a 25 percent increase in tax revenue.  “This is totally beyond the affordability of a local
government, Beijing can’t afford it,” Mao said. He also
questioned whether China needs more cities when most migration
has been to the 70 biggest conurbations.  “These big cities interest people because they have more
job opportunities, education opportunities and medical
resources,” Mao said. “Those other 610 cities can’t attract
people even though they already exist,” he said, adding “it
indicates some of those 610 cities have problems or can’t
survive.”  Urban Shift  More people lived in China’s towns and cities than in rural
areas for the first time in the country’s history in 2011,
government data show, with 691 million living in urban areas
compared with 657 million in the countryside. The urbanization
rate will rise to about two-thirds by 2030, meaning about 13
million more people will move to cities every year, the  World
Bank  estimates.  While the urbanization ratio includes small towns, they
often have worse living conditions, infrastructure and public
services, Zhao Hui, director of the Village and Town
Construction Department at the  Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development , said at the forum.  The country needs to do a better job of establishing
smaller conurbations as these tend to cost less to develop, are
more energy efficient and environment-friendly, and hence more
supportive of sustainable development, Zhao said.  Separately, a deputy director of the China Center for Urban
Development, Qiao Runling, warned that reckless expansion of
cities in China has left many of them empty, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported Aug. 10.  “China now has an oversupply of cities, given the number
of new urban districts that we have,” the report quoted Qiao as
saying at a forum held in southern Jiangxi province last week.
The issue is especially serious in small and medium-sized cities
in central and western regions, Qiao said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net ;
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  