-- Furyk Carries 1-Shot Lead Into PGA Championship’s Last Round
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-08-11T12:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/dufner-takes-two-shot-lead-into-pga-championship-third-round.html
Jim Furyk  takes a one-shot lead into
today’s final round of the PGA Championship, a position that
hasn’t been favorable in recent major golf tournaments.  The 54-hole leader failed to win any of this year’s three
previous majors -- the  Masters Tournament  and the U.S. and
British opens -- while in the past 19 Grand Slams, only four
third-round leaders have gone on to win.  Furyk, who claimed his lone major title at the 2003  U.S.
Open , is 9-under par through three rounds at  Oak Hill  Country
Club outside Rochester,  New York , where play has begun this
morning. He’s one shot ahead of  Jason Dufner .  “People always ask, ‘Would you rather be one ahead or one
back?’ Well, I’d rather be one ahead,” said Furyk, who failed
to convert all four of his 54-hole leads a year ago, including
at the U.S. Open. “I’m comfortable with where I’m at.”  Henrik Stenson is third at 7-under, one shot ahead of
Swedish countryman Jonas Blixt and two in front of  Steve Stricker  and  Adam Scott , this year’s Masters winner.  “There’s a crowded leaderboard at the top,” said Furyk,
who’s scheduled to tee off at 2:55 p.m. New York time with
Dufner. “Instead of really viewing it as who is leading and who
is not, I’m viewing it as I need to go out there and put
together a good, solid round of golf, fire a good number and
hope it stacks up well.”  Furyk, 43, shot a 2-under-par 68 yesterday with five
birdies, including one on the 510-yard, par-4 17th hole that
gave him the lead. Dufner, 36, shot 1 over 71 after entering the
round with a two-shot lead.  Dufner’s Finish  Dufner, runner-up to Keegan Bradley at the 2011  PGA
Championship , avoided a potential bogey on the 18th hole
yesterday when his four-foot par putt rolled slowly around the
hole and fell in the back side.  The putt came after an errant tee shot on the hole. The
laidback Ohio native dropped his driver in disgust on his follow
through and then banged it into the ground several times before
throwing it at his golf bag.  Dufner’s round included two birdies, a bogey and a double-bogey on the fifth hole, where he hit his tee shot into a creek.  “I hung in there. It could have gone sideways quick after
the fifth hole,” said Dufner, who won twice on the U.S.  PGA
Tour  last season. “I’m in good position playing in the last
group. Hopefully the golf course will play a little tougher and
we’ll see how it goes.”  Scott was 7 under yesterday before making a double bogey at
the par-4 16th hole en route to 72. He’ll be paired with
Stricker in the third-to-last group at 2:35 p.m.  Scott’s Pursuit  A victory would make Scott the fourth player to win the
Masters and PGA Championship in the same season, after  Jack Nicklaus , Jack Burke Jr., and  Sam Snead .  “The platform has never been better for me to go on and
win multiple majors,” Scott said. “You’ve got to take the
confidence and form of winning a major and run with it. I can’t
take my foot off the gas just because I achieved something great
at Augusta.”  Defending champion Rory McIlroy birdied his final two holes
yesterday in shooting a 3-under-par 67 that puts him 3 under for
the tournament. The Northern Irishman is tied for seventh with
 Lee Westwood  of  England .  “Those last two holes are playing really tough,” McIlroy
told reporters. “Making a birdie on 17 is like an eagle and
then to follow it up with another on the last is even better.”  McIlroy was the last 54-hole leader to go on to win at a
major championship, expanding his three-shot third-round lead to
a eight-shot victory at last year’s PGA Championship in Kiawah
Island,  South Carolina .  Woods’s Woes  Four-time PGA champion Tiger Woods is 4-over for the
tournament after shooting 73 yesterday. It was the seventh
straight round he’s failed to shoot below par in a major
championship at Oak Hill, as he had rounds of 74, 72, 73 and 73
at the 2003 PGA Championship, which was also held at the course
outside Rochester, New York.  At 13 strokes off the lead, Woods will probably remain
winless for an 18th straight major. He claimed the last of his
14 major titles at the 2008 U.S. Open.  “It’s not joyous, that’s for sure,” said Woods, who
entered the tournament as the oddsmakers’ favorite after winning
last week’s World Golf Championships event by seven shots.
“It’s just one of those weeks where I didn’t quite hit it well
enough and didn’t make enough putts.”  British Open champion  Phil Mickelson  shot 78 during the
third round and is 10 over for the tournament, the second-worst
score among the 75 players who made the cut for weekend play.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Rochester, New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Buteau in Rochester, New York at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  