-- Rodriguez Gets Mix of Cheers, Jeers in Home Debut as Yankees Win
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-10T04:24:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/rodriguez-gets-mix-of-cheers-jeers-in-home-debut-as-yankees-win.html
Alex Rodriguez  struck out three
times in his first home game this season for the  New York
Yankees , whose crowd cheered and jeered the third baseman who is
appealing a 211-game drug ban.  The Yankees (58-56) blew a two-run lead in the ninth inning
before winning 4-3 against the  Detroit Tigers  (68-46) on  Brett Gardner ’s run-scoring single in the 10th inning last night in a
game that began after a 52-minute rain delay.  Rodriguez, 38, batted at Yankee Stadium for the first time
this season with one on and two outs in the first to a mixture
of boos and cheers, with about half the 46,545 fans giving him a
standing ovation and some holding signs, “Welcome home, A-rod”
and “We’re 100 percent behind you.”  As fans elevated the level of their boos and cheers, some
began chanting “Let’s go A-rod” before he struck out on four
pitches.  A three-time American League Most Valuable Player,
Rodriguez is fifth on the Major League Baseball career list with
647 home runs.  Before the game, Rodriguez signed autographs on balls and
hats and posed for pictures with fans on the field for about
five minutes after he finished taking batting practice.  Rodriguez joined the active roster Aug. 5 after going
through rehabilitation for hip surgery in January. It was the
same day he was handed the ban through the 2014 season for his
involvement with a now-shuttered clinic in Miami.  Strike Outs  He went 0-for-4 last night, striking out in the first,
third and eighth innings and flying to right in the seventh.  “His swing has been a little bit more explosive than I
thought it might be,” manager  Joe Girardi  said before the game.
“You never know how a guy’s going to react off the second hip
surgery. He’s just missed a few balls, he’s squared up some
balls, but I’m pleased with how his lower half is working.”  The Yankees had a 3-0 lead in the third inning as Gardner
scored on Alfonso Soriano’s groundout in the first and  Robinson Cano  sent home Gardner and Ichiro Suzuki on a double in the
third.  Miguel Cabrera  hit a run-scoring single in the seventh and
followed with a two-run homer in the ninth to tie the game at
3-3. Cabrera’s home run ball traveled 427 feet, the longest of
14 home runs allowed at home by Yankee reliever  Mariano Rivera 
over the last eight seasons.  Shawn Kelley (4-1), the Yankees’ fifth pitcher, got one out
for the win. Al Alburquerque (2-3) allowed one run on two hits
and took the loss.  The Yankees are in fourth place in the American League
East, 10 games behind the  Boston Red Sox . The Tigers, who had
their 12-game winning streak snapped, lead the AL Central, seven
games in front of the  Cleveland Indians .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  