-- Santander Gave 48 Hours for Antonveneta Payment, Botin Testified
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   S e r g i o   D i   P a s q u a l e
-- 2013-08-10T14:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/santander-gave-48-hours-for-antonveneta-payment-botin-testified.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chairman  Emilio Botin  said he gave  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA  Chairman
Giuseppe Mussari 48 hours to pay for unit Banca Antonveneta SpA,
according to a document obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Mussari was told that if the deadline for the 9 billion-euro ($12 billion) payment wasn’t met the deal would collapse,
Botin said when questioned in July in  Madrid  by Siena prosecutor
Antonino Nastasi, according to the document. Botin was
interviewed as a person informed of facts related to Santander’s
sale of the unit to Monte Paschi in 2007. He isn’t under
investigation in the probe and isn’t accused of any wrongdoing.  Botin said he believed Mussari didn’t obtain any personal
advantage from the operation and that they had both defended the
interests of their banks. The investigation by prosecutors in
Siena is focused on Monte Paschi transactions to obtain
financing to buy the Italian lender.  Monte Paschi bought the unit for 9 billion euros from
Santander, 36 percent more than the Spanish lender paid for
Padua, Italy-based Antonveneta two months earlier. Monte Paschi
wrote down the acquisition by 4.5 billion euros in its 2011
financial accounts.  Monte Paschi’s former managers, including Mussari, are
being investigated for alleged false bookkeeping, market
manipulation and criminal association. Prosecutors are also
probing the bank’s use of derivatives to hide losses. A
spokesman for  Banco Santander  declined to comment when contacted
by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Sergio Di Pasquale in Milan at 
 sdipasquale1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  