-- SNB’s Danthine Says Rate Increase Would Mean End of Cap
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-08-10T21:35:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/snb-s-danthine-says-rate-increase-would-mean-end-of-cap.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  will abolish
its franc ceiling once it starts raising interest rates, Vice
President Jean-Pierre Danthine said.  “The day the SNB decides to raise rates, there can no
longer be a restricting minimum exchange rate,” Danthine said
in an interview published today in  Le Matin Dimanche  and
 SonntagsZeitung  newspapers. “Today the absolute priority is the
cap, which we will keep in place as long as necessary.”  Danthine’s comment about the ceiling remaining in place
comes after SNB President Thomas Jordan said last month he had
no intention of scrapping it anytime soon. The SNB imposed the
cap of 1.20 per euro on the franc in September 2011, citing the
need to ward off deflation and a recession. The central bank had
already cut its benchmark interest rate to zero.  The central bank won’t raise rates this year or next,
according the the median estimate of economists in Bloomberg’s
month economic survey published Aug. 9.  Swiss house and apartment prices have soared in recent
years, with mortgages kept cheap by the SNB’s loose policy. The
SNB has repeatedly warned of overheating, and the government is
requiring banks to hold more capital as a buffer, to guard
against rising defaults.  Danthine said it was still too early to say whether the
buffer would prevent the property market from overheating. He
said borrowers might be overextending themselves and could be
ill prepared for an increase in interest rates.  “Our studies show that on average a rise in interest rates
would have a negative impact on banks,” he said. “Banks have
chosen a high-risk profile, probably because they believe the
period of low interest rates will last. We highlight the fact
that they may underestimate the risks.”  Danthine also said that it was his “hope and conviction”
that Switzerland’s two biggest banks --  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  -- would succeed in amassing capital so as to solve the
dilemma of banks that are too big to fail.  “We’re not at the end of the road yet, but we’re working
on it assiduously,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  