-- U.K. Cameron Rejects Russia Games Boycott Over Gay Rights
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2013-08-10T11:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/u-k-cameron-rejects-russia-games-boycott-over-gay-rights.html
British Prime Minister David Cameron
opposed a call to boycott next year’s  Winter Olympics  in Sochi
by activists protesting  Russia ’s new anti-gay laws.  “I share your deep concern about the abuse of gay people
in Russia,” Cameron replied to British actor Stephen Fry on
 Twitter  today. “However, I believe we can better challenge
prejudice as we attend, rather than boycotting the Winter
Olympics.” Fry on Aug. 7 wrote a  letter  to Cameron and the
International Olympic Committee asking for an “absolute ban”
of the Sochi games.  Russian President Vladimir Putin last month signed a law
enacting a ban and maximum fine of 1 million rubles ($30,438) on
“propaganda of non-traditional sexual relations” among minors.
Foreign citizens charged under the law face as long as 15 days
in jail and deportation. Campaigners say the measure marks a
return to Soviet-era discrimination, when homosexuality was a
criminal offense.  The measure has sparked global protests, from street
demonstrations to gay bars in the U.S. and the U.K. dumping
Russian vodka. While U.S. President  Barack Obama  has criticized
the law he has said he opposes a boycott of the Olympics.
Russian Sports Minister Vitaly Mutko said Aug. 1 the law will be
enforced during the 2014 Winter Games, which start on Feb. 7 in
the Black Sea resort of Sochi.  About two-thirds of Russians consider homosexuality a
“disease” or a “bad habit,” the Moscow-based Levada Center
said in July, citing a poll of 1,601 residents. The new
legislation was approved in June by 436 votes in the 450-member
lower chamber of parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  