-- U.S. Stocks Have Worst Week Since June Amid Fed Concern
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   K a t i e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-08-10T14:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/u-s-stocks-have-worst-week-since-june-amid-fed-concern.html
U.S.  stocks  fell for the week, with
benchmark indexes posting the worst losses since June, as
better-than-estimated data on trade and service industries
fueled concern the Federal Reserve may reduce its stimulus.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of America Corp. dropped at
least 2.6 percent amid federal legal actions tied to their past
mortgage-backed bond practices.  Homebuilders  tumbled 6.6 percent
as a group amid concern rising interest rates and slow orders
may continue to hurt the industry. International Business
Machines Corp. slumped 3.8 percent to its 2013 low on signs of
slowing demand for hardware. Tesla Motors Inc. and Groupon Inc.
surged as results beat analyst estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index  dropped 1.1 percent to
1,691.42. The Dow Jones Industrial Average slid 232.85 points,
or 1.5 percent, to 15,425.51. Both gauges capped their worst
week since June 21 after closing at records on Aug. 2.  “There is still plenty of skepticism and anxiety in the
market,”  Hank Smith , who oversees $7 billion as chief
investment officer at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Haverford Trust
Co., said by phone yesterday. “The uncertainty of when will the
Fed taper? How much will they taper?” he said. “The market has
come a long way this year. It will be interesting to see if
investors take advantage of this pullback as they did clearly in
the pullback in May-June.”  Fed Bets  The weekly drop in stocks came after the S&P 500’s
 valuations  jumped to their highest levels in more than three
years. The benchmark index trades at 15.3 projected earnings, up
from a multiple of 13.1 at the beginning of this year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Speculation that the Fed will pare bond purchases in
September as the economy strengthens has  whipsawed  the market.
The S&P 500 sank as much as 5.8 percent over the five weeks
ended June 24, before recovering all the losses to hit an all-time high on Aug. 2.  Charles Evans, Sandra Pianalto and Richard Fisher, regional
Fed presidents in Chicago, Cleveland and Dallas, said during the
week that the central bank may be closer to tapering as the
labor market recovers. Fed stimulus has helped propel the S&P
500 up more than  150 percent  from its bear-market low in 2009.  Economic Reports  America’s trade deficit narrowed in June to the smallest in
almost four years, service industries expanded in July at the
fastest pace in five months, and jobless claims fell to the
lowest monthly rate since before the recession, economic reports
showed during the week. In Asia, the Chinese economy is showing
signs of improvement, with data on industrial output, trade and
service industries topping economist forecasts.  Some 449 companies in the S&P 500 have reported quarterly
results so far this earnings season. Among them, 72 percent have
exceeded analysts’ profit estimates and 56 percent have  beaten 
sales projections, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Earnings are pretty much done and tapering is on the
way,”  Rick Fier , director of equity trading at Conifer
Securities LLC in New York, said in an interview. “Catalysts to
move us higher are done for the short term. We get the sense
that the next move will be lower, nothing terrible but lower
seems easier than higher at this point.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility  Index , or
VIX, jumped 12 percent to 13.41 during the week. The equity
volatility gauge is down 26 percent for the year.  Nine of 10 industry groups in the S&P 500 declined as
telephone and financial shares fell the most, sinking at least
1.9 percent.  Federal Investigation  JPMorgan dropped 3.5 percent $54.52. The biggest U.S. bank
said it’s under federal criminal investigation for practices
tied to sales of mortgage-backed bonds. The Justice Department’s
civil division found in May that sales practices broke civil
laws after it examined securities tied to subprime and Alt-A
loans sold to investors from 2005 through 2007.  Bank of America  erased 2.6 percent to $14.45. The
Department of Justice accused the company in a lawsuit of
misleading investors about the quality of loans tied to $850
million in mortgage-backed securities. The complaint chronicles
friction among bank staff in 2007 and 2008 as they excluded
risky Alt-A loans while leaving in wholesale debts once scorned
as “toxic waste” by the firm’s then-chief.  An S&P index of homebuilders slumped as all of its members
retreated at least 4.5 percent. Decelerating orders and
potentially higher interest rates may continue to hurt investor
sentiment toward the housing industry,  Robert Wetenhall , an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC, wrote in a note.  PulteGroup Inc. tumbled 9 percent to $15.67 while D.R.
Horton Inc. slipped 7.3 percent to $18.89.  Furlough Leave  IBM  dropped 3.8 percent to $187.82 for the biggest loss in
the Dow. The world’s largest computer-services company said U.S.
employees in its hardware division will take a furlough week
with one-third pay starting either Aug. 24 or Aug. 31.  The company is cutting costs after server demand slowed in
the second quarter. Sales in the hardware business, which
includes storage devices and microelectronics, slid 12 percent
in the period from a year earlier.  First Solar Inc. slid 13 percent, the most in the S&P 500,
to $41.02. the largest U.S. solar-panel manufacturer reported
lower second-quarter profit as sales slipped 46 percent.  J.C. Penney  Co. sank 9.9 percent to $12.87. Investor Bill
Ackman called for the retailer to oust Chairman Tom Engibous,
escalating a public dispute with his fellow directors as he
seeks a replacement for Chief Executive Officer Mike Ullman.  China Boost  Raw-material producers were the only group to gain for the
week among the S&P 500’s 10 main industries, rising 0.9 percent,
amid data that showed a stabilizing economy in China, the
world’s biggest consumer for commodities from iron ore to coal.  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc., the largest U.S. iron-ore
producer, climbed 18 percent to $24.35 in the week. Peabody
Energy Corp., the largest U.S. coal producer, advanced 11
percent to $17.90.  Tesla  soared 11 percent to $153. The electric-car company
led by Elon Musk posted second-quarter results that surpassed
analysts’ estimates on a surge in Model S sedan deliveries.  Groupon Inc. rallied 22 percent to $10.61. The operator of
the largest daily-deals website reported a second-quarter net
 loss  that was narrower than analysts forecast. The company,
which lost 87 percent of its value in the year after going
public in November 2011, named co-founder Eric Lefkofsky as
chief executive officer to lead turnaround plans.  Reducing Stocks  Credit Suisse Group AG cut its holdings of equities after
global stocks rallied to a five-year high and Fed policy makers
began considering whether to trim stimulus measures.
Switzerland’s second-largest bank reduced its allocation to
stocks to neutral from overweight, meaning it no longer holds
more of the asset class than is represented in global
benchmarks, according to a note to clients dated Aug. 5.  “The fundamental environment remains attractive, but the
markets are overbought in the wake of the recent rally,”
Michael Strobaek, the Zurich-based global chief investment
officer at Credit Suisse, wrote in the report. The “combination
of a positive economic outlook and a further supportive monetary
policy seems largely priced into the markets. We therefore see
limited upside in the near term,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Katie Brennan in New York at 
 kbrennan23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  