-- Two Ex-JPMorgan Traders Facing Arrest in London, NYT Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-08-10T11:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/two-ex-jpmorgan-traders-facing-arrest-in-london-nyt-says.html
Authorities plan to arrest two
former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  employees on fraud charges related
to their role in a trading loss last year, the New York Times
 reported , citing people briefed on the matter.  Javier Martin-Artajo and Julien Grout, who worked in the
bank’s London office, will probably be taken into custody in
coming days, the newspaper reported. They are natives of other
European countries and British authorities may not be able to
locate them, according to the report.  An attorney for Martin-Artajo didn’t immediately reply to
requests for comment from Bloomberg News. An attorney for Grout
and spokesmen for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and U.S.
Attorney’s Office declined to comment.  Prosecutors determined that Martin-Artajo and Grout, who
worked in a London unit that lost more than $6 billion last
year, concealed losses from their managers in New York, the
newspaper said. The case hinges on help from Bruno Iksil, who
was dubbed the London Whale because of his trading positions’
outsized effects on credit-derivative markets, according to the
New York Times.  Iksil, who some investigators decided had been unfairly
blamed for the losses, met with authorities in Brussels and New
York and secured a cooperation agreement with the U.S.
government, the newspaper reported. It isn’t clear whether he
could face charges, according to the paper.  JPMorgan Report  An attorney for Iksil declined to comment to Bloomberg
News, as did  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for JPMorgan in New
York.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, is also
negotiating the final terms of a deal with the Securities and
Exchange Commission to end a yearlong probe of the trading loss,
two people briefed on the talks said on Aug. 8.  The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, is
seeking to resolve U.S. and U.K. probes after botched trades by
its chief investment office led to the losses and an earnings
restatement. Senate investigators  concluded  in March that the
bank dodged regulators and misled investors about the souring
bets.  JPMorgan’s own 129-page report on the losses, released in
January, found that London traders initially tried to hide
losses on the positions. The employees left the bank and the
bank sought to claw back pay. The report also blamed managers,
some of whom were reassigned or left the bank, for failing to
halt the losses.  Martin-Artajo, who supervised Iksil, in January settled a
London lawsuit brought against him by the bank, a person with
direct knowledge said at the time. The bank sued Martin-Artajo
in October without detailing its allegations in filings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  