-- Zimbabwe Minister Denies Report of Uranium Contract With Iran
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-08-10T10:16:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/zimbabwe-minister-denies-report-of-uranium-contract-with-iran.html
Zimbabwe  hasn’t signed an agreement
allowing uranium exports to Iran, Deputy Mining Minister Gift
Chimanikire said, after a media report the country entered into
a deal to export the material used to build nuclear weapons.  “We have no capacity to handle uranium as a country, and
besides we don’t even know the quantity of uranium” deposits
viable for mining, Chimanikire, a member of the country’s
opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change, said in a
phone interview today. “We signed a memorandum of understanding
with Iran, which covers various agreements in mineral trading
such as diamonds, gold and other minerals.”  London-based  Times newspaper  reported today, citing an
interview with Chimanikire, that Zimbabwe had signed an MoU to
supply  Iran  with uranium. Zimbabwe has uranium deposits in the
Zambezi Valley although the quality, quantity and economic
viability of the reserves have never been formally established.  Western nations suspect Iran wants to use its nuclear
program to produce weapons, and have imposed a series of
sanctions to pressure it to curb its nuclear ambitions. Iran
says its program is meant for energy production and medical
research.  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  told a member
country that Iran’s foreign ministry met with Zimbabwean mining
officials to resume negotiations on uranium, AP reported in Feb.
2011. London-based Sunday Telegraph reported April 2010 that
Iran and Zimbabwe had reached a secret agreement on swapping
uranium for fuel.  Chimanikire said today the MoU with Iran was signed some
time ago and not this year, he said.  “Trade in uranium is governed under the  International
Atomic Energy Agency ,” Chimanikire said. “We as country are
yet to ratify that and have to go through the cabinet committee
on legislation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  