-- Zimbabwe Says Uranium at Exploration Stage, No Iran Trade Seen
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-08-10T15:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-10/zimbabwe-says-uranium-at-exploration-stage-no-iran-trade-seen.html
Zimbabwe  is still assessing the size
of its uranium reserves and isn’t planning exports of the
mineral to Iran, a Zimbabwean minister said after a report that
the nations signed an agreement for shipments of the nuclear-weapons ingredient.  “We are not selling or marketing any uranium to anyone at
all, so we cannot talk of shipments to anyone,” Deputy Mining
Minister Gift Chimanikire, a member of the opposition Movement
for Democratic Change, said today in a phone interview. The
chairman of the state-owned Zimbabwe Mining Development Corp.
echoed the minister’s comments.  Today’s London-based Times newspaper cited Chimanikire as
saying Zimbabwe had signed a memorandum of understanding to
supply Iran with uranium. Negotiations between Iran and
President  Robert Mugabe  had been taking place for more than two
years, the Times said, citing U.K. security officials whom it
didn’t identify.  Iran is under international sanctions over its nuclear
program, which the Islamic state says is for civilian purposes
such as generating electricity. The U.S. and many of its allies
allege the atomic development is aimed at producing weapons.  “We signed an MoU with Iran, which covers various
agreements in mineral trading such as diamonds, gold and other
minerals,” Chimanikire said. “We have no capacity to handle
uranium as a country, and besides we don’t even know the
quantity of uranium” deposits viable for mining, he said.  Uranium Deposits  Iran’s foreign minister met with Zimbabwean mining
officials to resume negotiations on uranium, the  Associated
Press  reported in February 2011, citing an intelligence report
from an unidentified member country of the the  International
Atomic Energy Agency . The London-based Sunday Telegraph reported
in April 2010 that Iran and Zimbabwe had reached a secret
agreement on swapping uranium for oil.  Chimanikire said the MoU with Iran was signed some time ago
and not this year. A Chinese company is exploring northern
Zimbabwe for uranium reserves and at present “there have been
no sightings of uranium to justify mining,” he said, declining
to identify the company.  Zimbabwe Mining Development Corp., a state-owned company
that has joint ventures with foreign miners, also denied the
country is planning to ship uranium to  Iran .  “There is no shipment or plans to ship uranium to Iran
whatsoever,” Zimbabwe Mining Chairman Florence Gowora said by
phone today. “We are not even considering anything like that or
planning to ship anything. It’s very unfortunate that Zimbabwe
is being linked to something it does not have or will have in
the foreseeable future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  