-- AB InBev Sees U.S. Improvement as Bud Light Platinum Aids Growth
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-02-27T13:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ab-inbev-fourth-quarter-profit-gains-9-9-amid-volume-revival.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the
beermaker seeking control of  Mexico ’s Grupo Modelo SAB,
anticipates improved profitability in the U.S. after growing
share in the country for the first time since 2009.  The brewer feels “much better about the U.S. trends”
after three years of “very soft markets” there, Chief
Financial Officer Felipe Dutra said today on a conference call.  The introduction of new beers such as Budweiser Black
Crown, a stronger version of the American classic, and Bud Light
Platinum helped AB InBev post the first volume increase in the
U.S. since 2008 last year. Competition from the craft beer
industry and spirit makers, along with weakening beer market
growth, have pressured sales in  North America , the company’s
biggest region in terms of both revenue and profitability.  AB InBev’s share of the U.S. beer market increased by more
than 0.2 percentage point in the fourth quarter, the first gain
since the second quarter of 2009, the company said today as it
reported fourth-quarter profit that beat  estimates .  The brewer, whose new brands also include Bud Light Lime
Lime-A-Rita, is “confident of the potential for margin
expansion” in North America, particularly the U.S., it said.  Profitability in the region was hurt last year by increased
brand investment, higher distribution expenses and a rise in
commodity costs. The North America unit’s margin on so-called
normalized earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization narrowed by 1.1 percentage point to 41.8 percent.  A 0.2 percentage point increase in group margin was down to
improvements in  Latin America  and western  Europe .  Shares Advance  Excluding some items, group organic Ebitda rose 9.9 percent
to $4.39 billion in 2012, the Leuven, Belgium-based company said
today, more than the $4.36 billion median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales also topped predictions,
gaining 8.8 percent excluding acquisitions and currency swings,
compared with the median estimate of 6.2 percent.  AB InBev shares rose 0.9 percent to 70.40 euros as of 1:20
p.m. in Brussels, reversing an earlier 1.5 percent drop.  The brewer today insisted that its planned $20.1 billion
purchase of the rest of Modelo is about seeking growth outside
the U.S. after offering to appease antitrust regulators by
ceding control of the production and distribution of the Corona
maker’s Mexican brands in the U.S. to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)   Negotiations between the parties are now headed toward a
settlement that will give the brewer antitrust approval, people
familiar with the matter said this week.  Volume Pressure  A federal judge in  Washington  agreed to suspend litigation
between the U.S. and AB InBev until March 19 as each party tries
to reach a resolution. An agreement is “more likely” to be
struck near that deadline than much sooner, Chief Financial
Officer Felipe Dutra said today on a conference call.  AB InBev said today that first-quarter volume in the U.S.
will be hurt by “short-term” pressure on consumer disposable
income. Bad weather and the earlier timing of the Carnival
holiday in  Brazil  will also weigh on volume in the first three
months. The company will focus on its “premiumization
strategy” of selling pricier types of beer, and will introduce
products including a strawberry version of Lime-A-Rita in the
U.S., Dutra said.  AB InBev has been narrowing the price gap between so-called
premium beers in the U.S., such as Michelob Ultra, and sub-
premium brands like Busch. The difference is now 23 percent,
Chief Executive Officer Carlos Brito told reporters in Leuven.  Worldwide beer volume at AB InBev fell for a third straight
quarter in the last three months of 2012, sliding 0.3 percent,
led by declines in  China , where cold, wet weather stinted sales.  Market Share  Volume in Brazil, its second-biggest market, rose 2.9
percent in the quarter, aided by price promotions as the
government partially postponed a tax increase announced Sept.
28. Market share in the country fell 0.5 percentage point in the
year, reaching an average 68.5 percent after price increases.  AB InBev said it expects distribution expenses and the cost
of sales per hectoliter to increase by mid-single digits on an
organic basis in 2013. Sales and marketing expenses will rise by
high-single digits, the company said.  Capital spending  will increase to about $3.7 billion this
year as the brewer ramps up investment in capacity expansion in
Brazil and China, and in beer innovation.  The company raised its  dividend  to 1.70 euros ($2.22) a
share and will move to semi-annual payments, the first of which
will be in this November and May 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  