-- Abraham Venable, GM’s Envoy to Black-Owned Business, Dies
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-02-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/abraham-venable-gm-s-envoy-to-black-owned-business-dies-at-82.html
Abraham S. Venable , who oversaw
General Motors Corp.’s outreach to black-owned businesses during
the 1970s and 1980s after what he called a frustrating attempt
to get government to help them, has died. He was 82.  He died on Feb. 21 at an assisted-living facility in  St.
Paul ,  Minnesota , according to his son, Douglas. The cause was
congestive heart failure.  As  GM (GM) ’s head of urban affairs, a post he held from 1971 to
his retirement in 1990, Venable coordinated the Detroit-based
company’s programs to increase its business with minority-owned
banks, insurers, suppliers and dealerships. GM was then the
world’s largest automaker.  He also was vice president of a GM unit known as a Mesbic,
or Minority Enterprise Small Business Investment Co., which
functioned as a lender to minority-owned businesses.  “Abe was really the face of GM in the African-American and
Hispanic communities,” Jim Farmer, a retired former GM vice
president who worked with Venable, said yesterday in an
interview.  Noting that Venable’s job was created not long after race
riots in  Detroit  and other cities,  Farmer  said, “I used to call
him the eyes and ears. If there was trouble regarding race
relations, he made sure the GM executives were involved and
listening.”  Ebony magazine, in a March 1974 article titled “Our Man at
GM,” described Venable as “a businessman driven by the twin
furies of ambition for self and ambition for other black
businessmen.”  ‘Equal Basis’  “I function as a sort of in-house consultant,” Venable
said, according to the magazine. “I have been hired by General
Motors to make sure all of the minority programs are working
well and to make certain that the resources of the corporation
are distributed on an equal basis to all persons regardless of
race, color or national origin.”  Venable joined GM in Detroit in 1971 after leading the U.S.
Commerce Department’s Office of Minority Business Enterprise,
which had been created in 1969. He told Ebony that he had left
there “exhausted and deeply frustrated in my attempt to change
things.” (In a  1977 report  to Congress, the U.S. Comptroller
General said the Commerce program had “provided few benefits”
to the businesses it was supposed to help.)  Douglas Venable said yesterday his father still had reason
to be proud of his time in government.  Pushing Change  “Dad along with a few other guys were brought into
government by the Nixon administration to really start America’s
minority business push,” he said. “These were the guys who
started the whole thing around the country, and they got the
brunt of the resistance to change.”  The government office, now called the Minority Business
Development Agency, recognizes individuals who have improved
minority business development with the Abe Venable Legacy  Award 
for Lifetime Achievement.  His work in Washington did provide Venable with material
for his 1972 book, “Building Black Business: An Analysis and a
Plan.” The foreword to the book was penned by Venable’s friend
 Jackie Robinson , who had broken the color barrier in  Major
League Baseball . Venable assigned the profits from the book to
form a scholarship fund at  Howard University  in Washington, his
alma mater.  Abraham Sylvester Venable was born on April 10, 1930, in
Washington, according to a biography supplied by the carmaker,
which was renamed General Motors Co. after its bankruptcy
reorganization in 2009. A skilled saxophonist, he earned an
undergraduate degree in 1951 and a master’s degree in economics
in 1953 from Howard.  Government Post  After working as a travel agent and public-relations
consultant, he joined the Commerce Department in 1963 to help
develop programs to assist minorities in industry and commerce.  Following a fellowship at  Princeton University ’s  Woodrow
Wilson School of Public and International Affairs , he joined the
newly formed Office of Minority Business Enterprise within the
Commerce Department, working as deputy director, then acting
director in January 1970 and director later that year. He joined
GM after one year as director.  According to the carmaker’s biography, Venable toured U.S.
military installations in  Germany  in 1972 on behalf of the
Pentagon in an effort to improve race relations. He also took
part in a 1973 presidential goodwill mission to Ethiopia, Kenya,
Nigeria and Liberia to promote trade with the U.S.  GM elevated his title to executive director of urban
affairs in 1982.  Venable’s duties are now spread among multiple GM positions
in communications, corporate relations and philanthropy. The
company also last year created the position of chief diversity
officer.  Survivors include Venable’s wife, the former Anna Graham;
their three children, Stephen, Douglas, and Karen; and one
grandson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in  Washington  at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  