-- Adani Sees Record India Cooking Oil Imports as Demand Surges
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-02-27T11:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/adani-sees-record-cooking-oil-imports-by-india-as-demand-expands.html
Cooking oil imports  by  India , the
world’s biggest palm oil buyer, will probably climb to a record
this year as demand outstrips supplies, said Adani Wilmar Ltd.  Purchases in the year through October are set to exceed the
9.98 million metric tons in 2011-2012, according to Atul Chaturvedi, chief executive officer of the country’s second-
biggest importer that’s 50 percent owned by  Wilmar International
Ltd. (WIL)  Buying surged 26 percent in the three months through
January, the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India estimates.  Increasing purchases may trim  inventories  in  Malaysia  and
 Indonesia , the largest producers, and bolster benchmark futures
in  Kuala Lumpur , which slumped to a five-week low yesterday.
Expanding demand in India may counter the impact of an increase
in  import taxes  and higher export duties in Indonesia and
Malaysia, said Chaturvedi.  “The quantum of imports is basically a function of supply
and demand,” he said in a phone interview from western Indian
city of Ahmedabad. “Whatever the price, it will get imported if
there is a requirement in the country. Whether you like it or
not, vegetable oil is an essential commodity.”  India meets more than 50 percent of its cooking oil demand
through imports of mostly palm from Indonesia and Malaysia, and
 soybean oil  from Brazil and  Argentina . Demand will expand 6
percent to 17.5 million tons this year due to rising population
and disposable incomes, said B.V. Mehta, executive director of
the extractors’ association.  Global Average  Consumption may surge to 23 million tons by 2020, and
imports will rise significantly to meet this demand, D. Bhalla,
a joint secretary in India’s food ministry, said in September.
The annual per-capita usage in the country is 13.5 kilograms,
compared with the global average of about 26 kilograms, he said.  Palm oil  for May delivery advanced as much as 1 percent to
2,443 ringgit ($788) a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange
today, before ending 0.4 percent lower at 2,410 ringgit. Futures
fell to a three-year low of 2,217 ringgit on Dec. 13 as
stockpiles in the main producers climbed to a record.  Inventories in Malaysia jumped to an all-time high of 2.63
million tons in December, before falling to 2.58 million tons
last month, according to the palm oil board. The country
introduced duty-free shipments from Jan. 1 to clear the holdings
and will boost the tariff to 4.5 percent in March. Indonesia
raises its tax to 10.5 percent from 9 percent.  Tax Increase  India may increase taxes on imports to shield farmers from
cheap supplies, according to the extractors’ group. Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram may raise the tariff on
unprocessed oils to 10 percent from 2.5 percent in the  federal
budget  tomorrow, while the tax on refined varieties could
increase to 20 percent from 7.5 percent, it said last week. The
government imposed a 2.5 percent tax on unprocessed oils for the
first time since 2008 last month.  Oilseed output in India will be little changed at 29.5
million tons in the year ending June 30, from 29.8 million tons
a year earlier, the farm ministry said on Feb. 8. Production of
rapeseed, the biggest oilseed crop grown in the winter season,
is estimated to climb 20 percent this year to 7.1 million tons,
the extractors’ association said Feb. 12.  “If we have a bumper rapeseed crop, that might bring some
sobriety in imports, but it’s early days yet,” Chaturvedi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  