-- Adap.tv Said to Be in Discussions With Bankers on Potential IPO
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-02-27T17:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/adap-tv-said-to-be-in-discussions-with-bankers-on-potential-ipo.html
Adap.tv Inc. , provider of an online
marketplace for video advertising, is in discussions with
investment bankers for a potential initial public offering,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  An offering could come as early as this year, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the information
is private. The company had been waiting to hire a chief
financial officer with public-company experience before
seriously considering the step, one person said. Timothy Morse,
formerly CFO at  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , took the job last month.  “We’re focused on building a large, profitable and
independent company,” said Chief Executive Officer Amir Ashkenazi. He declined to comment on IPO timing or discussions
with bankers.  Adap.tv, based in San Mateo, California, builds technology
that advertising agencies and publishers use as a trading
platform to buy, sell, and measure the effectiveness of online
video and TV ads. For example, buyers can predict the results of
a campaign with real-time pricing information and adjust the
advertisement’s distribution.  Adap.tv, founded in 2006, has raised about $48 million in
 venture capital  from Gemini Israel Funds, Redpoint Ventures,
Spark Capital and Bessemer Venture Partners. The company told
Inc. magazine that its 2011 revenue was $33.4 million -- a
number that tripled last year, Ashkenazi said.  The TV and video advertising industry is worth $78 billion,
according to the company’s estimates. In the fourth quarter of
2012, more than 8,500 campaigns ran on Adap.tv, compared with
about 4,000 in the year-earlier period.  Millennial Media Inc. (MM) , a mobile advertising technology
company, had its IPO last year and now trades at 2.4 times
sales, compared with the 1.4 average of the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  Brightcove Inc. (BCOV) , a video hosting and publishing
service, went public last February and trades at 1.7 times
sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  