-- Hagel Arrives Damaged at Pentagon Amid Budget Uncertainty
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-02-27T17:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/hagel-arrives-damaged-at-pentagon-amid-budget-uncertainty.html
Chuck Hagel was sworn in as U.S.
defense secretary today, battered politically by a confirmation
fight even as he takes on challenges from Pentagon budget cuts
to withdrawing U.S. forces from Afghanistan.  Hagel, 66, a decorated Vietnam War veteran and former
Republican senator from  Nebraska , won Senate approval on a 58-41
vote yesterday after months of Republican opposition that began
even before President  Barack Obama  nominated him for the job.
Hagel took the oath of office in a private ceremony today at the
Pentagon.  “I’m honored to be introduced by anyone,” Hagel told an
audience of military chiefs, service secretaries and rank-and-
file Defense Department employees, referring to opposition to
his nomination. As a former Army sergeant, Hagel said, seeing
General Raymond Odierno, the Army chief of staff, sitting in the
front row “makes me shake a little.”  While the Pentagon faces budget challenges at home and
national security threats around the world, the U.S. “must not
lose sight of the possibilities,” Hagel said.  “If there’s one thing that America has stood for more than
any one thing, we are a force for good,” Hagel said. “We make
mistakes, we have made mistakes and will continue to make
mistakes, but we are a force for good.”  Senate Vote  After the Senate voted yesterday to confirm Hagel, Obama
said in an e-mail that he will “be counting on Chuck’s judgment
and counsel as we end the war in Afghanistan, bring our troops
home, stay ready to meet the threats of our time and keep our
military the finest fighting force in the world.”  While Obama said that Hagel won “bipartisan
confirmation,” only four Republicans joined 52 Democrats and
two independents to back him. The Republicans supporting Hagel
were Senators Rand Paul of  Kentucky , Mike Johanns of Nebraska,
 Richard Shelby  of  Alabama  and  Thad Cochran  of  Mississippi .  “He will take office with the weakest support of any
defense secretary in modern history, which will make him less
effective in his job,” Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas , the No. 2
Republican leader, said during debate yesterday.  Weeks of criticism over Hagel’s past positions -- from his
opposition to the troop surge in Iraq in 2007 to his comments on
the influence of what he once called the “Jewish lobby” --
will fade as Hagel tackles the automatic  defense spending  cuts
of $45 billion over seven months that are set to begin on March
1, according to former Defense Secretary  William Cohen .  ‘Hands Full’  “He’ll have his hands full,” said Cohen, also a former
Republican senator who led the Pentagon under a Democratic
president,  Bill Clinton . In addition to working out of the
Pentagon to steep himself in the issues he’ll face, Hagel has
been quietly making visits to lawmakers during the weeks his
nomination was delayed by opponents, Cohen said.  “Relations are important, and he has been going up to
repair the damage done during the confirmation hearing,” Cohen
said yesterday in an interview. “It’s a tough job and part of
it is to persuade your former colleagues” in Congress.  Hagel also must manage the military and civilian leadership
of the Pentagon in an era when defense budgets are likely to
shrink, regardless of whether the across-the-board cuts called
sequestration stay in place, Cohen said. All that “will create
a lot of anxiety and probably some objections” from within the
military services, he said.  Halting Performance  Hagel’s halting performance in his Jan. 31 confirmation
hearing, during which he clashed over the Iraq surge with
Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  and stumbled over U.S.
policy toward  Iran’s nuclear program , may have taken a toll on
his image.  Unfavorable opinion about Hagel increased after the
hearing, according to polling by the Pew Research Center for the
People and the Press. A survey conducted from Feb. 14-17 found
28 percent of those polled expressed an unfavorable view of
Hagel, up from 17 percent a month earlier. In the latest sample,
which had a margin of error of plus-or-minus 3.5 percentage
points, Hagel drew a favorable rating of 22 percent.  Hagel probably can recover and move on, said  Aaron David Miller , vice president for new initiatives at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in  Washington . The hearings
showed Hagel’s capacity to survive “an idiosyncratic process”
that was mostly about a split between Republicans in Congress
and the Obama administration on foreign policy matters, Miller
said.  ‘Republican Realist’  Hagel made the comment that the “Jewish lobby intimidates
a lot of people” in Congress in a book by Miller on Arab-
Israeli negotiations. During the confirmation hearing, Hagel
said he regretted using the phrase.  Hagel is a “Republican realist” with centrist views on
foreign policy that he shares with Obama, Miller said. Hagel’s
primary focus as defense chief is likely to be on managing the
Pentagon and reining in its budget, Miller said, not the
questions of U.S. policy toward Israel and  Iran  that dominated
the confirmation hearing.  “A secretary of defense has enormous discretion over
bases, contractors and weapons systems,” Miller said. “If he’s
going to reduce the Pentagon’s budget in a significant way,
that’s going to be a fight. I don’t see Hagel wrestling with
Republicans over questions like Hamas, Hezbollah or even what to
do about the Iranian nuclear program.”  In the Obama administration, such decisions are made in the
White House, not by Cabinet secretaries, Miller said. “Obama,
as the first four years have demonstrated, will make foreign
policy,” he said.  ‘Must Engage’  Echoing Obama’s foreign policy views, Hagel said today that
the U.S. “can’t dictate to the world but we must engage” along
with allies. “As great as America is, no nation can do this
alone, and we need to continue to build on the strong
relationships we have built.”  Instead of letting his tenure as Pentagon chief become a
running fight with lawmakers over  defense dollars , Hagel should
outline a strategy for the U.S. military’s role in the world,
said Sean Kay, a professor of politics and government at Ohio
Wesleyan University in Delaware, Ohio.  “In the end, America needs a new strategy for defense, and
the degree to which Secretary of Defense Hagel can get the
bureaucracy and the Congress to buy into that -- when so much
vested interest lies in the status quo -- will be a serious
first-year and an ongoing challenge,” Kay said in an interview.  Planning Cuts  Hagel’s initial time as defense secretary may have been
complicated by the Pentagon’s failure to plan months ago for the
automatic spending cuts that were part of the Budget Control Act
of 2011, said  Todd Harrison , a defense budget analyst at the
Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, a policy
research group in Washington.  In September,  Ashton Carter , the deputy defense secretary,
told military and civilian officials to “continue normal
spending operations” without considering the ill effects of
automatic reductions.  “They could have begun planning for sequestration long
before they did,” Harrison said in an e-mail. “They did not
begin planning like we are starting to see now until January.”  In the absence of such steps, military services have taken
to warning Congress about halting training, delaying ship
deployments, and the Defense Department has said it may have to
furlough civilian employees.  One of Hagel’s first tough decisions may be to order the
Pentagon to start planning for a smaller budget for the fiscal
year that begins Oct. 1, Harrison said. Obama’s budget proposal
will be submitted to Congress sometime in March, according to a
defense official with knowledge of the budget process.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  