-- AGL Says Rules May Stop A$2 Billion in Coal-Seam Gas Plans
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-27T06:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/agl-may-abandon-a-2-billion-coal-seam-gas-spending-on-new-rules.html
AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , Australia’s second-
biggest electricity retailer, may drop plans to invest about A$2
billion ($2.1 billion) on coal-seam gas in New South Wales after
the state moved to restrict access to some areas.  “This is an arbitrary announcement,” Chief Executive
Officer Michael Fraser said today in a phone interview after the
Sydney-based company reported that it may need to write down the
value of two proposed coal-seam gas projects in the state.
“You’ve got to work out ways to develop those resources in a
way that addresses community concerns and avoids what is going
to be a huge cost to the New South Wales economy.”  AGL’s proposal to expand its Camden project southwest of
Sydney and another in the Hunter Valley wine region north of the
state capital may not go ahead after the government declared
country towns and suburbs “no-go zones” for coal-seam gas,
Fraser said. The state will prohibit exploration and production
in 2-kilometer (1.2-mile) areas around residential communities,
Premier Barry O’Farrell said Feb. 19.  AGL, which today reported a 20 percent gain in first-half
underlying profit,  advanced 4.5 percent to close at A$15.87 in
Sydney trading, the biggest gain in 18 months.  Australia ’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.7 percent.  Possible Damage  AGL is seeking to extract natural gas from coal deposits to
help decrease reliance on supplies from outside Australia’s most
populous state and address a looming gas shortage. The company’s
coal-seam gas projects are among proposals that have faced
opposition from some environmental groups and farmers concerned
about possible damage to water supplies.  The company’s Gloucester gas project in New South Wales,
which received federal government approval earlier this month,
and its existing Camden gas operation aren’t expected to be
“materially affected,” AGL said today. AGL said it expects an
investment decision on Gloucester in mid-2014.  Further development of the Gloucester project may be
affected by the new measures, which will undergo a consultation
period before taking effect, according to the company.  AGL expects to carry out further analysis of the
consequences of the regulations this half year, the company said
today. Camden, including the expansion, was valued at A$134.5
million at the end of 2012, while the Hunter project had a book
value of A$191 million, according to the company  “If you cut off supply, you are going to force up the
price of gas,” said Fraser, who estimated that as much as A$2
billion may be required to develop the Hunter gas resources.  AGL has 2.1 million electricity customers and 1.4 million
gas customers, according to a presentation filed today.  Origin
Energy Ltd. (ORG) , with about 4.4 million customers, is Australia’s
largest energy retailer, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  