-- Thai Bonds Rise as Italian Election Results Deter Risk-Taking
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-02-27T02:04:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/thai-bonds-rise-as-italian-election-results-deter-risk-taking.html
Thailand ’s government bonds advanced,
pushing the 10-year yield to a two-week low, as  Italy ’s
inconclusive elections encouraged investors to favor the
relative safety of sovereign debt.  Global funds sold $84 million more Thai equities than they
bought yesterday, exchange data show, as the benchmark  stock
index  fell 0.6 percent. Pre-election favorite Pier Luigi Bersani
won Italy’s lower house by less than a half a percentage point,
while  Silvio Berlusconi , the former premier fighting a tax-fraud
conviction, gained a blocking minority in the Senate.  “Italy’s election uncertainty put investors in a risk-off
mood and we could see some asset shifting in Thailand,” said
Wee-Khoon Chong, a strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong
Kong . “Domestic investors will possibly switch out of stocks
into the safer bonds in uncertain times, and we saw some
outflows by foreign investors, too, from Thai equities.”  The yield on the 3.625 percent government notes due June
2023 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.58
percent as of 8:38 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level since Feb. 11.  Overseas investors bought a net $288 million of Thai
government debt yesterday, taking inflows this month to $2.3
billion, Thai Bond Market Association figures show. The have
pulled $704 million from the nation’s stocks in February,
according to exchange data.  Exports increased 13 percent in January from a year earlier,
compared with a 13.5 percent gain the previous month, while
imports climbed 19 percent from 4.7 percent, resulting in a
trade deficit of $2.1 billion, according to the median estimate
of economists in Bloomberg surveys before data due at 11 a.m.
local time today.  The baht rose 0.1 percent to 29.82 per dollar, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price
options, dropped eight basis points to 5.25 percent, the lowest
level in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  