-- Thai Exports Rise More Than Estimated as Global Economy Recovers
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-02-27T04:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/thai-exports-rise-more-than-estimated-as-global-economy-recovers.html
Thailand ’s exports rose more than
economists estimated in January as a global recovery boosted
demand, reducing pressure for further  interest-rate  cuts.  Overseas sales  climbed 16.1 percent last month from a year
earlier to $18.3 billion after climbing a previously reported 13.
5 percent in December, the Ministry of Commerce said in a
statement today. The  median  estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 17 economists was 13.4 percent.  Thailand joined neighbors Malaysia and  Singapore  in
reporting stronger-than-estimated economic growth last quarter,
adding to signs the region is rebounding from a global slowdown.
The Bank of Thailand last week held its key  interest rate  for a
third time and said it expected a “gradual recovery in
exports” this year, resisting the government’s calls for lower
borrowing costs to cool the baht’s gains.  “There are positive signs in the global economy,
especially in  Asia , and that will help sustain export growth,”
 Thanomsri Fongarunrung , an economist at Phatra Securities Pcl in
Bangkok, said before the report. “The risks to growth have
lessened. There is no solid economic reason to cut the rate.
Still, the central bank may face political pressure again if the
baht strengthens further.”  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong has renewed calls for
further rate cuts to discourage inflows that have boosted the
baht to be the biggest gainer this year among 11 widely-traded
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The baht was little
changed at 29.83 per dollar as of 11:16 a.m. in Bangkok today.  Imports climbed 40.9 percent in January from a year earlier
as factories stepped up output after recovering from the floods
of 2011. The  trade deficit  last month was $5.5 billion, the
widest shortfall since at least 1991, today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  