-- Air New Zealand Soars to 2-Year High on Result: Wellington Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2013-02-28T04:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/air-new-zealand-soars-to-2-year-high-on-result-wellington-mover.html
Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR) , the nation’s
largest carrier, rose to a two-year high after more than
doubling first-half profit and saying that second-half earnings
would beat the corresponding period last year.  Net income rose to NZ$100 million ($83 million) in the six
months ended Dec. 31 from NZ$38 million a year earlier, the
Auckland-based company said in a statement today. The shares
rose to NZ$1.40, their highest close since Feb. 18, 2011.  “This is the best interim profit result for five years,”
Chairman John Palmer said in the statement. “The substantial
change program the airline has been implementing has positioned
the business for consistent growth.”  Air  New Zealand  has responded to sluggish global demand by
cutting costs, using more fuel-efficient planes and abandoning
some unprofitable routes. Its long-haul unit made a profit for
the first time since the global financial crisis started five
years ago, according to the statement.  “Fuel and currency they can’t do anything about,” Chris Byrne, an Auckland-based analyst at Craigs Investment Partners,
said in an interview. “All they can do is control what they can
control, and they’re doing a very good job of it.”  The shares rose 5.5 cents, or 4.1 percent, at the 5 p.m.
close of trading in Wellington. Earlier they reached NZ$1.41.  Air New Zealand expects second-half normalized earnings
before tax will “comfortably exceed” the corresponding period
last year, Palmer said.  The airline will also lease two additional  Boeing Co. (BA) 
777-300ER aircraft by the second half of 2014, Chief Executive
Officer Christopher Luxon said in a conference call with
reporters today. The company had five in operation as at June
last year, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  