-- Air Arabia Rises on Goldman Price Outlook: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-02-28T05:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/air-arabia-advances-on-goldman-sachs-price-outlook-dubai-mover.html
Air Arabia PJSC (AIRARABI)  rose the most in
more than two weeks after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
price estimate for the  Middle East ’s biggest no-frills airline
on bets lower fuel costs and more passengers will spur profit.  The stock gained 2 percent, the most since Feb. 11, to 91
fils at the close in Dubai, bringing this month’s advance to 2.8
percent. The price marks a 25 percent discount to Goldman’s new
12-month target of 1.14 dirhams, up from 1.04 dirhams earlier.
The bank also increased its 2013 profit estimate for the airline
by 5 percent, according to a note received by e-mail yesterday.  “We forecast a marginal increase in ticket prices for the
low-cost carrier, along with a 10 percent growth in
passengers,” implying the highest seat-load factor since 2008,
Dubai-based analysts Eyad Faraj and Matija Gergolet said in the
note, which was dated Feb. 20. “With capacity additions and
lower fuel costs” earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization are expected to improve, they said.  Passenger traffic through the  United Arab Emirates  has
risen as the nation’s economy picks up and airlines based in the
country add new destinations.  Air Arabia  last year started
flights to nine more stops from its hub in Sharjah, a member of
the U.A.E., including destinations in Iraq and  Russia .  More Passengers  Passengers taking the carrier in 2012 increased 13 percent
to a record 5.3 million, helping boost profit by 56 percent, Air
Arabia said this month. U.S. crude oil has dropped 5.4 percent
so far in February after a decline of 7.1 percent in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About 26 million shares of the airline were traded today,
double the three-month daily average. The stock was the  most
traded  on the benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) , which gained 0.7
percent.  Air Arabia’s 2013 net income may increase 5 percent,
according to the mean estimate of seven analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares trade at 10 times estimated 2013 earnings,
compared with 15 times for  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ,  Europe ’s
largest low-cost carrier.  Five  analysts  recommend investors buy the shares, while six
have a hold rating on the stock and one advises selling it,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  