-- Making the Voting Rights Act Work for Everyone
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-27T18:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/making-the-voting-rights-act-better-for-everyone.html
Forty-eight years ago, exasperated
with the persistent abuse of black voters, Congress put most of
the American South in a timeout. Now the Supreme Court appears
poised to end those sanctions.  It shouldn’t. But that doesn’t mean the selective scrutiny
applied to Southern states is necessarily fair. As the justices
consider the case of  Shelby County v. Holder , which was argued
before the court today, they should keep in mind one goal above
all others: protecting the right to vote, regardless of region
or other circumstances.  The Voting Rights Act of 1965 bans discriminatory voting
procedures nationwide, codifying the  15th Amendment ’s guarantee
of the right to vote regardless “of race, color, or previous
condition of servitude.” The law has stricter requirements,
however, for jurisdictions with a long history of
disenfranchisement.  One of these jurisdictions is Shelby County,  Alabama , which
is required to get federal approval (or preclearance) for any
change, however small, to its voting procedures. In 2010,
 arguing  in part that all states should be treated equally,
Shelby County sued to prevent the Justice Department from
enforcing this provision.  Shelby County’s argument, echoed by similarly targeted
jurisdictions, can be reduced to two points: First, we’ve
learned our lesson. Second, other places, including many not
subject to the preclearance requirement, are worse.  Justice Anthony Kennedy appeared sympathetic to this point
today,  asking why  Congress still needed to “single out” some
states. And Chief Justice John G. Roberts neatly summed up this
view in  an opinion  four years ago that upheld the law while all
but inviting Shelby County’s lawsuit. “Things have changed in
the South,” Roberts wrote.  Yes they have. The governors of two covered jurisdictions,
South Carolina and  Louisiana , are children of Indian immigrants.
There is vastly greater minority representation in Congress and
in state capitals now than 50 years ago. Part of the reason for
this success is the Voting Rights Act itself, which forced
change on entrenched interests.  There is no question that preclearance places both a burden
and a stigma on covered jurisdictions. When Congress passed the
Voting Rights Act, it knew it was taking an extraordinary step.
So it said it would review the statute in five years, adjusting
it as necessary. Congress reauthorized the law in 1970 (for
another five years), in 1975 (for seven), in 1982 (for 25) and
again in 2006 (for another 25). Yet the rules for which
jurisdictions are covered have remained basically the same.  Meanwhile, the issue of voting rights has grown more
complex. In the 2012 election, one of the  most egregious 
attempts to limit voter participation took place in
 Pennsylvania , which is not covered by the special provisions of
the Voting Rights Act. So why is Shelby County subject to
federal preclearance when Pennsylvania is not?  This disparate treatment gives the Supreme Court  an
opening . It could tell Congress that it’s not allowed, as a
general policy, to impose different rules on different regions.
It could find this particular set of rules antiquated and order
Congress to update it. The court could also decide not to
intrude on Congress’s decision, made just seven years ago, to
extend the Voting Rights Act in its entirety.  Or the court could take  a more universal view  of voting
rights, including but not limited to the issue of racial
discrimination. Problems with registration procedures, poorly
trained poll workers, inadequate voting hours, accessibility and
other factors impede voting for millions of Americans across
many states. Some of these problems may be rooted in racial
discrimination. Many others are not. All have the effect of
undermining the right to vote.  The Shelby County case is an occasion to acknowledge how
widespread these problems are and to instruct Congress to remedy
them. The Voting Rights Act, flawed though it may be, has been
an essential tool in the advance of American democracy. But the
promise of universal suffrage remains unfulfilled.  So maybe the question isn’t whether it’s time to end the
federal government’s special oversight of the South. It’s how to
extend that level of attention to the whole country.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 