-- Alabama Dismisses Football Players After Campus Robbery Arrests
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-02-28T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/alabama-dismisses-four-football-players-after-robbery-arrests.html
Four University of  Alabama  football
players have been dismissed from the team after being arrested
on charges of robbery and fraudulent use of a credit card
earlier this month, the school said.  Running back Brent Calloway, defensive back Eddie Williams,
defensive lineman Dennis Pettway and linebacker Tyler Hayes
“are no longer associated with the football program,” Alabama
coach Nick Saban said yesterday in an e-mailed statement from
the school.  All four players were freshman members of the Crimson
Tide’s national championship team this past season. The players
were arrested by university police after two separate robberies
on the Tuscaloosa campus on Feb. 11.  “Their actions do not reflect the spirit and character
that we want our organization to reflect,” Saban said. “Some
people learn by words, some people learn by consequences, some
people can’t learn.”  Hayes, Pettway and Williams were charged with second-degree
robbery. Williams and Calloway were charged with fraudulent use
of a  credit card .  Attorneys for Pettway, Williams and Calloway didn’t return
phone messages left yesterday at their offices seeking comment.
No attorney for Hayes was listed in a report on Al.com.  Pettway, Williams and Calloway, all 20, applied for
youthful offender status in Tuscaloosa County District Court and
requested preliminary hearings, Al.com reported. Under Alabama
law, defendants younger than 21 can seek youthful offender
status, capping the maximum sentence and keeping records
private.  Alabama defeated the University of Notre Dame 42-14 in
January to win its third Bowl Championship Series title in a
four-year span.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  