-- Allianz Unit CEO Sees Brazil Insurance Growing Up to 12% a Year
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-27T14:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/allianz-unit-ceo-sees-brazil-insurance-growing-up-to-12-a-year.html
Allianz (ALV)  SE, Europe’s biggest
insurer, said it expects corporate and project underwriting in
 Brazil  to grow as much as 12 percent a year as the country
invests in infrastructure and the oil industry expands.  Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty, a unit of Munich-
based Allianz known as AGCS that underwrites marine, aviation
and corporate risks, sees “significant” growth fueled by
Brazil’s expanding infrastructure spending, Chief Executive
Officer Axel Theis said in an interview from Rio de Janeiro
yesterday. The company is providing reinsurance services to
state-controlled  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , he said.  “Brazil needs to invest significantly into infrastructure
because the resources are further inland and they have to be
transported to the seaside,” Theis said. “We will see a
growing demand for liabilities coverage.”  Seeking to stimulate the economy, the Brazilian government
plans to auction concessions for ports, airports and roads this
year as the country prepares to host the soccer World Cup in
2014 and the Olympic Games in 2016. AGCS opened offices in Rio
and Sao Paulo last month with a staff of 45 after securing a
reinsurance license.  The unit is seeking to reduce the share of sales generated
by “mature” markets such as the U.S. and  Europe  to 70 percent
in the next five years from 90 percent now by growing in Asia,
 Africa  and South America, Theis said. AGCS wants to increase
South American policy sales to more than 350 million euros
($458.4 million) by 2015, half of which would come from Brazil,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  