-- Amazon.com, NY Yankees, Marvell: Intellectual Propeperty
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-02-27T12:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/amazon-com-ny-yankees-marvell-intellectual-propeperty.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer, received a U.S. patent on a method of improving
employees’ performance.  Patent 8,121,888, issued Feb. 21, covers techniques for
“facilitating improvement of results of human performance of
tasks.”  Seattle-based Amazon said in the patent that those who
perform a task in a fashion that is only partially satisfactory
may be given only a partial payment rather than the full payment
amount “associated with fully satisfactory performance of the
task.”  The “task requester” can also use this technology to give
the person who is performing the task information and
opportunity to improve the results, and then receive the full
payment.  Amazon applied for this patent in December 2007, with the
assistance of the  Seed IP Law Group LLP  of Seattle.  Source Vagabond Systems Gets Additional Patent Case Sanctions  Source Vagabond Systems Ltd., an Israeli fabric
manufacturer, was hit with an additional $12,745.35 in sanctions
in a patent-infringement case.  Tirat Carmel, Israel-based Source Vagabond filed suit in
federal court in  Manhattan  in August 2011, accusing Oakland,
 California ’s Hydrapak Inc. of infringing patent 7,648,276. This
2010 patent covers a sealing device for a flexible container for
liquid.  In a Feb. 21 court filing, U.S. District Judge  Colleen
McMahon  added the sanction to the $187,308.65 in attorney fees
for filing a frivolous suit. This brought the total award to
$200,054. She said in her order that the additional sanction was
for time and money Hydrapak and the court wasted on a motion to
reconsideration of the verdict.  The case is Source Vagabond System Ltd. v. Hydrapak Inc.,
1:11-cv-05379-CM-JLC, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Yankees Can Stop Others’ Use of ‘Baseball’s Evil Empire’ Phrase  The  New York Yankees  have the right to block others from
using a phrase first uttered by the president of the rival
 Boston Red Sox .  An appeals board at the U.S. Patent office confirmed the
Major League Baseball team’s right to bar a sportswear company
from using “Baseball’s Evil Empire.”  According to the board’s opinion, Red Sox President Larry
Lucchino said in 2002 that the  Yankees ’ “evil empire extends
its tentacles even into Latin America.” Lucchino was referring
to the Yankee’s successful pursuit of Cuban pitcher  Jose
Contreras .  The team opposed a 2008 application by  Evil Enterprises
Inc.  of Bridgehampton, New York, which sought to register
“Baseball’s Evil Empire” for use on clothing and hats.  According to the board’s  opinion , the Yankees brought in
“hundreds of news articles, stories and blog entries
demonstrating that ‘Evil Empire’ is used as a shorthand
reference or nickname” for the Yankees. The team had also
“implicitly embraced” the name by using music from “Star
Wars” movies at games played in Yankee Stadium, the board said.  “Evil Empire” is a phrase most baseball fans would
recognize as a nickname for the Yankees, the board said, thus
entitling the term to a broad level of protection under U.S.
trademark law.  The applicant’s plans to sell similar merchandise to what
the team sells also worked against the application because the
two entities’ goods would be marketed in similar ways, causing
possible consumer confusion, the board said.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Chu, Coble Start New Congressional Caucus for Content Industry  A member of the  U.S. Congress  who has many of the major
motion picture studios in her district started a new
organization focused on the content industries.  U.S. Representative Judy Chu , a California Democrat, has
joined with  U.S. Representative Howard Coble , a North Carolina
Republican, to start the Congressional Creative Rights Caucus,
according to a  statement  from Chu’s office.  The statement specifies that the purpose of the caucus is
to educate congress and the public about “the importance of
preserving and protecting the rights of the creative community
in the U.S.”  Chu acknowledged that the  film industry  has a “strong
economic presence” in her district, producing 140,000 jobs in
film and television in Los Angeles County, and the studio
members of the  Motion Picture Association of America  paying $437
million to local businesses.  Coble, who is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Courts,
 Intellectual Property  and the Internet, said the works created
by the content industries “are among our most precious
exports” that “cannot be duplicated anywhere else in the
world.”  Google Raises Censorship Risk in EU Court Fight on Data Control  Google Inc. (GOOG)  shouldn’t have to remove content from its
search engine that was lawfully published elsewhere, the company
argued in a case at the European Union’s top court that will set
boundaries between freedom of expression and data-protection
rights.  The operator of the world’s largest search engine isn’t a
data “controller,” it is “a mere intermediary in terms of the
data which it indexes,” Google lawyer Francisco Enrique
Gonzalez-Diaz told a panel of 15 judges at the EU Court of
Justice hearing yesterday. Direct requests for personal
information to be removed from a search engine -- even if it was
put online by a newspaper -- would be “a fundamental shift of
responsibility from the publisher to the search engine” and
“would amount to censorship.”  The dispute raises questions about the scope of EU privacy
rules when it comes to personal data on the Internet; the rights
of  search engines  to use any online data to remain commercially
successful; and who ultimately is in charge of what happens with
the data. The Luxembourg-based court’s ruling will be binding on
courts across the 27-nation bloc.  The case was triggered by about 200 instances of Spain’s
data-protection authority ordering Google to remove information
on people. The information in yesterday’s case concerned a
Spanish man whose house was auctioned off for failing to pay
taxes. Newspaper La Vanguardia published the information in 1998
and years later it could still be found via a  Google search .  Mountain View , California-based Google is liable because it
allows easy and quick access to information that wasn’t easily
found online before, he said.  “People shouldn’t be prevented from learning that a
politician was convicted of taking a bribe, or that a doctor was
convicted of malpractice,” Google said in a blog post.  Data protection is presently policed by separate regulators
across the EU. The bloc’s executive body wants to simplify the
system so companies deal with only one.  The case is  C-131/12 , Google Spain, S.L., Google Inc. v.
Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos, Mario Costeja Gonzalez.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Netgear Employee Gets Prison Sentence in Trade Secrets Case  A former employee of  Netgear Inc. (NTGR)  was given a prison
sentence following his conviction for trade-secret theft.  Suibin Zhang was sentenced to three months in prison, a
three-year term of supervised release, 200 hours of community
service and he is required to pay $75,000 in restitution to
Marvell Semiconductor Inc. by May 13.  In May 2012 Xhang was convicted of trade secret theft
related to downloading of  trade secrets  from a secure database.
According to a government statement released yesterday, Zhang
used his position as a project engineer at  San Jose ,
California’s Netgear to get access to Marvell’s secure database.  He used his Netgear account to download trade secret
information and loaded it into a laptop issued by  Broadcom Inc. (BRCM) 
of  Irvine , California, a Marvell competitor for which he went to
work after leaving Netgear, the government said.  Among the purloined trade secrets were hardware
specifications, datasheets, application notes, board designs,
and design guides, the government said.  Zhang received a less severe sentence than the government
sought. According to a sentencing recommendation the government
filed with the court, a 15-month prison term was sought,
together with $150,000 in restitution and a $5,000 fine.  The case is U.S. v. Zhang, 5:05-cr-00812-RMW, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Obama Order Not Enough to Shield Networks From Hacks, Aide Says  Legislation beyond President  Barack Obama ’s executive order
is needed to protect critical U.S. networks from cyber-attack,
said Michael Daniel, the White House’s cybersecurity
coordinator.  “An executive order is actually very limited in what it
can do,” Daniel said yesterday at a computer security
conference in  San Francisco . “We definitely need Congress to
act and to update our laws and our statutes.”  Daniel didn’t elaborate and wasn’t available for an
interview after speaking.  Obama issued an executive order Feb. 12 outlining policies
for greater sharing of government hacking data with companies,
particularly operators of vital infrastructure such as power
grids. The executive order directs the government to develop
voluntary cybersecurity standards for those companies and
instructs U.S. agencies to consider putting those standards into
existing rules.  Cyber espionage targeting U.S. companies gained renewed
attention last week when network security firm Mandiant Corp.
reported China’s army may be behind a hacking group that has
attacked at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  Obama’s order reflected provisions of a Senate bill blocked
last year by Republicans after being opposed by the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobby. Opponents said
the bill’s voluntary standards would amount to burdensome
regulation and fail to keep pace with evolving threats in
cyberspace.  Since the executive order was released, administration
officials have said they support certain liability protections
for companies that incorporate the voluntary standards and share
cyber threat information with the government and each other.  House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican, and the panel’s top Democrat, C.A.
“Dutch” Ruppersberger of Maryland, reintroduced a proposal
Feb. 13 to give legal protection for companies that share cyber
threat information with each other. The bill passed the House
last April and failed to advance in the Senate after Obama
threatened a veto, saying the measure didn’t go far enough to
boost computer defenses and failed to protect privacy of
consumer data.  The White House has declined to comment on the reintroduced
Rogers-Ruppersberger bill while saying any cybersecurity measure
must incorporate privacy and civil-liberties protections.  Administration officials including U.S. Intellectual
Property Enforcement Coordinator Victoria Espinel pledged last
week to put diplomatic pressure on countries implicated in
thefts of trade secrets and seek stronger international
enforcement of intellectual-property protections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 