-- Ambow Education Investors Pursue Lawsuit as Shares Plunge
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-27T17:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ambow-education-investors-pursue-lawsuit-as-shares-plunge.html
Ambow Education Holding Inc. (AMBO) , a
Chinese school operator, was sued by investors who say the
company orchestrated a “fake acquisition” to facilitate an
initial public offering in the U.S. The  shares  fell more than
12 percent in  New York  trading.  Byron Brown and other investors are seeking unspecified
damages and legal fees on behalf of U.S. purchasers of Beijing-
based Ambow’s American depositary receipts in connection with
the Aug. 5, 2010, offering, according to an amended complaint
filed Feb. 19 in federal court in Los Angeles.  Ambow, which runs lower, middle and high schools, as well
as colleges and career centers, wrongly said it had acquired
Changsha Study School in 2008, while it actually paid “to
borrow this school’s name and revenue for the IPO,” the
plaintiffs allege.  “The cash for the purchase was secretly returned back to
Ambow in the form of fake software sales,” according to the
complaint, which cites statements from a member of the Changsha
owner’s family and “reputable Chinese media” articles.  The company last reported earnings in July, when it posted
a $12.7 million  net loss  for the first quarter. As a so-called
foreign private issuer, the company isn’t required to file
quarterly financial results, according to spokeswoman Mandy Li
in Beijing. It is obliged to report results by the end of April,
Li said when contacted by e-mail Jan. 30.  An e-mail to Li today seeking comment on the amended
complaint wasn’t immediately returned.  Internal Probe  Ambow said July 5 that it would conduct an internal
investigation into allegations by a former employee of financial
impropriety and wrongful conduct in connection with the purchase
of a training school in 2008. The company said in a filing that
it wouldn’t comment until the probe was complete.  Ambow’s ADRs fell 19 cents to $1.37 at 11:44 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite  trading . They dropped 31 percent
this year before today.  The case is Brown v. Ambow, 12-cv-5062, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  