-- American Homes 4 Rent to Sell Shares in Public Offering
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-02-27T18:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/american-homes-4-rent-to-sell-shares-in-public-offering.html
American Homes 4 Rent, the housing
landlord headed by  Public Storage (PSA)  founder B. Wayne Hughes, said
it plans to sell shares to the public for the first time.  The company will submit a registration statement with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission within 60 days, it said
today in a statement. Proceeds will be used to acquire and
renovate homes. The Malibu, California-based firm didn’t say how
much it plans to raise in the initial public offering.  American Homes 4 Rent, with about 10,000 properties, is the
biggest owner of single-family rentals after Blackstone Group
LP, the private-equity firm that has purchased more than $3
billion in residences in the past year. Alaska Permanent Fund
Corp., which invests royalties from state oil revenue, put $600
million in a joint venture with American Homes 4 Rent last year.  Institutional investors are rushing to buy single-family
homes to take advantage of prices below the cost of newly built
properties and to meet demand from renters who can’t qualify to
buy or don’t want to own a house.  Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp. (SBY)  a Minnetonka, Minnesota-based
real estate investment trust that owns single-family rentals,
raised $245 million in an IPO in December. American Residential
Properties Inc., a Scottsdale, Arizona-based single-family
rental company, said on Dec. 5 that it probably will file this
quarter to go public.  U.S. home prices as measured by the S&P/Case-Shiller  index 
rose 6.8 percent in 2012, the biggest 12-month gain since July
2006, according to a report yesterday. Prices remain 29 percent
below the July 2006 peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  