-- Amex Policy Reopens High Court Debate on Arbitration
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-28T00:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/amex-policy-reopens-high-court-debate-on-arbitration.html
U.S. Supreme Court justices, hearing
a clash between American Express Co. and retailers over
enforceability of routine arbitration agreements, questioned
whether the case lacks information needed to make a decision.  Justice  Anthony Kennedy , a possible swing vote, and three
Democrat-appointed justices, suggested the record wasn’t
developed fully enough to determine whether the merchants were
improperly denied the ability to effectively bring a claim
because the agreement barred group action in arbitration.  “It does seem like both of the parties have changed what
they’re saying a bit,” Justice  Elena Kagan  said near the end of
the hour-long argument today. When the case was accepted by the
court, she said, its premise was that “if you go into
arbitration, it would not provide an effective way to vindicate
the claim.”  The enforceability of millions of routine arbitration
agreements could be at stake in the court’s decision. The
merchants and the U.S. say an  American Express (AXP)  victory would
block consumers from banding together and sharing costs to
pursue claims of wrongdoing in an arbitration proceeding.
Business trade groups led by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce argued
in a court filing that invalidating arbitration clauses would
“open a vast loophole” for claimants seeking to dodge
agreements they made.  Antitrust Claims  The case was appealed by American Express after the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in  New York  refused to enforce an arbitration
accord, ruling that its bar on group claims made it infeasible
for individual merchants to press federal antitrust allegations
against the card company.  American Express faces a series of lawsuits restaurants and
other merchants in  California  and New York began filing in 2003.  The merchants argue they shouldn’t be forced to accept the
company’s newer credit cards, which don’t require full payment
each month, to be able to take American Express charge cards,
which require full monthly payment. The merchants say the newer
cards aren’t used by the high-end customers preferred by stores
and consequently aren’t worth the high fees imposed on them by
American Express.  The most any of the plaintiffs could hope to recover in
damages is $38,549, far less than what it would cost to marshal
the evidence to prove their case, the merchants told the  Supreme
Court  in briefs arguing for approval of joint action.  The lead plaintiff at the Supreme Court is the  Italian
Colors Restaurant  in Oakland, California.  ‘Vindicate’ Rights  Business groups say the appeals court ruling in New York
undermined a 2011 Supreme Court decision that lets companies use
arbitration accords to bar employees and consumers from pressing
claims as a group. The appeals court said that ruling doesn’t
apply when the ban on joint action would deprive plaintiffs of
the ability to “vindicate” their rights under federal law.  Companies are increasingly turning to arbitration accords
to limit lawsuits by employees, customers and other businesses.
Advocates of the process say it saves litigation expenses and
produces quicker decisions.  The appeals court based its decision on a report from the
merchants that the cost of producing a market-study report -- a
key piece of evidence used in antitrust cases -- could be at
least $300,000 and possibly exceed $1 million.  The merchants said the terms of the arbitration agreement
with American Express blocked them from pooling the costs of
that study and prevents them from sharing information related to
arbitration proceedings.  Study Funding  Chief Justice  John Roberts  asked why a trade association
couldn’t fund the study that could be used by each individual
merchant to bring the claim.  “That doesn’t seem too difficult,” Roberts said. “You
either have your trade association or you have a big meeting of
all them and say, ‘We need to pay for this expert report and
once we’ve got it, you know, I’m going to represent each of you
individually in individual arbitrations and I’m going to win the
first one, and then the others are going to fall into place and
they’ll get a settlement from American Express.’”  Michael Kellogg, a lawyer for New York-based American
Express, said that nothing in the agreement would prevent the
retailers from seeking funding for the study from a hedge fund
that finances litigation.  Paul Clement , a lawyer for the retailers, told the justices
that the American Express accord prevents his clients from
working together on damage calculations.  Distorted Market  “When you have a market like this where the allegations
are they’ve distorted the market so we can’t rely on market
price, we need to know the sales volume of all the individual
stores,” said Clement, the U.S. solicitor general in the George W. Bush administration and now a partner at Bancroft Pllc in
 Washington . “Their confidentiality agreement protects that and
doesn’t allow that to be shared.”  Justice  Stephen Breyer  asked whether the cost estimate for
a market analysis cited by the retailers is the amount
associated with bringing the case before a court as opposed to
an arbitrator, who is under instruction “to get this done
cheap.” He suggested possibly sending the case back to a lower
court requesting more information.  Kennedy said that the parties didn’t leave the high court
with “much of a record” to consider.  “It seems to me that I have to engage in speculation about
the limits of arbitration in order to resolve in your favor,”
Kennedy told Clement.  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , who was involved with the case as
an appellate judge, didn’t take part in the Supreme Court
argument.  This is the second time American Express has brought the
case to the nation’s highest court. In 2010, the justices told
the appeals court to revisit the matter in light of a newly
issued Supreme Court ruling.  The case is American Express Co. v. Italian Colors
Restaurant, 12-133, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 