-- Hankook Predicts Weaker Yen to Give Japan Companies Edge
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-28T00:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/hankook-says-weakening-yen-gives-japanese-companies-pricing-edge.html
Hankook Tire Co. (000240) , South Korea’s
largest tiremaker, said it anticipates its exports to be hurt as
new Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s success in driving down the yen
gives Japanese companies an advantage in pricing.  “The Japanese government under Abe is trying to get their
competitiveness by devaluing the yen against other currencies,”
Lee Soo Il, head of Hankook Tire’s  China  operations, said in an
interview yesterday in Shanghai. “Short term, it’s going to
work because they have price competitiveness.”  Hankook’s comments echo those of  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and
smaller affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , both of which reported
quarterly profit declines last month and expressed concerns
about worsening exchange rates. The yen’s drop of about 18
percent against the won in the past six months is making
everything from Japanese cars to vacuum cleaners more
competitive versus Korean products in the U.S. and  Europe .  “Exports are going to be affected a little bit,” Lee
said. “Already, some are saying that Japanese products are
reducing their prices.”  Other Korean companies are also going to be affected, he
said. Hankook is working to overcome the unfavorable currency by
improving product quality, strengthening its brand image and
marketing, he said.  Hankook fell 0.5 percent to 48,300 won as of 9:10 a.m. in
Seoul trading, while the benchmark Kospi Index gained 0.7
percent.  Japanese Tires  Tokyo-based  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the world’s biggest
tiremaker, this month  forecast  full-year profit that was 14
percent higher than analysts estimated, citing a decline in raw
material costs and a weaker Japanese currency.  “Hankook Tire’s major competitors are Japanese tiremakers
and the weakening yen would make a favorable business
environment for companies like Bridgestone,” said Suh Sung
Moon, an analyst at Korea Investment & Securities Co. in  Seoul .
“Such a trend would put pressure on Hankook Tire’s export
business.”  Hankook Tire is better off than other Korean tiremakers
because it has factories in other countries, including China,
Indonesia and  Hungary , Suh said.  In China, Hankook is targeting to sell 13.5 million tires
to automakers this year, up from 12.5 million in 2012, said Lee.
The Seoul-based company is focusing on selling more high-end
tires and aims to be the top seller of replacement tires in
China within three years, he said.  Lee, who took over as the head of Hankook in China this
year, said the company is negotiating to supply to more premium
automakers in China, without being more specific as talks are
ongoing.  Hankook currently doesn’t have plans to raise prices and is
monitoring the cost of rubber, Lee said. The company will
consider “different kinds of variables” before making a
decision, he said.  Hankook has two plants in China that produce 31 million
units a year. A third factory started operations in January in
Chongqing, which will add 2.5 million units in capacity by the
end of the year. The company is operating at more than 99
percent of total global capacity, Lee said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in  Shanghai  at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  