-- Mantega Says Currency War He Named Eases as Brazil Recovers
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-27T23:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/mantega-says-currency-war-he-named-eases-for-recovering-brazil.html
As the currency war intensifies in
the developed world, the Brazilian official who coined the
phrase says for his country it’s softened.  Brazil  succeeded in reducing swings in the real after
letting the currency depreciate 19 percent in the two years
ending in December to protect local manufacturers from foreign
competition, Finance Minister Guido Mantega said in an
interview. Now with the real hovering around 2 per dollar,
Brazil is abandoning policies to depress the exchange rate even
as Japan weakens the yen and the U.S. sticks to policies Mantega
has said spurred the start of the currency war.  “We haven’t resolved it, but we neutralized, softened the
currency war issue that other countries are facing,” Mantega,
63, said at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “We are in
Brazil in a transition to a more solid, competitive and
efficient economy.”  Stabilizing the currency at a level that allows  industry  to
“survive” has put Brazil on the path to recovery following two
years of slowing economic growth, Mantega said. The Bovespa
stock index, the worst performer in the world after  Jamaica  this
year, will rebound as investment increases, he said.  The world’s second-largest emerging-market economy after
 China  will grow 3.5 percent this year after expanding 1 percent
in 2012, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of analysts.  Bovespa Drop  The Bovespa is down 6.6 percent this year, the second-worst
performer among 94 indexes tracked by Bloomberg after the JSE
Market Index in Jamaica, where the government is restructuring
its debt. Brazil’s creditworthiness in the swaps market has
eroded at the fastest pace among the biggest developing nations
over the past month.  Brazil started introducing capital restrictions in 2010
after Mantega said rich nations had engaged in a currency war to
boost their exports at the expense of developing countries. The
real strengthened to a 12-year high of 1.5290 per U.S. dollar in
July 2011, a rally that Mantega called a “disaster” because of
the damage it was doing to local manufacturers.  Before the government stepped in, “it wasn’t possible to
grow, or at least it was impossible for the industrial sector to
grow,” said Mantega, who began as finance minister under former
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in 2006. “With the exchange
rate around 2, Brazilian industry can survive.”  Currency Volatility  Implied volatility on one-month real options, which
reflects investors’ expectations for future currency swings, hit
a record low 5.3 percent on Nov. 7, down from 15 percent at the
end of June, and was at 9.6 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The real appreciated 0.5 percent to 1.9728 per dollar
today, extending its rally this year to 4 percent, the biggest
among the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
Options traders last month turned the least bullish on the
dollar against the real since 2008. The premium for six-month
options, granting the right to buy the dollar against the real
relative to those allowing for sales, fell to 2.94 percentage
points on Jan. 30, down from 3.61 percentage points on Jan. 1.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said Feb. 25
Brazil had learned to operate in a currency war environment. The
more stable currency this year will also help slow  inflation 
that has exceeded the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for more
than two years, Tombini said at a conference in New York.  Japan’s Yen  In  Japan , the yen has slid more than 10 percent against the
dollar in the past three months as the central bank signaled it
would ramp up monetary stimulus to bolster the economy. In the
U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke pushed back
yesterday against charges by Republican Senator Bob Corker of
 Tennessee  that he engaged in a currency war. Both Bernanke and
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe say their countries’ policies
are aimed at boosting economic growth.  Mantega, who’s in New York to meet with investors and seek
financing for $235 billion in infrastructure projects, said it’s
difficult to differentiate between monetary policies aimed at
weakening the foreign-exchange rate and those that seek to
bolster the domestic economy through credit growth.  “I didn’t invent the currency war, I just pointed out a
problem that can be overcome with an accord among countries,”
he said.  Brazil will offer rates of return of more than 10 percent
for the infrastructure projects ranging from building railroads
to operating airports, Mantega said. The investment program
presented in New York excluded construction for the 2014 World
Cup and 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.  Better 2013  Mantega said last year’s policies, which included the
reduction of the benchmark  interest rate  to a record low 7.25
percent, currency measures and tax cuts, laid the path for
faster growth in 2013. President Dilma Rousseff also forced
utility companies to accept lower energy rates in exchange for
the renewal of concession rights that were expiring.  Investors dumped Brazilian assets as growth sputtered and
inflation quickened to more than 6 percent. The cost to  protect 
Brazilian bonds against nonpayment with credit-default swaps
rose 22 basis points, or 0.22 percentage point, in the past
month to 130.  An index of Brazil energy companies sank 46 percent in the
past year while utility shares dropped 34 percent and banks lost
13 percent. Only consumer and industrial shares rose in the MSCI
Brazil index during the period.  Government measures “momentarily caused some disturbances
for a few sectors, but caused a very good outlook for others,”
Mantega said. “The economy will grow more this year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  