-- Anti-Capitalist Ideology Animated First ‘Monopoly’ Game
-- B y   K r i s t i n   A g u i l e r a
-- 2013-02-27T18:26:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/anti-capitalist-ideology-animated-first-monopoly-game.html
This month, hundreds of thousands of
voters in 180 countries elected a new “Monopoly” token that will
be added to the game later this year. The cat token  won the race 
and will replace the iron, which was introduced in the 1930s.  More than 1 billion people have played “Monopoly” since its
creation,  by some estimates , with more than 275 million copies
sold in 111 countries and 43 languages. But while the game’s
success is indisputable, its origins are not.  An unemployed salesman and heating engineer named Charles
Darrow has been widely credited with inventing Monopoly during
the Great Depression. Darrow, along with his wife and son,
designed and hand-produced the sets beginning in 1933. In 1935,
Darrow licensed the game to Parker Brothers and quickly became a
wealthy man.  Maxine Brady includes this story in her 1975 publication,
“The Monopoly Book: Strategy and Tactics of the World’s Most
Popular Game.” And when Darrow died in 1967, the headline of his
obituary in the  New York  Times read “Charles B. Darrow Dies at
78; Inventor of Game of Monopoly.”  But while he was an inspirational story of achievement
during the Depression, Darrow seems to have entered the picture
decades into the game’s history. The game that today epitomizes
the triumph of capitalism actually began as a tool for teaching
an anti-capitalist economic theory.  ‘Landlord’s Game’  Elizabeth Magie (later Elizabeth Magie Phillips) developed
what is arguably the earliest version of “Monopoly” around the
beginning of the 20th century. Her invention, called “The
Landlord’s Game,” was patented in 1904 and manufactured
beginning in 1906. Magie was a follower of the economist Henry
George, who vehemently opposed land ownership and believed
capitalism created an unfair advantage for landowners.  Magie’s purpose in developing the game wasn’t merely to
provide a diversion for families, but to illustrate the Georgist
principle that rents impoverished tenants while making property
owners rich. The game included George’s concept of a single
land-value tax, which he believed would discourage real estate
speculation. And, unlike “Monopoly,” the properties were rented
and not owned. Among the similarities between Magie’s game and
“Monopoly” were the “continuous path” structure, with no set
beginning or end; property groups; and “Go to Jail” and “Jail”
spaces.  In 1909, Magie approached Parker Brothers about purchasing
“The Landlord’s Game” from her publishing company, Economic Game
Co., but George Parker, the company’s founder, declined.
Meanwhile, business professors began using Magie’s game as a
teaching tool, and students shared it with their friends and
families. An abridged version omitting the single federal land
tax -- renamed “Auction Monopoly” -- gained traction in the
1910s. In addition to the name, the similarities between this
version and “Monopoly” were even more striking than the
original, with named streets, a monopoly rule allowing higher
rents to be charged when a player owned all railroads and
utilities, and chips representing property improvements.  Magie approached Parker Brothers with this variation in
1923, but again, George Parker declined.  By the 1920s, “Auction Monopoly” was spreading from dorm
room to dorm room and kitchen to kitchen throughout the Eastern
and Midwestern U.S. And, much like folklore, different versions
and regional adaptations began to appear. Daniel Layman
developed an edition of the game based on the streets of
Indianapolis, which he called “The Fascinating Game of Finance”
(later, “Finance”). This version crept even closer to modern
“Monopoly,” as it included four railroads, and spaces and cards
for “Chance” and “Community Chest.”  Darrow’s ‘Invention’  Another adaptation appeared shortly thereafter, when Ruth
Hoskins, having learned the game in Indianapolis, brought it
with her to  Atlantic City , where she had accepted a teaching job
in 1929. There she replaced the property names with the names of
local streets and reinstated Magie’s rule of purchasing
properties for set prices instead of auctioning them. This is
the version to which Darrow was probably introduced through an
acquaintance of his wife.  With no job and lots of time on his hands, Darrow set about
creating his own copies, with numerous graphical improvements
that we recognize today as the signature game designs.  Darrow called his game “Monopoly” and hand-painted one set
per day, which he sold for $4 apiece. Soon the demand for
“Monopoly” was greater than he was able to fulfill. He hired a
company to print the game on cardboard, and he sold it in a
Philadelphia department store.  Darrow copyrighted Monopoly in 1933 and attempted to sell
it to Milton Bradley and Parker Brothers, both of which rejected
it the following year.  In 1935, Parker Brothers learned about the game’s
impressive sales in Philadelphia and reconsidered, but by then
Darrow had realized its commercial potential. Although he may
have been inclined to sell it outright to Parker Brothers at
their initial meeting, this time around Darrow insisted on a
licensing agreement, whereby he would receive royalties from
sales.  “Taking the precepts of Monopoly to heart,” Darrow told the
New York Times, “I did not care to speculate, and when Parker
Brothers, Inc. made an attractive offer, I gladly accepted and
have never regretted that decision.” Royalty payments made
Darrow a millionaire, and his family continues to receive
substantial payments today.  The success of “Monopoly” and the complexity of its history
have spawned many arguments, disputes and lawsuits over the
years. As President  John F. Kennedy  once said, victory has many
fathers. In this case, it has many inventors.  (Kristin Aguilera is the deputy director of the  Museum of
American Finance  and the editor of Financial History magazine.
The opinions expressed are the author’s own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Kristin Aguilera at
 kaguilera@moaf.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 