-- AOL Chief Operating Officer Minson Will Depart
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-02-28T21:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/aol-chief-operating-officer-minson-is-said-to-weigh-resignation.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  Chief Operating Officer
Arthur Minson will depart the business after a transition period
as Susan Lyne, a board member, takes over responsibility for
brands such as MapQuest, TechCrunch and Moviefone.  Minson has held various roles at the company since 2004 and
became chief financial officer in 2009 as AOL separated from
former parent  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  Lyne, the former chairman of Gilt
Groupe Inc., will remain vice chairman of that company, AOL said
today in a statement.  Tim Armstrong , AOL’s chief executive officer since the
spinoff, has struggled to keep top managers as he seeks to turn
around the company. Minson’s exit follows the departures of
technology chief Alex Gounares and mobile head David Temkin, who
left last year, and  Brad Garlinghouse , the former head of AOL’s
Silicon Valley operations, who resigned in 2011.  “I came back to AOL three and a half years ago with the
goal of returning AOL to being a growth company,” Minson said
in the statement. “With that accomplished, I have decided to
stay and continue to work closely with Tim during this
transition period. I look forward to AOL’s continued success.”  Minson was promoted to COO in June and given the task of
reorganizing the company’s operations into a consumer-products
group that includes the Internet-access business and e-mail
service; content brands, including Huffington Post and
TechCrunch; and Advertising.com, its business-to-business
advertising group.  Lyne won’t oversee AOL’s Huffington Post site, which will
continue to be run by founder  Arianna Huffington , who reports
directly to Armstrong, said  Caroline Campbell , an AOL
spokeswoman.  Since AOL separated from Time Warner, Armstrong has worked
to transform the company from an Internet-service provider into
an ad-based content provider. Earlier this month, AOL posted its
first sales gain in eight years.  AOL fell 3 percent to $36.90 at the close in New York. The
stock has gained 25 percent this year, compared with a 6.2
percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  