-- Hard-Smoking Russians Welcome Efforts to Make Them Stop
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-02-27T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/hard-smoking-russians-welcome-efforts-to-make-them-stop.html
Russians are among the heaviest
smokers on the planet. Oddly, they’re also quite amenable to the
efforts of two notable non-smokers -- President Vladimir Putin
and Prime Minister Dmitri Medvedev -- to make them stop.  On Feb. 25, Putin signed into effect a tough anti-tobacco
 law  that phases out smoking in most public areas by the summer
of 2014. The measure is a big move in a country where, according
to the 2013 OECD  Factbook , 55 percent of men and 16 percent of
women smoke every day, compared with only 17 percent and 13
percent in the United States.  Surprisingly, Russians cheered the smoking ban. They seem
to recognize that their addiction is bad for them and for
others. According to a February  poll  by the Russian Public
Opinion Research Center, 79 percent of Russians support a total
ban on tobacco advertising and sponsorship, and 76 percent are
in favor of a smoking ban in all public areas.  When neighboring Ukraine, with similar nicotine dependency
statistics, passed an even tougher law last year, the polls also
 showed  overwhelming approval, with 75 percent of Ukrainians
backing the restrictive measures.  So are  Russia  and Ukraine now in the vanguard of tobacco
control? Not quite. In both countries, the new legislation does
much more to make life difficult for people who smoke than to
help them quit. And in both countries, powerful tobacco lobbies
managed to avoid their worst nightmare: a state-decreed minimum
price of a pack of cigarettes, which now costs an average of $1.  Last fall, when the Russian anti-smoking bill was proposed
in parliament, Medvedev recorded an impassioned  speech  on the
evils of tobacco. In the spirit of xenophobic Kremlin rhetoric,
the prime minister blamed “four big foreign companies that
entered this market in the early 1990s” for the prevalence of
smoking in Russia, saying the weak government of that era had
underestimated the effect of their investments. He did not have
to name the four companies: The Russian market is dominated by
Japan Tobacco International, Philip Morris International,
British American Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco Group. They have
for years fought all efforts to restrict smoking in Russia,
using sophisticated lobbying methods honed in the U.S. and
 Europe .  Despite Medvedev’s tough talk, the tobacco companies
managed to hold on to some positions. Former world chess
champion Anatoly Karpov, now a legislator who heads charities
that receive significant donations from tobacco companies,
helped torpedo a proposed ban on tobacco financing for charity
projects. Another parliament member, Sergei Shtogrin, whose
charitable foundation also benefited from tobacco-company
generosity, introduced amendments killing the idea of a minimum
retail price on cigarettes.  The bill’s “teeth have been pulled” by the tobacco
lobbyists, Dmitri Yanin, head of the powerful consumer rights
organization CONFOP,  wrote  on Slon.ru.  That said, tobacco companies did give up a lot of ground.
They won’t be able to sponsor festivals and sporting events, and
their products won’t be openly sold in stores -- only price
lists will be displayed. Also, the smoking bans in public areas
in Russia are likely to be at least as strictly enforced as they
are in Ukraine. There, anti-smoking activists recently surveyed
1,133 restaurants and  found  that 93 percent had indeed banned
smoking, according to the LigaBusinessInform news agency. Only 7
percent, mostly bars, decided to brave fines but keep the
nicotine-loving clientele.  Another peculiarity of the Russian anti-tobacco law is the
ban on cigarette sales in street kiosks: Only larger stores will
be allowed to stock tobacco products. This is widely considered
to benefit big supermarket chains, which have been losing
revenue recently because of another restrictive law banning the
sale of alcohol after 9 p.m.  How much the measures will actually hurt cigarette sales
remains an open question. U.S. and EU experience doesn’t provide
a clear answer, because legislation there was more
comprehensive. It raised taxation to make smoking prohibitively
expensive, and in the U.K. the government provided free tobacco
replacement therapy under its national health insurance program.
In Russia and Ukraine, cigarettes are still cheap enough not to
make a noticeable dent in smokers’ incomes, and treating
addiction is entirely the users’ own problem.  “Fighting smokers instead of fighting diseases fits in well
with the general trend of Russian propaganda,”  wrote  blogger
Anton Nosik, a doctor by training. “Fighting nicotine dependency
is hard, responsible work, unlike rubber-stamping laws against
smokers.”  Putin has always seen demographics as a major measure of
his success as head of state. Last year, he credited himself
with breaking the 20-year trend of negative natural population
growth in Russia. He appears to believe smoking bans are a
sufficient next step in the battle for increased life
expectancy. Luckily for him, so do the majority of Russians, who
back the goal without thinking too much about the means.  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 