-- Target’s Profit Trails Estimates on Poor Holiday Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-02-27T21:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/target-projects-quarterly-profit-higher-than-analysts-estimates.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. discount chain, said sales this month started slowly as
shoppers face higher gas prices and payroll taxes, mirroring
what  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  reported last week.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, said on Feb. 21
that same-store sales this quarter will be little changed
because of a slowdown this month. Target today said revenue by
that measure for the first quarter may also be little changed or
gain as much as 2 percent. The retailer said revenue for the
year would advance about 2 percent, trailing analysts’ estimates
for an increase of 3.9 percent.  “Given these new challenges facing an already-sluggish
economy, we have a tempered view of the near-term sales
environment,” Target Chief Executive Officer Gregg Steinhafel
said on a call with analysts today. “While there are some
encouraging signs in the housing markets, volatility and
 consumer confidence , the payroll tax increase and rise in the
price of gas all present incremental headwinds.”  Target, based in  Minneapolis ,  fell  1.5 percent to $63.12 at
the close in  New York . The shares  gained  14 percent in the past
12 months compared with an increase of 11 percent for the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Index.  Holiday Slump  The tepid revenue this month came after December’s same-
store sales, a key measure of a retailer’s growth because only
established locations are counted, were little changed after
declining in November. They gained 0.4 percent for the fourth
quarter, its worst performance for the period since 2008.  Steinhafel struggled to increase sales during the holidays
after a luxury goods line co-branded with Neiman Marcus Group
Inc. flopped with shoppers. In an effort to drive store visits
and sales after the rush during the Thanksgiving weekend, Target
released the line in early December. The collection. by
designers such as  Tory Burch  and Jason Wu, was discounted by 50
percent within weeks and then marked down 70 percent after
Christmas.  Target today reported a 2 percent decline in fourth-quarter
profit. Net income in the quarter ended Feb. 2 fell to $961
million from $981 million a year earlier, the company said in a
statement. Profit per share rose 2 cents to $1.47 as the number
of shares outstanding decreased. Analysts projected $1.48, the
average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shrinking Margin  “The quarter wasn’t that great,”  Ian Gordon , an analyst
for Standard & Poor’s in New York, said in an interview. He
cited a forecast in January, when the retailer said it may meet
or “somewhat exceed” the low-end of its guidance, which was
$1.45 a share.  Steinhafel has said that the retailer would try to balance
revenue growth with profitability by not chasing sales with as
many markdowns. That didn’t happen either as margins declined
again, said Gordon, who has a buy rating on the shares.  Last quarter “was seemingly contradictory” to that
stance, Gordon said. “It doesn’t jive with them not playing the
promotional game.”  Retail gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, narrowed in the fourth
quarter to 27.8 percent from 28.4 percent. That marked the 10th
straight drop. Gordon projected a decline of 0.1 percent.  More Promotions  Sean Naughton, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in New York
with an overweight rating on the shares, said in a note that the
shrinking margin “was due to a more promotional holiday than
originally anticipated.”  Target also forecast first-quarter profit that was higher
than analysts’  estimates . Earnings per share will be $1.10 to
$1.20 excluding some one-time items, Target said. Analysts
projected $1.06, the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Wal-Mart this month projected first-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates.  Target’s sales rose 6.8 percent to $22.7 billion in the
fourth quarter, matching the average of analysts’ estimates. For
the quarter, transactions declined 1 percent, the first drop
since the second quarter of 2009, according to  David Strasser ,
an analyst with Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in New York.
Strasser has a buy rating on the shares.  The company will beginning opening its first stores outside
the U.S. in  Canada  in April. By the holidays, it expects to have
more than 120 open. In the U.S., it will add as many as 20
stores including three City Targets, an urban format it unveiled
last year with five locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  