-- Australian Storm Seen Delaying 43% of Global Iron-Ore Exports
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-02-27T14:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/australian-storm-seen-delaying-43-of-global-iron-ore-exports.html
A storm that closed Australian ports
handling 43 percent of world iron-exports delayed as many as 74
vessels amid rain that might interrupt mining, Alphabulk said.  The backlog at  Port Hedland  and other ports nearby will
curb Australia-bound charters of Capesize vessels over the next
month, the Paris-based maritime consultancy said by e-mail
today. Port Hedland is the world’s largest port for shipping
iron ore.  Severe Tropical Cyclone Rusty made landfall at 5 p.m. local
time, 110 kilometers (68 miles) from Port Hedland,  Australia ’s
Bureau of Meterology said on its website. The country is the
biggest shipper of iron ore, a steelmaking raw material, and
Capesizes haul 90 percent of cargoes. Hire costs for the ships
as gauged by the  Baltic Exchange  in London dropped for a 14th
session today.  “Even without any significant damage, the backlog will
take weeks to work through,” Alphabulk said. Reduced Australian
cargoes may spur additional ore shipments from second-ranking
exporter Brazil, which would result in longer-distance voyages,
it said.  China  is the leading importer of the commodity.  Port Hedland, Dampier, Port Walcott and other ports in
 Western Australia  handled  iron-ore  shipments totaling more than
500 million metric tons last year, or a 43 percent world share,
according to Alphabulk. They accounted for 24 percent of demand
for Capesizes, the biggest ore carriers, it said.  BHP, Fortescue  Prolonged rainfall from Rusty expected over mines owned by
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BLT)  and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. “could lead
to more significant long-term loss of production,” Alphabulk
said. The companies are Australia’s second- and third-largest
ore exporters, respectively.  Ore-shipping ports may stay closed until March 1, Gulf
Agency Company (Australia) Pty Ltd. said today by e-mail. Port
Hedland and Port Walcott evacuated vessels on Feb. 24, while
Dampier’s port closed to traffic the next day, according to e-
mails from the port agent.  Ore shipments from the region are estimated to fall by
about 5 million tons, or about 5 percent of global volumes,
tightening supply into March, Melinda Moore, a London-based
bulk-commodity sales executive at Standard Bank Plc, said in a
report yesterday.  Port closings will have a “fairly minimal” effect on
iron-ore prices if the shutdowns are limited to several days
because  steel mills  in China have ample inventories, said Paul
Gray, Guilford, England-based principal iron-ore analyst for
Wood Mackenzie.  Well Stocked  “The steel mills are pretty comfortably supplied with  iron
ore , so it’s not going to be something that sends shock waves
and panic around the market,” Gray said by phone today.  Daily average Capesize hire rates dropped 5.9 percent to
$4,447, remaining at the lowest level since Sept. 17, according
to the Baltic Exchange. A strike at the Cerrejon coal mine in
 Colombia  also hurt demand for the ships in the last few weeks.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content imported to
the Chinese port of Tianjin was unchanged for a second day at
$151.90 a dry ton today, according to figures from The Steel
Index Ltd., a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  