-- Dow Average Rises to 5-Year High; Euro, Italy Bonds Gain
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2013-02-27T21:45:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/australian-south-korean-shares-rise-with-oil-as-yen-weakens.html
Stocks rallied, sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to the highest since October 2007, as
 Italy  sold debt amid political turmoil and U.S. data bolstered
confidence in the world’s largest economy. The euro rebounded
from a seven-week low and Italian 10-year bonds gained.  The Dow added 175.24 points to 14,075.37, less than 90
points below its record.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbed 1.3 percent to 1,515.99 as a two-day rally erased its
1.8 percent slump on Feb. 25. The euro appreciated 0.6 percent
to $1.3137 while Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped nine basis
points to 4.81 percent after jumping 41 points yesterday. The
 Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  capped its worst two-day drop since
2011. Gasoline and gold led commodities lower. Ten-year Treasury
yields rose two basis points to 1.90 percent.  Italy sold 6.5 billion euros ($8.5 billion) of five- and
10-year bonds in its first auction following inconclusive
election results that pushed yields to a four-month high
yesterday. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said recent
increases in some  interest rates  may signal the economy is
gaining vigor. Orders for U.S. durable goods excluding
transportation gear climbed in January by the most in a year,
while pending home sales increased more than forecast.  “The economic numbers have been pretty good,”  Walter Todd , who oversees about $940 million as chief investment
officer of Greenwood Capital Associates LLC in Greenwood, South
Carolina, said in a telephone interview. “The rebound in
housing will hopefully help the economy. The foundation is a lot
stronger today. That tells me there’s still room for stocks to
move higher.”  Market Movers  The  Dow’s advance  was led by JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Caterpillar Inc. and Boeing Co., with each jumping more than 2
percent. The  S&P 500  has rallied about 1.9 percent in two days,
bringing it to about 3 percent below its October 2007 record.
Today’s gain erased its 1.8 percent slump on Feb. 25, which was
triggered by concern that the Italian elections will worsen the
region’s debt crisis.  Gauges of industrial, commodity and financial shares rose
at least 1.6 percent to lead gains in all 10 of the main
industry groups in the S&P 500 today.  Priceline.com Inc., the biggest online travel agency by
market value, jumped 2.6 percent after revenue growth in
international markets pushed profit past analysts’ estimates.
FedEx Corp., operator of the world’s largest cargo airline and
an economic bellwether, jumped 2.5 percent to pace gains in
transportation shares. First Solar Inc., the world’s largest
maker of thin-film solar panels, tumbled 14 percent after saying
its “expected revenue” fell 15 percent last year.  Apple, Economy  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  slid 1 percent as Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook , saying he’s in “very, very active” talks about what
to do with the company’s growing  cash pile , did little to
assuage investors seeking more clarity on his plans.  Benchmark indexes opened higher and rallied all day. U.S.
bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years minus
demand for things such as aircraft, which is often volatile,
climbed 1.9 percent, exceeding the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg and the most since December 2011, Commerce
Department data showed. Total orders dropped more than
projected, reflecting the biggest slump in defense bookings in a
decade.  An S&P index of  homebuilders  jumped 2.2 percent. The index
of pending home resales increased 4.5 percent to 105.9, the
highest level since April 2010, after a revised 1.9 percent drop
the prior month, a report from the National Association of
Realtors showed. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for a 1.9 percent advance.  Bernanke Speaks  Bernanke also said the central bank’s easing policies are
helping to improve demand for homes and cars, and that the
housing market is recovering. He was continuing his semi-annual
testimony to Congress after speaking yesterday in the Senate.  Increases in some interest rates have risen in recent
months indicates the Fed’s stimulus is working, Bernanke said.
The rate on a fixed 30-year mortgage climbed to 3.56 percent in
the week ended Feb. 21 from a low of 3.31 percent on Nov. 22,
according to data from  Freddie Mac .  “The fact that interest rates have gone up a bit is
actually indicative of a stronger economy,” Bernanke said.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 0.9 percent. European
companies from Bouygues SA, France’s second-largest builder, to
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. reported earnings that
beat estimates.  European Movers  Bouygues rallied 13 percent, the most in 18 months, after
forecasting margins will widen this year.  EADS (EAD) , the parent of
Airbus, climbed 6.5 percent after predicting earnings will rise
in 2013. Swiss Life Holding AG surged 8.7 percent as
Switzerland’s biggest life insurer maintained its dividend and
reported a narrower-than-estimated loss.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  advanced 2 percent as three people
familiar with the matter said the mobile-phone company has put
plans to approach  Kabel Deutschland  Holding AG about a takeover
on hold. Kabel Deutschland slid 3.7 percent.  Italian 10-year securities pared a monthly decline as the
Rome-based Treasury sold 4 billion euros of new 10-year bonds at
an average yield of 4.83 percent. That’s up from 4.17 percent at
a Jan. 30 auction. It allotted 2.5 billion euros of five-year
notes at 3.59 percent, compared with 2.94 percent at last
month’s sale.  European Union leaders piled pressure on Italy’s rival
factions to form a unity government committed to budget rigor.
EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  warned in Tallinn, Estonia, that
backsliding on budget discipline and economic reforms would
shatter market confidence in the 17-nation currency union’s
crisis management.  ’Clear Limits’  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said there are
limits to what monetary policy can do and urged governments to
implement structural reforms and build a sound political and
economic union in the euro region.  “It is important to stress that the ECB’s mandate only
extends so far,” Draghi said in a speech in Munich today.
“There are clear limits to what monetary policy can and should
aim to achieve. We cannot repair unsound budgets. We cannot
clean up struggling banks. We cannot solve deep-rooted problems
in the structure of Europe’s economies.”  Gasoline plunged 2.5 percent to $2.9081 a gallon as
government report showed rising East Coast inventories as
refineries restored production following maintenance.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities decreased 0.5 percent
even amid gains in 13 of the 24 commodities it tracks. Gold fell
for the first time in three days as growing confidence about the
economic recovery curbed demand for a protection of wealth.
Futures for April delivery fell 1.2 percent to $1,595.70 an
ounce. The metal is set to drop for a fifth month, the longest
run of monthly losses since 1997.  Gold Options  Options protecting against a decline in gold have surged to
an all-time high after Fed meeting notes spurred speculation
that economic stimulus will be curbed, easing the threat of
inflation.  Puts that profit should the SPDR Gold Trust fall 10 percent
cost 1.9 points more than calls betting on a 10 percent rally,
according to three-month options data compiled by Bloomberg. The
price relationship known as skew reached a record 3.3 on Feb.
21. The U.S. exchange-traded fund lost 3.6 percent this year and
fell to an eight-month low on Feb. 20.  The Nikkei 255 capped a two-day, 3.5 percent slump after
closing at its highest level since September 2008 on Feb. 25.
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest automaker, sank 2.3
percent today. The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index rose
0.5 percent, led by gains in Australia, Indonesia and India.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  gained 0.4 percent,
rebounding from a two-month low. The Shanghai Composite Index
advanced 0.9 percent on speculation China will take steps to
support equities. India’s Sensex gauge added 0.7 percent after a
government economic survey said growth is recovering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Shanahan  in London at 
 mshanahan3@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  