-- Aussie Holds Near Four-Month Low on Italian Stalemate
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2013-02-27T05:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/australian-dollar-advances-as-gold-prices-increase.html
Australia ’s dollar held a two-day
drop to a more than four-month low as concern that  Italy ’s
election stalemate will deepen Europe’s debt crisis curbed
investor appetite for riskier assets.  Demand for New Zealand’s dollar was limited after the
nation’s annual trade deficit unexpectedly widened. The so-
called Aussie and kiwi headed for their biggest monthly drops
against the U.S. dollar since May as global equities retreated.
Election results in Italy showed Pier Luigi Bersani won the
lower house by less than half a percentage point, while Silvio Berlusconi, the former premier fighting a tax-fraud conviction,
gained a blocking minority in the Senate.  “Italy’s government will be uncertain and fragile over the
next few weeks and commitments to reform will be also fragile,”
said  Imre Speizer , a strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in
Auckland. Developments in Italy were “the catalyst to clean out
extreme long positioning in the New Zealand and Australian
dollars. You may well see further fallout.”  The Australian dollar slid 0.1 percent to $1.0216 at 4:15
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it touched $1.0201, the
lowest since Oct. 10. The Aussie lost 0.4 percent to 93.71 yen.
New Zealand’s dollar fell 0.1 percent to 82.41 U.S. cents from
yesterday, when it reached 82.24, the weakest since Jan. 4. The
so-called kiwi weakened 0.3 percent to 75.64 yen.  On the month, Australia’s currency was set for a 2 percent
drop versus the U.S. dollar, the biggest since May. New
Zealand’s dollar was poised for a 1.8 percent decline, also the
biggest in nine months.  Australian Yield  The  yield  on Australia’s 10-year bonds fell as much as five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 3.327 percent, the
lowest since Jan. 25.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed, following a
0.6 percent drop yesterday. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index dropped
1.3 percent yesterday.  In New Zealand, imports exceeded exports by NZ$1.3 billion
($1.1 billion) in the 12 months ended January, compared with a
revised NZ$1.16 billion shortfall in the year through December,
the statistics office said today in Wellington. Economists
expected an NZ$897 million gap, according to the median of nine
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “The trade figures weighed on the currency for only few
minutes, and rightly so,” said Westpac’s Speizer. “We expect
to see a bounce back in February, so there’s nothing sinister
going on in terms of trade balance deteriorating.”  In Australia, the value of total construction fell 0.1
percent in the three months through Dec. 31 to A$51.9 billion
($53 billion) after a revised 1.9 percent rise in the previous
three-months, the statistics bureau said today in Sydney.
Economists had predicted a 1.5 percent advance.  Government figures tomorrow are expected to show growth in
corporate expenditure moderated.  Capital spending  probably
gained 1 percent from the third quarter, when it rose 2.8
percent, according to the median estimate of economists.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 39 percent chance the central bank will lower its
benchmark to 2.75 percent at the next meeting on March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  