-- Cyclone Spares Australian Iron Ore Port as It Heads to Mines
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2013-02-28T05:04:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/australia-iron-ore-port-escapes-as-cyclone-heads-to-mines.html
Australia ’s Port Hedland, home to
the world’s biggest bulk export terminal, escaped with minor
damage from a weakening tropical Cyclone  Rusty , which is now
moving inland to the Pilbara iron ore mining region.  The cyclone, which started as a Category 4 storm, made
landfall 110 kilometers (68 miles) north of the port town
yesterday. It has weakened to Category 1 and is currently 100
kilometers east-northeast of the Marble Bar settlement,
Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said in a statement posted at
11:00 a.m. western standard time on its website.  Port Hedland, which exports product from mines owned by  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  and  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) ,
reopened its anchorage this morning and expects to resume
inbound shipping from 4 p.m local time, the port authority said
in an e-mail.  Rio Tinto  expects to resume ship-loading at the
nearby ports of Dampier and Cape Lambert later today, the
company said in an e-mail. The operations closed on Feb. 25
ahead of the cyclone.  Both Rio and BHP are monitoring the weather for an expected
spell of heavy rainfall in the eastern Pilbara, where some the
companies’ mines are located, they said in separate e-mails.  “Heavy rainfall is likely to lead to major flooding in the
De Grey catchment,” the bureau said. “Significant flooding is
also possible in the Upper Fortescue catchment and in remaining
east Pilbara coastal streams.”  Western Ports  Port Hedland , Dampier, Port Walcott and other ports in
 Western Australia  handled iron-ore shipments totaling more than
500 million metric tons last year, or a 43 percent world share,
according to Alphabulk. They accounted for 24 percent of demand
for Capesizes, the biggest ore carriers.  Prolonged rainfall from Rusty expected over mines owned by
BHP and Fortescue “could lead to more significant long-term
loss of production,” the Paris-based bulk-shipping information
provider said in an e-mailed statement. The companies are
Australia’s second- and third-largest ore exporters,
respectively. Atlas may also be affected, according to a bureau
projection.  Cyclone season lasts from about November to April and high
winds as well as flooding can disrupt iron ore operations in the
world’s biggest exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  