-- Autism Shares Genetic Features With Psychiatric Disorders
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-02-27T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/autism-shares-genetic-features-with-psychiatric-disorders.html
Autism and four other psychiatric
disorders have similar genetic features, scientists discovered
for the first time, opening up a potential new approach to drug
treatment for these diseases.  Variations in two genes involved in the balance of calcium
in brain cells is common to a range of mental disorders
including autism, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder,
bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder and schizophrenia,
according to the  Psychiatric Genomics Consortium , a group of
scientists from around the world. The  study , funded by the U.S.
National Institutes of Health and the governments of other
countries, was published today in The Lancet medical journal.  The scientists scanned the genomes of more than 60,000
people, comparing the results of 33,332 patients with those of
people who didn’t have a mental disorder in the largest genetic
analysis of psychiatric illness. The findings may help to
reclassify these conditions on the basis of causes rather than
collections of descriptive symptoms and may shape new ways of
treating the diseases, the researchers said.  “Our results provide insights into the shared causation of
psychiatric disorders,” the scientists said in the published
paper. “Alterations in calcium-channel signaling could
represent a fundamental mechanism contributing to a broad
vulnerability” to treatment.  Calcium levels in the brain play a crucial role in
regulating the growth and development of nerve cells,  Alessandro
Serretti  and Chiara Fabbri of the University of Bologna’s
department of biomedical and neuromotor sciences said in a
comment accompanying the study’s publication.  Similar genome-wide studies of autoimmune disorders have
also shown overlap in genetic variants that affect a range of
diseases, the researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  