-- Aviva Sells Russian Unit for Cash as Insurer Joins U.K. Exodus
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-02-27T09:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/aviva-sells-russian-unit-for-cash-as-insurer-joins-u-k-exodus.html
Aviva Plc (AV/) , the second-biggest U.K.
insurer by market value, sold its Russian unit as it scales back
globally, becoming the third British financial company to
retreat from the country in two years.  Blagosostoyanie, a private Russian pension fund, agreed to
pay 35 million euros ($46 million) in cash for Aviva Russia, the
London-based insurer in a statement e-mailed today. Andrey Dubinin, who led the unit since its entry into Russia in 2005,
quit in May to join  UBS AG (UBSN)  in Geneva as a wealth manager.  “This transaction builds on the progress we have made to
narrow Aviva’s focus,” Chief Executive Officer  Mark Wilson  said
in the statement. The sale gives Aviva a “modest premium” to
book value, according to the statement.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  both sold their retail
banking operations in Russia in the past two years after failing
to compete with state-run OAO Sberbank and VTB Group. Aviva
Chairman John McFarlane has pledged to exit 16 businesses that
tie up 6 billion pounds ($9.1 billion) of capital as he seeks to
build up reserves depleted by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Aviva’s capital has been hurt by the crisis more than any
other U.K. insurer because it gets 40 percent of its life
insurance operating profit from the euro region and holds more
euro sovereign debt than competitors, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In December, Aviva sold its U.S. life unit to
Athene Holding Ltd. for $1.8 billion and its share of Spanish
venture Aseval for 603 million euros to Bankia SA.  Moscow-based Blagosostoyanie, or Wellbeing in Russian, has
about 6.4 billion euros of assets, making it one of  Russia ’s
largest non-state pension funds, according to today’s statement.
The deal, which is subject to the approval of Russia’s Anti-
Monopoly Service, is expected to complete in the first half of
2013, according to statement. 