-- Bankers Should Stop Whining About Costs of Equity: Books
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/bankers-should-stope-whining-about-costs-of-equity-books.html
Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig are
academics with a gift for taking the mind-numbing minutiae of
banking and presenting it in a way that the average reader can
understand.  One by one, the self-serving protests of the banking
industry against tougher regulations are lined up and struck
down in “ The Bankers’ New Clothes .”  You know what they are: Stringent U.S. laws will send
customers fleeing to countries known for light-touch regulation.
High capital requirements for banks will trigger a credit
crunch. And so on.  The authors map out the regulatory flaws that make it easy
for debt-junkie bankers to get rich when times are good, and
leave them hanging around protesting when times are worse thanks
to their own recklessness.  The system gives voice to banks and their lobbyists while
the public’s interests are thinly served by a smattering of
mostly underfunded citizens’ groups.  Like the toadies in the Hans Christian Anderson story “The
Emperor’s New Clothes,” politicians and regulators have signed
on to many of the banks’ bogus ideas.  Cheap Money  The authors focus in particular on bankers’ frequent
complaint that they can’t ramp up equity, and thus reduce risk,
because equity is too expensive.  Banks -- as if we didn’t know -- prefer debt. Wouldn’t
you, if the government was offering money for next to nothing
and you could invest it in risky stuff that would boost returns
and thus fatten your bonus check in good times?  Never mind that a bet gone sour for those same debt-crazed
bankers turns out to be the taxpayers’ problem in these too-big-to-fail days.  “The public has a much greater interest in the banks’
safety than do the banks themselves,” the authors say.  Admati and Hellwig propose that 20 percent to 30 percent of
banks’ total assets be in equity, substantially higher than the
minimum level of 3 percent proposed in the Basel III global
regulatory standard.  As for banks that can’t attract investors because they have
no profits to retain, the authors are blunt: Supervisors should
step in, pore over loans and other assets, and determine whether
the operation is insolvent and needs to be shut down.  Sprinkled throughout the book are examples of debt and
equity taken on by a fictional homebuyer named Kate. It’s a
smart device to help readers from outside the banking world
understand how important equity is in keeping a person -- or
company -- solvent.  More Equity  Kate invests $30,000 in a $300,000 home and takes on a
$270,000 mortgage while her pal Paul uses the same amount of
equity -- $30,000 -- to purchase a $150,000 home. If prices fall
5 percent, Paul’s $7,500 loss is only 25 percent of his
investment while Kate’s is $15,000, or 50 percent.  When banks complain about the costs of equity, they leave
out the inconvenient detail that bigger equity stakes are a plus
when investments go down. But then again, why should they care
when it’s the rest of us who clean up those messes?  In another scenario, the cagey Kate gets her rich Aunt
Claire to guarantee a home purchase, which opens the opportunity
for Kate to slide by with zero equity.  Now Kate is a mini-version of our government-backed banks.
She has no downside -- Auntie has taken on the responsibility --
but the house is a money machine for her if home prices go up.  Broader Economy  Admati and Hellwig have no patience with the happy talk of
the U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve Bank about profits
from the bank assets they acquired during the bailout. They say
that conversation tells only part of the story, ignoring the
costs of the crisis to the broader economy.  The authors want banks to bear the costs of their actions
and they’re willing to admit that might mean a reduced ability
of some banks to compete in global markets.  Enforce regulations and take away those implicit government
guarantees, and the industry might shrink. But smaller would be
better, they say.  Talent -- perhaps the physicists who run banks’ risk models
-- might move to other industries. Society would be better off.  Unless you’re in the club that pockets bonuses of seven and
eight figures, what’s not to like about that?  “The Bankers’ New Clothes: What’s Wrong With Banking and
What To Do About It” is published by Princeton University Press
(398 pages, $29.95). To buy this book in North America, click
 here .  (Susan Antilla is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 