-- Bean Says Inflation-Targeting Should Face Fit-For-Purpose Review
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-27T09:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/bean-says-inflation-targeting-should-face-fit-for-purpose-review.html
Bank of England Deputy Governor
 Charles Bean  said it may be appropriate to review the U.K.’s
inflation-targeting regime, and that policy makers stand ready
to take further measures to boost the recovery if required.  “I think it is sensible to review the framework to assess
whether it is fit for purpose or can be materially improved,
though the hurdle for change should be high,” Bean said in a
speech in London today.  Bean said while the BOE is ready to add more stimulus if
needed, there is “a danger of expecting too much” from
monetary policy. With the arrival of Bank of Canada Governor
 Mark Carney  in July to replace Governor  Mervyn King  having
raised the topic of the potential limits of inflation targeting,
Bean said the current U.K. inflation framework is already
flexible and incorporates growth and employment.  “We stand ready to take further such action should it be
warranted,” Bean said. “But such policies cannot -- and should
not seek to -- prevent the necessary de-leveraging and
rebalancing. That is a real process that takes time and means
that the recovery is likely to remain somewhat subdued by
historical standards.”  British  gross domestic product  dropped 0.3 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to a second estimate released today.  The Monetary Policy Committee has said it will “look
through”  above-target inflation  to help the U.K. economy
recover from a  recession . At 2.7 percent in January, inflation
is above officials’ 2 percent target and forecast to remain
there for another two years.  The deputy governor said while a switch to targeting
nominal-income growth would not represent “a major change,”
there were drawbacks, including historic revisions to growth
data and the risk that the public would not understand what
policy was trying to achieve. He added that an income-level
target may keep policy too loose for too long, risking asset
bubbles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  