-- Benitez Confirms Chelsea Exit at End of Season, Criticizes Club
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-28T03:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/benitez-confirms-he-ll-leave-chelsea-at-end-of-season-bbc-says.html
Chelsea coach Rafael Benitez said 
he’ll leave the soccer team at the end of this season and that 
it was a mistake to give him the title of interim manager.  Benitez, who took charge after the Premier League club
fired Roberto Di Matteo in November, also criticized a section
of supporters that he said has “an agenda” against him.  “There is a group of fans who are not making any favors
for the team,” Benitez, 52, told reporters in televised
comments following last night’s 2-0 F.A. Cup win at
Middlesbrough. “They are singing, wasting time preparing
banners. It’s because somebody made a mistake. They put my title
interim manager, and I will leave at the end of the season, so
they don’t need to waste time with me.”  Benitez, who guided Liverpool to the Champions League title
in 2005, was appointed on Nov. 21 as Chelsea’s ninth manager
since Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich bought the London
soccer team in 2003. U.K. newspaper reports said at the time
that the short-term move may pave the way for the hiring of
former Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola, who has since signed a
three-year contract to take over at Bayern Munich.  Benitez said last night his tenure will end regardless of
how the campaign finishes. Chelsea is competing for two trophies,
the F.A. Cup and the Europa League, as well as a top-four finish
in the Premier League.  The Blues are fourth in the standings, 19 points behind
leader Manchester United, who they will meet in the F.A. Cup
quarterfinals. They also face Steaua Bucharest in the last 16 of
 Europe ’s second-tier club competition.  ‘I am Professional’  Benitez, who has guided Chelsea to 14 wins in 27 games,
urged supporters to focus their energies on the team for the
remaining matches.  “It would be much better for everyone to have a good
atmosphere and supporting the team, backing the players,” he
said. “At the end of the season, I will leave anyway because I
am interim like they say. I have proved in these three months
that I want to win every single game. I am professional.”  The Spaniard’s outburst came after defending champion
Chelsea reached the last eight of  England ’s top cup competition
for the seventh time in the past eight seasons.  Second-half goals from Ramires, via a deflection off
teammate Fernando Torres, and fellow midfielder Victor Moses
secured the win at the Riverside Stadium. The Blues will face
record 11-time winner United at Old Trafford on March 10 as they
seek an eighth F.A. Cup title.  Before last night’s match, Benitez played down U.K. media
reports of a training-ground confrontation with players
following the 2-0 loss at Manchester City four days ago. He said
after the win against Boro that he’s satisfied with his squad.  “I have a really good group of players who are working
very hard,” Benitez said. “It is a top club, so it’s not a
problem. The problem is that a group of people think that they
can say what they want instead of supporting the team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  