-- Bergen Considers Further Yard Sales After Rosenberg Disposal
-- B y   K r i s t i n   M y e r s
-- 2013-02-27T15:34:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/bergen-ceo-considers-further-yard-sales-after-rosenberg-disposal.html
Bergen Group ASA (BERGEN) , a Norwegian
shipbuilder and offshore services company, would consider offers
for one or both of its two remaining shipyards after last week
selling its Rosenberg unit for more than analysts had expected.  While Bergen doesn’t have any plans to sell its BMV yard in
Bergen or its Fosen unit near Trondheim, it “could happen” if
the right bid is received, Chief Executive Officer Terje Arnesen
said in an interview in Oslo today. “The buyer for Rosenberg
wanted to buy 100 percent at three times our market value,”
making it “difficult for me not to recommend to the board that
we should sell,” he said.  Bergen last week agreed to sell its Rosenberg operation in
Stavanger to  Australia ’s  WorleyParsons Ltd. (WOR)  for 1.09 billion
kroner ($191.3 million). That compares with a 2007 purchase
price of 700 million kroner and an expected fee of about 500
million kroner, Dagens Naeringsliv reported on Feb. 5, without
saying where it got the information.  That was “a very strong price for the yard, especially
considering the expectations,” Pareto Securities ASA said in an
e-mail on Feb. 21. Shares in Bergen fell as much as 22 percent,
the most since Sept. 12, 2008, and closed 15 percent lower in
Oslo, giving the company a  market value  of 391 million kroner.  Bergen, based in the west coast city of the same name, has
been investing in its offshore unit, which contributed almost  50
percent  of revenue last year, to take advantage of increased
spending on oil and gas exploration and production.  ‘Get Control’  That’s helped offset a weaker performance from its
shipbuilding unit, which contributed about a third of revenue
last year and which has struggled with delays and cost overruns
on some projects.  The company is in talks with an unidentified shipbuilder
about selling a stake in its shipbuilding unit and an agreement
is now expected in the second quarter, compared with an earlier
estimate of the first quarter, Arnesen said. He declined to say
who the potential buyer is.  “The reason we’re doing that is to get control of the hull
building,” he said. Problems with subcontracting work on hulls
to other yards has led to project delays, which in turn have
resulted in penalties and higher costs, he said.  Bergen now wants to refocus its operations around its
Hanoeytangen facility, one of  Europe ’s largest dry docks, on
 Norway ’s west coast, Arnesen said. Hanoeytangen, where Bergen
offers maintenance and upgrade work for the offshore industry,
“will be the core” of the company’s development, he said.  Bergen posted a fourth-quarter  net loss  of 479.6 million
kroner, widening from a loss of 141 million kroner a year
earlier, after booking provisions and one-time costs at its
shipbuilding and services units, it said earlier. Revenue fell
6.3 percent to 872.8 million kroner, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Myers in Oslo on  at
 kmyers16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  