-- Bernanke Backs Japan’s Anti-Deflation Effort as BOJ Pick Looms
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y
-- 2013-02-27T03:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/bernanke-backs-japan-s-anti-deflation-effort-as-boj-pick-looms.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who offered  Japan  a prescription for ending deflation
as a Fed board member a decade ago, endorsed Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s efforts to reflate his nation’s economy.  "They should try to get rid of deflation -- I support their
attempts to get rid of deflation,” Bernanke said at a Senate 
Banking Committee hearing in  Washington  yesterday. When asked 
whether Japan had paid a price for its central bank expanding 
its balance sheet, he said that “depends on your point of view 
-- the current prime minister thinks they haven’t done enough."  Abe, who took the helm of Japan’s government in December,
may tomorrow unveil his nomination for Bank of Japan governor,
ushering in a new leadership team that will be charged with
achieving a 2 percent inflation target. Bernanke said that while
some nations have raised concern about the yen’s decline in
recent months, the presumption is that Japan’s focus is on
reflating its economy, not on cheapening the  exchange rate .  “I don’t think Japan really raises a special case,
notwithstanding the rhetoric,” Bernanke said. It’s “mutually
beneficial” if major economies that need support for growth
take steps to boost demand, he said.  Abe is likely to nominate Asian Development Bank President
Haruhiko Kuroda to lead the BOJ, according to two officials
familiar with the discussions who asked not to be named earlier
this week. The government aims to present Abe’s nominees to
lower and upper house parliamentary committees tomorrow, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga told reporters today in  Tokyo .  Unlike Tariffs  “We don’t view monetary policy aimed at domestic goals as
being a currency war,” Bernanke said. “It’s not like putting
tariffs on your imports, so that you can beggar-thy-neighbor to
the benefit of your domestic industries.”  Fed policy makers are aiming their stimulus at the domestic
economy, he said. The U.S. central bank’s efforts have “had the
effect of greatly reducing any risk of deflation,” he said. If
prices rise at too-slow a pace, “you run the risk of a
Japanese-style situation where prolonged deflation is a barrier
to economic growth and stability,” he said.  Bernanke proposed in a May 2003 speech as Fed governor that
the  Bank of Japan (8301)  target a level for consumer prices and inject
liquidity to finance tax cuts to stoke growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  