-- MBIA Swaps Rise as Insurer Cites ‘Substantial Doubt’ Over Unit
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-02-28T00:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/mbia-says-substantial-doubt-on-unit-s-going-concern-ability.html
The cost to protect against a
default by a unit of  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  rose after the insurer said there
is “substantial doubt” about the ability of the unit to
continue as a going concern.  Credit-default swaps protecting investors against a default
by MBIA Insurance Corp. rose 3.4 percentage points to 43.8
percent upfront, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That means it would cost $4.38
million initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million
of obligations.  MBIA and  Bank of America Corp.  have been negotiating the
settlement of lawsuits over mortgage securities that soured
during the U.S. housing crisis five years ago. The MBIA unit
guaranteed contracts protecting BofA and its subsidiaries from
losses on commercial-mortgage debt. At the same time, MBIA is
seeking to force the bank to buy back faulty loans that were
included in residential-mortgage securities that MBIA insured.  “The company has concluded that there is a significant
risk” of the MBIA Insurance subsidiary “being placed into a
rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding” by New York state’s
financial regulator, the insurer said in a statement yesterday.
“Therefore, substantial doubt exists about MBIA Corp.’s ability
to continue as a going concern.”  ‘Comprehensive Settlement’  While MBIA said it expects the unit will have adequate cash
to cover claims, that forecast hinges on a “comprehensive
settlement” with the bank, it said in the statement yesterday.  Kevin Brown, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based MBIA,
and Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment.  The New York State Department of Financial Services denied
requests in the fourth quarter of last year to draw on a
National Secured loan or alternate financing, to fund a
commutation with a credit-default swap counterparty, the insurer
said yesterday in its annual report filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission.  The company is limited by its liquidity to end
transactions, “all of which could be subject to regulatory
approval,” MBIA said in the filing. “There can be no assurance
that MBIA will be able to fund further commutations by borrowing
from National or otherwise.”  Swaps tied to the parent company increased 0.8 percentage
point to 16 percent upfront, the data show. MBIA split its
municipal-bond insurance business into a new unit in 2009.  Orphaned Unit  In a move to prevent the parent company from being dragged
into bankruptcy by the insurance unit, MBIA last year asked
bondholders to alter the terms of its bonds. After Bank of
America bid to buy some of the debt to block the amendment, the
insurer purchased about 52 percent of the securities in order to
ensure it had sufficient support.  “What MBIA did was orphan the MBIA Insurance unit with the
consent solicitation, so the concern had been previously that if
MBIA Insurance ran out of liquidity and it was seized by its
regulator, that rehabilitation would trigger a cross default,”
Mark Palmer, an equity analyst for BTIG LLC, a trading firm in
New York, said in a telephone interview.  Bank of America sued the debt insurer in December, saying
it interfered with the tender offer for the securities involved
in the consent solicitation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  