-- Biggest Gold ETP Holdings Fall in Longest Decline on Record
-- B y   M i l l i e   M u n s h i   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-02-28T08:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/biggest-gold-etp-holdings-tumble-in-longest-decline-on-record.html
Assets in the SPDR Gold Trust, the
biggest exchange-traded fund backed by the precious metal,
dropped in the longest slump on record as the  U.S. economy 
improves and prices fell.  Holdings declined 12 metric tons to 1,258.40 tons, the
lowest since August, according to data on the fund’s website
yesterday. The assets have fallen for seven sessions, the
longest stretch since the fund was introduced in 2004.  Global  investments  in all gold-backed exchange-traded
products tracked by Bloomberg have tumbled 4.7 percent this year
as improving economies cut demand for the precious metal as a
haven asset. The cycle for  gold prices , which climbed for 12
straight years, has probably turned as demand collapses, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a report this week. Billionaire
investors  George Soros  and Louis Moore Bacon cut their stakes in
bullion ETPs last quarter, according to government filings.  “We’ve had pretty decent economic data, which is very
negative for gold,”  Dave Lutz , head of exchange-traded fund
trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said
in a telephone interview. “It’s a big reason why we’ve seen the
weakness in the gold price and why we’re seeing a lot of the
liquidation out of the ETF.”  Gold for immediate delivery has slumped 4.6 percent this
year, and traded at $1,598.33 an ounce at 8:28 a.m. in London.
The price touched $1,555.55 on Feb. 21, the lowest level since
July. The MSCI All-Country World Index of equities has advanced
4.4 percent in 2013.  ‘Risk Assets’  “The rush into risk assets in recent weeks appears to have
been fueled by the expectation that  China  and Europe have
bottomed and that the U.S. has avoided recession and will re-
accelerate,” said James Dailey, who manages $215 million at
TEAM Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .  Economic growth in China, the second-largest economy, will
rebound to 8.1 percent this year from 7.8 percent, according to
the median of estimates tracked by Bloomberg. U.S. durable-goods
orders excluding transportation equipment climbed 1.9 percent in
January, the most in a year, according to data from the Commerce
Department yesterday.  Hedge funds  and other money managers cut their  bets  on a
gold rally by 40 percent in the week to Feb. 19 to 42,318
futures and options contracts, the biggest drop since July 2007,
government data show. Prices are still up about 80 percent since
the end of 2008 as the U.S. Federal Reserve expanded its balance
sheet to more than $3 trillion, joining central banks from
Europe to  Asia  in stimulus actions.  “The foot’s still on the pedal for central-bank easing, so
this drop in gold could be short-lived,” said Lutz at Stifel
Nicolaus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Millie Munshi in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  