-- Billionaire Usmanov Sells Up to $559 Million Mail.ru Shares
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-02-27T21:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/billionaire-usmanov-sells-up-to-559-million-mail-ru-shares.html
Billionaire Alisher Usmanov’s USM
Holdings Ltd. will seek to raise as much as $559 million selling
part of his stake in Internet company  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  to
investors, according to a term sheet obtained by Bloomberg News.  USM is selling 15.5 million shares at $34.25 to $36 apiece,
representing a stake of about 7.4 percent in Moscow-based
Mail.ru, according to the terms. After the sale USM would own
about 17.9 percent in Mail.ru, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is arranging the offering,
the term sheet showed.  Mail.ru, the largest Russian-language Web company focused
on social networks and games, raised about $1 billion in an
initial public offering in London in November 2010. Usmanov
didn’t sell shares then, instead using the exit by two of its
co-founders to gain a voting majority. USM plans to keep a
controlling stake in Mail.ru and voting rights, according to
yesterday’s statement.  South Africa’s  Naspers Ltd. (NPN)  holds about 29 percent of
Mail.ru, while China’s  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  owns 7.8 percent,
according to the Russian company’s website. The company’s
charter bans foreign shareholders from owning more than 45
percent of voting rights.  USM will be unable to sell Mail.ru shares for six months,
according to the statement.  The Russian company said this week it will pay $899 million
in special dividends after reducing its stake in  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and exiting investments in  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) 
Shareholders as of March 20 will receive the payout.  Mail.ru paid a $795 million special dividend in August
after selling part of its Facebook stake during the company’s
IPO. In October, Mail.ru sold about $320 million Facebook shares
and holds about 0.6 percent of Menlo Park, California-based
social-networking service, the company said.  Mail.ru also sold its 4.1 percent stake in e-commerce
operator Groupon and a 1.2 percent stake in game developer Zynga
during the fourth quarter, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  