-- Mobius Praises Slim for Overpricing Sanborns IPO That’s Slumped
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-27T19:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/billionaire-slim-s-overpriced-sanborns-ipo-earns-mobius-praise.html
Mark Mobius , executive chairman of
Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, called billionaire  Carlos
Slim ’s latest initial public offering “overpriced” and praised
him for fetching such a high value.  Grupo Sanborns SAB (GSANBOB1) , Slim’s department store operator and
retailer of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products, raised 10.5 billion pesos ($818
million) in its Feb. 7 offering before accounting for an
overallotment option. The shares were sold at 28 pesos each.
While that was near the bottom of the 27 pesos to 32 pesos range
projected in the sale’s prospectus, the stock fell in eight of
the first nine trading days before rebounding over the past
week. The shares rose 0.8 percent today to 27.75 pesos.  “It was very, very highly priced -- in our view overpriced
-- which again you’ve got to congratulate him on,” Mobius told
reporters today in Mexico City. “He’s been able to sell his
company at a very good price, and maybe it’s time to look at it
now that it’s come back down.”  The stake in Sanborns was sold by Slim’s holding company,
Grupo Carso SAB, amid a string of share sales in  Latin America ’s
second-biggest economy, including a 22 billion-peso secondary
offering in January by real-estate investment trust Fibra Uno
Administracion SA. Even after falling, Sanborns shares  trade 
about about 22 times trailing earnings, compared with about 19
times for the benchmark IPC index of 35 Mexican companies,
according to Bloomberg data.  An official at the holding company declined to comment on
the IPO price.  Apple Computers  The company plans to use part of the proceeds to build new
retail stores and remodel others, according to the prospectus.
The billionaire’s retailer operates Sears department stores in
Mexico and iShops that sell Apple computers, phones and tablets.
It also runs the Sanborns brand of shops and restaurants.  Mobius’s $2.5 billion Templeton Developing Markets Trust
gained 3.5 percent this year, beating 92 percent of its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund returned 7.2
percent annually over the past three years, beating 65 percent
of its competitors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  