-- Blessing Leaves Goldman Sachs After 20-Year Career
-- B y   A n g e l a   C u l l e n   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-02-27T15:15:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/blessing-leaves-goldman-sachs-after-20-year-career.html
Dorothee Blessing, who rose to
become co-head of  investment banking  for Germany and Austria at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in a career spanning two decades, is
leaving the U.S. investment bank and securities firm.  Blessing, 45, has decided to retire from Goldman Sachs
after “20 years of distinguished service,” according to an
internal memo obtained by  Bloomberg News  today. Her departure
was first reported by German publication Manager Magazin, which
said she’s leaving for personal reasons.  The investment banker, who is married to  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
Chief Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , was named managing
director in 2001 and partner in 2005. She joined Goldman Sachs
in 1992 as a Frankfurt-based financial analyst in the corporate
finance department. Blessing left the investment bank briefly in
2004 to take up a post at Deutsche Bank AG in Frankfurt before
returning to the company.  Blessing, a mother of three, comes from a banking dynasty,
following in the footsteps of her father Paul Wieandt, the
former chairman of savings bank Frankfurter Sparkasse. Her
brother Axel Wieandt has worked at Deutsche Bank, Credit Suisse
AG and was CEO of Hypo Real Estate Holding AG from 2008 to 2010.  She’s a rarity in German banking, which has a dearth of
female representation in company boardrooms. Blessing is the
only female partner at Goldman Sachs in  Germany . About 10
percent of the bank’s 400 partners worldwide are women.  German firms have resisted proposed quotas by the European
Union to address gender imbalances in corporate leadership.  Women hold 7.2 percent of seats on German executive boards
and 13.8 percent on supervisory boards, according to an October
study by the European Commission. That compares with an EU-wide
average of 15.8 percent and 16.8 percent, respectively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Cullen in Frankfurt at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  