-- Boeing 787 Fix Has Layers to Prevent Fires, FAA Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-28T08:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/boeing-787-fix-has-layers-to-prevent-fires-faa-says.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s proposal to get the 787
Dreamliner back in the skies, while comprehensive, will require
extensive testing even if approved before regulators end the
plane’s grounding, the top U.S. aviation official said.  Federal Aviation Administrator Michael Huerta yesterday
wouldn’t speculate when the agency might lift its Jan. 16 order
effectively grounding Boeing’s new model worldwide. Huerta, in
the most detailed comments to date on Boeing’s presentation Feb.
22, told reporters that it “looks to be a very comprehensive
proposal” featuring multiple alterations designed to address
every possible cause of battery incidents that grounded the jet.  The proposed solution is a “permanent” one and Boeing
will keep using GS Yuasa Corp.’s batteries on the 787 as the
planemaker has no dispute with the Kyoto, Japan-based company,
Ray Conner, Boeing’s head of commercial airplanes, told
reporters in  Tokyo  today.  GS Yuasa’s shares  rose to the highest
level since May after Conner’s comments.  “It’s not an interim solution, this is a permanent
solution,” Conner said. “We see nothing in the technology that
would tell us that it’s not the appropriate thing to do. The
solution set that we’ve put in place provides three layers of
protection.”  Testing  The FAA’s technical staff is evaluating Boeing’s proposal
and will send Huerta a report “probably sometime next week,”
he said. If the agency approves the company’s plan, tests will
have to prove the solutions will work, Huerta said.  “Once we approve a plan, then we have to go through the
process of actually implementing the plan, which would involve a
great deal of testing, a great deal of further analysis and re-
engineering before those planes will be flying again,” he said
during testimony at a U.S. House hearing.  Huerta said the Boeing proposal contains three general
safety layers: attempting to ensure none of the eight individual
cells within a battery overheats, preventing a failed cell from
harming adjacent cells, and protecting the plane from damage if
all the cells burn.  Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman, declined to comment about
the plan.  GS Yuasa jumped 7.5 percent to 402 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo today, extending the gains this year to percent.
Boeing  rose  2.3 percent yesterday to $77.36, the biggest daily
increase since Jan. 9.  Awaiting Cause  GS Yuasa told FAA officials the changes should go beyond
Boeing’s proposal, to include protections that ensure proper
power levels go to the batteries, said two government officials
who asked not to be named because they weren’t authorized to
speak about Yuasa’s activities.  The Dreamliner’s original design included four separate
circuits to ensure the plane’s power system wouldn’t damage the
batteries, Birtel said in a statement.  Boeing is offering its fixes before safety investigators
determine what caused the battery incidents. The U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board found a short-circuit in one battery
cell on a  Japan Airlines Co. (9201)  787 that caught fire Jan. 7 in
 Boston , Chairman Debbie Hersman has said.  Boeing engineers attempted to determine every possible
cause for that incident and one aboard an  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) 
flight in  Japan , Huerta said. The firm’s proposal then included
layers of protection to prevent each of the potential causes, he
said.  Safety Issue  There is precedent for fixing a safety issue without
knowing what caused an accident or incident, he said. The agency
has ordered dozens of fixes to wiring and fuel tanks following
the July 17, 1996, explosion that downed  Trans World Airlines
Inc. (TWAIQ)  Flight 800, killing 230 people.  While the NTSB never established why that Boeing 747’s tank
exploded, the FAA went ahead with measures to ensure sparks
wouldn’t ignite fuel on aircraft.  U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, speaking to
reporters at an American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials conference yesterday, said he’s been
briefed on Boeing’s battery proposal. The FAA is reviewing it in
detail before deciding whether it’s “the right plan,” LaHood
said.  “We’re going to take that plan and make sure that the
batteries are safe,” LaHood said. “Then we’ll get to the point
of deciding whether we’re going to allow the planes to fly or
not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  