-- Boeing Tanker Project Found ‘Generally Stable’ in Report
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-27T23:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/boeing-tanker-project-found-generally-stable-in-report.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s development of the
KC-46 tanker for the U.S. Air Force is  “generally stable,”
with the contractor “running very close to the planned budget
and schedule,” according to a congressional audit.  The Government Accountability Office, in a report released
today, also cited as a concern that the cost of development will
eventually exceed the contract’s ceiling price of $4.9 billion.
Chicago-based Boeing is responsible for any overruns under the
contract terms.  Boeing is developing an initial four tankers as part of a
$51 billion program for 179 aircraft designed to refuel
warplanes and transports in mid-air. A decision on full-rate
production is scheduled for June 2017.  “Entering its third year, the KC-46 development program
is, for the most part, progressing as planned even though some
concerns exist,” according to the GAO, the watchdog agency for
Congress.  The agency cited Air Force estimates that Boeing may exceed
the contract’s ceiling by $717 million, a projection reported by
Bloomberg News on Feb. 8. The company estimates it will exceed
the ceiling price by $265 million, according to data in the
report.  Boeing is running through management reserves for the
tanker “primarily for identified yet unresolved development
risks,” the GAO said in the annual report mandated by Congress.  Trouble Sign  “Significant use of these funds early in a program may
indicate problems,” the GAO said. The Air Force “has not yet
evaluated how the significant use of these fund early” could
effect future program milestones, it said.  Boeing had $72 million of $354 million in management
reserves remaining as of December, according to the GAO.  Boeing spokesman Jerry Drelling said in an e-mail that the
report “recognizes the progress the KC-46 tanker program has
achieved over the past two years since contract award.”  “This includes a successful preliminary design review, the
opening of the boom assembly center and the first of five system
integration labs that will reduce risk during the design and
development phase,” he said.  Boeing beat out European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.
for the tanker contract in February 2011, ending an almost 10-
year process. The next month, EADS decided not to protest the
award. Ralph D. Crosby, who was chairman of EADS North America,
said Boeing won the contract on “an extremely low-ball offer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  