-- BP Misled Regulators About Macondo Well, Expert Testifies
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-02-28T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/bp-misled-regulators-about-macondo-well-expert-testifies.html
BP Plc (BP/)  officials misled federal
regulators about conditions at the Macondo well and forged ahead
with “unsafe and dangerous” drilling operations before the
fatal explosion that killed 11 rig workers and sent oil spilling
into the Gulf of Mexico, an expert witness said.  BP’s internal records for the Macondo project conflicted
with numbers sent to drilling regulators and established a
pattern of “consistent misreporting” of well pressures,  Alan
Huffman , a Houston-based petroleum geophysicist, testified for
the U.S. government in a trial over claims tied to the 2010 Gulf
spill. The fudged numbers allowed BP to continue drilling for
oil, he said.  The  oil company  created “a very misleading impression”
about the well’s safety conditions and engaged in  drilling
operations  that “I’ve never seen an operator do,” Huffman told
a judge yesterday in  New Orleans .  After hearing evidence in the trial, U.S. District Judge
 Carl Barbier  in New Orleans will decide who is liable for
damages tied to the largest offshore spill in U.S. history and
whether BP,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  or other companies that worked on
the project were grossly negligent in their handling of the rig
and well. His ruling in the nonjury trial on that issue will
affect how much each company may have to pay.  The Deepwater Horizon rig explosion sent more than 4
million barrels of oil spewing into the Gulf. The accident
sparked hundreds of lawsuits against London-based BP, Vernier,
Switzerland-based Transocean, owner of the rig, and Houston-
based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which handled cement work on the well.  Pollution Fines  For BP, the well’s owner, a finding of gross negligence
would mean the  company  is liable to the U.S. for as much as
$17.6 billion in Clean Water Act fines, as well as unspecified
punitive damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5
billion settlement the company reached last year. For Transocean
and Halliburton, a gross negligence finding would mean they
could be held liable for punitive damages.  Lawyers for the government and spill victims contend BP was
over budget and behind schedule on the Macondo well, prompting
the company to cut corners and ignore safety tests showing the
well was unstable.  They also allege Halliburton’s cement job was defective.
They claim Transocean officials disabled safety systems on the
rig, failed to properly maintain the platform, and never
adequately trained its well crew to handle crisis situations.  Transocean, Halliburton  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean employees’
miscues on the rig were the main cause of the explosion and that
Halliburton concealed flaws with cement work done on the
drilling line. Transocean and Halliburton have said BP was at
fault.  Huffman’s testimony is part of the goverment’s effort to
persuade Barbier that BP’s handling of the Macondo well was so
grossly negligent that it warrants a punitive damage award.  Huffman said BP’s Macondo operations had been flawed since
2009 when the company began to fudge numbers on the well’s
pressure tests. Federal regulations require  oil companies  to
maintain a safe pressure “margin” to avoid explosions, he
said.  The company violated federal regulations by continuing to
drill at the Macondo site without safe margins, Huffman said. At
the time, such wells were regulated by the  U.S. Minerals
Management Service , he said.  ‘Exceedingly Egregious’  “Once they had determined the drilling margin was gone,
they had to go to MMS before they drilled another foot below the
surface,” Huffman said. The decision to drill deeper without
permission was “exceedingly egregious,” he added.  His review of the well’s records found conditions that were
bad “beyond anything I have seen in my career and needed to be
brought to the government’s attention,” Huffman testified.  He said BP’s push to continue drilling operations left the
Macondo well so delicate and fragile that the company was at
risk of “losing the well completely.”  Under cross-examination by BP lawyer Matt Regan, Huffman
acknowledged he had never been on an offshore oil rig and wasn’t
an expert on every regulation that covers oil-drilling
operations.  “My judgment on this matter was based on BP’s behavior at
this well” and an interpretation of regulations that “I use
every day in this job,” said Huffman, who serves as a
consultant to oil companies on drilling-safety issues.  Cost-Cutting Push  Also yesterday, Barbier heard testimony from a BP drilling
supervisor who said the company pushed to  cut costs  over a two-
year period before the Deepwater Horizon explosion.  “I was never given a directive to cut corners or deliver
something unsafe, but there was tremendous pressure to cut
costs,” Lacy said in a video deposition. BP managers encouraged
him to cut as much as $350 million in costs in 2009 alone, he
said.  Experts who reviewed the rig explosion for spill victims
pinpointed the cost-cutting effort as contributing to safety
system failures that led to the disaster. That prompted BP crews
to forgo standard safety tests on rigs, the plaintiffs’ contend.  The case is In re  Oil Spill  by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans federal court at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans federal court.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  