-- BP Praised Halliburton Work on Gulf Oil Rig, E-Mails Show
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-02-27T16:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/bp-praised-halliburton-work-on-gulf-oil-rig-e-mails-show.html
BP Plc (BP/)  officials praised  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) ’s cement work on the Deepwater Horizon oil rig just hours
before the drilling platform exploded and sent oil spilling into
the Gulf of Mexico in 2010, according to e-mails made public in
court.  BP supervisors overseeing the Macondo well off the coast of
 Louisiana  said the Halliburton crew’s work cementing the
drilling line in place “went well,” according to an e-mail
sent in the early hours of April 20, 2010. An uncontrolled surge
of natural gas caused the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig to blow
up more than 15 hours later, court filings show.  In another e-mail, BP officials said Halliburton’s “cement
team did a great job,” according to the note made public as
part of a trial over claims tied to spill. Halliburton’s lawyers
introduced the e-mails to counter BP’s arguments that the cement
contractor’s actions contributed to the rig’s failure.  After hearing evidence in the trial, U.S. District Judge
 Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  will decide who is liable for
damages tied to the largest offshore spill in U.S. history and
whether BP, Transocean or other companies that worked on the
project were grossly negligent in their handling of the rig and
well. His ruling on that issue will affect how much each company
may have to pay.  Gross Negligence  The Deepwater Horizon explosion rig killed 11 workers and
sent more than 4 million barrels of oil spewing into the Gulf.
The accident sparked hundreds of lawsuits against London-based
BP, Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the
rig, and Houston-based Halliburton Co., which handled cement
work on the well.  For BP, the well’s owner, a finding of gross negligence
would mean the  company  is liable to the U.S. for as much as
$17.6 billion in  Clean Water Act  fines, as well as unspecified
punitive damages to claimants who weren’t part of the $8.5
billion settlement the company reached last year. For Transocean
and Halliburton, a gross negligence finding would mean they
could be held liable for punitive damages.  Lawyers for the government and spill victims contend that
BP was overbudget and behind schedule for the Macondo well and
that prompted officials to cut corners and ignore safety tests
that showed the well was unstable.  Inadequate Training  They also alleged Halliburton’s cement job was defective
and Transocean officials disabled safety systems on the rig,
failed to properly maintain the platform and never adequately
trained its well crew to handle crisis situations.  BP sued its contractors, claiming Transocean employees’
miscues on the rig were the main cause of the explosion and that
Halliburton concealed flaws with cement work done on the
drilling line. Transocean and Halliburton pointed fingers back
at BP.  Donald Godwin, one of Halliburton’s lawyers, asked  Lamar
McKay , the former head of BP’s U.S. unit, whether the  oil
company  was seeking to shift responsibility for the explosion to
Halliburton.  “I don’t think we were blaming anybody,” said McKay, who
is now the head of BP’s oil exploration and production around
the world.  An investigation of the disaster “found 8 key factors”
that played a role in the explosion, McKay said. Investigators
cited the work of some of the contractors, including
Halliburton, as playing a role, he said. “I would not say that
is blame. I would say that is what the investigation came up
with,” McKay added.  Defective Cement  McKay also said the e-mails cited by Halliburton related to
the crew’s pumping of the cement into the well, but not the
material’s formulation. BP contends the cement mix was defective
and didn’t provide the proper barrier to help stop gas surges.  Experts who reviewed the rig explosion at the behest of
spill victims pinpointed a cost-cutting push by BP as
contributing to safety system failures that allowed the disaster
to occur. That prompted BP crews to forgo standard safety tests
on rigs, the plaintiffs’ contend.  Kevin Lacy, a former BP official who oversaw drilling
operations, testified there were repeated “directives to cut
costs” for two years prior to the explosion of the Gulf rig.  ‘Tremendous Pressure’  “I was never given a directive to cut corners or deliver
something unsafe, but there was tremendous pressure to cut
costs,” Lacy said in a video deposition. BP managers encouraged
him to cut as much as $350 million in costs in 2009 alone, he
said.  Tony Hayward , BP’s former chief executive officer,
acknowledged that he started a cost-cutting effort when he took
over in 2007. Hayward said he emphasized “reducing overhead”
and changing “overly complicated” business operations.  Still, the former CEO said that he continued to emphasize
the oil company must engage in “safe and reliable operations”
while keeping a closer eye on costs.  Hayward stepped down in September 2010 as part of the
fallout from the rig explosion and  oil spill . The executive
faced public anger in the U.S. and criticism from lawmakers over
his handling of Deepwater Horizon disaster. The executive drew
the ire of spill victims after he told a reporter “I’d like to
have my life back” weeks after the incident.  The trial, initially set to begin last March, was
rescheduled after BP reached a settlement with most individual
and other so-called private-party plaintiffs.  Claims Excluded  The settlement, which isn’t capped, is estimated at
$8.5 billion by BP and excludes claims of financial
institutions, casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida
and  Texas , and residents and businesses claiming harm from the
deep-water drilling moratorium.  It also didn’t cover federal government claims and Gulf
Coast states Louisiana and  Alabama , or lawsuits against
defendants. BP has said the states are claiming at least
$34 billion in damages.  The U.S. government sued BP and Transocean in 2010 for
violations of the Clean Water Act and the Oil Pollution Act,
seeking fines, cleanup costs and natural-resources damages.  Last month, Transocean pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor
Clean Water Act violation and agreed to pay $1.4 billion,
including $400 million in criminal penalties. The company said
then it hadn’t settled natural-resource damages claims.  Guilty Plea  BP pleaded guilty to 14 federal charges, including 11
manslaughter charges over the death of the rig workers as part
of the plea. It also admitted it misinterpreted a critical
safety test just before the explosion. It agreed to pay
$4 billion in fines and penalties, plus $525 million to settle a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission claim that the company
underestimated the size of the spill.  Barbier ruled Feb. 21 the plaintiffs couldn’t use some
documents spelling out federal prosecutors’ allegations against
BP and indictments of three company employees as evidence in the
civil case.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in New Orleans federal court at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans federal court.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  