-- Brazil Wind Companies May Boost Prices 20% to Comply With Rules
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-02-27T22:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/brazil-wind-companies-may-boost-prices-20-to-comply-with-rules.html
Local-content rules designed to
boost  Brazil ’s domestic wind-turbine industry may drive up the
price of equipment, according to renewable-energy developers.  Turbine makers including  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Gamesa
Corp. Tecnologica SA (GAM)  may raise prices as much as 20 percent in
Brazil to cover investments in the country’s domestic supply
chain and comply with policies that took effect last month, said
Renato Volponi, country manager for EDP Renovaveis, the
renewable-energy unit of Portuguese utility  EDP-Energias de
Portugal SA .  International wind-turbine makers with plants in Brazil are
required to source at least 60 percent of their components from
domestic suppliers and must produce or assemble some of the main
elements within the country. The policies will spur local
industry and may also boost electricity rates, said Antonio Luiz
Curioni Vieira de Barros, director of commercialization and new
business at Dobreve Energia SA.  “The effect of all this will be the price of energy in
Brazil rising,” de Barros said today at at a conference in  Sao
Paulo . “I don’t know how companies will comply with these new
requirements within their time frames.”  Some companies may decide to exit the Brazil market rather
than comply with the rules, said Mathias Becker, president of
 Renova Energia SA. (RNEW11)  He expects the number of turbine makers in
Brazil to fall to about five in two years from more than a dozen
now, as companies decide not to invest in local factories to
participate in the market.  “Many companies are still deciding whether they should
stay or go,” he said. “The price of equipment is going to go
up as will tariffs.”  Brazil’s national development bank Banco Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Economico e Social is restricting financing for
developers seeking to buy turbines from companies that don’t
comply with the local-content rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  