-- Brazil February IGP-M Inflation Quickens Less Than Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-02-27T11:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/brazil-february-igp-m-inflation-quickens-less-than-forecast-1-.html
Brazil ’s  broadest  measure of
inflation accelerated less than economists forecast in February
as wholesale prices continued to decline.  Wholesale, consumer and construction prices, as measured by
the IGP-M  price index , rose 0.29 percent this month, down from a
0.34 percent increase in January, the Getulio Vargas Foundation
said on its website today. The gain compares with a median
 estimate  of a 0.34 percent increase from 26 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The index, which is weighted 60 percent in wholesale
prices, rose 8.29 percent in the past 12 months.  Consumer price inflation , which reached 6.18 percent in
January, is testing the central bank’s ability to hold its
benchmark rate at a record low to revive growth in the world’s
second-biggest emerging market. President  Dilma Rousseff  last
month cut energy rates and allowed state-run oil company
Petroleo Brasileiro SA to raise gasoline prices less than
expected as part of plan to check price increases that have
outpaced the 4.5 percent target for more than two years.  Wholesale prices fell 1.58 percent in February after
declining 1.41 percent last month. Consumer food prices rose
1.51 percent, compared with 1.97 percent in January.  “Apart from any major shocks, food inflation should not be
as unfavorable as it was last year,” central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said at an event in  New York  on Feb. 25. Food
and beverage prices as measured by the IPCA index rose 9.9
percent last year.  Inflation is showing “more resistance” than policy makers
would like and will be contained this year by a 14 percent
increase in the output of grains, more moderate credit growth
than in past five years, and slower services inflation
associated with lower wage increases, Tombini said.  Economists in the latest weekly central bank survey
forecast consumer inflation of 5.69 percent this year and 5.50
percent in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  