-- Brazil Wind-Farm Rule on Power Cables May Scuttle Some Projects
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2013-02-27T18:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/brazil-wind-farm-rule-on-power-cables-may-scuttle-some-projects.html
A new rule that requires Brazil
wind-energy companies to shoulder the costs for transmission
lines may scuttle some projects and reduce participation in
government-organized power auctions, developers said.  The country’s power regulator Agencia Nacional de Energia
Eletrica announced yesterday that developers participating in
auctions for contracts to sell electricity from wind farms will
also have to connect the  power plants  to the grid, a job that’s
currently handled by utilities.  Installing transmission lines may boost project costs by
about 10 percent, according to Andre Pepitone da Nobrega,
director of the power regulator. That will make it harder for
developers to finance proposed wind farms, said Antonio Luiz
Curioni Vieira de Barros, director of commercialization and new
business at Dobreve Energia SA.  “This could make some projects unviable,” de Barros said
today in an interview at a conference in Sao Paulo. “We’ll have
to pay for everything. It’s a generation and transmission
project we all have to do now.”  The rules will apply to projects enrolled in so-called A-3
government-organized auctions, Nobrega said.  The requirements may cut by half the amount of projects
developers will enroll in the next A-3 auction, which is
expected to take place in May, according to Arthur Lavieri,
chief executive officer of India-based  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s
Brazil unit.  Developers may seek sites that won’t require significant
investments in new  power lines , said Renato Volponi, country
manager for EDP Renovaveis, the renewable-energy unit of
Portuguese utility  EDP-Energias de Portugal .  “We could build projects near existing substations,” he
said. “But those options are finite.”  Delayed Lines  Brazil is seeking to avoid delays in connecting completed
wind farms to the  power grid  after the utility Cia. Hidro
Eletrica do  Sao Francisco  failed to connect 26 wind farms in the
northeast before a May deadline, Nobrega said.  The unit of state-controlled power company  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  expects to complete the three
transmission lines linking about 620 megawatts of wind farms by
the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  