-- Brazil Swap Rates Fall After Inflation Report; Currency Gains
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-02-27T21:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/brazil-swap-rates-fall-after-inflation-report-currency-gains.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell for a third
day after a report showed a gauge of wholesale, consumer and
construction prices rose less than forecast, reducing
speculation the central bank will increase borrowing costs.  Swap rates due in January 2015 dropped five basis points,
or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.40 percent. They rose on Feb. 22
to a six-month high of 8.51 percent. The real appreciated 0.5
percent to 1.9728 per dollar.  Brazil has succeeded in reducing swings in the real after
letting the currency fall 19 percent over two years to protect
local manufacturers, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an
interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . Now
that the real is hovering at about 2 per dollar, Brazil is
abandoning policies to depress the currency, he said.  “Mantega seems to be comfortable with the  exchange rate  at
its current level,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at
Renascenca DTVM in  Sao Paulo , said in a phone interview.  The real has gained 0.9 percent this month, the most among
25 emerging-market currencies after  South Africa ’s rand.  The currency rallied to a level stronger than 2 per  U.S.
dollar  on Jan. 28 for the first time since July after the
central bank intervened as inflation accelerated.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said on Feb. 25 at
a New York conference that Brazil has learned to operate in a
currency war environment. A more stable real this year will help
slow inflation, Tombini said.  Inflation Report  The IGP-M price  index  rose 0.29 percent this month, the
Getulio Vargas Foundation reported today. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for the gauge to match
January’s 0.34 percent increase. The index, which is made up of
60 percent producer prices, 30 percent consumer prices and 10
percent construction costs, rose 8.29 percent in February from a
year earlier.  “With these positive signs for inflation, the chance of a
rate hike practically does not exist,”  Andre Perfeito , the
chief economist at Gradual Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a
phone interview.’’  The central bank will decide next week whether to hold the
target  rate  at a record low 7.25 percent for a third meeting to
support the economy even as consumer-price inflation has
exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of its target range for more
than two years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  