-- Bulgarian Prosecutors Start Probe of CEZ, EVN, Energo-Pro
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-02-27T13:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/bulgarian-prosecutors-start-probe-of-cez-evn-energo-pro.html
Bulgarian prosecutors and tax
authorities started a probe of power distribution companies
operated by Czech  CEZ AS (CEZ) , Austria’s  EVN AG (EVN)  and Energo-Pro amid
protests against high utility bills that toppled the government.  “I have issued an order to carry out a full inspection of
the distribution companies to check for possible violations and
offenses,” Bulgaria’s Chief Prosecutor Sotir Tsatsarov told
reporters in Sofia today. “The purpose of the inspection is to
check whether all spending and investments are real.”  The European Union’s poorest state in terms of per-capita
output weathered the global crisis without borrowing from
international lenders and wants to keep its budget gap at 1.3
percent of gross domestic product this year to help contain the
impact from the euro-area crisis. Higher electricity and heating
bills caused by cold weather combined with low wages and rising
unemployment triggered nationwide protests against energy
utilities and the government, leading to Prime Minister Boyko Borissov’s resignation Feb. 20.  The State Energy and Water Regulation Commission started a
license revocation procedure against CEZ, the largest Czech
utility, after it found 21 violations including evasion of
public procurement laws. CEZ was given the option to repair the
breaches before the regulator’s next hearing on April 16.  All six members of the regulator resigned, it said Feb. 25.  Checking Contracts  The prosecutor’s probes, ordered by the Energy, Economy and
Tourism Ministry, will check the companies’ external services
contracts and will end on March 22, after which the conclusions
will be prepared, Tsatsarov said.  “We have no reason to be concerned because we have
observed the laws,” CEZ  Bulgaria  said in an e-mailed statement
today. “We’ll fully cooperate with the investigating
authorities and will fulfill our obligations professionally.”  Bulgaria sold seven power distributors in 2005 to EON SE,
CEZ and EVN before joining the European Union. EON sold its
Bulgarian companies to Energo-Pro in 2011.  CEZ supplies electricity to more than 2 million customers
in Sofia and the northern city of Pleven, which together account
for 41 percent of Bulgaria’s power consumption. EVN has 1.5
million customers in Plovdiv and Stara Zagora in southern
Bulgaria. Prague-based Energo-Pro provides electricity to 1.2
million customers in northeastern Bulgaria.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  