-- Caisse Unit Plans to Sell Most of C$2.3 Billion Hotel Assets
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-02-27T20:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/caisse-unit-plans-to-sell-most-of-c-2-3-billion-hotel-assets.html
Caisse de Depot et Placement du
 Quebec  plans to sell most of its hotels after the properties
failed to produce adequate returns, and will redeploy proceeds
in shopping malls, office towers and residential buildings.  Ivanhoe Cambridge, as the Caisse’s real-estate arm is
known, owned about C$2.3 billion ($2.2 billion) worth of hotels
as of Dec. 31, Chief Executive Officer Daniel Fournier said
today. The portfolio generated a negative return of about 14
percent last year, he said.  “The hotel sector is a non-strategic sector,” Fournier
told reporters after the Caisse’s annual results press
conference in Montreal. “We are leaving the hotel sector over a
four- to five-year period. We are going to do this in an orderly
fashion.”  Ivanhoe Cambridge has already sold about 40 percent of its
hotel assets since 2010, and “the other 60 percent will take
time because the market is not there now,” Fournier said.
Including debt, Ivanhoe Cambridge managed about C$35 billion in
total assets as of Dec. 31.  After selling the Hilton in downtown Toronto last month,
Ivanhoe Cambridge plans to announce two more deals in the next
few weeks, he said, declining to be more specific.  Ivanhoe plans to keep some properties, such as  Montreal ’s
Queen Elizabeth Hotel and  Quebec City ’s Chateau Frontenac,
because of their “iconic” value, Fournier said. The Chateau
Frontenac is undergoing a C$66 million renovation that began
last year and isn’t for sale, he said.  The company plans to spend C$2.2 billion to modernize its
shopping centers this year and next year, Fournier also said.
Development spending last year amounted to C$900 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  