-- Canada Stocks Rise on U.S. Data, Europe Equity Rebound
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-02-27T21:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/canada-stocks-little-changed-as-gold-slips-on-economic-optimism.html
Canadian stocks rose for a second
day amid better-than-estimated U.S. economic data and as
European shares rebounded on gains in Italian bonds.  Canadian Pacific Railway (CP)  Ltd. jumped 3.2 percent and
 Canadian National Railway (CNR)  Co. climbed 1 percent to pace gains in
transportation shares.  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  fell 1.6 percent and
Barrick Gold Corp. lost 1.4 percent as gold futures slipped for
the first time in three days. Financial shares added 0.4 percent
ahead of banks’ earnings announcements tomorrow.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 71.95
points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,732.39 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The
S&P/TSX has risen 2.4 percent this year.  “People are feeling a little bit confident,”  Peter Buchanan , senior economist at  CIBC World Markets , said in a
phone interview. “We’ll have to see if that confidence is
warranted. Gold has traditionally been an inflationary hedge,
but in the last year or two demand has clearly been driven by
recession fears.”  Gold futures fell 1.2 percent to settle at $1,595.70 an
ounce on the Comex in  New York  today. The metal is set to drop
for a fifth month, the longest run of monthly losses since 1997,
on signs global economic growth is improving, curbing demand for
gold as a protection of wealth.  Goldcorp declined 1.6 percent to C$33.90 and Barrick Gold
slid 1.4 percent to C$31.63.  Equities advanced as U.S. data showed contracts to purchase
previously owned homes climbed more than forecast in January.
Orders for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation equipment
increased in January by the most in a year. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank has the “tools”
necessary to scale back record stimulus and avert a rise in
inflation expectations, in congressional testimony that was
identical to his remarks yesterday.  Italian Bonds  Stocks in Europe rebounded as Italy sold 6.5 billion euros
($8.5 billion) of five- and 10-year bonds in its first auction
following inconclusive election results that pushed yields to a
four-month high yesterday.  Canadian Pacific Railway jumped 3.2 percent to C$124.58 and
Canadian National Railway climbed 1 percent to C$101.68.
Jefferies Group Inc. analyst  Peter Nesvold  called 2013 “the
Year of Transports” in a note today, citing strength in auto
sales and housing prices, increasing diesel consumption and
better-than-anticipated airfreight volumes.  Royal Bank of  Canada  rose 0.4 percent to C$63.48. Toronto-
Dominion Bank added 0.2 percent to C$84.29. Both are scheduled
to report earnings tomorrow. Royal Bank, Toronto-Dominion and
the country’s four other main lenders are expected to post a 6.9
percent increase in per-share profit excluding some items for
the quarter, according to Darko Mihelic, an analyst at Cormark
Securities Inc. in Toronto.  World’s Soundest  The nation’s banks, ranked the world’s soundest by the
 World Economic Forum  for five straight years, face a consumer-
lending slowdown as Canadians struggle with record debt levels
and a cooling housing market.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  rose 2.1 percent to C$19.27
after the company extended its C$5.1 billion ($5 billion)
 hostile takeover bid  for Canada’s Inmet Mining Corp. by 12 days.
Inmet shareholders will now have until March 11 to accept the
cash-and-stock offer, Vancouver-based First Quantum said today
in a filing. The bid was previously due to expire today. Inmet
gained 2.4 percent to C$66.89.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  