-- Carlyle’s Rubenstein Says Fail to Buy and Repent in Five Years
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-02-27T13:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/carlyle-s-rubenstein-says-fail-to-buy-and-repent-in-five-years.html
Investors who fail to take advantage
of low prices and an improving economy to buy European assets
will regret their decision in five years’ time,  Carlyle Group LP (CG) 
co-founder  David Rubenstein  said.  “Five years from today, people will go back to Europe and
say, how could we have missed the fact of this gigantic economy
with so many good assets,” Rubenstein, 63, said at the
SuperReturn International conference in Berlin today.  Carlyle is the second-largest U.S. private equity firm and,
like its rivals, is  diversifying  into areas such as commodities,
real estate and credit to reduce a reliance on leveraged
buyouts. Firms are also seeking to purchase companies offloaded
by Europe’s banks, which are under pressure from regulators to
cut the size of their balance sheets and improve  capital ratios .  The easy availability of credit, with borrowing costs near
the lowest ever, will help private equity outpace other parts of
the financial industry, Rubenstein said. Asset prices are
already buoyant in  Europe  compared with the U.S. because of
banks’ reluctance to realize losses, he said.  “When the economy went down in Europe, people all of a
sudden thought this will be like the U.S., people will sell
assets quickly and there’ll be opportunities to buy things at
distressed prices, an enormous amount of distressed debt,”
Rubenstein said.  “The reason it didn’t occur is the banks realized that if
they actually sold the debt at prices given by the market they
would go bankrupt and government regulators let them get away
with that,” he said. “Now, the economy has come back a bit and
assets can be sold without bankrupting the banks. So I think you
will see distressed sellers, or semi-distressed sellers, finally
unloading assets.”  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms use debt to
finance the deals and amplify returns.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  