-- Caroline Kennedy Said to Be Candidate for Envoy to Japan
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2013-02-28T00:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/caroline-kennedy-said-to-be-candidate-for-envoy-to-japan.html
Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of
the late President  John F. Kennedy , is a leading candidate to
become President  Barack Obama ’s nominee as U.S. ambassador to
Japan, according to two people familiar with the matter.  Kennedy, 55, would replace Ambassador John Roos, a former
technology lawyer and Obama campaign donor, as the U.S. envoy in
Tokyo, according to the people, who asked for anonymity because
the decision hasn’t been made official. While the president has
signed off on Kennedy’s nomination, her vetting for the post
hasn’t been completed, said one of the people.  An early backer of Obama in his 2008 run for president and
a co-chairman of his 2012 campaign, Kennedy is one of several
Obama political supporters and donors being reviewed for
ambassadorships to top U.S. allies.  The president is considering John Emerson, the president of
Capital Guardian Trust Co. as U.S. ambassador to Germany, said
the people. For the U.S. embassy in France, the leading
candidate is  Marc Lasry , the chief executive officer of Avenue
Capital Group LLC, who helped unite the fundraising networks of
Obama and former President  Bill Clinton .  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  declined to comment.
Kennedy and Emerson did not respond to a request for comment.
Lasry declined to comment.  As Obama replaces Cabinet members, he is also rounding out
his diplomatic representatives and rewarding those who worked
for his re-election.  U.K. Ambassador  After considering  Anna Wintour , editor-in-chief of Vogue,
as envoy to the U.K., Obama is leaning toward Matthew Barzun,
finance chairman of Obama’s presidential campaign, for the job,
officially known as ambassador to the Court of St. James’s.  While Obama’s second-term ambassadors will report to
Secretary of State  John Kerry , political appointees often have
the ability to go directly to the president. Their status as a
friend of supporter of the president can give them more leeway
than envoys who achieved ambassadorial ranking by working their
way up the foreign service.  Obama has drawn ambassadors from the political ranks at a
higher rate than the historical average of 30 percent, according
to the American Foreign Service Association. In his first term,
Obama nominated 59 ambassadors, including 40 fundraising
bundlers, who lacked experience in the diplomatic corps.  For Kennedy, becoming an ambassador would allow her to
continue a family tradition of public service. Her father, the
35th U.S. president, was assassinated on Nov. 22, 1963. Her
uncle Robert Kennedy, a U.S. senator, also was assassinated,
while running for president in 1968. Another uncle, former
Democratic Senator  Edward Kennedy , died in August 2009, after
serving in the Senate for almost 47 years.  Endorsing Obama  In 2009, when then-Senator  Hillary Clinton  left her New
York senate seat, Caroline Kennedy called the then-governor,
 David Paterson , to express her interest in the job.  In January of 2008, when Obama was still battling Clinton
for the Democratic nomination, Kennedy endorsed Obama with a New
York Time opinion article, writing that “I have never had a
president who inspired me the way people tell me that my father
inspired them.”  “But for the first time, I believe I have found the man
who could be that president,” she wrote.  At the  Charlotte  convention last year, she said that
Obama’s first term record reflected “the ideals my father and
my uncles fought for.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  