-- CME Net Loss Widens on Weaker TV Ad Market, Impairment
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-02-27T16:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/central-european-media-quarterly-net-loss-widens-on-ad-spending.html
Central European Media Enterprises
Ltd. (CETV) , the eastern European broadcaster co-owned by  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) , said its fourth-quarter net loss widened as TV ad markets
continued to weaken and the company’s impairment charge
increased almost eightfold.  The net loss for the three months ended Dec. 30 was $503.1
million, compared with a loss of $77.2 million in the previous
quarter, the Hamilton-Bermuda registered company said in a
statement today. Revenue declined 8.5 percent to $253.3 million.  “Our performance this year reflected the tough market
conditions in 2012,” Chief Executive Officer Adrian Sarbu said
in the statement. With “no debt due until November 2015 and
support from our major shareholders we’re looking into 2013 with
confidence.” The company plans to cut costs and improve its
capital structure and liquidity, Sarbu said.  The broadcaster incurred a non-cash impairment charge of
$522.5 million in 2012, compared with $68.7 million a year
earlier, it said. Full-year Oibda, or operating income before
depreciation and amortization, was $125.4 million, missing its
November forecast of $130 million to $140 million.  Its shares slumped 8.7 percent to 95 koruna, falling the
most in four months.  Lower Forecasts  Central European Media Enterprises, or CME as the company
is known, is facing a decline in TV ad spending in eastern
 Europe  as big corporate clients tighten their advertising
budgets on concerns over the weak macroeconomic developments in
the region. The company cut its 2012 profit and free cash flow
forecasts last year.  CME reiterated today it is taking steps to conserve cash
and is considering new equity financing, asset sales and
continues efforts to renegotiate payment obligations with
suppliers. The company is in talks with Time Warner regarding
its possible participation in a public, or private equity
offering, it said.  Time Warner controls 49.9 percent of CME, CME said on Aug.
1. Last year, the broadcaster received financing, in exchange
for the stock, from its major shareholders Time Warner and
billionaire  Ronald Lauder , which reduced its debt by $185
million.  CME plans to raise prime time prices in all markets, the
company said in a presentation. In the  Czech Republic , the
broadcaster plans “double-digit” price increases. At the same
time, the company will also invest more to increase its audience
share in prime time, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  