-- Central Banks Spewing Cash Need to Plan Exit Timing, Rohde Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-02-28T14:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/central-banks-spewing-cash-must-consider-exit-timing-rohde-says.html
Central bankers across the globe
need to plan for monetary tightening to avoid feeding asset
bubbles, Danish central bank Governor Lars Rohde said.  “Beyond the short horizon, central banks have to be
vigilant of the effects, including the effect of negative real
 interest rates , and they have to plan for an exit as
normalization progresses,” Rohde said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. Asked whether such policies could fuel asset bubbles,
Rohde said, “Yes.”  The warning from the head of  Denmark ’s central bank, which
has kept its deposit rate  below zero  since July, comes as policy
makers from  Japan  to  Europe  to the U.S. deploy unprecedented
monetary stimulus to jolt their economies into recovery mode. In
Japan, the government has nominated a candidate to head the
central bank who has openly backed more easing, while Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  this week defended his bank’s
record asset purchases designed to keep rates low for longer
maturities.  Central banks have hesitated to withdraw support measures
as they wait for clear signs a global recovery is around the
corner. In the euro area, Italian elections this week led to an
inconclusive result, with the risk of political stalemate
jeopardizing the nation’s commitment to austerity.  The 17-nation euro area will contract 0.3 percent this year
after shrinking 0.6 percent in 2012, the European Commission
estimates. Both the U.S. and Japan will expand less than 2
percent this year, the commission said Feb. 22.  No Alternative  “Looking globally, there is no short-term alternative to
the expansionary monetary policy, given the state of the real
economy,” Rohde said.  The Fed has held its benchmark rate close to zero since
2008, while Japan’s main rate is between zero and 0.1 percent.
The Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  cut its policy rate to
0.75 percent in July in an effort to ease the region’s debt
crisis.  “It’ll be the same pattern as every time cycles shift,”
Jacob Graven, chief economist at Sydbank A/S, said by phone.
“Central banks pull funds they injected while things were bad,
but it’s safe to say the risk of getting things wrong this time
will be considerably bigger.”  Euro-zone inflation was 2.2 percent in December, while
annual prices grew 1.6 percent in the U.S. last month, official
figures show. Inflation in Denmark was 2 percent in December and
1.3 percent the following month, as the economy shrank 1 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, a report showed today.  Exchange Rate  The Danish central bank is obliged to track the ECB to
defend the krone’s peg to the euro. The bank, which resorted to
a negative deposit rate last year to counter a capital influx
into haven markets such as AAA rated Denmark’s, raised rates
last month by 0.1 percentage point after low-yielding assets
lost their allure. The bank’s deposit rate is minus 0.1 percent
and its benchmark lending rate is 0.3 percent.  In Denmark, “monetary policy is solely dedicated to
maintaining the fixed  exchange rate ,” Rohde said.  The krone rose to its strongest against the euro since
October, before trading at 7.4564 as of 3:47 p.m. in Copenhagen.  “One can assume that the central bank has an underlying
interest in normalizing monetary policy” away from negative
interest rates, Jan Stoerup Nielsen, senior analyst at Nordea
Bank AB in Copenhagen, said by phone.  As central banks in the world’s biggest economies stay in
crisis mode, the ripple effects are already being felt in some
of the world’s richest countries, where policy makers are
struggling to contain overheating.  Rich Countries  Sweden, Norway and  Switzerland  are tightening rules on
mortgage lending as low rates inflate property prices and credit
growth. Private debt burdens have grown across Scandinavia.  Swedish households amassed debt equivalent to 173 percent
of disposable incomes last year, while their Norwegian
counterparts will exceed 200 percent this year, their central
banks estimate. Denmark carries the world record at 322 percent
of disposable incomes, according to  Standard & Poor’s .  Swedish Riksbank Governor  Stefan Ingves , who is also the
head of the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , has warned
low rates are adding to the risk of driving up  household debt .  In minutes of the bank’s Feb. 12 meeting, Ingves said,
“With the current low interest rates, one must be aware of the
link between household debt and monetary policy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  