-- Centrica Plans U.S. Purchases to Grow North American Profit
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-02-27T16:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/centrica-plans-u-s-acquisitions-to-expand-north-american-profit.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the biggest power and
gas supplier to U.K. homes, plans acquisitions in the U.S. as
the utility tries to double profits from  North America .  More than half of the U.S. expansion will come through
small and larger purchases, Chief Executive Officer Sam Laidlaw
said today on a conference call presenting the Windsor, England-
based company’s strategy.  “As some U.S. states deregulate and open markets, we’ve
the scope to make acquisitions of customer blocks,” Chief
Financial Officer Nick Luff said on a conference call with
journalists. “From a downstream energy supplier’s perspective,
it’s a growing market.”  Centrica is looking for growth in North America as a
stagnant U.K. economy holds back demand. It has 5.5 million
customers in the U.S. and  Canada  concentrated in  New England  and
 Texas , where energy markets are deregulated.  Centrica reported a 5.5 percent rise in 2012 adjusted
earnings to 1.4 billion pounds ($2.1 billion) as U.K. gas demand
increased because of cooler weather. The company expects U.K.
gas imports to rise while supplies from the  North Sea  dwindle on
aging fields.  The shares declined 0.4 percent to 347.80 pence at the
close in London trading, valuing the company at about 18 billion
pounds.  Centrica’s North American division made 331 million pounds
last year from 312 million in 2011, according to an earnings
statement. It added more than 200,000 residential customer
accounts, it said. Profit at its British Gas unit increased 9
percent last year to 1.09 billion pounds.  The company has appointed  Chris Weston  as head of the
international downstream business to oversee supply business in
the U.K. and U.S. Badar Khan will replace Weston as head of the
North American division from April 1. Phil Bentley, head of
British Gas, will leave the company by the end of the year.  Build Reactors  Centrica earlier this month opted out of a plan to build
nuclear reactors at two  power plants  in the U.K. with
 Electricite de France SA , writing off 200 million pounds it
spent on advanced costs. It also completed a 500 million-pound
share buyback program.  Global oil and gas production is expected to rise to 75
million barrels of oil equivalent a year in 2013, Centrica said
in a presentation on its website. That compares with 44 million
barrels in 2009.  The U.K. is becoming increasingly reliant on imports and
liquefied natural gas will intensify the link between the U.K.
and global gas markets, Centrica said in the presentation.  “As the U.K. imports more gas, maximizing production of
gas in the U.K. is important,” Luff said. “We’re interested in
all sources of gas supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  