-- Challenge to Chicago’s 99-Year Garage Lease Can Proceed
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-27T21:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/challenge-to-chicago-s-99-year-garage-lease-can-proceed.html
Chicago ’s 99-year lease of four
downtown parking garages to a business controlled by two  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  investment vehicles will face a legal challenge to its
terms.  Illinois state court Judge Rodolfo Garcia in Chicago today
granted a taxpayer group’s request for permission to move
forward with a complaint filed with the court on Feb. 13.  While that motion was unopposed, an attorney for defendant
Chicago Loop Parking LLC, Bryna Dahlin of Chicago-based Winston
& Strawn LLP, told the judge her client disputes the legal basis
for the suit.  “The only way to get to the merits of this is by getting
past that initial step of having something before me,” Garcia
said from the bench. He gave Chicago Loop Parking and the city
60 days to respond to the complaint.  Chicago Loop Parking LLC paid the third-biggest U.S. city
$563 million for the lease in 2006 and, in 2011, submitted a
demand for $200 million for lost revenue after the city allowed
a new garage to be built within a restricted zone, according to
the filing.  The plaintiffs, Independent Voters of  Illinois  and Chicago
resident Aviva Patt, allege the city’s agreement to cede its
control over parking on the east side of its downtown business
district, known as the Loop, constitutes an illegal delegation
of its legislative and police powers.  Public Money  Patt and the Independent Voters group are seeking a court
order declaring the challenged provisions void and barring city
Comptroller Amer Ahmad from paying out public money under the
agreement.  Chicago Loop Parking is controlled in equal parts by Morgan
Stanley Infrastructure Partners LP and Morgan Stanley
Infrastructure Investors LP, according to the complaint.  Matt Burkhard, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, referred calls for comment to Chicago Loop Parking.
Lena Parsons, a spokeswoman for the company from  WPP Plc (WPP) ’s Hill
& Knowlton public-relations firm, declined to comment on the
ruling.  Ahmad is also a defendant in the case. Roderick Drew, a
spokesman for the city’s law department, didn’t reply to voice-
mail messages seeking comment.  The case is Independent Voters of Illinois v. Ahmad,
2013CH04219, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,  Chancery
Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  