-- ChemChina Said to Buy March Angola Crude for Teapot Refineries
-- B y   W i n n i e   Z h u
-- 2013-02-27T04:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/chemchina-said-to-buy-march-angola-crude-for-teapot-refineries.html
China  National Chemical Corp. bought
a cargo of Angola crude for March delivery to feed its smaller
refineries under the country’s first allowance for processing
imported oil at so-called teapot plants, according to four
people with knowledge of the purchase.  The first cargo of 1 million barrels of Saturno crude will
arrive in Qingdao in eastern China’s Shandong province on March
18, said one of the people, declining to be named because the
information is confidential. The buyer, known as ChemChina, is
nation’s largest chemical producer.  Teapot facilities, generally smaller refineries located in
Shandong, are run at lower rates compared with other plants
owned by state-owned  PetroChina Co. (857)  and  China Petroleum &
Chemical Corp. (600028)  The teapots mainly process fuel oil into gasoline
and diesel because they have limited access to domestic crude
and were traditionally banned from refining imported oil.  The teapot plants under state-owned ChemChina won the quota
to process 10 million tons of imported crude, which will reduce
their need for fuel oil.  The access to overseas crude may reduce the facilities’
imports of fuel oil to 2 million to 3 million metric tons this
year from more than 4 million tons in 2012, one of the people
said. The company’s total oil-processing volume may rise to as
much as 16 million tons from about 10 million tons last year.  ChemChina bought Angola Saturno from  Brightoil Petroleum
Holdings Ltd. (933) , the people said. The new grade is relatively
inexpensive while matching the configuration of the teapot
plants, and the company is in talks to buy more crude cargoes,
said one of the people, declining to elaborate.  Global Markets  The company bought the cargo through China National
Offshore Oil Corp., which has experience in purchasing crude via
global markets, three of the people said. The cargo was co-
loaded with other supplies on a vessel chartered by China
International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp, they said. China
International, known as Unipec, is the nation’s largest oil
trader.  Zhou Chuanrong, the Beijing-based spokesman for ChemChina,
declined to comment today on the purchases. ChemChina’s annual
oil-processing capacity is about 25 million tons a year, or
about 500,000 barrels a day, according to the company’s  website .  China’s teapot refineries, which account for a quarter of
the nation’s total refining capacity, import about 10 million
tons of fuel oil as feedstock on an annual basis, according to
the Shandong Fuel Oil Association. The country’s total residue
 imports  were 26.88 million tons last year, according to Chinese
customs data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Singapore at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  