-- Chicagoans Narrow Field to Fill Jackson Jr. Congress Seat
-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 2013-02-27T05:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/chicagoans-narrow-field-to-fill-jackson-jr-congress-seat.html
Robin Kelly won yesterday’s Illinois
Democratic primary for the vacated seat of former U.S.
Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. in a race that centered on gun
control and the role of outside money in political campaigns.  The Democratic winner is expected to prevail in the April 9
general election in a Chicago-area district that voted 81
percent for President  Barack Obama  in November. Kelly, a former
Illinois state legislator, was one of 16 Democratic candidates
in the primary. The Republican primary, also held yesterday, was
too close to call, the  Associated Press  reported.  Highlighting the importance of the gun issue in the race,
Kelly said last night that voters had sent a message to the
 National Rifle Association , the lobbying group that opposes
tighter firearms restrictions.  “We will fight to ban assault weapons, to close the gun-
show loopholes, and to ban high-capacity magazine clips,” Kelly
said during a news conference. “We will do whatever it takes to
ban this epidemic of gun violence once and for all.”  The contest had drawn attention and money from outside
 Chicago , with  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ’s super-
political action committee, Independence USA, targeting Democrat
Debbie Halvorson, a leading contender who as a U.S.
congresswoman had held the NRA’s top ranking. Bloomberg is the
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of
 Bloomberg News .  Outside Money  Independence USA spent more than $2.2 million on ads
attacking Halvorson and supporting Kelly, according to the
committee’s filings. Halvorson had raised $98,000 as of Feb. 6,
according to federal records.  “We all know how rough it was for me to have to run an
election against somebody who spent $2.3 million against me,”
Halvorson said last night in a concession speech. “But tonight
is about rallying around Democrats.”  Another Democratic contender, Chicago Alderman Anthony
Beale, also conceded last night, according to the AP.  Chicago has become a center for the gun debate because it
had 506 homicides last year, the most in the city in four years.
The violence drew the attention of Obama, who spoke on curbing
gun violence this month at a school near the park where Hadiya
Pendleton, 15, a Chicago student who attended Obama’s
inauguration, was fatally shot.  The NRA is one of the strongest voices against  gun-control 
laws in the U.S. The Fairfax, Virginia-based nonprofit group
says it has more than 4 million individuals as members, and it
reported 2011 revenue of $219 million on its tax returns.  No Representation  Voters in Jackson’s district, which includes Chicago’s
South Side and southern suburbs, haven’t had representation
since he went on medical leave from Congress in June. Jackson,
47, and his wife, former Alderman Sandi Jackson, pleaded guilty
last week to fraud involving his campaign, among other charges.  The downfall of the couple, once viewed as a budding
Chicago powerhouse, derailed the Jackson family’s role in
politics. Jackson Jr., scion of the iconic civil-rights family
led by the Reverend Jesse Jackson Sr., was often mentioned for
higher office.  Jesse Jackson Jr.’s political fortunes started to shift
shortly after Obama won the White House in 2008, when the
congressman pressed to replace the president-elect in the  U.S.
Senate  and was caught up in the scandal surrounding former
Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich ’s attempts to sell the seat.  The vote to replace Jackson recalled the 1995 special
election in which the younger Jackson filled a vacancy left by
Mel Reynolds, who was convicted of bank fraud and sexual
assault. Out of prison since President  Bill Clinton  pardoned him
in 2001, Reynolds was one of the Democratic candidates on the
ballot in yesterday’s contest.  November Resignation  The election likely cost the city $1.5 million, even after
Governor  Pat Quinn  signed a bill in December that made the
ballot coincide with local municipal voting on April 9,
according to the Chicago Board of Elections.  Jackson resigned from Congress on Nov. 21, after being on
leave since June. His office initially said he was suffering
from exhaustion, although later it was revealed he had
depression and bipolar disorder and had been hospitalized at the
 Mayo Clinic  in  Minnesota .  His absence has cut the Second District out of the federal
legislative process, said Andy Shaw, president of the Better
Government Association, a Chicago-based group that tracks
corruption.  “Nobody has been representing them in the corridors of
power in  Washington , where dollars are parceled out,” Shaw
said. “There’s no mechanism for getting representation when a
congressman goes down like Jesse Jackson Jr.”  Heavy Snow  Election officials reported low voter turnout on a day with
heavy snowfall and no other major contests. In the special
election Jackson Jr. won in 1995 to replace Reynolds, only 18
percent of voters participated, according to the elections
board. The congressman before Reynolds, Gus Savage, was found by
a House Ethics Committee to have made improper sexual advances
on a female Peace Corps volunteer.  Still, Jackson’s case stands out amid Chicago’s rich
history of malfeasance. In his guilty plea on Feb. 20, he
acknowledged misusing $750,000 of campaign contributions to buy
3,100 personal items, including a $43,000 Rolex watch, a hat
that belonged to the late pop singer  Michael Jackson  and $15,000
in dry cleaning. Yesterday’s contest, which marked an
opportunity for a clean slate for the district, wasn’t short of
controversy.  Kelly came under scrutiny last week after the  Chicago
Tribune  reported alleged ethics violations by her while she
worked for the state treasurer. The office’s chief investigator
said she improperly reported time off from her job while chief
of staff in 2010, according to the Tribune.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in Chicago at 
 orenick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  