-- China Rate Swaps Snap Six-Day Gain as Reverse Repos May Resume
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-02-27T03:03:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/china-rate-swaps-snap-six-day-gain-as-reverse-repos-may-resume.html
China ’s one-year  interest-rate swaps 
snapped a six-day run of increases as the central bank signaled
it will conduct reverse-repurchase agreements, after last week
scrapping the cash injections for the first time since June.  The People’s Bank of China today gauged demand for an
auction of seven- and 14-day reverse repos tomorrow, according
to a trader at a primary dealer required to participate in such
operations. It sold repurchase contracts last week for the first
time in eight months, withdrawing funds from banks after they
lent the most money in two years in January. A net 910 billion
 yuan  ($146 billion) was taken from the financial system in the
week, more than double the previous record in Bloomberg  data 
going back to March 2008.  “Speculation of policy tightening was overdone,” said
Chen Qi, a Shanghai-based analyst at UBS Securities Co. Ltd.
“The central bank gauged demand for reverse repos and it is
fine-tuning liquidity, not reversing its policy.”  The one-year swap, the fixed cost needed to receive the
floating seven-day repurchase rate, fell four basis points to
3.21 percent as of 10:36 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 3.29 percent yesterday, the
highest level since Jan. 18.  The central bank refused to supply cash to banks yesterday
after they applied for funds under a new program of short-term
liquidity operations that was announced last month,  Securities
Times  reported today, citing unidentified people.  Repo Rate  The monetary authority also asked banks today to submit
orders for 28- and 91-day repurchase contracts, according to the
primary dealer’s trader, who declined to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  The seven-day  repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, climbed 39 basis points today to 4.21 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center. It touched 4.22 percent, the highest
level since Jan. 4.  China’s finance ministry sold at least 22 billion yuan of
seven-year bonds at an average yield of 3.43 percent today,
according to a trader at a  finance company  that participates in
government debt auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  