-- China Needs Tighter Monetary Policy, State Research Agency Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-27T05:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/china-needs-tighter-monetary-policy-state-research-agency-says.html
China  needs to lean toward a tighter
monetary-policy stance as the economy faces risks from excessive
liquidity and credit, according to a research unit of the
nation’s top economic-planning agency.  Authorities should drain more cash from the financial
system to manage liquidity and regulators need to enhance
oversight of banks’ off-balance-sheet business, the State
Information Center, a research arm of the National Development
and Reform Commission, said in a report published today in the
official China Securities Journal.  The report adds to signs that the central bank and other
agencies will step up efforts to counter risks from rising
property prices and debt as the economy recovers from the
weakest growth in 13 years. The People’s Bank of China withdrew
a net 910 billion  yuan  ($146 billion) from the financial system
last week, more than double the previous record in data compiled
by Bloomberg going back to 2008.  “For now, risks of overheating are bigger than those of a
deep slowdown,” said  Sun Mingchun , head of China research at
Daiwa Capital Markets in  Hong Kong .  Growth in gross domestic product will accelerate further to
8 percent in the first quarter from 7.9 percent in the final
three months of 2012 thanks to strong expansion in
infrastructure investment, with consumer inflation at 2.6
percent for the first quarter of 2013, according to the research
agency’s report.  The yen’s depreciation will drag down China’s  export growth 
rate in the first quarter by 2 percentage points to 8 percent,
according to the report by a group led by  Fan Jianping , director
of the State Information Center’s economic-forecast department.
The Japanese currency has fallen 9 percent against the dollar
since the Dec. 16 election victory of Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party .  “The  U.S. economy  is in better shape than Europe and
Japan,” according to the report. That indicates a “great
amount of funds may flow back to the U.S.,” meaning the dollar
may appreciate.  --Zhou Xin. Editors: Scott Lanman, Sunil Jagtiani  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  