-- China Buys U.S. Corn as Mold to Hit Local Supply, Yigu Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-27T07:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/china-buys-u-s-corn-as-mold-to-hit-local-supplies-yigu-says.html
Feed mills in  China , the second-
biggest corn consumer, will probably order more U.S. grain on
concern that domestic supply won’t meet demand before the fall
harvest, researcher Yigu Information Consulting Ltd. said.  Snow and rain in northern China have increased moisture in
farmers’ unsold grain, making it more vulnerable to mold and
less suitable as animal feed, said  Feng Lichen , the general
manager of Yigu, which runs China’s biggest corn information
 portal . Some mills are securing shipments from the U.S., the
biggest exporter, for deliveries later this year using newly
issued import permits from the government, as the cost of U.S.
corn has dropped, he said.  China’s purchases may help stem an 18 percent decline in
Chicago prices from a record in August. The U.S. crop will be an
all-time high following the worst drought in seven decades, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture said on Feb. 22. Chinese mills
bought at least 120,000 metric tons from the U.S. last week, the
first purchases this year, two executives with direct knowledge
of the matter said on Feb. 22. U.S. corn exporters sold 127,000
tons to unknown buyers last week, the USDA said.  “China’s corn shortage this year may widen to 5 million
tons from a previous projection of 2 million tons,” Feng said
by phone on Feb. 25 from Dalian in northeastern China, the port
city in the country’s biggest corn-growing region. “The crops
are just too wet, so as soon as the weather warms up next month,
mold will grow,” he said.  China Harvest  The most-active contract on the Chicago Board of Trade has
lost 6.9 percent this month and was at $6.93 a bushel at 3:37
p.m. in Beijing.  Traders are quoting prices between 2,220  yuan  ($356) and
2,250 yuan a ton for September shipments of U.S. corn, including
freight costs, Zhang said. Futures for September delivery closed
at 2,433 yuan a ton on the Dalian Commodity Exchange.  The USDA had said on Feb. 9 that China’s harvest in the
marketing season from Oct. 1 rose to a record 208 million tons,
cutting possible imports to 2.5 million tons from last year’s
5.23 million tons.  Purchases by feed mills may have totaled more than 200,000
tons since last week, Cherry Zhang, an analyst at Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co., said Feb. 25. Buyers will proceed cautiously
on concern that U.S. prices may drop more, she said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  