-- China Stocks Rise Most in 3 Weeks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-27T07:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/china-s-stock-futures-signal-gains-for-equities-at-one-month-low.html
China ’s  stocks  rose the most in
three weeks, led by financial and commodity companies, on
speculation the government will take steps to bolster equities.  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and Haitong Securities Co. climbed at
least 3 percent after the regulator said it may allow more
securities companies to conduct asset-backed securities
businesses and China National Radio reported the government is
studying allowing the housing provident fund to invest in
equities. Jiangxi Copper Co. led gains for metal producers as
industrial metals advanced.  Yunnan Baiyao Group Co. (000538)  paced
declines among drug companies after a gauge of health-care
stocks had the biggest gain among industry groups this year.  “Brokerages will have more innovative businesses to
develop and they have good earnings prospects going forward,”
Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities Co. in  Shanghai ,
said by phone today. “Regulators don’t want to see declines in
the stock market and these measures are a signal that they still
have cards to play.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.9 percent to
2,313.22 at the close, the most since Feb. 1. The measure fell
as much 0.1 percent and gained as much as 1.4 percent, with 30-
day  volatility  jumping to the highest level since Jan. 28 at
19.99. Trading volumes were 25 percent lower than the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The CSI 300 Index rose 1.1 percent to 2,594.68. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong
Kong  gained 0.4 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  added
0.3 percent in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai index  traded  for 9.5 times projected 12-month
earnings yesterday, the lowest level since Dec. 24. The gauge
has fallen 3 percent in February, heading for the biggest
monthly drop since November. The decline has trimmed a gain
during a bull-market rally that started on Dec. 3 to 18 percent.  Brokers Rally  A gauge of banks, brokerages and developers in the CSI 300
advanced 2.1 percent, the most among 10 industry groups. The
measure traded at 7.98 times earnings for the next 12 months
yesterday, the lowest since Jan. 11, according to Bloomberg
 data .  Citic Securities, China’s biggest listed brokerage,
advanced 3 percent to 13.95  yuan . Haitong Securities, the second
largest, gained 3.5 percent to 11.85 yuan.  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. (600048) , China’s second-largest developer by market value,
rose 3.9 percent to 12.38 yuan. Industrial Bank Co. climbed 3.6
percent to 18.92 yuan.  Housing Fund  The regulator may allow more securities companies to
conduct asset-backed securities businesses, according to a
statement posted on the regulator’s website yesterday. It may
add 100 billion yuan quotas of the  renminbi  qualified foreign
institutional investor program for investors in  Taiwan , the
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. The RQFII program allows
offshore yuan to be invested in mainland’s stocks and bonds.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission is studying
allowing the housing provident fund to invest in stocks, China
National Radio reported yesterday, citing an unidentified CSRC
official. The fund’s outstanding balance was 2.1 trillion yuan
at the end of 2011.  Jiangxi Copper, the biggest producer of the metal, rose for
the first time in five days, adding 1 percent to 23.77 yuan.
Industrial metals advanced after new-home sales surged by the
most in two decades in the U.S., and Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  defended stimulus measures, raising demand
prospects from the second-largest user.  Reflecting Growth  Chinese stocks will resume this year’s rally as the
government works to shore up the nation’s economic recovery,
according to China Asset Management Co. The firm is the
country’s biggest fund manager with 246 billion yuan ($39
billion) of assets, according to fund tracker Howbuy.  Gains this year in Chinese A shares, stock traded in
Shanghai and the southern city of Shenzhen, “didn’t fully
reflect the gradual economic recovery this year,” David Lai, a
portfolio manager at the Hong Kong unit of China Asset
Management, said by phone on Feb. 25. “More projects or plans
will be rolled out to support short-term growth after the
government reshuffle next month.”  New leaders are mulling plans to revamp the central
government this week to bolster the economy as it emerges from a
seven-quarter slowdown, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
Feb. 23. Communist Party chief  Xi Jinping  is projected to become
president during the broadest reshuffle in five years at the
National People’s Congress starting March 5.  “Ahead of the meetings in March, the market will fluctuate
quite a bit as there’s policy uncertainty,” Zhang Haidong, an
analyst at Tebon Securities Co., said by telephone from
Shanghai. “There’s still concern about property tightening and
the economy isn’t recovering as strongly as we hope it would.
Don’t expect any sustained rebound in the near-term.”  A gauge of health-care stocks fell 1.3 percent, the biggest
loss among the 10 industry groups. It has surged 16 percent this
year, the best performer among the sub-indexes. Yunnan Baiyao
lost 0.7 percent to 75.50 yuan.  Huadong Medicine Co. (000963)  dropped 3.8
percent to 37.80 yuan. Kangmei Pharmaceutical Co. slid 3.9
percent to 16.63 yuan.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  