-- Christie Seeks N.J. Medicaid Growth in Reversal of Stand
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/christie-seeks-n-j-medicaid-growth-in-reversal-of-stand.html
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie,
a critic of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul,
reversed course to seek a Medicaid expansion in his $32.9
billion spending plan proposed as he pursues re-election.  Christie, 50, joined seven other Republican governors who
plan to expand the federal-state program for the poor, after
opposing Obama’s Affordable Care Act.  Florida ’s Rick Scott took
the step last week, joining four others -- John Kasich of  Ohio ,
Susana Martinez of New Mexico, Brian Sandoval of  Nevada  and Rick Snyder of  Michigan  -- who all face re-election next year.  The expansion is a “huge concession” by Christie, said
 Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and politics at Montclair State
University. As he spoke yesterday, she said, his expression
“was contemptuous -- like he had swallowed a bitter pill.”  “Not only is he complying with the Affordable Care Act,
but participating in the expansion of a government program,”
Harrison said by telephone. That’s contrary to his distaste for
the Obama law, and his smaller-government philosophy, she said.  “Let me be clear, I am no fan of the Affordable Care
Act,” Christie said in laying out his proposed fiscal 2014
budget for lawmakers. “I fought against it and believe, in the
long run, it will not achieve what it promises. However, it is
now the law of the land. I will make all my judgments as
governor based on what is best for New Jerseyans.”  Praised Obama  Christie praised Obama’s help with  Hurricane Sandy  before
the 2012 presidential election and faulted Republican House
Speaker John Boehner over delayed aid in January. As a result,
the governor won’t be invited to the Conservative Political
Action Conference’s 2013 meeting, said a person familiar with
the matter who wasn’t allowed to speak publicly for CPAC and
asked not to be named. Christie was a CPAC speaker last year.  The Medicaid expansion would add 104,000 clients to the
state’s program, which already serves 1.4 million, to save
taxpayers $227 million in the year that begins July 1, according
to Christie. Federal money will cover the cost for the first
three years.  The move will expand Medicaid rolls by three times the
number of clients Christie counted and will create health-care
jobs, according to Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat
from East Orange. She attributed his changed stance to the
budget savings.  “There is no way, in a state like New Jersey, the governor
could walk away from Medicaid expansion money,” Oliver told
reporters.  Budget Highlights  Under his budget, Christie would add about $1.68 billion to
state pensions and raise spending by 2.3 percent from the
current year. He would delay $392 million in property-tax
rebates to close most of a $407 million deficit. He counts on a
4.9 percent revenue increase, a smaller gain than he projected
last year, when his forecast for more than 8 percent growth was
challenged by Democrats and Standard & Poor’s.  S&P revised its outlook on New Jersey’s debt to negative
from stable in September, citing Christie’s “optimistic”
economic assumptions, an unfunded pension liability and the use
of nonrecurring revenue to close shortfalls.  In his budget speech a year ago, Christie said the state’s
economic rebound had begun, making a 10 percent income-tax cut
manageable. Democratic lawmakers refused to sign off on his
plan, saying the state couldn’t afford it. Yesterday, Christie
once again urged the legislature to pass the reduction.  “New Jersey has turned around and is growing again,” the
governor said.  November Race  Democrats, including Senator Barbara Buono of Metuchen, a
potential Christie gubernatorial opponent, said he didn’t
present a cohesive plan to bolster the economy and add jobs. New
Jersey’s 9.6 percent December  jobless rate  was the fourth-
highest in the nation.  Christie’s plan won’t reduce New Jersey unemployment,
according to Assembly Majority Leader Louis Greenwald, a
Democrat from Cherry Hill. Democrats said they want to reduce
property taxes and foster more job creation.  “There’s about 1 percent of this population that is doing
better,” Greenwald said. “We are three years into this
experiment and it has not borne fruit.”  On Nov. 26, Christie said he would seek a second term to
oversee the $36.9 billion job of rebuilding from Sandy.
Democrats, who control the state Legislature, have said Christie
is using the storm to deflect economic concerns.  ‘Inexcusable’ Stalemate  The governor described the fiscal stalemate in  Washington 
as “inexcusable,” in his remarks yesterday. Congressional
Republicans are locked in a standoff with Obama over $1.2
trillion in automatic spending cuts set to take effect starting
on March 1. Christie proposed a $40 million contingency fund for
Sandy expenses that aren’t reimbursed by the federal government.  “This will ensure that we can move ahead with maximum
speed, and that those things that fall through the cracks do not
bankrupt families, businesses or local governments,” he said.  Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich Institute for New
Jersey Politics at Rider University in Lawrenceville, said
Christie used his budget pitch as a platform to reach Garden
State voters.  “This was politically both a very astute and aggressive
speech, which is what is expected in February of an election
year,” Dworkin said by telephone. “When you’re going before
voters, there’s no talk of cutbacks, there’s talk about more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  