-- Clearwire to Take Sprint Financing, Hindering Dish Deal
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-02-27T21:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/clearwire-agrees-to-accept-financing-from-sprint-wsj-reports.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , the object of a
takeover contest, has decided to take at least $80 million in
financing from  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  next month, a decision that
may hinder a rival bid from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)   The money is part of a 10-month, $800 million financing
offer that Sprint extended to Clearwire when it agreed to buy
out the company’s shares in December for $2.97 apiece. Clearwire
hasn’t decided if it will take more than one month of payments,
though it has already lost the right to draw on the January and
February installments, according to a statement today.  While the move would increase Sprint’s stake in the
company, Clearwire said it’s still in discussions with Dish,
which counteroffered Sprint’s bid with a $3.30-a-share deal in
January. The financing is taking the form of exchangeable notes,
which Sprint can convert into Clearwire stock at $1.50 each
under certain conditions.  Today’s move may force Dish co-founder Charlie Ergen to
respond, said Walt Piecyk, an analyst with BTIG LLC in New York.
Clearwire’s minority investors also have been lobbying for a
better offer than Sprint’s deal. By taking the Sprint financing,
Clearwire is signaling that it’s moving closer to accepting the
original offer.  “The ball now moves into Charlie’s court,” Piecyk said.
“Either he modifies his offer or backs off to see how the
minority shareholder vote goes.”  Seeking Airwaves  Sprint, which already owns slightly more than 50 percent of
the money-losing company, is attempting to buy out the rest of
the shares so that it can use Clearwire’s airwaves to bolster
its own network. While Dish offered a higher price, that bid is
more complex and may require Sprint’s consent to be completed.  Dish has said that its proposal would require Clearwire to
terminate its financing agreement with Overland Park, Kansas-
based Sprint. Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-
based Dish, declined to comment today.  The Dish proposal is a nonbinding agreement, giving Dish
the ability to modify the terms or even take it to court,
 Jennifer Fritzsche , a Wells Fargo & Co. analyst, said in a note.  “We believe Dish can pursue litigation if it chooses,
given its bid of $3.30 a share is about 10 percent higher than
Sprint’s bid,” Fritzsche said.  Higher Price?  Shares of Bellevue, Washington-based Clearwire fell less
than 1 percent to $3.18 at the close in New York today. The
 stock  has climbed 10 percent this year, signaling that investors
expect Clearwire to fetch a higher price than Sprint’s $2.97
offer. Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, advanced
1.4 percent to $5.86 today.  The takeover bid for Clearwire followed a separate deal
between Sprint and Tokyo-based Softbank Inc., which is buying a
70 percent ownership in the carrier for $20 billion.  Sprint and Clearwire had forged a joint venture in 2008 to
build a nationwide wireless network, backed by $3.2 billion in
investments from  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Intel Corp. and cable companies.
After losses piled up, partners such as Google and  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC)  sold their stakes for a fraction of their original
value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  