-- Coinstar Rises on Outlook for Streaming, Coffee Ventures
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-27T22:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/coinstar-rises-on-outlook-for-movie-streaming-coffee-ventures.html
Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , owner of the Redbox
DVD rental kiosks, rose after executives said new businesses
such as its movie-streaming venture and Rubi coffee kiosks will
add to profit over the next three years.  Coinstar  gained  5.2 percent to $52.60 at the close in New
York, the most since Feb. 14. The Bellevue, Washington-based
company has advanced 1.1 percent this year.  The new ventures will account for 10 percent to 15 percent
of Coinstar’s revenue within three years, helping to boost
profit margins and free cash flow, Galen Smith, senior vice
president for finance at Redbox’s retail unit, said on a call
with analysts. Redbox Instant, a joint venture with  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  scheduled to begin in the first quarter,
will combine online streaming with DVD rentals for $8 to $9 a
month.  “We know customers are piecing together these elements on
their own,” Redbox Instant Chief Executive Officer Shawn Strickland said on the call. “It was important for us to bring
these elements together.”  Coinstar’s “core” diluted  earnings per share  may increase
11 percent to 18 percent over the next three years, Smith said,
without providing figures. That measure excludes profit from the
company’s 35 percent share of Redbox Instant and some other
items, Coinstar said.  The company will generate free cash flow of $650 million to
$750 million over the same time frame, Smith said. In a Feb. 7
statement, the company forecast annual free cash flow from
continuing operations for $180 million to $200 million for 2013.  Buybacks, Dividend  Some of the cash will probably be used for share buybacks
or a new dividend,  Eric Wold , an analyst with B. Riley Caris,
said in an e-mail.  By offering four free kiosk rentals per month as part of
Redbox Instant, the company intends to push more traffic to the
machines to boost additional rentals and help another new
venture; using the kiosks to sell tickets to events such as
concerts, Redbox President Anne Saunders said.  “They have laid out some interesting ways to drive
growth,” said Wold, who rates the shares buy.  The Rubi coffee venture, with kiosks in five cities
including Los Angeles and  Chicago , will add 10 more in 2013. The
company estimates the annual market for automated coffee at
about $800 million, said David Veenstra, Coinstar’s senior vice
president for strategy and new ventures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  