-- Senate Plans Symbolic Votes as Spending Cut Set to Begin
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-02-28T14:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/congressional-leaders-to-meet-with-obama-as-cuts-take-effect.html
Senators plan a pair of symbolic
votes that won’t head off $85 billion in U.S. spending cuts
scheduled to begin tomorrow.  Neither plan is expected to advance in today’s votes in
 Washington . Instead, they are designed to give Democrats and
Republicans political cover when the across-the-board cuts take
effect.  The parties are far apart on how to replace the cuts
totaling $1.2 trillion over nine years, $85 billion of which
would occur in the remaining seven months of this fiscal year.
Democrats say tax increases must be part of a replacement plan,
which Republican leaders oppose. Democrats say they expect the
public to place more blame on Republicans, rather than President
 Barack Obama , for reduced federal services.  “I think it’s pretty clear from polling data that the
president has the support of more people, but in the long term I
think if there’s damage to our national security there could be
a real cost to him,” Senator John McCain of  Arizona  told
reporters yesterday.  McCain was the Republican presidential nominee defeated by
Obama in 2008.  House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan, interviewed
today on CNBC, said he knew of no behind-the-scenes efforts to
stop the automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration, from
taking effect tomorrow.  ‘Going to Happen’  “I do expect the sequester to take effect because the
Senate hasn’t acted, the president’s around the country
campaigning instead of governing here in Washington,” said Ryan
of  Wisconsin . House Republicans “don’t think the sequester is
the right way” to cut spending “but it is going to happen,”
he said.  Senate Democrats propose replacing this year’s part of the
spending reduction with a smaller cut to defense programs, a
halt in direct payments to farmers, and a tax increase that
would impose a minimum 30 percent rate on top earners. The bill
is S.388.  The tax provision is known as the Buffett Rule, after one
of its leading proponents, billionaire  Warren Buffett . It would
apply fully to annual income exceeding $5 million.  Senate Republicans offered a bill that would keep the
spending cuts, while allowing Obama to submit his own plan by
March 15 for allocating them. The measure would let Congress
vote within a week to reject the president’s plan and keep the
original, across-the-board cuts in place. Some Senate
Republicans have said such a plan would cede too much power to
Obama. The measure is S.16.  White House  The president summoned congressional leaders to a White
House meeting tomorrow. Republicans John Boehner, the House
speaker, and Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader, and
Democrats Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, and Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, will attend.  Boehner told fellow House Republicans during a closed
caucus yesterday that he considers the meeting a “listening
session” and doesn’t intend to negotiate, said Representative
Lynn Westmoreland of  Georgia . Leaders didn’t discuss any new
strategy to avoid the spending cuts or the possibility of taking
up a Senate measure, Westmoreland said.  “I certainly don’t believe that the Senate is going to
come up with something,” Westmoreland said in an interview.  ‘Constructive Conversation’  White House spokesman Jay Carney said the president
anticipates a “constructive conversation” with the
congressional leaders, though he said the session probably
wouldn’t avert the cuts. Obama remains unwilling to consider a
proposal that doesn’t combine cuts with tax increases, Carney
said.  Obama has until 11:59 p.m. tomorrow to issue the order
officially putting the cuts into effect.  Investors have signaled they aren’t concerned about the
effect of the spending reductions on the world’s largest
economy. U.S. stocks rose, sending the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to a five-year high. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 1.3 percent to 1,515.99 at 4 p.m. yesterday in New York.
The Dow added 175.24 points, or 1.3 percent, to 14,075.37.  Treasury 10-year notes fell for a second day. The benchmark
10-year yield rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
to 1.90 percent at 5 p.m. New York time, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  McCain, Graham  The next step for Senate Democrats may be to try to gain
support from a handful of Republicans -- such as McCain and
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina -- for a broader, multiyear
proposal that includes new revenue, said Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson.  Administration officials have said the across-the-board
cuts will lead to forced days off for government workers and may
affect commercial airline flights and functions such as border
security.  Unless there’s a resolution in coming weeks, the
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that budget
reductions will cause a 0.6 percentage-point reduction in
economic growth this year. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee Feb. 26 that “this
additional near-term burden on the recovery is significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  