-- Conservatives Hindered by Ownership-Society Ideal
-- B y   M i k e   K o n c z a l
-- 2013-02-27T23:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/conservatives-hindered-by-ownership-society-ideal.html
U.S. conservatives continue a
healthy debate over how they can reconnect with voters and
channel their ideals and goals into policies relevant for the
21st century. But a specter haunts these conversations -- a
ghost called the ownership society.  This ghost subtly frames and guides all current approaches
to conservative thinking, though its influence isn’t clearly
articulated or noticed anymore. This is a problem, because until
the conservative movement reflects and deals with its ideal of
an ownership society, it is unlikely to advance.  The ownership society mantra of the President George W. Bush years is usually treated as a punch line, associated with
Republican cheerleading of  high homeownership  numbers during the
bubble or the push to privatize Social Security in 2005 that
failed before it even got started. But the ownership society was
the articulation of a deep part of conservative philosophy,
built through articles and speeches, and laid out in Bush’s 2005
inaugural speech and  State of the Union .  The ownership society rested on two claims. The first, most
important part was that the government should shift the risks we
face onto individuals and families. Not only is this the best
way to deal with risks, but doing so is an essential part of
freedom. The second part was to devolve organizations and
responsibilities from the federal government to states and
communities. As Bush said in his second inaugural address, these
two actions together would make “every citizen an agent of his
or her own destiny” while also giving “every American a stake in
the promise and future of our country.”  Lasting Influence  Even though Bush and his agenda have disappeared from the
main stage, the ownership society never went away and still
influences conservative policy. Representative Paul Ryan’s plan
is to turn everything that isn’t nailed to the floor into block
grants. Yuval Levin of National Affairs argues that families
(“which after all are not liberal institutions”) are  the best
agents  of cost controls in health care. To the extent they
exist, Republican approaches to health reform seek to reduce the
share of medical-cost risk that is socialized.  While the numerous individualized programs and government
activism of Bush-era “compassionate conservatism” seem to
contrast with the “47 percent” meme of the Tea Party versus the
looters, these are just two sides of the same coin. Or, perhaps,
the good cop and bad cop of the ownership society. The good cop
offers you a range of tax-free personal accounts to try and help
you mitigate risk while he transforms public programs into
private ones; the bad cop tries to stigmatize and dismantle what
remains of government assistance.  That the ownership idea has survived as a driver of
conservative policy making is important, because the vision of
an ownership society hasn’t survived the current downturn well.
The crown jewel of block-granted policy, welfare reform,  has
collapsed  under the recent economic crisis as increasing numbers
of Americans have been left without paying jobs or a welfare
check. State budgets crumbled under the bursting of the housing
bubble, leaving states unable to absorb responsibilities from
the federal government. Imagine how states would have handled
revenue declines in 2009 if their share of responsibility for
Medicaid had been even greater.  Meanwhile, if it wasn’t for the automatic stabilizers and
emergency stimulus that boosted national income as the economy
went into a downturn, the recession would have been far more
vicious. As unemployment doubled across most occupations,
industries and demographic groups, it required a collective
government response to combat the recession. Only the federal
government is in a good position to provide such stabilization,
because states must approximately balance their budgets each
year.  More Vulnerable  Rising income inequality and a succession of slow
recoveries from recessions have made the masses more vulnerable
than before to economic downturns and less able to shoulder
risks devolved from the federal government. What Americans need
today is less individual ownership of risk, not more.  President  Barack Obama  has set about adapting to these
changes: putting the responsibility for health care under the
role of the government; expanding the framework of financial
regulation to include a shadow-banking sector not previously
covered; and seeking to expand family opportunities through a
mix of redistribution (higher taxes for the rich to fund
expansive preschool) and what experts call pre-distribution (a
higher minimum wage, a stronger National Labor Relations Board).  Obama’s second inaugural speech could be seen as a direct
response to the one from eight years before, where Bush argued
for the individualized ownership of risk. As Obama argued, “The
commitments we make to each other -- through Medicare, and
Medicaid, and Social Security -- these things do not sap our
initiative; they strengthen us. They do not make us a nation of
takers; they free us to take the risks that make this country
great.” The government’s absorbing of the risks of health-care
costs and retirement are the preconditions of real freedom.  Though political fortunes come and go, the desirability of
privatized risk is unlikely to change in the near future.
Regular voters don’t see themselves facing the risk of, say,
being unable to afford major surgery as a precondition for real
freedom, wisdom and virtue. They see a role for the government
in protecting us from the risk of medical insolvency through
regulation, subsidies and mandates. And even after the economy
recovers, stagnant wages and lower returns to labor could be a
new normal, meaning that insurance against life’s misfortunes
will be even more important.  Conservative reformers haven’t adequately addressed the
question of what risks should be shared broadly across the
public and how the government should structure how to share
those risks through law and markets. Most conservative plans try
to push costs and risk back onto families, regardless of whether
they are prepared to handle them. And such reforms aren’t likely
to be compelling in the current and future economic
environments.  (Mike Konczal is a fellow at the Roosevelt Institute. His
blog,  Rortybomb , was named by Time magazine as one of the 25
best financial blogs.  E-mail  him and follow him on  Twitter . The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mike Konczal at  rortybomb@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Josh Barro at  jbarro1@bloomberg.net . 