-- Copeinca Studies Alternatives to Pacific’s $556 Million Bid
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-02-27T15:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/copeinca-studies-alternatives-to-pacific-andes-556-million-bid.html
Copeinca ASA (COP) , the subject of a $556
million unsolicited bid from  Pacific Andes Resources Development
Ltd. (PAH) , will explore alternatives after shareholders owning almost
40 percent of its stock said they won’t accept the offer.  The bid, made by Pacific’s China Fishery Group unit, was
“made without any contact or discussion” with Copeinca, the
Lima-based company said today in a statement. Copeinca said it
will comment further after evaluating the offer with advisers.  China Fishery, based in  Singapore , yesterday offered to buy
Copeinca, a producer of fishmeal and fish oil from anchovy
caught off Peru, for 53.85 kroner ($9.43) a share. The bid is at
a premium of almost 30 percent to the volume weighted average of
the past three months and has the support of investors owning
41.5 percent of Copeinca, Pacific Andes said.  After the approach was announced, Copeinca jumped the  most 
since it started trading in Oslo in January 2007. The stock
closed unchanged at 56.25 kroner in Oslo, maintaining its gain
since the start of the week at 39 percent.  The company said today that Dyer Coriat Holding SL, which
holds a 32.6 percent stake, and Weilheim Investments, with
almost 6 percent, don’t find the offer attractive and won’t sell
their stock at the current terms. Dyer Coriat is the  largest
shareholder , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ocean Harvest SL, which owns a 13.9 percent stake, will
consider the bid, Copeinca said. The three shareholders are
represented on the company’s board of directors.  Peru is the world’s largest producer and exporter of
fishmeal and fish oil by volume, according to Pacific Andes. The
acquisition would increase China Fishery’s anchovy catch quota
in northern and central  Peru  by 11 percent, and in the southern
region by 3 percent, Pacific Andes said in a filing yesterday.  The deal would establish China Fishery as one of the
world’s largest fishmeal producers, according to Pacific Andes,
which said demand is climbing on a growing global aquaculture
industry and increased livestock production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  