-- Could the Miami Scandal Bring Down the NCAA?
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-02-27T23:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/could-the-miami-scandal-bring-down-the-ncaa-.html
How fitting that it’s the University
of Miami -- long one of the NCAA’s favorite targets -- that has
pushed the organization to its moment of crisis.  Never again will the words “Miami” and “scandal” conjure
images of a rogue college football program. From now on, they
will conjure images of a rogue college sports association, one
that finally seems destined for major changes.  If you haven’t kept up with the National Collegiate
Athletic Association’s Miami investigation, here’s a quick
primer: After building its case around the statements of a
felon,  Nevin Shapiro , the NCAA hired one of Shapiro’s personal
lawyers, who leveraged her subpoena power in Shapiro’s ongoing
bankruptcy case to obtain information for the association that
it couldn’t otherwise get.  Even the NCAA recognized that this looked bad. So it
commissioned an investigation into its investigation that
somehow exonerated the NCAA’s president, Mark Emmert, and his
deputy, James Isch. If the  52-page report  of this independent
investigation is to be believed, the NCAA’s top two executives
were unaware of a major strategic decision in what may be the
highest-profile case in the association’s history. (Isch
basically pleaded incompetence, saying that he approved the
extra expenditure for Shapiro’s lawyer but didn’t know what the
money was for.)  Taking Lumps  Historically, schools have quietly taken their lumps from
the NCAA. The last thing they wanted to do was invite more
scrutiny for their programs. But Miami’s president, Donna Shalala, went on the offensive, accusing the NCAA of
“unprofessional and unethical” behavior.  In a world that the NCAA has long ruled with despotic
power, this measured statement qualifies as an act of rebellion.
What’s more, it speaks to a broader shift in public perception:
Increasingly, we are seeing the NCAA less as the guardian of the
cherished ideals of college sport than as the overzealous
enforcer of its own dubious rules.  After the Miami debacle, what university is going to submit
to the unchecked poking and prodding of NCAA investigators? The
NCAA as we know it is finished. It’s just a matter of time. The
only question is what’s going to replace it.  One possibility is reform from within. Last week, Jay Bilas
-- a lawyer, ESPN analyst and former center for the Duke
University basketball team --  called on  Emmert to step down.
Let’s say, for the purposes of this thought experiment, that
Bilas were in charge instead. What would he do?  He’d start by replacing the NCAA’s 400-plus page rulebook -
- “a ridiculous mess that none of us would want to live under,”
Bilas tells me -- with a much shorter one. No longer would
buying a prospective recruit a hamburger be defined as an
ethical violation. Gone would be the sections and subsections
that dictate how schools can go about recruiting and enrolling
“student-athletes” and determine their eligibility.  In other words, Bilas’s NCAA would govern athletic
competition -- and leave the moralizing to the schools and their
conferences. “These are accredited universities,” he says. “They
don’t need some clearinghouse in Indianapolis telling them whose
high-school credentials are good enough to admit.”  Gone, too, would be the restrictions against athlete
compensation, even if that meant sacrificing the NCAA’s tax-
exempt status and covering workers’ compensation claims for
injured players. “We’ve been dishonest for a long, long time,”
Bilas says. “The idea that every person in the system except the
athlete can be paid at market rates is just laughably stupid.”  Making Narratives  Then there’s the NCAA’s inherently corrupt judicial system.
The NCAA not only makes the rules and polices their enforcement,
it prosecutes the cases -- before an NCAA committee, naturally.
Its investigators can spend years developing a case (as they
have with Miami), leaving programs to compete in the
ultracompetitive world of recruiting beneath a cloud of
uncertainty. Once a school finally receives a “notice of
allegations” from the NCAA, it has just 90 days to respond. By
this point, thanks to careful leaks to the media, an NCAA-
friendly narrative has invariably taken hold.  The standard of proof of guilt couldn’t be mushier -- the
evidence has to be “credible, persuasive and of a kind on which
reasonably prudent persons rely in the conduct of serious
affairs.” Not that it matters much: No school ever contests the
charges brought against it for fear of reprisal from the NCAA’s
famously vindictive and capricious infractions committee.  Bilas would replace all of this with a proper adversarial
system. Cases would be overseen by, and argued in front of, an
independent judicial body, the American Arbitration Association.  Of course, in Bilas’s NCAA, how much need would there be
for such a body? For that matter, in Bilas’s NCAA, how much need
would there be for the NCAA?  Once you start stripping away the senseless rules and
regulations, the association’s multimillion-dollar compliance
empire quickly crumbles. What’s left? An organization that hangs
nets, keeps records and puts on a postseason basketball
tournament that anyone would leap at the chance to run -- and
for a smaller profit margin.  Maybe the best NCAA is a nonexistent NCAA.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning,” “The Challenge,” and “Death Comes to Happy
Valley.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or  @jonathanmahler  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 