-- Company Credit Swaps in U.S. Decline as Pending Home Sales Rise
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-27T22:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-for-second-day-before-housing-data.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell for the second day as pending home sales increased in
January, reaching the highest level since April 2010.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
2.3 basis points to a mid-price of 87.2 basis points at 4:23
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index has dropped 1.6 basis points in February and is down 7.2
basis points this year.  Signs that the housing market is strengthening may ease
investor concern that an economic slowdown will constrain
companies’ ability to repay debt. The index of pending sales of
existing homes increased 4.5 percent to 105.9 in January, a
report from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington . A report yesterday showed new-home sales in January
reached the highest mark since July 2008.  “Investors look at housing data like a dashboard which
would drive recovery as it is a trickle-down effect,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  who helps oversee $500
million at Cabot Money Management Inc., said in a telephone
interview from Salem,  Massachusetts .  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Weakest Links  So called “weakest links” accounted for 45 of the 63
corporate issuers that defaulted in 2012,  Diane Vazza , managing
director of  Standard & Poor’s  global fixed-income research, said
in a report by the ratings company today. Weakest links are
issuers rated B- or lower with either negative outlooks or are
on CreditWatch with negative implications, according to S&P.  “Historically, once a company becomes a weakest link, it
is much more likely to default than the rest of the speculative-
grade segment,” Vazza said.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-
rated, debt rose 0.2 basis point to 505.2 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s.  Bernanke Testimony  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central
bank’s easing policies are helping to improve demand for homes
and cars.  “The fact that  interest rates  have gone up a bit is
actually indicative of a stronger economy,” Bernanke said in
Washington today in response to questions from members of the
House Financial Services Committee. That indicates the Fed’s
stimulus is working, he said.  “As an investor you shouldn’t bet against the Fed. You
want the Fed to be on the sidelines, not interfering in the
recovery by removing liquidity and changing policies,” Larkin
said. Remarks from the Fed chief are adding to the positive
sentiment driven by economic data, he said. The  risk premium  on
the Markit CDX North American High Yield Index dropped 10.6
basis points to 436 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in  New York  at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  