-- Curry Says OCC Still Urging Banks to Slow Cuts to Loan Reserves
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-27T22:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/curry-says-occ-still-urging-banks-to-slow-cuts-to-loan-reserves.html
As U.S. banks reduce the reserves
they set aside for bad loans, examiners are digging through
their books to make sure they’re not going too far, said
Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry .  Curry and other banking regulators have warned the industry
not to eat away at loan-loss reserves to show higher profits.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. data released yesterday showed
banks last year set aside 25 percent less than they did the
previous year while recording the second highest annual incomes
ever. Examiners are reviewing reserves on a “case-by-case”
basis, Curry said in an interview.  “What we tried to do was to raise it as a general matter
of concern, to raise awareness within the industry,” said
Curry, who started cautioning the banks about their reserves in
September. “It’s really our examinations on the ground that
will get into the weeds with the individual institutions.”  In October, Curry said his agency was “ready to take
action” against banks that boost risk by excessively reducing
loan-loss reserves. Actions against lenders found by the OCC to
be engaging in unsound practices can include cease-and-desist
orders, fines and removal of officers and directors.  The $15.1 billion set aside last quarter was a fraction of
the $69.4 billion added to reserves four years ago, at the
height of the credit crisis, according to FDIC data. The loan-
loss reserves set aside in recent quarters have been less than
the loan losses banks have recorded, though the losses have also
steadily declined.  JPMorgan Results  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest bank by assets, said last
month its fourth-quarter profit rose 53 percent as mortgage
revenue more than doubled and the lender set aside less for
future losses. The New York-based bank reported setting aside
$656 million against future mortgage loan losses.  FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg  told reporters yesterday
that banks will soon have to wind down the squeezing of reserves
to boost profits.  “Industry earnings are going to depend on increased credit
by the industry,” he said. “That’s really the key factor we’re
looking at going forward.”  Curry also said he Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo ’s prediction that new bank capital rules will be
finished by the end of June.  “I don’t want to jinx it but I think we’re doing pretty
well,” Curry said of the so-called Basel III rules, an
international accord to strengthen bank capital. “Conceptually
I think there’s a lot of agreement. Now it’s a matter of getting
a final rule that makes sense.”  He said his agency and the four others required by the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act to ban proprietary trading by banks under the so-
called Volcker rule are still “looking at getting the actual
rule text and rule provisions done.” The other agencies are the
OCC, Fed, Securities and Exchange Commission, and  Commodity
Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  