-- Cyclone Bearing Down on Australian Iron Ore Port Gains Strength
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-02-27T00:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/cyclone-bearing-down-on-australian-iron-ore-port-gains-strength.html
Severe  Tropical Cyclone Rusty ,
bearing down on north-west Australia’s  Port Hedland , the world’s
biggest bulk export terminal, has gained strength to become a
category four storm.  Rusty, located about 130 kilometers (81 miles) north-east
of the town, is expected to resume a southerly track toward the
Pilbara coast today and may bring wind gusts stronger than 165
kilometers an hour, Australia’s Bureau of Meteorology said in an
update at 5:36 a.m. western standard time on its website. Parts
of the town were evacuated yesterday.  Port Hedland, home to about 20,200 people, exports iron ore
from mines owned by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest
mining company,  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  and  Atlas Iron Ltd. (AGO) 
Port Hedland as well as Rio Tinto Group’s shipping terminals at
Dampier and Cape Lambert ports shut earlier this week.  Ore shipments will fall by about 5 million metric tons, or
about 5 percent of global volume, tightening supply into March,
Melinda Moore, a London-based bulk-commodity sales executive at
Standard Bank Plc, said yesterday in an e-mailed report.  “We are assuming minimal damage to inland mining facilities
at this stage, with only a few days of reducing activities, with
safety key,” Moore said.  Shipments totaled 238.9 million tons in fiscal 2012,
according to the Port Hedland Port Authority. Global trade of
 iron ore  by sea will come to 1.2 billion tons this year,
according to Clarkson Plc, the largest shipbroker.  Cyclone season lasts from about November to April and high
winds as well as flooding can disrupt iron ore operations in the
world’s biggest exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  