-- D.E Master Blenders Cuts 2013 Forecast on Product Pricing
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-02-27T08:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/d-e-master-blenders-cuts-2013-forecast-on-product-pricing.html
D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE) , the
coffee and tea company spun off by Sara Lee Corp., dealt a fresh
blow to investors by reducing its 2013 sales and profitability
forecasts amid increasing pressure on prices in Europe.  Organic sales will rise as much as 2 percent in the year
through June, the Amsterdam-based maker of Douwe Egberts coffee
said today, compared with a previous prediction of 3 percent to
5 percent growth. The underlying operating margin will widen by
1 percent to 1.5 percent, it also said, less than its earlier
guidance for an increase of 1.5 percent to 2 percent.  Since being spun off from Sara Lee in June, Master Blenders
has restated earnings because of accounting irregularities in
 Brazil  and reported sales that missed estimates. Chief Executive
Officer Michiel Herkemij left at the end of last year because of
a difference of opinion, leaving Chairman Jan Bennink in charge.  “The negative is obviously they lowered the outlook and
that is a nasty surprise,” said Robert Jan Vos, an analyst at
 ABN Amro  in Amsterdam with a reduce rating on the stock. “It’s
the third hiccup since their listing, they’ve had accounting
issues, the CEO stepping down and now this.”  Master Blenders  shares  declined as much as 4.4 percent in
Amsterdam and were down 3.3 percent at 8.80 euros at 9:47 a.m.
Joh. A. Benckiser, the investment firm run by Bart Becht, raised
its  stake  in the company to 15.05 percent in October.  Senseo Coffee  Sales of the Senseo coffee brand were hurt by competitors’
discounts over the holiday period, particularly in the
Netherlands, according to Master Blenders, which also reported
first-half profit that missed analysts’ estimates. Price
pressures are expected to persist in western  Europe , it said.  “We decided it is much better to just lower the guidance
and be realistic rather than pushing the organization to do
things which is not healthy for the future of the business,”
Bennink said in a separate online statement.  Still, the company maintained its medium-term forecasts for
sales growth of 5 percent to 7 percent and an underlying
operating margin of 15 percent to 17 percent. The margin widened
by 1 percentage point to 13.5 percent in the fiscal first half.  The search for a new CEO has only just started, Bennink
said on a conference call today, adding that the process is
likely to take as long as five or six months.  Speaking in September, former CEO Herkemij said product
innovation, missing under Sara Lee’s stewardship, would help the
company close the gap with competitors such as Kraft Foods Inc.
and  Nestle SA (NESN) , whose Nespresso is the biggest single-serve brand
in the $45 billion global coffee business. He said at the time
he aimed to overtake Kraft as the world’s No.2 coffee maker.  New Machine  Master Blenders has revamped its Senseo system with new
packaging and flavors and has said it plans to expand into new
regions. The company has introduced a new machine called Sarista
that uses whole beans and is aimed at coffee aficionados.  So-called normalized net income totalled 130 million euros
($170 million) in the six months ended Dec. 31, compared with
the 131.5 million-euro average of six analyst estimates.  Sales rose 1.6 percent excluding acquisitions and exchange-
rate fluctuations, with a decline in selling volume easing to
0.8 percent in the second quarter from 2.7 percent in the first.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  