-- Daimler Nominates Avon Ex-Chief Jung to Supervisory Board
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-02-27T19:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/daimler-nominates-avon-ex-chief-jung-to-supervisory-board.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the world’s third-
biggest maker of luxury cars, nominated former  Avon Products
Inc. (AVP)  Chief Executive Officer  Andrea Jung  to the supervisory
board in an effort to increase female representation.  Jung, who remains a senior adviser at the U.S. cosmetics
producer after leaving as CEO almost 11 months ago, is
designated to succeed Lynton R. Wilson when his board term
expires, Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler said today in the
official  invitation  to the annual shareholders meeting in April.
Investors will vote on Jung and the re-election of current board
members Sari Baldauf and Juergen Hambrecht at the session.  “Due to her very varied past activities, Andrea Jung has
excellent management and market knowledge,” particularly of
North and South America and  Russia , Daimler said in a separate
 statement . “Furthermore, she has extensive expertise in sales
and marketing strategy, as well as branding.”  German corporations are under pressure from the government
to increase women’s participation in their decision-making.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in December that she was losing
patience with companies’ pace of appointing female managers and
directors. Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, said in its
 2012 annual report  that it’s targeting 20 percent representation
among its senior executives by 2020.  Avon Lady  Jung, 54, ran New York-based Avon as CEO from 1999 until
April 2012, and was the first woman to hold the position at the
cosmetics retailer, which specializes in door-to-door sales. Her
background is in marketing, and she touted Avon, which has a
largely female sales force, as “the company for women.”  Avon announced plans in December of 2011 to replace Jung as
CEO as the company grappled with slowing sales and possible
bribery law violations oversees. Jung initially remained the
chairwoman, during which time Coty Inc. failed in an effort to
buy Avon, before relinquishing that role at the end of last
year. She currently sits on the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  General Electric
Co. (GE)  boards.  Baldauf, formerly head of the networks division at mobile-
phone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , and Petraea Heynike, who ran the unit
including the Nespresso coffee brand at  Nestle SA (NESN) , are currently
the only two women on Daimler’s supervisory board, holding seats
selected by shareholders. Daimler said in its annual report that
“several women” have been nominated to labor-representative
posts on the board, with workers scheduled to vote on those
seats in March.  Under German corporate law, listed companies have a
supervisory board, which oversees and appoints the separate
management board, which includes the CEO and is responsible for
day-to-day operations and strategy. Labor and shareholder
representatives have an equal number of supervisory board seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  