-- HDFC Markets Dollar Bonds as Indonesia, AIA Plan Investor Talks
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-02-27T04:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/hdfc-markets-dollar-bonds-as-indonesia-aia-plan-investor-talks.html
HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , India’s largest
lender by market value, is marketing a U.S. dollar-denominated
bond as the Republic of  Indonesia  and  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  line up
investor meetings. Debt risk in Asia fell.  The Mumbai-based company is offering five-year notes at
about 255 basis points more than Treasuries, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Southeast Asia’s largest
economy plans to meet investors in Europe and the U.S. from
March 1 to March 8, while insurer AIA Group’s talks begin
tomorrow, other people said.  HDFC’s deal will add to the $3.4 billion of dollar bond
sales this month in Asia, outside of  Japan , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings have slumped 85 percent from an
all-time monthly high in January as investors took time off for
lunar new year holidays and spreads widened.  “We had a record level of new issuance in January and
overall the secondary trading has been fairly weak,” said Luc Froehlich, a Hong Kong-based portfolio manager with Manulife
Asset Management’s  Asia  fixed-income team, which oversees more
than $43 billion. “Issuers are therefore less keen on rushing
to the primary market and negotiations with syndication desks
are taking longer.”  Yield premiums on U.S. currency debt from the region
climbed to a two-week high of  265 basis points  more than
Treasuries yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
Spreads averaged 264 this month, up from 253 in January.  Indonesia Debt  Indonesia plans to sell global bonds twice in 2013, Loto
Srianita Ginting, director of  government securities  at the debt
management office, said Dec. 28. The nation hired JPMorgan,
Standard Chartered Plc and Deutsche Bank AG earlier this month
to help it arrange an offering.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan fell one basis point to 110 basis points
as of 8:49 a.m. in  Hong Kong , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
prices show. The gauge dropped 6.2 basis points since Jan. 31
and 3.4 this year, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index increased 1.75 basis
points to 118.75 as of 10:59 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show. The benchmark is set for its highest close
since Feb. 7, paring its decline this month to 0.8 basis point,
CMA prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index was little changed at 127
basis points as of 9:09 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Deutsche
Bank AG prices. The measure has fallen 8.2 basis points in
February, taking its 2013 decline to 32 basis points, according
to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  