-- Dish Seeks $153 Million From ESPN Over Channel Contracts
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2013-02-27T18:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/dish-seeks-153-million-from-espn-over-channel-contracts.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  asked a jury to
make  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN pay at least $153 million in damages
for allegedly breaching a contract by offering competitors
including Comcast Corp. better licensing terms for sports
programming.  In closing arguments today in  Manhattan  federal court,
Dish, the third-largest pay-television provider, accused ESPN of
violating a so-called most-favored-nation clause in their
distribution agreement, which it said requires the sports
network to offer Dish the same terms it offers a competitor.  “ESPN promised Dish that no other distributor had better
rate terms or packaging terms than Dish was receiving under the
contract,”  Barry Ostrager , a lawyer for the Englewood,
Colorado-based satellite-TV company, told the jury in his
summation today. “ESPN made a calculated decision to not offer
the same terms to Dish.”  TV distributors pay ESPN and other cable programmers fees
based on ratings and the number of subscribers. According to the
media research firm SNL Kalgan, ESPN charges TV providers about
$5.13 a month per subscriber, one of the highest rates in the
industry. ESPN has argued that it eventually granted Dish the
same terms offered to competitors.  “The contract provides for fairness,” Diane Sullivan, a
lawyer for Bristol, Connecticut-based ESPN, told the jury today.
“Dish doesn’t want fairness. Dish believes the fairness clause
entitles them to a far better deal than any other distributor.”  Comcast Terms  Dish said ESPN offered  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest pay-TV
company, the right to distribute sports-documentary channel ESPN
Classic as part of a less-watched tier of channels. Dish also
said ESPN allowed DirecTV, the second largest pay-TV provider
and a rival in the satellite business, to move Spanish-language
ESPN Deportes to a less-populated tier of subscribers, which
would result in lower payments. Comcast was also given the right
to distribute the college-sports network ESPNU to bars and
taverns on better terms, Dish claimed.  “Dish wanted the flagship ESPN network, which is very
popular,” Ostrager said. “Dish had to give up something. It
had to agree to put ESPN Classic, which almost nobody watches,
on its second most widely penetrated package,” he said. “The
Comcast packaging right was clearly more favorable than the
packaging right given to Dish.”  Sullivan said Comcast got the same terms for ESPN Classic
as Dish: 28 cents for each of about 8 million subscribers.  ‘Tortured Reading’  “Dish wants a $79 million refund based on a tortured
reading of the contract,” she told the jury. The ESPN Classic
terms represent Dish’s biggest claim in the suit.  Dish and ESPN signed an eight-year distribution agreement
in 2005. According to its complaint, Dish learned from press
releases and news reports in 2009 that ESPN had made deals with
Comcast and  DirecTV (DTV)  with “more favorable provisions than ESPN
has given to Dish.” In June 2009, Dish sent a letter to ESPN
demanding the same terms and claiming that ESPN failed to offer
them.  Since the lawsuit was filed in 2009, ESPN also made more-
favorable agreements with the TV distributors  Time Warner Cable
Inc., (TWC)   Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) , according to
Dish. None of Dish’s competitors is a defendant in the suit.  ESPN is 80 percent owned by Burbank, California-based
Disney and 20 percent by New York-based Hearst Corp.  The case is Dish Network LLC v. ESPN Inc., 09-06875, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  