-- Disney Proxy Advisers Urge Rejection of Combined Top Job
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/disney-proxy-advisers-urge-rejection-of-combined-top-job.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  faces opposition to
its combined chairman-chief executive officer roles as two proxy
advisers urge shareholders to vote next week in favor of
splitting the positions.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Glass Lewis &
Co. both recommend investors back a proposal by Connecticut
Retirement Plans & Trust Funds to separate the jobs in the
future that are now held by  Robert Iger . Shareholders will vote
on the non-binding proposal at the March 6 annual meeting in
Phoenix, Disney said in a January proxy  filing .  Iger, CEO since 2005, was named to the added role of
chairman last year, overcoming opposition from some proxy
advisers and the California State Teachers’ Retirement System,
the second-largest U.S. public pension fund. Nine years ago,
Disney, the world’s biggest entertainment company, separated the
posts to improve corporate governance during a shareholder
revolt against then Chairman and CEO  Michael Eisner .  “Disney’s performance during Mr. Iger’s tenure has been
nothing short of spectacular,” the Burbank, California-based
company said in a statement yesterday, citing a 76 percent
shareholder return in the fiscal year that ended in September.
“Disney has delivered results that speak for themselves.”  Iger, 62, plans to step down as CEO in March 2015 and serve
as chairman until June 2016. Disney drew support from Egan-Jones
Proxy Services, which opposes splitting the roles and backs the
company’s pay and bonus plans.  Board Makeup  The pressure to split the top job at Disney comes as more
companies embrace independent board leadership. According to the
2012 Spencer Stuart  Board Index Report , 57 percent of S&P 500
companies have one person in the role of chairman and CEO, down
from 75 percent in 2002.  Connecticut Retirement’s proposal for separating the roles
would “apply prospectively so as not to violate any company
contractual obligation” at the time it is adopted, according to
Disney’s proxy filing.  This year, ahead of the annual meeting, Calstrs, ISS and
 Glass Lewis  all say they support Connecticut Retirement’s
proposal. ISS, in a Feb. 15 report, said it backs splitting the
jobs and opposes the company’s  executive compensation  plan.
Glass Lewis in a report to clients on Feb. 20 recommends
separating the posts and voting against the company’s executive
bonus plan as well as its overall executive compensation.  Splitting Roles  Calstrs, which holds 5.28 million Disney shares, said on
Feb. 14 it favors splitting the chairman and CEO roles and
opposes the election of six Disney directors, including Iger.
The $161 billion fund will also vote against Disney’s executive
pay plan.  The pension fund generated a 1.8 percent return for the
fiscal year ended June 30, below its 7.5 percent target. The
three-year return was 12 percent, the fund said in a  statement 
last year.  Disney’s earnings rose 24 percent to $3.13 a share in
fiscal 2012. Over Iger’s eight years as CEO, earnings have risen
at a 15 percent average annual rate, the company said.  While Disney’s profit and share price performance have been
strong, discussions over company stewardship and executive pay
should be held by shareholders, said David Lewin, a professor of
management at the University of California Los Angeles.  “One worries about excessive power in the executive
rank,” Lewin said in a telephone interview.  ‘Clear’ Standards  Disney said in a January filing that its standards for
selecting a chairman are “clear and workable,” calling any
suggestion that the process led to a poor decision on Iger
“unfounded.”  The company made changes to Iger’s compensation based on
investor feedback, according to the filing. Ninety-two percent
of the target value of Iger’s compensation is contingent on
financial results and the stock’s performance. He received $40.2
million in total compensation last year.  Connecticut Retirement is  responsible  for managing pension
funds for about 190,000 teachers, state, and municipal
employees, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  