-- Dominican Republic Rejects $4 Billion Barrick Mine Deal
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-02-27T19:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/dominican-republic-rejects-barrick-contract-on-4-billion-mine.html
The  Dominican Republic ’s existing
contract for the development of a $4 billion mine by  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  is unacceptable and must be
changed, President Danilo Medina said.  The government’s contract with the two Canadian companies
at the Pueblo Viejo mine needs to be revised to provide more
benefit to the Dominican Republic, Medina said in his
independence day speech to Congress today. If the contract can’t
be modified, the government will back legislation to increase
taxes on expected export earnings of mineral companies, he said.  “For every $100 of gold exports, Barrick will receive $97
and the Dominican people $3,” Medina said. “That is simply
unacceptable.”  The Pueblo Viejo mine, located 60 miles (97 kilometers)
north of the capital of  Santo Domingo , achieved commercial
production last month and is expected to produce as much as 1.1
million ounces of gold this year, according to Barrick and
Goldcorp. The mine’s $4 billion investment is the largest in the
Dominican Republic’s history, Medina said.  ‘Good Relationship’  “Barrick Pueblo Viejo has long maintained a good working
relationship with the government of the Dominican Republic based
on mutually agreeable objectives,”  Andy Lloyd , a Barrick
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “While our contract
is legally binding, the company has been engaged in good faith
discussions with the government of the Dominican Republic, who
we view as a partner.”  Given increased gold values in recent years, the Pueblo
Viejo contract, which Barrick acquired in 2006, currently favors
the company in “an exaggerated manner,” Medina said. Barrick
would make a net income of $2.6 billion in the first two years
of production and recover its initial investment in just over
two years, he said.  “Never before in the history of humanity has there been a
case where a mining company has been able to recover their
investment in such a short amount of time,” Medina said.  Barrick anticipates ramping up production to 100 percent
capacity in the second half of the year, CEO Jamie Sokalsky said
Feb. 25. The Dominican Republic is going to receive more than
$10 billion over the life of the Pueblo Viejo mine, he said.  “We’ve got an agreement with them, and that can’t be
unilaterally negotiated,” Sokalsky said. “We’re always willing
to discuss in good faith the economics of that with the
government, but that mine is contributing a huge amount to the
economy of the Dominican Republic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  