-- Dow Transports Jump Most Since March 2012 on U.S. Economy
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-02-27T21:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/dow-transports-jump-most-since-july-on-u-s-economy.html
The  Dow Jones Transportation Average (TRAN) 
surged the most in more than eight months, led by railroad
Kansas City Southern, as growing confidence in the U.S. economic
recovery strengthens demand for freight shipments.  Businesses rebuilding inventory are poised to make 2013
“the year of transports,”  Peter Nesvold , a New York-based
analyst for Jefferies & Co., said today in a note to clients. He
cited recent increases in diesel-fuel consumption, truck-freight
tonnage and domestic air cargo.  “It makes sense that an inventory restocking cycle should
be positive for freight flows,” Nesvold said in the note.
“Nascent signs of inventory restocking so far have been more
pronounced in wholesale channels than at the retail level. Even
still, we think this rally still has legs.”  The 20-stock transportation index, which includes airlines
and truckers, climbed 2.9 percent at the close in New York for
the biggest advance since June 6. Kansas City Southern jumped
6.2 percent to $103.94, its largest gain since August 2011.  Trading of the Dow transports today was more than three
times higher than the 100-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Dow Theory, a trading strategy used by
some investors, says that the transportation index and the Dow
Jones Industrial Average must move higher in tandem for equity
market rallies to last.  Outperforming Industrials  Today’s gains for transportation stocks pushed the index’s
year-to-date increase to 13 percent, compared with a 7.4 percent
boost for the Dow industrials.  Kansas City Southern (KSU)  rallied after Christopher Ceraso, a
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst in New York, wrote that a new oil
storage facility in Port Arthur,  Texas , could help the carrier
handle more petroleum extracted from western  Canada .  “We see the opportunity to move heavy Canadian crude to
the Gulf as one of the largest growth drivers within KSU’s
energy business over the next few years,” Ceraso said in the
note. Credit Suisse  rates  the railroad as outperform.  The Kansas City, Missouri-based railroad operates on tracks
in the central U.S. and in  Mexico , and it serves petroleum ports
along the Gulf of Mexico that include Houston.  J.B. Hunt Transport Services Inc. (JBHT)  climbed 5.2 percent to
$69.83, its highest closing price since 1984. Logistics provider
 C.H. Robinson Worldwide Inc. (CHRW)  climbed 2.8 percent to $57.19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  