-- Dow Chemical Loses $1 Billion in Deductions in Tax Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-28T00:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/dow-chemical-loses-1-billion-in-deductions-in-tax-case.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) ’s claim to
$1 billion in  tax deductions  was based on transactions with sham
partnerships promoted by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  law firm 
King & Spalding LLP, a federal judge ruled, throwing out the
company’s bid to recover the money.  The  Internal Revenue Service  correctly rejected the tax
benefits created by the complex partnerships from 1993 to 2003
because the transactions were designed to exploit perceived
weaknesses in the  tax code  and not for legitimate business
purposes, U.S. District Judge  Brian Jackson  said in a ruling
filed yesterday in federal court in Baton Rouge, Louisiana,.  “The facts of the present case indicate that Dow viewed
its tax department as a profit center,” Jackson said in his
opinion.  Nancy Lamb, a spokeswoman for Midland, Michigan-based Dow,
said the company had paid the taxes sought by the IRS and had
sued to recover money it believed it shouldn’t have had to pay.  “Dow is disappointed by the trial court’s decision in this
case, and we believe the opinion is not supported by the facts
and applicable law,” Lamb said in an e-mailed statement. “Dow
is exploring all of its options, including appeal.”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman
Sachs, had no immediate comment on the ruling. Matt Hyams, a
spokesman for Atlanta-based King & Spalding, said by phone that
the law firm doesn’t discuss client matters.  Chemtech 1  Chemtech 1, was marketed by Goldman Sachs under the trade
name SLIPs, standing for “Special Limited Investment
Partnerships” and lasted at Dow from 1993 through 1997.  Dow’s SLIP provided a tax benefit in the form of deductions
by the chemical company of royalty expenses paid for the use of
its own patents.  Changes in U.S. tax law forced Dow to terminate Chemtech 1
at the end of 1997.  Chemtech II, designed by  King & Spalding  and covering tax
years 1998 through 2003, produced deductions “for the
depreciation of a chemical plant asset that had already, for the
most part, been depreciated down to zero,” according to
Jackson’s ruling.  The judge concluded that there was no economic substance to
either set of transactions, labeling them “an economic sham.”  One indicator of the sham was “a circular flow of funds
among related entities -- Dow and its subsidiaries,” Jackson
said. “The cash flowed out, and flowed back in to Dow.”  In addition to rejecting the tax benefits, Jackson imposed
a 20 percent penalty for tax years 1997 through 2003.  The case is Chemtech Royalty Associates LP v. U.S., 05-cv-
00944, U.S. District Court, Middle District of  Louisiana  (Baton
Rouge).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  