-- Draghi Says ECB Can’t Solve Crisis as Policy Has Clear Limits
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-27T17:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/draghi-says-ecb-can-t-solve-crisis-as-policy-has-clear-limits.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said there are limits to what monetary policy can
do and urged governments to implement structural reforms and
build a sound political and economic union in the euro region.  “It is important to stress that the ECB’s mandate only
extends so far,” Draghi said in a speech in Munich today.
“There are clear limits to what monetary policy can and should
aim to achieve. We cannot repair unsound budgets. We cannot
clean up struggling banks. We cannot solve deep-rooted problems
in the structure of  Europe ’s economies.”  Progress in implementing economic reforms has been
“extraordinary” and the scale of adjustment in countries under
European Union-led bailouts has been “particularly
impressive,” Draghi said. “Deficits are being reduced. Current
account imbalances are being unwound. Wide-ranging structural
reforms are under way.”  Eventually, “we should aim to build a strong and deep
economic and political union in Europe, which would be to the
benefit of all members of the single currency,” Draghi said.  Draghi also said that the ECB takes “very seriously”
people’s concerns about potential inflationary threats.  “But it is a fallacy to make a mechanical connection
between the creation of central bank liquidity and a rise in the
 money supply ,” he said. The liquidity provided by the ECB
“does not automatically increase credit or money in the economy,
and so does not automatically lead to price pressure in the
economy.”  Money and credit growth remains weak and inflation
expectations are “firmly anchored,” he said. “So risks of
inflation down the road are firmly in check.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  