-- The General Serves $69 Peking Duck, Tso’s Chicken: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/the-general-serves-69-peking-duck-tso-s-chicken-review.html
Long before he came to The General,
Hung Huynh was one of America’s most promising culinary stars.
Now he’s hawking General Tso’s chicken on the Bowery.  It’s a curious career choice for the former executive sous
chef at  Guy Savoy  in  Las Vegas  and winner of the third season of
Bravo’s Top Chef.  Yes, Huynh’s Tso is better than $12 versions that are
mainstays of take-out joints.  The sweet-spicy fried chicken bites are tasty, in a one-
note,  Wendy’s (WEN)  chicken nuggets kind of way -- except here you’re
paying $21.  Hunan shrimp ($22), which ought to be as incendiary as that
province’s iconic dishes, barely register on the capsicum scale.
The shellfish themselves are flavorless.  There’s nothing wrong with ambitious chefs like  Danny
Bowien  or  Alex Stupak  elevating and refining food more commonly
eaten from microwave-ready containers. But the 244-seat General
offers diluted flavors that never reach beyond pan-Asian party
fare begging to be paired with $16 Scotch cocktails.  At least they’re great drinks.  This is about what we’d expect from EMM Group (Abe &
Arthur’s, Catch), a less-bad version of Lavo Group (Tao). EMM
sells a style of guys-or-girls-night-out dining where the line
between brasserie and after-hours hotspot is a thin one.  Neon Lighting  Stilettos and suits pack the bar room, which glows red from
neon-lit Chinese characters. Restroom attendants proffer
mouthwash from crystal decanters.  Food comes out fast; efficient servers provide fresh share
plates with regularity. The menu offers more than 60 items,
ranging from awesome to awful.  Avoid beef, for the most part.  American Wagyu at The General is ordinary. The starters,
available cold and seared ($21) or hot and grilled ($33), taste
like any average steak. Crispy fried beef ($24) tastes less like
the strip loin it is than fried cardboard coated in syrup.  The exception is short ribs braised in red wine, cinnamon
and cloves until they’re soft and heady ($41).  Black truffles almost rescue corn on the cob, bland, not
surprisingly, since you’re eating it in the dead of winter
($10). Better are boneless pork ribs ($17), a staple of Chinese-
American menus. There’s no trademark “Red No. 40” glow here,
just expertly rendered fat and silky meat.  New Twists  Huynh nails a few updated twists on take-out dishes: al
dente lo mein, wok-fried in pork fat ($14); just-greasy-enough
Reuben spring rolls packed with corned beef, kimchi and
provolone.  Pair the hot and sour soup with Hitachino white ale ($12)
for a soul-warming winter snack.  I doubt that any other high-end chef is doing less
interesting things with fowl.  Sichuan chicken ($21), a study in crispy wing meat and
face-numbing spiciness at, say, Mission Chinese, here is as
bland as the breast meat it’s served with. Remove that pinch of
spice and you have yourself miso-eggplant chicken ($13), another
snoozer.  The Vietnamese-born chef shows off some technical skills
with Peking duck ($69). Super-musky slabs of meat emerge from
skin that crackles the burnt sugar on crème brulee. Too bad it
tastes as if no salt was applied during the cooking or aging
process; it’s almost completely unseasoned.  So stick with such fish as robata-grilled lobster tail
($21), packed with maritime flavor, or slow-cooked Chatham cod
with a tart tamarind-tomato sauce.  Desserts are great if you yearn for Klondike bars with
chocolate cake or cheesecake spring rolls. Huynh should be
aiming higher.  Rating: *1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $30.  Sound Level: Sometimes over 85 decibels when crowded.  Date Place: Pickup place.  Special Feature: With 300 seats, walk-ins are rarely a
problem.  Inside Tip: Refined wine service; try the dry
Gewurtztraminer ($15).  Back on My Own Dime: Late at night for the lo mein.  The General is at 199 Bowery. Information: +1-212-271-7101;
 http://emmgrp.com/restaurants/the-general .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The
opinions expressed are his own. Follow him on Tumblr at
www.thepricehike.com or www.thebaddeal.com)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and Katya
Kazakina on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 