-- EADS Forecasts Higher Earnings as Airbus Deliveries Rise
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-27T11:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/eads-profit-rises-on-airbus-company-predicts-higher-earnings.html
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. (EAD)  predicted record earnings for this year as Chief Executive
Officer Tom Enders relies on the civil aviation business and
whittles down defense activities to meet profitability goals.  Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items will rise
to 3.5 billion euros ($4.58 billion) from 3 billion in 2012, and
revenue growth will pick up after 2013, Enders said today in
Berlin, where he presented earnings. EADS rose to a record,
gaining as much as 8.2 percent, the most in almost 12 weeks.  Enders is leaning ever-more on growth from Airbus SAS after
years of seeking to even out civil and defense revenue. That
ambition led him to pursue a merger with  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  last
year, before the German government blocked the deal. In light of
shrinking military budgets, Enders said he’s content with the
imbalance in the portfolio, and that he’s not plotting another
attempt to merge with the U.K. company.  “We will remain a significant player in the defense
business,” Enders said. “We’ll focus on the profitable areas
where we have advantages. We’re in the comfortable position
where our revenue base is not that dependent on defense.”  EADS rose as much as 2.87 euros to 37.74 euros in Paris,
its biggest gain since Dec. 6. The stock has advanced 27 percent
this year, compared with a gain of less than 1 percent at
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , the largest maker of commercial jets.  Defense Cuts  Earnings at the Cassidian military unit fell 57 percent
last year, in part on 198 million euros in charges to pay for
jobs cuts and restructuring. The unit was the only subsidiary to
report falling profit and sales both in the fourth quarter and
the full year. Total income surged 68 percent to 3 billion
euros, and revenue rose 15 percent to 56.48 billion euros.  A strategy review will be concluded mid-year, Enders said,
after the appointment of a new board at an extraordinary general
meeting called for March 27. Denis Ranque, former chief
executive of French defense supplier  Thales SA (HO) , has been
nominated to become EADS chairman.  Reviving merger talks with BAE is “not on the radar
screen,” Enders said, adding that he is “quite happy” with
defense contributing only about 25 percent of sales.  EADS has set a target of delivering a double-digit return
on sales by 2015, and Enders said EADS is “well on our glide
path” to meeting the objective. As part of that effort, the
company said it is taking a more conservative approach on
funding military projects.  Keeping Out  “We will not enter a field that is not seen by governments
as being a key requirement,” Marwan Lahoud, the head of
strategy, said at the press conference. EADS ended work last
year on a self-funded drone program after spending several
hundred million dollars without government backing.  Airbus delivered 588 planes last year and is targeting at
least 600 handovers, including 25 A380s, in 2013 as airlines
seek more fuel efficient airliners. The aircraft subsidiary
contributes two-thirds of  EADS’s revenue .  “Those are excellent figures for 2012, and the guidance
for 2013 will clearly reassure investors,” said  Yan Derocles ,
an analyst at Oddo Securities in Paris.  EADS said it will propose a  dividend  of 60 cents, up from
45 cents in 2012. It maintained its currency target for 1 euro
to $1.35 this year. The company will make sure that its proposed
buyback program of as much as 15 percent of company stock
doesn’t weigh on its ability to fund investments.  Merger Collapse  The merger breakdown with BAE was followed in December by
the largest revamp of EADS’s governance structure since its
inception in 2000. That allowed institutional shareholders to
exit, reducing government direct control in operational affairs
and increasing the number of freely traded shares.  “Going forward, the focus on bottom line growth remains
our priority number one as a management team,” Enders said.
“And there’s still some way to go to meet our profitability
targets.”  Net income in the fourth quarter quarter fell by almost
half to 325 million euros from 612 million euros a year earlier,
on revenue of 19.22 billion euros. EADS booked charges at the
Cassidian division to cut jobs, as well as one-time costs at
Eurocopter. Of the 820 million euros in charges booked last
year, 522 million euros came from Airbus alone.  Airbus is aiming to perform the first test flight of its
wide-body long-range A350 by the middle of this year, ahead of
planned entry into service by the end of 2014. Yesterday, the
company rolled out the first assembled A350 for ground tests on
fuel tanks, on the fuselage and on radio equipment.  Enders said the program is entering its “red hot phase”
ahead of first flight planned mid-year. Any further delays would
result in additional charges against earnings, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  