-- Praet Says Accommodative Policy Could Lose Effectiveness
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-27T10:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ecb-s-praet-says-accommodative-policy-could-lose-effectiveness.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Peter Praet said the longer the ECB maintains loose
monetary policy, the less effective it may become.  “I am referring to what used to be known as ‘instrument
instability’ in policy-making,” Praet said in a speech in
 Frankfurt  today, according to a copy provided by the ECB. “The
need to apply larger and larger doses of the same policy
interventions only to see their macroeconomic influence becoming
more and more tenuous.”  The ECB has cut its benchmark rate to a record low of 0.75
percent, extended over 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) in cheap
loans to banks and pledged to buy the bonds of debt-strapped
nations if they agree to economic reforms. While ECB President
Mario Draghi has said there’s no reason to think about exiting
accommodative policy now, other ECB officials including
 Germany ’s Jens Weidmann have warned about the risks inherent in
extended periods of low rates and excess liquidity.  “Expectations that interest rates will remain low for a
long time, and that abundant liquidity will be provided, might
weaken the incentives for banks to downsize operations and
repair their balance sheets,” Praet said, adding that the ECB
has “all the necessary instruments” to reduce liquidity in the
financial system.  Green Shoots  While monetary policy can smooth the reform process in
 Europe , the “need for adjustment is there and you can’t escape
it,” Praet said. “Structural reforms are the answer” and “if
you have credible commitments on structural reforms, you can be
a bit more relaxed about fiscal policy.”  The efforts of countries like Greece and Spain to rebalance
their economies and regain competitiveness are beginning to show
results, and “green shoots” of growth are becoming evident in
the region, Praet said.  “We have also seen strengthening exports in a global
environment that is not really buoyant,” he said. “This
indicates that the countries’ efforts to rebalance their
economies are starting to bear fruits.”  Praet added that progress can be seen in structural reforms
to open the region’s economies, in the reduction of private
indebtedness, and in the repair of governments’ balance sheets.  “All of these developments give reasons to be cautiously
optimistic about the prospect for crisis-ridden countries’
return to a path of sustainable growth,” Praet said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  