-- ECB Says Private Lending Contracted for Ninth Month in January
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-27T09:04:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ecb-says-private-lending-contracted-for-ninth-month-in-january.html
Lending to households and companies
in the euro area shrank for a ninth month in January as the
recession damped demand for credit.  Loans to the private sector fell 0.9 percent from a year
earlier after dropping and annual 0.7 percent in December, the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today. Loans fell 0.1
percent in the month.  The 17-nation euro region is battling its second recession
in four years as governments from Greece to  Spain  rein in
spending to cut excessive deficits. There are signs that parts
of the economy are beginning to recover. Business confidence in
Germany jumped to a 10-month high in February and the Bundesbank
predicts Europe’s largest economy will return to growth in the
current quarter.  “Demand for credit remains weak for now but should improve
somewhat in the second half of the year,” said  Holger Sandte ,
chief European analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “Still,
we won’t see a credit boom. The economic recovery will be bumpy
and the overall environment rather difficult.”  The ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of
0.75 percent this month. President  Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 7
he expects the euro economy to recover gradually in the course
of 2013. The central bank predicts the economy will shrink 0.3
percent this year and grow 1.2 percent in 2014.  The rate of growth in M3 money supply, which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, rose to 3.5 percent in January
from 3.4 percent in December, the ECB said today.  M3 grew 3.5 percent in the three months through January
from the same period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of
 money supply  and includes cash in circulation, some forms of
savings and money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  