-- EDF, GDF Able to Extend French Dam Contracts Under Proposed Law
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-27T14:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/edf-gdf-able-to-extend-french-dam-contracts-under-proposed-law.html
Dam operators including Electricite
de  France  SA and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA would be able to extend concessions
for hydropower projects by a quarter to 99 years under a French
law proposed by a senator from the ruling Socialist party.  The change, eligible for new contracts and current holders
that carry out new investment, would mirror rules in European
countries such as Austria, allowing “ambitious projects” to
boost capacity, according to the proposals published on the
Senate’s  website . Concessions now last for as long as 75 years.  Alpiq Holding AG (ALPH) ,  Enel SpA (ENEL) , EON AG and Vattenfall AB are
among European utilities that have sought to join EDF and GDF,
the former French monopolies that are its biggest dam operators.
France has 25,600 megawatts of installed hydroelectric capacity
providing 12 percent of total power output last year, according
to data from grid operator Reseau de Transport d’Electricite.  Extending contracts may run counter to European Commission
calls for France to boost industry competition. Environment
Minister Delphine Batho is studying alternatives to allowing
companies to compete for the renewal of concessions, she says, a
process started under former French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  While capacity should increase as much as 3,000 megawatts
from 2009 to 2020 under government targets, only 300 megawatts
of hydropower were added in the past five years as operators
wait to see details of possible competitive tenders, according
to the law proposed by Socialist senator Roland Courteau.  France “must enable access to hydroelectricity,” Anne
Houtman, head of the EC’s representation in France, said in
September at a gas and power conference in Paris.  The Energy Ministry in the Sarkozy government was drawing
up plans to invite bids, saying in April 2010 that permits to
run 10 dams with a combined output of 5,300 megawatts, or about
a fifth of the total, would be ready for renewal through 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  