-- Hedge Funds Plotting CMBS Gatekeeper Coup: Mortgages
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-02-27T14:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/hedge-funds-plotting-cmbs-gatekeeper-coup-mortgages.html
Hedge funds are preparing to muscle
in on the riskiest part of the $550 billion commercial mortgage
bond market, where a handful of firms control the fate of deals.  Ellington Management Group LLC, Saba Capital Management LP
and a fund of MatlinPatterson are among investors considering
purchases of so-called B-pieces of newly issued commercial
property bonds, according to people familiar with the three
firms’ plans who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Buyers of the securities are the first
to lose money when buyers default; in exchange they earn higher
returns and control over which mortgages are included in new
deals created by Wall Street.  The investments, which can yield as much as 24 percent, are
dominated by loan specialists -- Rialto Investments and
Eightfold Real Estate Capital bought 16 of the 27 B-pieces sold
last year -- when about $35 billion of mortgage bonds were
issued, according to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  The pool of buyers is
poised to widen as new issuance soars and investors try to
ferret out ways to get high-yielding returns as the Federal
Reserve holds interest rates close to zero into a fifth year.  “Funds are increasingly getting more creative in terms of
complexity and illiquidity,” said Rael Gorelick, co-founder and
principal of  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Gorelick Brothers
Capital LLC, which invests in mortgage funds. “This is a rates-
are-low story. Where else are you going to go?”  Property Recovery  Buyers have been drawn to securities tied to skyscrapers,
shopping malls and hotels after property values recovered 45
percent since bottoming in 2009. That’s helped Wall Street firms
revive the market for new debt, which package mortgages into
securities of varying risk with the majority getting the top
credit grades.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  raised its 2013 CMBS sales forecast to
$70 billion from $45 billion last week as issuance in January
and February exceeded expectations. Wall Street arranged $8.3
billion in new transactions last month, the highest monthly
tally since December 2007, according to Deutsche Bank.  JPMorgan is offering $1.28 billion of the debt composed of
50 loans on 101 properties across the U.S., and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Deutsche Bank are also
marketing CMBS this week, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The new issue market “is really getting into a more
consistent flow this year.” said Noelle Saverese, co-portfolio
manager of MatlinPatterson’s $400 million mortgage strategy.
“That’s why you’re hearing about that strategy now.” She
declined to say whether the firm is buying the debt.  Saba, Ellington  Boaz Weinstein , founder of Saba, said this month that CMBS
was his best investment idea at the EnTrust Investment Summit in
New York.  The firm, started in 2009 to profit on price discrepancies
between loans, bonds and derivatives, has been in talks with
banks about the investments, according to three people with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman
for the New York-based firm, which manages about $5.3 billion,
declined to comment.  Ellington, a $5.1 billion mortgage investor run byMichael Vranos, is also considering the strategy, two people said.
Patrick Clifford, a spokesman for Ellington, declined to
comment.  Larger Pool  A larger field of B-piece buyers would be a boon for
borrowers looking for financing, according to Steven Schwartz, a
managing director at Torchlight Investors, which buys the
securities.  “It’s not great to have a market as big as CMBS reliant on
three or four investors,” Schwartz said. “More investors and a
wider capital base are a good thing for the CMBS market.”  The industry hinges on B-piece buyers, who police
underwriting standards by digging into property details before
other investors and reserving the right to throw out loans
deemed too risky. Prior to the 2008 credit crisis the investors
also oversaw troubled loans within the deals. Fitch Ratings
described the buyers during the property boom as an “old
cartel” in a report yesterday.  “This is the most important part of the capital structure
as far as the street is concerned,” Schwartz said. New deals
can’t proceed without the approval of the investor. “The
consequences of not closing can go beyond economics so there
can’t be a fail here.”  Narrowing Spreads  New entrants are looking into this segment of CMBS as
yields on safer classes of the debt and the rest of the fixed
income market shrink. High-yield bonds are paying 6.5 percent,
down from 8.4 percent in June. Leveraged loan  prices  last month
reached the highest levels since the credit crisis, according to
the Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index.  Spreads on CMBS securities rated BBB-, the lowest
investment-grade ranking, have narrowed 110 basis points to 350
basis points more than the benchmark swap rate since December,
according to JPMorgan data. The debt priced to yield 535 basis
points over swaps six months ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Some buyers attracted to B-pieces are being drawn by the
ability to recoup some cash by selling portions of their
investments, particularly those rated just below investment
grade, according toRichard Hill, a debt analyst at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc.  “We certainly saw some BBs trading in January as B-piece
buyers looked to opportunistically sell them into the market,”
Hill said.  Reducing Interest  That’s raising some concern that buyers are lowering their
interest in the collateral. During the boom years, B-piece
buyers were able to repackage their purchases into
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, keeping small slices
and selling off the rest, watering down their role as
gatekeepers and fueling a record $232 billion in sales in 2007.  “If your investment in the deal is reduced, your interest
in the collateral being put in the deal may be reduced,” said
Torchlight’s Schwartz. “It doesn’t have to be, but it might.”  It won’t be easy for new firms to break into the B-piece
market, he said. The buyers will have to prove to Wall Street
banks they understand bond structures and have the resources to
conduct due diligence on 100 loans at a time and sign off on a
deal in six weeks, he said.  For hedge funds the opportunity though may be worth it.
“They are definitely one of the more attractive ones but at the
same time one of the more risky ones,” MatlinPatterson’s
Saverese said of the B-pieces. “You have to be careful. But you
are getting paid for your risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  