-- Meister, Related Sue CommonWealth on Planned Share Sale
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-02-27T18:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/meister-related-sue-commonwealth-on-planned-share-sale.html
Activist investor Keith Meister and
Related Cos., who together own 9.8 percent of  CommonWealth REIT (CWH) ,
sued the company after it rejected their objections to a planned
offering of 27 million new shares.  The plaintiffs claimed breach of fiduciary duty and are
asking for an injunction to stop the share sale, according to a
court filing today in Maryland state court in Baltimore.
CommonWealth said it plans to issue 27 million shares and use
the $450 million in proceeds to pay off debt, it said on Feb.
25. Corvex and Related are demanding that CommonWealth suspend
the offering and consider a proposal to buy the company at $25 a
share.  CommonWealth said today that it will proceed with the
offering. Meister and Related said they are prepared to call a
shareholder vote to oust the REIT’s board of trustees, according
to their statement.  “CWH has refused to meet with Corvex and Related, a
further example of their disregard for their fiduciary duty, and
instead continue to pursue their shareholder value-destroying
conduct,” the companies said in a statement.  The Newton, Massachusetts-based real estate investment
trust said that, “the best interests of CommonWealth will be
served by CommonWealth continuing the common share offering and
debt tender offer previously announced.”  Prepared Bid  Meister and Related said yesterday that they are prepared
to make a bid of $25 a share, or $2.1 billion, for the company.
Today, they said the $25 per share offering could be reduced if
CommonWealth proceeds with the share offering.  Issuing 27 million additional shares will dilute
CommonWealth’s outstanding stock by more than 30 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, lowering the dividends
paid to shareholders. REITs, whose primary income streams are
from real estate, are required by the  Internal Revenue Service 
to distribute at least 90 percent of their taxable earnings to
shareholders in the form of dividends. In exchange they pay
little or no income tax.  Shares of CommonWealth jumped 54 percent yesterday, the
most since at least 1986, after Corvex and Related challenged
the offering. The  stock  fell $1.69, or 6.9 percent, to $22.71 at
1:06 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange trading.  If the company doesn’t cancel the share offering, Corvex
and Related may try to replace members of the  board , including
CommonWealth President Adam Portnoy and his father, Chairman
Barry Portnoy, according to a regulatory filing yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  