-- Telefonica Deutschland Predicts Faster Wireless Will Drive Sales
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-27T12:54:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/telefonica-deutschland-predicts-faster-wireless-will-drive-sales.html
Telefonica (TEF)  Deutschland Holding AG,
the Telefonica SA unit that first sold shares to the public last
year, is relying on the rollout of faster mobile technology and
more people surfing the Internet via mobile phones to drive
revenue this year.  Operating income before depreciation and amortization in
2012 rose 11 percent to 1.28 billion euros ($1.68 billion), the
Munich-based company said today. Sales climbed 3.5 percent to
5.21 billion euros. Mobile data was the main reason for revenue
growth, accounting for 1.39 billion euros, the company said.  Telefonica Deutschland plans to gain market share from data
services and expects the introduction of faster, so-called long-
term evolution wireless technology to help drive sales and meet
growing consumer demand for mobile data. The company vies with
Royal KPN NV’s E-Plus unit for the No. 3 spot in Germany behind
wireless leaders  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   “Data is the core of our success in 2013,” Chief
Executive Officer Rene Schuster said on a conference call today.
The company expects to outperform the German mobile-phone market
and increase market share this year, he said.  Telefonica Deutschland fell 2.2 percent to 5.60 euros at
1:53 p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Telefonica, Spain’s former phone monopoly, sold about 23
percent of its German unit in Europe’s largest initial public
offering in 2012, at 5.60 euros a share.  Schuster declined to comment on whether the company would
be interested in partnering with German cable operator  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , after people familiar with the matter
said that Vodafone put on hold plans to approach  Kabel
Deutschland  about a takeover bid.  Capital expenditure for rolling out the LTE network isn’t
expected to exceed the 680 million euros the company spent in
2010 on its third-generation wireless capacity, Telefonica
Deutschland said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 