-- Telekom Austria Ex-Managers Given Jail for Share Manipulation
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-02-27T16:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/telekom-austria-ex-managers-given-jail-for-share-manipulation.html
Telekom Austria AG’s (TKA)  former finance
chief and an ex-board member were found guilty of manipulating
the share price in 2004 to trigger bonus payments for themselves
and other employees. The two were sentenced to jail.  Former Chief Financial Officer Stefano Colombo was
sentenced to 42 months in jail by a Vienna Criminal Court jury
led by Judge Michael Tolstiuk. Rudolf Fischer, a former deputy
chief executive officer, was given a three-year sentence.
Another employee was given jail time, while former CEO Heinz Sundt was acquitted. Lawyers for Colombo and Fischer didn’t
immediately say whether they plan to appeal.  “The court considers it proven that the jump of the share
price caused the bonus payments,” Tolstiuk said. The accused
“were aware that they were misusing their authorities,” he
said. The three people found guilty were ordered to pay 9.9
million euros ($13 million) sought by the company as
compensation.  The trial that began Feb. 11 was the first to result from
multiple corruption probes into the Vienna-based company. About
40 people are being investigated because of payments  Telekom
Austria  made to political parties and lobbyists, prosecutors
said last fall. They are among a string of corruption cases over
the last two years that involve politicians and state-controlled
companies in the Alpine republic.  Colombo, Fischer and two other employees were found guilty
of conspiring to provide  company  funds to a broker so that he
could buy enough shares to drive the stock price above 11.70
euros on Feb. 26, 2004. That triggered 9 million euros ($11.8
million) of bonus payments for 95 employees, prosecutors said in
the trial.  Fischer admitted during the trial that he approved a
payment to the broker who bought Telekom Austria stock to lift
the price. While  Colombo  repaid his bonus, he rejected all
charges and said he hadn’t known some of the facts that surfaced
in court. Sundt said he didn’t know about any manipulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  