-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance From Two-Month Low on Economy
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-02-27T13:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/emerging-stocks-advance-from-two-month-low-on-u-s-data-china.html
Emerging-market stocks rose from a
two-month low,  led  by automakers, as reports signaled increased
confidence in economic recovery and investors speculated China
will take steps to support equities.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  advanced for the first time in three days
in Seoul, while  Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (2238)  rallied the most
in seven weeks in Hong Kong after UBS AG raised its stock
rating. OAO Bashneft, billionaire Vladimir Evtushenkov’s crude
producer, gained in Moscow as oil rebounded.  Ford Otomotiv
Sanayi AS (FROTO)  climbed the most in two months after net income beat
analysts’ estimates.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.2 percent to
1,045.49 at 1:05 p.m. in London. It fell 1.1 percent yesterday
as Italy’s inconclusive election revived European debt concerns.
Reports yesterday on U.S. new-home sales and consumer sentiment
beat estimates and data today indicated economic confidence in
the euro area increased more than forecast in February. China is
studying allowing the housing provident fund to invest in
equities, China National Radio said.  “The latest data boosted investors’ confidence in the
direction of the  U.S. economy ,” Chu Moon Sung,  fund manager  at
Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees about
$30 billion, said by phone in Seoul.  Eight of the 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index climbed, with gauges of utilities and consumer
discretionary companies leading gains. The 21 countries in the
developing-nations gauge send about 26 percent of their exports
to the European Union on average and 17 percent to the U.S.,
data compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  European Outlook  An index of executive and consumer sentiment rose to 91.1
from a revised 89.5 in January, the European Commission said.
Economists had forecast an increase to 89.9, according to the
median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Italy reached its
target in a bond sale today as the country’s political stalemate
forced the Treasury to offer higher yields.  “The outlook for emerging Europe’s exporters has improved
a little,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging-market economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in an e-mailed report
today. “Much still hinges on developments in the  euro zone ,
where the debt crisis is far from resolved. This will continue
to cloud the outlook for emerging Europe.”  Russia’s Micex Index gained 0.2 percent and the ruble
strengthened for the first time in three days. Bashneft added
1.1 percent, reversing yesterday’s losses, as oil rose as much
as 0.5 percent in New York, the first advance in three days. OAO
Gazprom, Russia’s biggest energy producer, gained 0.9 percent.  RusPetro Tumbles  RusPetro Plc, an oil producer in Siberia, fell as much as
14 percent, before trading 5.1 percent lower and heading for
record-low close in London. The oil company’s condensate output
is set to miss its February target and recently started wells
have lower than expected flow rates, the company said in a
regulatory filing today.  Poland’s WIG20 Index added 0.2 percent.  PGE SA (PGE)  jumped 3.2
percent in Warsaw, the biggest gain since Jan. 2 on a closing
basis, as Citigroup Inc. and Bank Zachodni WBK SA recommended
buying shares in the country’s biggest utility.  Trading volume on the Russian and Polish benchmark indexes
was 24 percent less than the 30-day average.  Ford Otomotiv, a Turkish carmaker co-owned by Ford Motor
Co. and Koc Holding AS, rose 4.1 percent after the company said
2012 net income rose 2 percent to 675 million liras ($374
million) yesterday.  Higher Dividends  Abu Dhabi ’s ADX General Index rallied 1.7 percent to the
highest level since October 2009 as investors bought banking
stocks to take advantage of rising dividends. First Gulf Bank
PJSC added 4.2 percent to the highest since July, 2008.  South Africa’s benchmark stock index slid 0.7 percent,
falling for a second day, and the rand slipped 0.5 percent
against the dollar. The government cut its economic growth
forecast for 2013 to 2.7 percent from 3 percent.  ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) , the continent’s biggest
steelmaker, and  Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  lost at least 3.2
percent in Johannesburg.  Brazil’s Bovespa index was little changed in early trading.  India’s S&P BSE Sensex index climbed 0.7 percent, the most
in a month, after Finance Ministry advisers said economic growth
is set to recover. Volume was 23 percent above the 30-day
average for the Sensex. India’s rupee advanced 0.4 percent.  Reports yesterday showed U.S. home sales surged 15.6
percent in January and the Conference Board’s consumer sentiment
 index  climbed to 69.6, beating all estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the
central bank’s asset purchases, saying they are supporting the
economy with little risk of inflation or bubbles in stocks and
bonds.  Durable Goods  Data today will probably indicate orders for U.S. durable
goods fell in January for the first time in five months, while
pending sales of existing homes rose.  The emerging-markets index has fallen 1 percent this year,
compared with a 3.6 percent gain in the MSCI World Index. The
developing-nations index trades at 10.2 times projected 12-month
earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s 13 times, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 291 basis points,
according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.9 percent from a one-
month low, while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of
Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong climbed 0.4 percent. The
Jakarta Composite Index added 1.1 percent, bound for a record
close. South Korea’s won gained after the country’s current-
account surplus widened.  Carmakers Gain  Guangzhou Automobile rose 6 percent after UBS upgraded the
stock to neutral, citing an improving outlook for the industry.  Hyundai Motor advanced 0.7 percent. The company agreed to
settle a group of lawsuits by U.S. customers who said they were
misled into buying the South Korean carmaker’s vehicles because
it overstated their fuel economy. Affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) 
added 1.7 percent.  South Korea’s current-account surplus was $2.25 billion in
January, compared with a revised surplus of $2.14 billion in
December,  Bank of Korea  said in a statement in Seoul today. The
nation’s  consumer confidence  remained at its highest level since
May, data showed today. The won strengthened 0.3 percent against
the dollar.  Chinese brokerages advanced, with  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and
Haitong Securities Co. rising at least 2.4 percent in Hong Kong.
China may allow more firms to develop asset-backed securities
businesses with the goal of boosting liquidity, the nation’s
market regulator said. China plans to allow Hong Kong, Macau and
Taiwan passport holders living on the mainland to invest in
domestic Chinese shares, the China Securities Journal reported.  AirAsia Climbs  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  surged 8.3 percent, the most since August
2010.  Net income  more than doubled to 350.6 million ringgit
($113 million) in the three months ended December, according to
an exchange filing yesterday. The airline also said it will
begin paying 20 percent of annual net operating profits as
 dividends .  Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Co. jumped 11 percent in
Hong Kong, the most since April 2009, after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch upgraded the stock to buy.  Hyosung Corp. (004800)  slumped 7.3 percent in Seoul, its steepest
loss since September 2011, after its fourth-quarter profit
missed analysts’ estimates. The stock was the  worst performer  on
the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Beijing Capital International Airport Co. sank 4.4 percent
in Hong Kong, after the stock was downgraded to neutral at
Citigroup Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  