-- Energy Future Creditors Said to Hire Millstein for Debt Talks
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/energy-future-creditors-said-to-hire-millstein-for-debt-talks.html
Jim Millstein , the U.S. Treasury
Department’s former chief restructuring officer, and his firm
Millstein & Co. have been retained by senior creditors to Energy
Future Holdings Corp.’s competitive power unit, a person with
knowledge of the matter said.  Millstein will act on behalf of first-lien lenders to  Texas 
Competitive Electric Holdings, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the process isn’t public. The senior
lender group includes  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) ,  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) ,  Oaktree Capital Group LLC (OAK)  and GSO Capital
Partners, other people familiar with the matter said earlier
this month. Moody’s Investors Service said in a note yesterday
that it expected the company to restructure in six to 12 months.  Energy Future, formerly known as TXU Corp., was taken
private by  KKR & Co. (KKR) , TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners for $48 billion in the biggest leveraged buyout in
history. KKR and TPG hired  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , GSO Capital’s
parent, to help restructure Energy Future’s debt load, while
Energy Future has retained  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and Kirkland &
Ellis, other people familiar with the discussions said earlier
this month. Energy Future had $37.8 billion of long-term debt as
of Dec. 31, according to Securities and Exchange Commission
filings.  The company’s regulated utility Oncor had $5.4 billion in
long-term debt as of Dec. 31, according to SEC filings. The unit
enlisted the New York-based restructuring firm Miller Buckfire &
Co., a unit of Stifel Financial Corp., people familiar with
those discussions have said.  Representatives of Energy Future and Millstein & Co.
declined to comment on the firm’s retention.  Gas Prices  Energy Future’s competitive unit may run out of cash in
early 2014 after a plunge in natural gas prices that lowered
power rates in Texas, Moody’s said yesterday in its research
note. Texas Competitive faces an October 2014 repayment deadline
for loans of $3.8 billion.  Millstein’s hiring by creditors was reported earlier by the
Financial Times.  At Treasury, Millstein oversaw  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) ’s restructuring. He was formerly co-head of corporate
restructuring at Lazard Freres & Co., and earlier led corporate
restructuring at the law firm Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  