-- Tenet CEO Sees Boost as More States Expand Medicaid Plans
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2013-02-27T21:10:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/tenet-ceo-sees-boost-as-more-states-expand-medicaid-plans.html
New Jersey’s  Chris Christie  and
 Florida ’s  Rick Scott  won’t be the last Republican governors to
expand Medicaid under the 2010 health-care law, said  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC)  Chief Executive Officer Trevor Fetter.  Eventually, Fetter expects them all to.  Governors are facing increasing pressure to expand the
program from hospitals in their states that provide millions of
dollars in unpaid care to the uninsured, and from businesses
struggling with rising premiums, Fetter said in an interview
yesterday in Tenet’s Dallas headquarters.  Tenet, the third biggest publicly traded U.S. hospital
chain, provides about $450 million in unpaid medical care each
year, he said. About 20 percent of the chain’s patient beds are
located in  Texas , where a quarter of the population is uninsured
and the Republican governor,  Rick Perry , has vowed to oppose all
aspects of the 2010 health-care law.  “The biggest impact from the expansion for us would be in
Texas,” Fetter said. “If tomorrow the Texas legislature and
governor were to devise a way to expand Medicaid, investors
would think that is a very good thing for the company. There
isn’t a scenario I can envision that is worse than the status
quo in Texas.”  Scott said a week ago he would approve the expansion, and
Christie made his announcement yesterday.  Their decisions bring to 25 the number of states
participating in the expansion of the federal-state health
program for the poor, according to a tally by  Advisory Board
Co. (ABCO) , a technology, research and consulting company based in
 Washington . Fourteen other Republican governors remain opposed
to the expansion, including Perry of Texas.  ‘Brazen Intrusions’  Perry announced in July that he won’t expand the Texas
Medicaid program, saying the Affordable Care Act signed by
President  Barack Obama  in 2010 represents “brazen intrusions
into the sovereignty of our state.”  Tenet rose 2.9 percent to $38.95 at the close in New York.  Obama’s health law, which passed Congress without a single
Republican vote, may extend insurance over the next decade to
about 27 million people who are currently uninsured. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates that 8 million more people
will enroll in Medicaid programs next year because of the
expansion, which raises the income eligibility limits.  Under the law, the U.S. government will pay the cost of
covering people made newly eligible for the program until 2017.
Thereafter, states don’t have to pay more than 10 percent of the
cost. Christie said his decision to expand Medicaid will save
 New Jersey  taxpayers $227 million in fiscal 2014.  Tenet Gains  Tenet, which operates 49 hospitals in 10 states, has
centers located near the New Jersey border in  Pennsylvania  that
will benefit from having fewer New Jersey residents coming
without insurance, Fetter said. Tenet also will gain from
Scott’s decision in Florida, where the company has more patient
beds than in any other state.  An estimated 3.35 million of Florida’s 19.1 million
residents will receive Medicaid this year, according to the
state legislature’s Office of Economic and Democratic Research.
An expansion under the federal law would increase that by 1.28
million during the next 10 years, according to a November 2012
report from the  Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured ,
a program of the nonprofit  Kaiser Family Foundation , a health-
care research group based in  Menlo Park ,  California .  Fetter said that while he thinks Texas will eventually
follow the other states, he doesn’t see it happening quickly.  “Personally, I think it is only a matter of time and a
matter of finding a face-saving opportunity out, but I’m not a
politician,” Fetter said.  Lowering Costs  While Tenet waits for the number of uninsured to drop, the
hospital is looking for ways to lower costs and become more
 efficient  in the face of pricing pressure from insurers and the
federal government, Fetter said.  The hospital chain has spent $600 million on an electronic
medical records system that should help prevent doctors from
doing unnecessary tests and procedures, according to Fetter.  He plans to recoup most of that cost from federal
incentives offered under the 2009 economic stimulus bill. Tenet
also is looking to save more than $80 million a year using
standardized operating procedures among the chain’s doctors.  Fetter also said he expects more consolidation to occur
among hospitals and Tenet will be looking more aggressively for
deals in the future.  “Our appetite to make acquisitions is greater than it has
been in the past,” he said. “There will be more consolidation
in our industry because the pressures are pretty intense.”  Earnings Report  Tenet reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings yesterday
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $336
million that beat analysts’ estimates. Earnings excluding one-
time items were 52 cents a share, 15 cents lower than the
average of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Uninsured and charity admissions rose 1.1 percent in the
fourth-quarter, the company said in a statement. Bad debt as a
percent of revenues in the fourth quarter was 7.9 percent
compared with 7.7 percent a year earlier.  Revenue climbed 7.3 percent to $2.33 billion, as adjusted
admissions rose 2.9 percent and outpatient visits increased 7.3
percent. Tenet reaffirmed its 2013 forecast for adjusted Ebitda
of $1.325 billion to $1.425 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in  New York  at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  