-- ER Visit Costs Hard to Predict With $4 to $24,000 Swings
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2013-02-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/er-visit-costs-hard-to-predict-with-4-to-24-000-swings.html
Treating a sprain in a U.S. hospital
can cost $4 to $24,000, making a trip to the emergency room
financially risky for uninsured patients, researchers said.  A  study  found wide variety between the lowest and highest
charges for 10 common conditions, highlighting the
unpredictability of health-care costs. Bills were $50 to more
than $73,000 for urinary tract infections, $15 to $17,797 for
headache care and $29 to $29,551 for intestinal infections.  “There is a huge amount of variation in the prices charged
for medical care and, unfortunately, our system is set up in a
way where patients really can’t do much about it,” said  Renee
Hsia , an assistant professor of emergency medicine at the
University of  California , San Francisco and author of the study,
published yesterday in the journal  PLoS One .  While these are the prices that hospitals bill for their
services, what a patient ends up paying depends on whether they
have insurance and what kind, Hsia said. Larger insurance
companies can negotiate lower rates, while the uninsured usually
have to pay the entire bill, she said.  “They have no one to negotiate on their behalf, and they
are stuck with the bill,” Hsia said. “For privately insured
patients, if they accidentally end up in an out-of-network
hospital, or their annual limit has been reached, then they,
too, are faced with the entire bill.”  More Than Rent  The study examined emergency room visits by 8,303 adults in
2006 to 2008 that didn’t involve admittance to the hospitals.
The median charge was $1,233 for an ER visit, more than the
average American’s rent, said Hsia. The researchers excluded
patients 65 or older, those covered by Medicare and people who
left with more than one diagnosis, in order to narrow the study.
The data came from the U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality’s Medical Expenditure Panel  Survey .  The numbers themselves can seem arbitrary, said Giovanni Colella, a doctor and co-founder of Castlight Health Inc., a San
Francisco-based company that helps patients shop for medical
care.  “I’ve been in this business for 25 years, and I still
can’t figure out how they determine these prices,” Colella said
in an interview. “The paradox of our health-care system is that
if you’re uninsured, you’re going to pay much higher amounts.”  There’s often no way for patients, or doctors, to know what
the final charge will be,  Hsia  said. A person could fall off a
ladder, or a one-story building, and come to the hospital with a
swollen ankle. Doctors may order X-rays, and if they came back
negative, further tests such as CT scans might be needed to
determine if there’s a fracture, Hsia said.  U.S. Spending  Medical spending in the U.S. increased 3.9 percent in 2011
to $2.7 trillion, according to the latest figures from the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and is expected to
rise 3.8 percent this year. Out-of-pocket health costs,
$304.4 billion in 2011, should gain 3.4 percent this year, the
agency said in a  report .  “To a hospital, a patient may be an object of human
compassion, but he or she is also a biological structure
yielding cash,” said Uwe Reinhardt, a professor of economics at
Princeton University, in an e-mail. “In general, a hospital
will try to extract as much cash from that structure as it can,
and that depends on the bargaining power of whoever pays for the
patients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  