-- Merck’s Tredaptive Raises Risk of Muscle Pain in Study
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-27T00:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/merck-s-tredaptive-raises-risk-of-muscle-pain-in-study.html
Merck (MRK)  & Co.’s cholesterol therapy
Tredaptive, which the company stopped selling this year because
it was ineffective and possibly harmful, raised rates of muscle
pain and weakness in patients, a study found.  Muscle pain and weakness were found to be most common in
Chinese patients, researchers said, with rates four times higher
than those on placebo or of Europeans in the study of 25,673
patients  published today  in the European Heart Journal.  Merck, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker, said in December
it wouldn’t seek U.S. approval for the treatment and stopped
selling it globally in January. The medicine is approved in 70
countries and was sold in 40. Tredaptive combines the vitamin
niacin, which has been shown to help with cholesterol levels,
with the experimental medicine laropiprant, added to reduce a
face-flushing effect of the vitamin.  “The participants in  China  seemed to be at more risk than
the participants in  Europe ,”  Jane Armitage , the study’s lead
investigator and a professor of clinical trials and epidemiology
at the University of Oxford, said in a telephone interview. “We
saw more effect than we had anticipated.”  Patients were followed for a median of 3.9 years and their
side effects were tracked. Of those on Tredaptive, 25 percent
stopped taking it, compared with 17 percent of those on placebo.
Skin and stomach issues were the most common reasons for
quitting the drug.  In Chinese patients, 0.66 percent were found to have muscle
pains or weakness when taking Tredaptive, compared with 0.13
percent on placebo. Rates in European patients were lower, and
only 0.07 percent were found to have muscle pain or weakness.  Full results of the Merck study, known as HPS2-THRIVE, are
scheduled to be released in March. The drug generated less than
$20 million in 2012.  Study results released in December showed the medicine
failed to lower the number of heart attacks, strokes, the need
for artery-clearing procedures or death from cardiovascular
disease more than cholesterol-lowering statin drugs. Patients
given Tredaptive plus statin drugs alone or with the drug Zocor
were more likely to develop serious, though not life-
threatening, side effects, the  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-
based company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  