-- Tesco Says Horse Meat Test May Push Margin ‘Down a Touch’
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-02-27T18:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/tesco-chief-says-horse-meat-test-may-push-margins-down-a-touch-.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Clarke  said the biggest U.K. grocer will absorb the cost
of testing products for horse meat and pledged to sell more
British meat.  “The total cost of the testing will be borne by Tesco,”
Clarke said in an interview with  BBC  Radio 4’s Today program.
“The total cost isn’t that great, but in the scheme of things,
our margin will come down a touch.”  Clarke went on a publicity spree ahead of a speech he will
deliver before the National Farmers’ Union in Birmingham today.
In an Op-Ed in the Sun newspaper, he promised Tesco will source
more of its meat from the U.K. For a start, all the chicken
Tesco sells has to come from Britain, Clarke wrote.  Tesco was one of the first supermarkets hit in mid-January
when one of its value burgers was found to contain horse meat.
The scandal has since spread across  Europe , forcing supermarkets
to remove frozen burgers, lasagnas and other beef products from
their shelves. Tesco has dropped some of its suppliers and said
it will carry out DNA tests on all its meat.  The company’s technical director  Tim Smith  told a
parliamentary committee on Jan. 30 that the testing could cost
the supplier as much as 2 million pounds ($3 million) a year.  Clarke also told the BBC he cannot guarantee that sourcing
more meat in the U.K. will not push up prices.  ’Price Increases’  “We are going to  have to make sure with the farmers that
everyone can make a living out of it,” he said. “I hope it
doesn’t mean price increases but I can’t stand here today and
tell you it won’t.”  That may curb some of Tesco’s revival in the U.K. market,
according to Clive Black, an analyst at Shore Capital in
Liverpool.  “With its current underperformance, Tesco needs both a
more loyal supply and customer base,” he said. “So, in the big
scheme of things we do not anticipate a lurch down in U.K.
margins, but equally recent events may cap their ongoing
expansion to some degree.”  Tesco’s market share in the U.K. grocery market slipped to
29.7 percent in the 12-weeks to Feb. 17 from 30.1 percent a year
earlier, data from Kantar Worldpanel showed yesterday. The drop
was due to reduced levels of promotions rather than mislabeled
beef products, Kantar said.  The retailer’s shares fell 0.3 percent to 363.80 pence in
 London . They have gained 8.3 percent this year, while the FTSE
100 Index rose 7.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  