-- Esprit Posts $60 Million Loss Amid European Crisis
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-02-27T11:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/esprit-posts-60-million-loss-amid-european-crisis.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the Hong Kong-
based apparel seller whose two top executives quit in June,
posted a wider-than-estimated first-half loss of HK$465 million
($60 million) on weaker consumer demand in  Europe .  Revenue dropped 19 percent to HK$13.6 billion in the six
months ended Dec. 31, according to a statement from Esprit. The
loss was wider than the HK$174 million median estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News and compares with net income
of HK$555 million a year earlier.  The retailer, which got 78 percent of sales from Europe in
the period, has  invested  in advertising and store upgrades as it
faces competition from bigger rivals including  Hennes & Mauritz
AB (HMB) , Fast Retailing Co. Ltd. and  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara. Esprit raised
more than HK$5 billion in a rights offer in November to fund
efforts to revive its brand.  “Although the group continues to make progress in the
implementation of the transformation plan, it will take time to
see the benefits translated into operating results,” the
company said in today’s statement.  The stock fell 0.8 percent to close at HK$10.10 in Hong
Kong.  The Eurozone crisis damp consumer sentiment and hurt
trading conditions in the region, the company said in today’s
statement. Sales were also hurt by its store closures in North
America and the weaker euro against the Hong Kong dollar during
the period, compared with a year earlier, the company said.  The euro-area economy will shrink for a second year in
2013, pushing unemployment higher as governments, consumers and
companies curb spending, the European Commission said on Feb.
22.  Top Departures  Esprit lost two executives over 48 hours in June as ex-
chairman Hans Joachim Koerber resigned a day after then-Chief
Executive Officer Ronald Van der Vis quit.  The departures fueled doubts over the company’s ability to
see the transformation plan through. In September, the company
appointed Jose Manuel Martinez Gutierrez, a former Inditex SA
manager to replace Van der Vis.  Esprit, 11 percent owned by hedge fund Lone Pine Capital
LLC, said in 2011 that it planned to spend more than HK$18
billion ($2.3 billion) over four years on efforts to transform
the company through more marketing and a larger presence in
 China .  The company is “fine tuning” the transformation plan
without changing the direction, Martinez told reporters in Hong
Kong today.  “We have to improve our brand value, we have to improve
our products, re-enhance our stores,” he said. “In that sense,
it doesn’t make sense to complain about economic environment. We
just need to know it is there, but keep going.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  