-- EU May Need to Seek Larger Sugar Supplies While Quotas Last
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-27T12:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/eu-may-need-to-seek-larger-sugar-supplies-while-quotas-last-1-.html
The European Union may have to seek
a larger supply of sugar in every season until the scrapping of
quotas on domestic sales, according to the European Commission.  Sugar shortages in the current period already prompted the
commission, the EU’s executive arm, to let local producers sell
more in the domestic market and to increase imports. Further
measures may be needed until the quotas end, Joao Pacheco, the
commission’s deputy director general for agriculture and rural
development, said today in an interview in Brussels.  “In the past two years, we’ve had to do this,” Pacheco
said, referring to additional measures to boost the 27-nation
bloc’s sugar supplies. “Until the end of quotas, it is probable
that this will be necessary.”  EU rules now oblige domestic producers to export sugar
above the amount they’re permitted to sell within the bloc or
put it to non-food use. The commission wants to end the quotas
in 2015, while the European Parliament’s agricultural committee
plans to extend the system until 2020.  The commission is sticking to its plan to add 1.2 million
metric tons of sugar to EU supply this season, Pacheco said. The
bloc has already allowed imports of 54,000 tons of raw sugar and
8,540 tons of the refined, or white, variety under the plan as
well as authorizing local producers to sell an additional
150,000 tons in the domestic market.  Import Tender  “We have just started the operation for the 1.2 million
tons,” Pacheco said in the interview. “We will have another
import tender tomorrow.”  EU sugar prices climbed to an average 728 euros ($954) a
ton in November, the highest since at least 2006, figures from
the commission showed. Raw sugar fell 16 percent last year in
 New York  trading on ICE Futures U.S. and refined sweetener
dropped 13 percent on NYSE Liffe in  London .  The quotas leave some EU sugar demand to be met by imports
from countries that have preferential accords with the bloc,
including some nations in the African, Caribbean and Pacific
Group of States and some least developed countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in Brussels at  ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  