-- EU Sugar Prices Seen by Tate Remaining High for Now on Duty
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-27T17:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/eu-sugar-prices-seen-by-tate-remaining-high-for-now-on-duty-1-.html
Sugar prices in the European Union,
the world’s largest importer, are unlikely to fall for now
because of import duties and rising prices from traditional
suppliers, according to Tate & Lyle Sugars.  Prices reached 728 euros ($952) a metric ton in November,
the highest since at least 2006, figures from the European
Commission showed. They probably will remain elevated in the
“short term” even after the commission said it will boost
supplies by 1.2 million metric tons this season, Tony Bennett,
government affairs and strategy manager at Tate & Lyle, said in
an interview in Brussels today.  The EU is adding supply by letting producers sell more
sugar domestically and importing at reduced duty under a tender
system. The levy charged in past tenders approached the 339
euros a ton normally imposed on imports for refining, Bennett
said. High duties paid at tenders prompted countries that
usually supply the 27-nation EU to raise their prices, according
to Tate & Lyle.  “These tenders are coming about, and these tenders are
high-duty,” Bennett said. Traditional suppliers to the EU “are
aware that they can charge an extremely high price for the sugar
they have on the back of the fact that they see how much we are
prepared to pay the commission for import licenses.”  Preferential Access  Certain nations in the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group
of States and some least developed countries have preferential
access to the EU, meaning their sugar is free from import duty.
Shipments from those nations that were lower than predicted by
the commission, the EU’s executive arm, led to local shortages
of the sweetener in the bloc.  The additional 1.2 million tons proposed by the EU may help
reduce prices next season, depending on how much reaches the
market and at what duty, Bennett said. For now, the commission
has allowed imports of 54,000 tons of raw sugar and 8,540 tons
of the refined, or white, variety under the plan as well as
authorizing local producers to sell an additional 150,000 tons
in the domestic market. Any potential impact of the extra sugar
can only be felt in the following year because supply contracts
in  Europe  are usually signed on an annual basis, Bennett said.  Tate & Lyle is arguing for equal treatment for European
sugar-beet producers and refiners, according to Bennett. If the
EU were to end sugar quotas, ideally it also would scrap import
duties, he said. If the quotas stay, the commission would have
to be able to guarantee raw-sugar supply for refiners, he said.  Commission Proposal  Tate & Lyle had a loss of 41 million euros in the 2010-11
season, Bennett said. The company is owned by American Sugar
Refining Inc., which bought  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) ’s European sugar
activities in 2010.  The commission has proposed ending sugar quotas that limit
production in 2015 and the European Parliament’s agricultural
committee wants to extend the current system to 2020. While
quotas may end, import duties will remain in place, Joao
Pacheco, the commission’s deputy director general for
agriculture and rural development, said today in a separate
interview in Brussels.  “For us, it’s important that the quotas end because they
are very rigid,” Pacheco said. “We believe they are a thing of
the past, and it doesn’t make sense that sugar will be the only
market left with quotas in the EU. Milk and wine quotas will
end, so it doesn’t make sense that sugar will be the dinosaur
that stays. We will have to reach a compromise that will
probably be a date for sugar quotas to end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in Brussels at  ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  