-- Leung Raises Spending on Poor as Hong Kong Economy Gains
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2013-02-27T06:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/leung-raises-spending-on-poor-as-hong-kong-economy-gains.html
Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying increased spending on the poor and elderly in his
government’s first  budget , offering a growth boost to an economy
burdened with record housing costs.  The fiscal plan will bolster gross domestic product gains
by 1.3 percentage points, Financial Secretary John Tsang said
today in a speech. The city’s GDP expanded 2.5 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the most in a year, a bright end to
what was the weakest annual expansion since 2009.  Leung, whose popular support has tumbled since he took
office in July, is seeking to direct public funds to fulfill
campaign promises of narrowing a record wealth gap and helping
the aged. The former property surveyor increased  welfare
spending  by about a third in the budget, handing out allowances
to more than 400,000 elderly residents and pumping $2 billion
into a poverty alleviation fund in the budget.  “The overall tone of the budget shows that the government
is keen to help the lower-income class,” Raymond Yeung, a Hong
Kong-based senior economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd., said by telephone. “Infrastructure spending by the
government and measures to maintain full employment in Hong Kong
will help the city’s economy to improve further.”  Tsang today also unveiled HK$33 billion ($4.3 billion) of
one-time measures, including tax rebates and electricity
subsidies.  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  was little changed at 1:43
p.m. local time. It’s up about 16 percent since Leung took
office.  Recovering Growth  Fourth-quarter economic expansion of 2.5 percent is up from
the third quarter’s 1.4 percent, mirroring similar acceleration
in other Asian economies as global demand improves. Hong Kong’s
economy expanded 1.4 percent in 2012 and Tsang is projecting
growth of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent this year.  “Fundamentals in Asia remain strong and the mainland
economy regained its growth momentum in the fourth quarter,”
Tsang said. “Barring an abrupt deterioration in the demand from
the advanced economies, Hong Kong’s external trade should see
some improvement.”  To bolster long-term economic growth, Tsang said the
government will increase infrastructure spending and look to
expand the city’s logistics and fund-management industries. It
is studying the building of a new container terminal and will
also spend more on training workers, he said.  The city will sell as much as HK$10 billion worth of
inflation-linked bonds under the government’s bond program,
which will be doubled to HK$200 billion, Tsang also said.  Aging Society  Hong Kong is increasing recurrent spending on welfare
programs, which will advance 31 percent to HK$56 billion in the
fiscal year starting April 1, as the population grays. The
proportion of people age 65 and older reached 14 percent last
year and is expected to account for 30 percent by 2041, Tsang
said.  “Judging from the current demographic trends, our economic
growth will certainly continue to taper off in the 2020s,”
Tsang said.  In his first policy address last month, Leung promised to
boost the supply of housing, tackle pollution and provide more
care for the elderly. Last week, he imposed new property curbs
as record-low interest rates and an influx of buyers from China
fueled a doubling in  home prices  since early 2009.  Hong Kong’s Gini coefficient, a measure of income
inequality, rose to 0.537 in 2011 from 0.525 in 2001, the
government said last June. The score, a high for the city since
records began in 1971, is above the 0.4 level used by analysts
as a gauge of the potential for social unrest.  Leung is the  least popular  Hong Kong leader after seven
months in office, according to survey data from the University
of Hong Kong’s Public Opinion Program. Opposition lawmakers have
sought to oust him over illegal additions found at his home.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  