-- Ex-Sberbank Worker Sues for Sexism After Being Called a Cokehead
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-27T14:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ex-sberbank-worker-sues-for-sexism-after-being-called-a-cokehead.html
A former equity saleswoman at OAO
Sberbank’s London unit sued for sexual discrimination, saying
colleagues sent messages referring to her as “Ms. Cokehead”
and “mad Svetlana,” according to documents from her U.K.
employment tribunal claim.  Svetlana Lokhova went on leave because of stress in January
2012 and never returned after colleagues on the all-male equity
sales desk created a hostile work environment and showed “a
demeaning and offensive attitude to women,” she said in the
documents.  Lokhova, 32, is suing Sberbank CIB (UK) Ltd. for sexual
discrimination, harassment and breaching whistle-blower
protection rules. A London tribunal case starting today is
scheduled to last for more than five weeks and call on 15
witnesses. Damages awarded by the tribunal, normally capped at
about 70,000 pounds ($106,100), are unlimited in discrimination
and whistle-blower claims.  Sberbank is “confident that it has acted appropriately and
lawfully and will vigorously defend itself against the
allegations made,” bank spokesman Paul Marriott said in a
statement. Lokhova’s lawyer Sean Dempsey declined to immediately
comment.  Lokhova didn’t disclose she was setting up a new investment
business called DECS Capital Investments Ltd. when she rejoined
 Russia ’s largest lender in 2011, the bank said in documents
setting out its defense. She resigned from her first spell as a
fixed income saleswoman in 2010. Sberbank argued there isn’t
sufficient evidence of unlawful sexual discrimination, and
Lokhova was performing badly.  Tribal Leaders  Two days before her arrival, Sberbank’s U.K. head of equity
sales David Longmuir sent e-mails to clients saying “awaiting
arriving of Ms. Cokehead,” and “they’ve hired mad Svetlana do
to equity sales,” according to her claim.  At one point, colleagues circulated e-mails saying she
needed to visit tribal leaders in  Nigeria  in order to “calm her
down,” implying she needed sex to relax, according to her legal
documents.  While Longmuir admits he made “misguided and
unprofessional comments,” it was because he didn’t like her,
not because of her gender, the bank said in its documents.
Marriott said Longmuir declined to comment.  The London office was formerly part of Troika Dialog, which
was bought by Sberbank in January 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  