-- Mexico Teachers Union Leader Arrested on Embezzlement Charges
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-02-27T04:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/mexico-teacher-union-head-arrested-and-charged-with-embezzlement.html
Elba Esther Gordillo, a former
Institutional Revolutionary Party leader who has headed  Mexico ’s
biggest teaching union for more than two decades, was arrested
and charged with using workers’ funds to pay for personal
expenses from a private plane to plastic surgery.  Attorney General Jesus Murillo said Gordillo and others
are accused of misusing more than 2 billion pesos ($156 million)
in union funds. Gordillo, leader of the 1.2 million-strong
National Education Workers Union, was taken into custody
yesterday at the airport in Toluca, about 40 miles from Mexico
City, he said.  The arrest came a day after President Enrique Pena Nieto,
who took office Dec. 1, signed into law the biggest education
overhaul in seven decades, seeking to foster competition for
teaching jobs and promotions based on performance. Gordillo,
once a power broker in the PRI, as Pena Nieto’s party is known,
was expelled from it after the 2006 presidential campaign and
ran her own candidate, Gabriel Quadri, against Pena Nieto last
year under the New Alliance Party.  “We’re facing a case of illegal diversion of resources of
education workers, benefiting many people, among them Elba
Esther Gordillo,” Murillo told reporters at a televised news
conference in the nation’s capital. “Under this government, no
one is above or outside the law.”  Plastic Surgery  Gordillo used bank accounts in her mother’s name in
 Switzerland  and Liechtenstein to divert funds to pay for a house
in  San Diego  and art gallery items among other purchases, Deputy
Attorney General Alfredo Castillo said at yesterday’s news
conference. Between 2011 and 2012 a third party transferred more
than $17,000 to plastic surgery clinics in the name of Gordillo,
he said.  From 2009 to 2012, third parties used union money to pay
off a $3 million Neiman Marcus credit card bill that included
purchases by Gordillo, Murillo said.  A telephone message left at Gordillo’s office after
business hours seeking comment on the charges wasn’t immediately
returned.  “She has a network of political accomplices that she’s
built over several decades that has a lot of money behind it
because of the teachers union dues,”  Jorge Chabat , a political
science professor at the Mexico City-based Center for Economic
Research and Training. “She’s been a constant element of power
in all governments.”  Mexico is seeking to overhaul an education system that
ranked last out of 34 countries for enrollment rates of high
school-age students, behind Chile, Argentina and  Brazil ,
according to a 2011 study by the Paris-based Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. Mexico also spent more of
its public budget on education than 33 countries in a separate
OECD survey.  In a January interview with Milenio TV, Gordillo said she
opposed parts of Pena Nieto’s education bill related to the
removal of teachers that don’t meet performance standards.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  