-- Mexican Peso Gains as Central Banker Says He’s Against Rate Cut
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2013-02-28T00:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/mexico-peso-volatility-rises-to-12-week-high-on-europe-concern.html
Mexico’s peso gained the most in
three weeks after central bank board member Manuel Sanchez said
he doesn’t see a case for cutting  interest rates , damping
speculation policy makers will reduce borrowing costs next week.  The currency strengthened 0.6 percent to 12.7652 per  U.S.
dollar  at 4 p.m. in Mexico City. It was the biggest gain since
Feb. 5 and pared its advance in February to 0.4 percent.  Sanchez said in an interview at Bloomberg’s offices in
Mexico City that while he doesn’t know how he’ll vote at next
week’s policy meeting, he also doesn’t “see a case for a rate
cut” at this time. Interbank futures contracts have been
showing traders are betting  Banco de Mexico  will cut the 4.5
percent rate for the first time in more than three years next
week. Sanchez is one of five members on the bank’s board.  “Markets are watching very closely any new information
that could affect the central bank’s monetary policy decision
next week,”  Alonso Cervera , an economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “A statement by
one of the board members is always important, but particularly
so at tense times like right now.”  Banco de Mexico Governor Agustin Carstens said on Feb. 13
that the central bank may reduce interest rates should inflation
continue to slow after the rate of consumer prices increases
dropped to 3.25 percent in January, the least since October
2011. Sanchez said today that he’s concerned that inflation
expectations have remained above the bank’s 3 percent target.  Mexico’s policy makers have kept the rate unchanged since
July 2009.  Yields on local-currency bonds due in December increased
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 4.22 percent
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  