-- Expecting Mental Care to Curb Shootings Overlooks Neglect
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/expecting-mental-care-to-curb-shootings-overlooks-neglect.html
Counting on improved mental-health
care to help avert gun violence such as the shootings in
Newtown,  Connecticut , and Tucson,  Arizona , overlooks years of
neglect and funding cuts.  The  National Rifle Association  and its mostly Republican
allies propose bolstering the mental-health system in place of
gun-control measures sought by President  Barack Obama  and other
Democrats. States have reduced mental-health spending by 10
percent since 2009, and with federal spending cuts starting
March 1, money for improvements is scarce.  “The infrastructure for the public mental-health system is
in the worst shape it’s been in 40 years,” said Robert Glover,
executive director of the National Association of State Mental
Health Program Directors. “We’re not responding adequately to
routine mental-health needs, let alone crisis issues.”  The Senate Judiciary Committee is set to hold a hearing
today on Obama’s Jan. 16 proposal to reinstate an assault-weapon
ban, which expired in 2004. The NRA opposes that and other
limits on gun ownership. A better alternative, it said, is
“securing our schools, fixing our broken mental health system
and prosecuting violent criminals.”  More spending would be required to improve a deteriorating
public mental-health system financed by the states and federal
Medicaid. States have cut about $4 billion, or 10 percent, of
their mental-health spending since 2009, according to Glover’s
organization, based in Alexandria, Virginia.  Jared Loughner  Even if governments spend more money, experts including
Paul Appelbaum, a psychiatry professor at  Columbia University
Medical Center  in  New York , question whether improvements in
care would help identify mass shooters like Jared Lee Loughner,
who was diagnosed as schizophrenic after his arrest in Tucson.  “As far as we know he was never seen” by mental-health
professionals before his arrest and diagnosis by prison
psychiatrists, Appelbaum said.  Loughner pleaded guilty in August to fatally shooting six
people and trying to kill then-Representative  Gabrielle Giffords 
in 2011.  “It’s very difficult to be able to identify, among the
many troubled people who come for mental-health treatment, that
very small number who are truly likely to act on their
impulses,” Appelbaum said in a telephone interview.  ‘Small Impact’  Loughner’s case demonstrates that improving the mental-
health system would “have a relatively small impact on overall
rates of violent victimization,” Appelbaum said. Most violent
acts can’t be attributed to mental illness or occur in an early
stage of illness, he said.  Still, after a 2007 mass shooting on a college campus,
Virginia lawmakers voted to require information about outpatient
psychiatric therapy to be included in the database for screening
potential gun purchasers. Seung-Hui Cho, who killed himself and
32 others at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
in Blacksburg, had failed to undergo court-ordered outpatient
psychiatric care and was able to buy weapons after a judge
determined he posed a danger.  The gun-control debate was revived when 20-year-old Adam
Lanza stormed Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown on Dec.
14, killing 20 students and six adults. The main weapon he used
was a semi-automatic rifle with multiple high-capacity
magazines, police said. Lanza, who fatally shot his mother
before going to the school, committed suicide.  Obama in January proposed banning semi-automatic weapons,
limiting the capacity of ammunition magazines and expanding
background checks for gun purchases. The administration also is
studying improved access to mental-health care.  Strong Opposition  The NRA didn’t respond to repeated requests for comment. An
assault-weapon ban faces strong opposition in the Republican-
dominated House and lacks the votes to pass the Democratic-
controlled Senate. At least six of the 55 senators in the
Democratic caucus expressed skepticism or opposition to a ban as
of last month.  Rather than restricting the constitutional right of “law-
abiding citizens” to own guns, Representative Mac Thornberry, a
Texas Republican, said in a Jan. 16 statement,   “a more
responsible approach is to take significant steps to address
mental illness and the root causes of such violence.”  Glover and other mental-health advocates say fixing the
system won’t be quick, easy or inexpensive. Starting March 1,
$85 billion in across-the-board federal spending cuts are
scheduled to take effect.  Sebelius Letter  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  told
Congress in a Feb. 1 letter that the spending cuts will
jeopardize mental-health services for 373,000 “seriously
mentally ill adults” and emotionally disturbed children, and
outreach services for 8,900 homeless people with mental illness.  Even if governments restore spending, “you won’t be able
to rebuild the infrastructure of the public mental system
overnight,” Glover said.  Mental-health workers must be recruited and trained to work
in a system that has been neglected since the 1970s, when states
began closing large mental hospitals and changed the focus to
community-based services, advocates say.  Many states “underestimated the amount of support
services, housing and treatment” that was needed, said Linda Rosenberg, president of the National Council for Community
Behavioral Healthcare.  People released into the community from state hospitals
often “would wind up on the streets or wind up in jails,” said
Rosenberg, a former New York state mental-health official.  Community Treatment  Community-based treatment is expensive, particularly
housing patients in residential centers, said Democratic
Representative Jim McDermott of  Washington , a psychiatrist.  Society treats “people who have problems by throwing them
into someplace where they don’t bother us,” McDermott said.
When a mass shooting occurs, lawmakers and other public
officials talk “about how much they care about this and then
they vote ‘no, no, no,’” he said.  In Connecticut, which ended 2012 with an 8.6 percent
unemployment rate, Governor  Dan Malloy  is trying to balance the
state budget and meet the public demand to improve the state’s
mental-health system following the Newtown shootings.  Malloy, a Democrat and advocate of stricter gun laws,
restored $7.7 million this month for mental-health services that
had been rescinded weeks before the Newtown shootings.  Little is known about Lanza, except that a friend of his
mother said he was diagnosed with Asperger’s syndrome, a form of
autism, and lived a reclusive life with his mother.  $60 Million  Malloy has proposed another $60 million for mental-health
services over the next two years. Still, his two-year budget
hasn’t satisfied community mental-health providers.  It would impose “draconian cuts” on services to the
uninsured, said Raymond J. Gorman, president of Community Mental
Health Affiliates, which serves 8,500 adults and children in
central Connecticut. The cuts assume those people would receive
treatment under next year’s expansion of Medicaid, he said.  People who “don’t trust anyone” and “may live under a
bridge” are less likely to navigate the bureaucracy to qualify
for Medicaid, Gorman said.  In Washington, a bipartisan group of senators proposed
allowing public mental-health centers to bill Medicaid for more
of their expenses. That would cost $1 billion over a decade.  Republican Senator  Roy Blunt  of Missouri said his party
would be willing to pay for that to help prevent gun violence.  “We all know that what we have been doing in mental health
is not working and hasn’t worked for about 50 years, if it’s
ever worked,” Blunt said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  