-- Exxon Wins Reversal of Gas-Leak Punitive Damages Award
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/exxon-wins-reversal-of-gas-leak-punitive-damages-award.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  won the reversal
of more than $1 billion in punitive damages over a 2006 gasoline
leak that  Maryland  residents claimed fouled their drinking
water.  A Maryland appeals court yesterday  reversed  the punitive
damages and returned the case to a new trial in Baltimore County
Circuit court in Towson, Maryland, for a new trial. Irving,
Texas-based Exxon Mobil had argued that the award, handed down
in 2011 to 160 homeowners and businesses as part of a $1.5
billion jury verdict, was excessive.  The $1.5 billion  verdict  in the environmental case was the
second-largest in the U.S. in 2011, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Jurors issued the verdict in favor of residents of the
Baltimore County community of Jacksonville for losses tied to a
37-day gasoline leak from a local station’s tank farm. The spill
sent more than 26,000 gallons of fuel into the area’s
groundwater, according to court filings. The rural community
doesn’t have a public water system and relies on wells for
drinking water.  Jurors, who awarded $495 million in compensatory damages
along with the more than $1 billion in punitive damages, found
the company liable for fraud as part of their verdicts. The
appeals court also reversed the fraud finding, and returned it
to the lower court as part of a new trial.  H. Russell Smouse, a lawyer representing the plaintiffs in
the case, didn’t immediately return a call yesterday after
regular business hours seeking comment on the decision.  “The evidence showed that we acted appropriately after the
accident and the court has agreed,” Charles Engelmann, an Exxon
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We have apologized to the
Jacksonville community and we remain ready to compensate those
who were truly damaged by this unfortunate accident. We will
continue the cleanup.”  The case is Exxon Mobile Corp. v. Albright, in the  Court of
Appeals of Maryland . The lower court case is Allison v. Exxon
Mobil Corp., 03-C-07-003809, Circuit Court for Baltimore County
(Towson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  