-- F-35 Blade Inspections Haven’t Turned Up More Cracks
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-27T21:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/f-35-blade-inspections-haven-t-turned-up-more-cracks.html
The Pentagon’s F-35 program office
hasn’t discovered additional engine blade cracks in its fleet of
test and operational jets so far, a spokeswoman said.  The Pentagon said Feb. 22 that it suspended all flights of
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 after a routine engine inspection
revealed a crack on a turbine blade in a test aircraft engine at
Edwards Air Force Base in  California .  The entire test fleet  -- 17 aircraft based in Maryland and
California -- has been inspected and no additional cracks have
been discovered, said F-35 program spokeswoman Kyra Hawn. These
planes are the flown the hardest, pushed by pilots to the most
stressing flight profiles.  The 34 operational aircraft used in pilot and tactics
training in Florida and  Arizona  are still being inspected, Hawn
said in an e-mailed statement.  The blade in question was in an engine made by  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney  unit that was “subjected
to more flight hours and wear than aircraft of comparable age,”
Hawn said. “It has operated at the extremes of engine
temperature and tolerances.”  Pratt & Whitney has completed vibration, air flow and X-ray
examinations on the cracked blade, she said. So-called
destructive tests designed to examine the blade’s surfaces
started today, she said. All test and inspection data should be
completed, analyzed and presented  no later than March 1, Hawn
said.  The Marine Corps version of the F-35 was grounded last
month after a pilot aborted a takeoff because of an unrelated
flaw in the Pratt & Whitney propulsion system. Those planes
resumed flying this month after the problem was traced to an
improperly crimped fluid hose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  