-- Facebook Backer Hansen Bets on Pinterest and NBA’s Kings
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/facebook-backer-hansen-bets-on-pinterest-and-nba-s-kings.html
California investor Chris Hansen, an
early Facebook Inc. backer, is making high-stakes bets across
the state, from investing in Pinterest Inc. to a bid to buy
control of the capital’s marquee sports team and move it north.  Hansen’s hedge fund, Valiant Capital Management, led a $200
million financing round in Pinterest last week at a $2.5 billion
valuation. Hansen, 45, is also leading an investor group
including  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s  Steve Ballmer  that last month agreed
to buy a controlling stake in the Sacramento Kings -- valuing
the franchise at a National Basketball Association record of
$525 million -- and proposed a relocation to Seattle.  Both deals are high-profile and controversial. Hansen’s
foray into sports has met vocal opposition in Sacramento, where
the Kings have spent 28 years, including 19 sold-out seasons and
10  playoff  runs. Valiant’s funding of Pinterest ranks the online
bulletin board among the most valuable closely held Web
startups, even though it generates no revenue.  “Pinterest doesn’t have its business defined yet so you’re
betting all on potential,” said Anand Sanwal, chief executive
officer of CB Insights, a New York-based research firm that
tracks venture capital and private equity. “You have to take it
on a case-by-case basis, but we generally worry that there is
bad money chasing these rock-star companies.”  While Hansen’s investing career has been in the Bay Area,
his sports fanaticism traces back to  Seattle . Born in San
Francisco, Hansen moved to Seattle five years later and became
an avid supporter of the NBA’s SuperSonics, according to his
online  biography . After 41 years in Seattle, the SuperSonics
were sold and relocated in 2008 to Oklahoma City, where they
became the Thunder.  ‘Significant Investment’  “A lifelong diehard Sonics fan, Chris wants to see
professional basketball return to Seattle and is prepared to
make a significant investment in the Seattle community to make
that dream a reality,” his biography says.  With investments like Pinterest, Hansen’s hedge fund is
gaining visibility in San Francisco, where venture capital firms
dominate the technology investing landscape.  Hansen moved to San Francisco after graduating from
business school at the University of Southern  California . He
worked at Montgomery Securities until 2001, when he joined Blue
Ridge Capital, a hedge fund started by John Griffin. Hansen
spent seven years at Blue Ridge, one of the so-called Tiger
Cubs, which trace their roots to Julian Robertson, founder of
Tiger Management LLC.  Facebook Stake  Hansen left Blue Ridge to start Valiant in 2008, and now
manages about $3 billion in assets. The firm invests in a
variety of securities, including stocks, options, swaps, bonds
and illiquid securities. Its private investments include
technology, energy and health-care companies.  Pinterest is just the latest high-priced Internet bet for
Valiant. The biggest was Facebook. Valiant, along with co-
investors, started backing the social networking site in late
2010 at $12 a share, and bought stock totaling about $500
million, said a person familiar with the matter, who asked not
to be named because the terms weren’t disclosed. At the time of
the IPO, the Valiant Capital Opportunities Fund owned 36.3
million shares worth $1.38 billion.  In late 2011, Valiant participated in a $250 million
investment in online file-sharing service Dropbox Inc. at a $4
billion valuation. In November, the firm contributed to an $85
million financing round in Evernote Corp., about six months
after the Internet note-taking service was valued at about $1
billion.  Biggest Risk  Pinterest, where members share photos of clothing, food and
art, may represent Valiant’s biggest risk in private technology
investing, because the company hasn’t proven it can make money.
And while user growth is up 300 percent from a year earlier, the
disappointing public market performance of Facebook,  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) 
and  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  shows how challenging it can be for Web
companies to live up to their startup hype.  “It’s a strategy that works pretty well when things are
going up, and it’s only matter of time before things go the
other way,” said Eric Risley, a managing partner at investment
advisory firm Architect Partners LLC in Palo Alto, California.
“Then you’ve got a challenge on your hands.”  Still, the bet could pay off, Risley said. “Pinterest is a
cool company that can do a lot of interesting things,” he said.  Track Record  Carey DeVreker, who runs business development at Valiant,
said the firm has a policy of not talking to the press. Hansen
didn’t respond to requests for comment. Barry Schnitt, a
spokesman for Pinterest, said in an e-mailed statement that they
chose Valiant to lead the financing round because the fund had a
track record of long-term investments.  Another Tiger Cub, Chase Coleman’s Tiger Global Management
LLC, has been backing Web startups for even longer. Started in
2001, the hedge fund backed Facebook, Zynga and HomeAway Inc.
before they went public, and helped lead an $800 million
investment in SurveyMonkey.com LLC last month.  Hansen’s other investment group, the one focused on sports,
purchased control of the Kings on Jan. 21 from the Maloof
family, which has owned the team since 1999. The offer topped
the $450 million paid for the Golden State Warriors in 2010. In
addition to Ballmer, Hansen’s group includes Peter and Erik Nordstrom from retailer Nordstrom Inc.  “Chris will be a great steward for the franchise,” co-
owner Gavin Maloof said  in a statement  after the deal.  Relocation Fight  NBA Commissioner David Stern said earlier this month that
Hansen’s group submitted a relocation proposal that would have
the Kings play at KeyArena in Seattle for two or three seasons
while a new facility is built. The request requires approval
from the NBA board of governors, consisting of league owners.  Sacramento  Mayor Kevin Johnson, a former NBA All-Star with
the Phoenix Suns, is fighting the relocation. Instead, he’s
proposing a new arena and a change in ownership, according to
Kunal Merchant, executive director of Think Big Sacramento, an
economic-development organization working with Johnson and
others to keep the Kings in town.  “We wish Seattle the best in terms of getting a team,”
Merchant said in an interview. “We just don’t believe it should
be Sacramento’s team.”  California Senate Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, whose district
includes Sacramento, stood with Johnson at a press conference
last month to oppose Hansen’s plans for the Kings.  “There is an inconsistency between deciding you’re going
to partner with California on one end and make a lot of money,
and at the same time you take some of that money and use it to
rip a key asset out of the capital city,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  