-- Failed World Cup Projects Producing Rally for Marcopolo
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-02-27T21:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/failed-world-cup-projects-producing-rally-for-marcopolo.html
Brazil’s failure to upgrade its rail
system in time for the 2014 World Cup is giving a boost to
 Marcopolo SA (POMO4) , the country’s biggest bus maker.  Plans to build integrated metro, light rail and bus systems
are being scaled back in at least half of the 12 cities set to
host games amid construction delays and cost overruns. Among
them is Sao Paulo, where a 2.8 billion-real ($1.41 billion)
monorail project was replaced with 318 million reais in road
improvements.  Local governments are falling back on buses to transport
sports fans because they’re easier and cheaper, helping to fuel
a 51 percent rally in the past 12 months for Marcopolo, which
has 45 percent of Brazil’s market for the vehicles, said Bruno
Wittmaack, a research analyst at Victoire Brasil Investimentos.
The firm holds almost 5 percent of Marcopolo’s shares.  “It would be incredibly difficult for them to deliver on
those plans for the World Cup,” Wittmaack said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “The Sao Paulo transportation
secretary had an aggressive plan of expanding metro lines and
buses.”  Marcopolo trades at a 34 percent  premium  to  Brazil ’s Ibx
index of the 100 most traded stocks in Sao Paulo, a turnabout
from a discount of 5.5 percent a year earlier. Its rally was the
biggest among industrial stocks on the BM&FBovespa Small Cap
index in the 12 months through yesterday after Valid Solucoes &
Servicos de Seguranca em Meios de Pagamento & Identificacao SA
and JSL SA.  The stock fell 0.7 percent to 12.95 reais today in Sao
Paulo.  Rapid Transit  The federal and state governments are investing 9 billion
reais in infrastructure projects related to the World Cup,
according to the most recent data available from the federal
government’s World Cup  website . Six cities will install new
rapid transit systems using buses, along with expanded and
improved roadways.  Marcopolo started receiving orders for Rio de Janeiro’s new
bus system last year, said Carlos Zignani, investor relations
director at Marcopolo. That helped to fuel a  13 percent gain  in
2012 sales even as the domestic market for trucks and buses
shrank in Brazil amid new regulations requiring the use of
costlier low-emissions motors.  Marcopolo will soon start delivering more buses for World
Cup projects, “which we hope this year and in the first half of
2013 will have an enormous repercussion in terms of  volume ,”
Chief Executive Officer Jose Rubens de la Rosa said on a Feb. 22
conference call to discuss earnings.  ‘Demand is Back’  As World Cup infrastructure projects accelerate in the next
15 months ahead of kickoff, Brazil will become one of the main
drivers of Marcopolo’s growth, Mario Bernardes Junior, a Banco
do Brasil analyst who  rates  the company market perform, said in
a telephone interview from Sao Paulo.  “It was the automotive company that suffered the least
last year,” he said. “It has the most to  gain  exactly because
demand is back.”  Marcopolo offers the highest  return  on common equity, a
measure of a company’s ability to generate profit from
shareholder cash, among Brazil’s five biggest commercial-
vehicles producers. The company posted a  return  of 24 percent in
the 12 months through the most recent quarter.  Project Delays  The monorail project in Sao Paulo would have linked the
Congonhas airport to the Morumbi neighborhood, where a local
stadium was supposed to have hosted the opening game. The plan
to complete the project before the World Cup was nixed because
the city couldn’t provide financial guarantees.  The Corinthians stadium in the greater Sao Paulo area will
be used instead, and nearby roads will be improved. In Brasilia,
construction on a light rail connecting the airport to the metro
was delayed after courts barred the original contract.  South Africa, which hosted the 2010 games, also relied on
bus rapid transit systems, or BRTs, because they are cheap and
fast to install, said Chris Gaffney, a visiting professor at the
graduate school of architecture and urbanism at the Universidade
Federal Fluminense in Niterói.  “In most of the World Cup cities, all options are off the
table except for BRTs,” he said in a phone interview from Rio
de Janeiro.  Brazilian policy supports the systems as “the
solution for mobility in Brazilian cities, basically giving up
on everything else.”  Marcopolo’s rally may be nearing an end, said Renata Faber
and Thais Cascello, analysts at Itau BBA SA. The stock has
fallen 3.7 percent this month, putting it on track for the first
monthly drop since June.  ‘Rich’ Valuation  “The  valuation  seems rich at this time,” the analysts
wrote in a note on Feb. 21. “Although we believe that 2013 will
be a good year for Marcopolo, we believe the triggers are
already priced in.”  The company expects the bus systems will catch on in other
cities too, said Zignani, the investor relations director.
Demand ahead of the World Cup is forecast at 2,500 BRT units, he
said.  “It’s a system that we think will become a fever here in
Brazil,” Zignani said in a telephone interview from Caxias do
Sul, in Rio Grande do Sul state, where Marcopolo is based. “We
are already seeing interest from cities that aren’t
participating in the World Cup.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  