-- Falco Drives ‘Nurse Jackie’ to Stage Snoozeland: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-02-27T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/falco-drives-nurse-jackie-to-stage-snoozeland-review.html
We expect high-powered intensity
from Edie Falco as Martha, a woman who abruptly abandons her
loving husband and 22-year-old daughter, in “ The Madrid .”  Falco is best known as acerbic, drug-addled  Nurse Jackie  in
the popular Showtime series and before that as the volatile wife
gutsy enough to push back against Tony Soprano.  She regularly brings her remarkable gifts and star power to
 New York  stages like the Manhattan Theatre Club, where “Nurse
Jackie” writer Lee Flahive’s play is having its world premiere.  Of all the ingredients “The Madrid” is missing, however,
intensity ranks first among them in Leigh Silverman’s atypically
enervating production.  It’s evident early that subtlety may not be Flahive’s
strong suit: Martha’s first act of departure is from the 5-year-
olds in her kindergarten class, in the middle of a lesson about
families.  When she splits for points unknown, husband John (John
Ellison Conlee) and daughter Sarah (Phoebe Strole) begin
disposing of their worldly goods (rather too quickly, I
thought).  Though bummed out, they begin arranging a yard sale, giving
their annoyingly attentive neighbors Becca (Heidi Schreck) and
Danny (Christopher Evan Welch) first dibs. Also figuring in the
mourning-but-not-quite over Mom’s disappearance is Martha’s
blunt, willful mother Rose (the indomitable Frances Sternhagen,
walking off with the show).  Beanbag Chair  Martha hasn’t gone far. She’s in The  Madrid , a rundown
building nearby, in a grungy apartment (nicely realized by set
designer David Zinn) meagerly appointed with a beanbag chair, a
fold-up bed and little else.  She shows up at the Starbucks where Sarah works, and they
begin meeting secretly. Martha’s reasons for leaving, when she
finally divulges them, are anti-climactic. Inertia may be to
blame: The actors, Falco included, speak their lines as if they
were still learning them. But I suspect that both the halting
delivery and the deliberate pacing are intentional, however
elusive the intent remained.  Composer Tom Kitt (“Next to Normal”) provides abrasive
music between torpid scenes. By the end of the evening, I was
happy to abandon the lot of them.  Through April 21 at New York City Center Stage I, 131 W.
55th St. Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.nycitycenter.org .
Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  Greg
Evans  on TV.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 