-- Fed’s Fisher Calls for Cuttting QE to Avoid ‘Overkill’
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2013-02-28T00:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/fed-s-fisher-calls-for-cuttting-qe-to-avoid-overkill-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said the Fed should scale back $85
billion in monthly bond buying, warning against channeling too
much stimulus into a housing market that’s already rebounding.  “The fact that the housing-market gears have now begun to
mesh is why I believe we are running the risk of overkill by
continuing our mortgage-backed securities purchase program at
the current pace,” Fisher said in a speech today in New York.
“It would be best to taper the dose of QE so that markets can
adjust gradually to the eventual removal of this treatment.”  U.S. central bankers are debating how long to pursue their
third round of large-scale bond purchases, with some citing
signs of economic vigor while others voice concern the Fed is
pumping up asset price bubbles. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
defended record stimulus to Congress yesterday and today, saying
accommodation has helped reduce borrowing costs and spur growth.  “Now that we have them in place, and the fixed-income and
stock markets are hooked on the monetary Ritalin that we have
dispensed in ever-larger doses, it would, in my opinion, do
great harm to force a sudden withdrawal,” Fisher said at an
event hosted by Columbia University.  The Federal Open Market Committee last month affirmed its
plan to keep buying $40 billion per month in mortgage bonds and
$45 billion in Treasuries. Several participants said the central
bank should be ready to vary the pace of the purchases as it
monitors the state of the economy and weighs the program’s
benefits and costs, minutes of that meeting showed.  Withdrawing Stimulus  The Fed needs to “continually revisit” its strategy for
withdrawing stimulus, Fisher said to reporters after the speech,
adding that refraining from asset sales is a “real option”
that “should be kept on the table.”  Stocks rallied today, sending the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to the highest level since October 2007, as U.S.
economic data bolstered confidence in the world’s largest
economy. The Dow rose 1.3 percent to 14,075.37.  Fisher, who does not vote on monetary policy this year,
said the Fed’s “hyper-accommodative” policies don’t equally
distribute gains.  The nation’s biggest banks and wealthiest investors have
benefited, while savers and retirees have been “waylaid on the
sidelines of the  zero bound ” of interest rates, Fisher said.
Also, smaller banks have suffered with lower interest margins,
he said.  The Dallas Fed president said he does “worry about”
monetary stimulus causing financial imbalances, adding that he
doesn’t see “an immediate problem of inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  