-- Felda Urges Tax-Free Palm Oil to Combat Reserves: Southeast Asia
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-02-28T10:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/felda-urges-tax-free-palm-oil-to-combat-reserves-southeast-asia.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) 
said that palm oil shipments from Malaysia, the largest producer
after  Indonesia , should be allowed duty-free for some companies
until midyear to help reduce near-record stockpiles.  There’s a risk reserves will be carried into the second
half unless they are cleared, Sabri Ahmad, chief executive
officer of the third-largest operator of palm plantations, said
in an interview. Government programs, such as increased blending
of palm in biodiesel, known as B10, should be speeded up, Sabri
said yesterday. Exports in March are set to be taxed at 4.5
percent after two months of duty-free shipments.  The world’s most-used cooking oil is mired in a bear market
as supply and stockpiles have surged to records, and Sabri’s
comments reflect producers’ concern that the reserves need to be
reduced to pave the way for a rebound in prices. While  Sime
Darby (SIME)  Bhd. said yesterday that it expects palm to rally in the
second half, Dorab Mistry, a director at Godrej International
Ltd. who’s traded the oil for more than three decades, has said
the outlook is bearish as global oilseed supplies increase.  “If you have duty-free from Malaysia just for a short
period only until June to clear stocks, this will help,” Sabri
said in his office in Kuala Lumpur, proposing that the break
apply to so-called integrated companies that have local estates
and refineries overseas. If something new isn’t done, “it’s
going to be  burdensome stocks  going into October,” he said.
Malaysian supply typically peaks in September or October.  Bear Market  Palm, harvested year-round in Southeast Asia, is used in
foods, biofuels and cosmetics. The most-active price on the
 Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange, a regional benchmark, has lost 27
percent over the past year, and ended at 2,397 ringgit ($775) a
ton today. Futures fell 23 percent last year, extending a 16
percent decline in 2011, as reserves in Malaysia reached 2.63
million tons in December, the highest level ever.  To spur a drop in the stockpiles, Malaysia’s government
replaced from Jan. 1 an export tariff of about 23 percent and an
annual duty-free quota with a sliding-scale levy from 4.5
percent to 8.5 percent. With prices below the threshold that
triggers the lowest rate, shipments in January and this month
have been duty-free. Next month, the lowest tax rate will apply.  “It will be very difficult for the government to change it
so soon after implementing it,” said Ivy Ng, an analyst at  CIMB
Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  “It could also send a negative signal to
the market maybe.”  Indonesia Challenge  An extension of tariff-free shipments from Malaysia in line
with Sabri’s suggestion would boost the challenge to Indonesia.
While the Indonesian Palm Oil Association has urged lower taxes
in that country, Southeast Asia’s largest economy will probably
maintain its policy, Fadhil Hasan, executive director at the
group, said on Feb. 5. Deputy Trade Minister Bayu Krisnamurthi
said Feb. 7 that the government would stick with its approach
for now, according to a text message. Indonesia’s rate for March
has been set at 10.5 percent from 9 percent this month.  Stockpiles in Malaysia held near the record in January,
according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board. While  production  fell
10 percent last month compared with December, it was still 24
percent higher than a year earlier. Global stockpiles will gain
to a record 7.203 million tons this season, according to a
projection from the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Output in Malaysia will total 18.9 million tons in 2013,
matching the biggest-ever crop in 2011, the Malaysian Palm Oil
Board forecasts. Indonesia may harvest a record 30 million tons
as more trees mature, Derom Bangun, chairman of that nation’s
board, said in Jakarta on Feb. 18.  ‘Value for Money’  “I’m cautiously optimistic” about the outlook for prices,
said Sabri, forecasting that palm may trade between 2,500
ringgit and 2,800 ringgit a ton this year even as stockpiles
remain high. “Because this discount vis-a-vis soybean oil is
very big, palm oil is value for money. So there are a lot of
exports going to China,  India  and also to  Europe .”  Soy oil, crushed from the beans, is a rival product that
can be used in cooking. Palm’s discount to soy was at $318.29 a
ton today, compared with a five-year average of about $183 a
ton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Palm will probably drop this year after Asian producers
boosted acreage and global oilseed supplies rose, Godrej’s
Mistry told Bloomberg in comments published on Feb. 26. Mistry
and Sabri are both scheduled to speak next week at an annual
palm and lauric oils conference and exhibition in Kuala Lumpur
arranged by Bursa Malaysia Bhd.  Profit Slump  Lower prices have hurt producers’ earnings, with Sime
Darby, the world’s biggest listed producer, reporting a 36
percent drop in second-quarter profit yesterday, and Felda
Global declaring a similar drop in fourth-quarter net income on
Feb. 26.  Mohd Bakke Salleh, chief executive officer at Sime Darby,
said yesterday that palm may reach as much as 2,800 ringgit in
the second half. UBS AG said that prices may advance this year
on a recovery in demand, according to a report dated Feb. 26.  Total crude palm output at Felda Global and its associates
may be 3.3 million tons this year, said Sabri. That’s slightly
above last year’s 3.285 million tons, according to data from the
company. Although a replanting program will continue, the effect
will be offset by new trees reaching maturity and a higher oil-
extraction rate, he said.  Felda Global’s  fourth-quarter net  income fell 36 percent to
179.6 million ringgit in the three months to Dec. 31 from a year
earlier, the company said this week. Revenue doubled to 3.86
billion ringgit. The company, which completed a $3.3 billion
initial public offering in June, is looking at acquisitions both
locally and overseas, Sabri said, without giving details.  The company has appointed Mohammed Emir Mavani Abdullah as
CEO designate with effect from Jan. 1 as Sabri’s contract as
group president and CEO expires on July 15, it said in a stock-
exchange filing on Jan. 2. The company’s shares traded at 4.42
ringgit today, 4.3 percent lower this year.  Total palm  shipments  from Malaysia this month were 1.33
million tons, 9.1 percent lower than January, according to an
estimate from surveyor Intertek today. Exports to South Asia and
 China  fell, while European cargoes rose, the data showed.  “We have to do something now until June,” said Sabri.
“So that by July onwards, when the production shoots up, we are
quite comfortable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  