-- Finning Sees May Dividend Increase on Repair-Unit Profit
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-02-27T21:11:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/finning-sees-may-dividend-increase-on-repair-unit-profit.html
Finning International Inc. (FTT) , the
world’s largest dealer of  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  equipment, says it
probably will boost its dividend as profit from the company’s
service business bolsters the bottom line.  “It’s very reasonable to expect an increase in May” in
Finning’s dividend, Chief Executive Officer Michael T. Waites
said yesterday in an interview at the company’s Vancouver
headquarters. “There is every reason to expect ongoing dividend
growth -- good, solid dividend growth.”  Waites is trying to reassure investors after a 36 percent
drop in Canadian fourth-quarter new-equipment sales and an 11
percent decline in its share price in the past 12 months.
Companies in Canada, Finning’s  biggest market  by revenue, are
cutting spending or delaying projects amid rising mining costs,
while pipeline bottlenecks are depressing crude prices and  cash
flow  among  Alberta ’s oil-sands producers, Waites said.  “I would expect people to be very cautious and drive
productivity from existing operations,” Waites said. “We have
a model which is seed, grow, harvest: You sell the machine, you
seed the marketplace and you grow and harvest the parts business
and rebuild.”  Some  analysts  are reserving judgment on Finning’s
prospects.  Dividend Forecast  Maintenance and rebuilding services are in demand after an
“explosion in new equipment sales” since 2010, particularly in
mining, Yuri Lynk, a Montreal-based analyst at Canaccord
Financial Inc. who rates the shares a buy, said yesterday by
phone. Still, the company will need to increase new-equipment
sales at some point to boost product services, Lynk said.  Finning has paid a dividend since 1998, according to its
 website . The company said Feb. 13 its board approved a quarterly
dividend of 14 cents a share payable on March 14. Finning may
increase it to 15 cents in May, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Finning rose 0.2 percent to C$25.76 at the close in
Toronto, giving it a market value of C$4.43 billion ($4.33
billion).  The shares  have risen 4.8 percent this year, less than
a 12 percent return on the 21-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX
Industrials  index .  Finning is targeting a consolidated profit margin from
earnings before interest and taxes this year of 9 percent to 10
percent, more than the 8.4 percent it achieved in the fourth
quarter, through improvements in all three of its major regions,
Waites said.  Expanding Margins  In the U.K. and Ireland, Finning expects the margin to
increase to as much as 8 percent from 5.6 percent and is
targeting a margin of as much as 11 percent in  South America , up
from 9.7 percent at the end of last year, he said. In Canada the
goal is to increase the margin to as much as 10 percent from
about 7.2 percent, Waites said.  “Most of the opportunity is in Canada,” he said.  As of June 30, there were 1,539 Caterpillar vehicles
ranging from 400-ton trucks to large graders operating in
Alberta’s oil sands, according to a slide presentation on
Finning’s website. The company forecasts sales of another 647
units through to 2017.  Waites said Finning’s profit margin on servicing and
maintaining  Caterpillar products  for its customers in Canada is
greater than from selling new equipment.  Lynk said new-equipment sales may rebound 11 percent in
2014 because of fleet replacement and recoveries in construction
and mining after dropping an estimated 2.5 percent this year.  ‘Very Resilient’  The services segment will help profit in 2013 and 2014,
Lynk said. “Product services revenue is very resilient through
different economic cycles,” he said.  Sara O’Brien, a Toronto-based analyst for Royal Bank of
Canada who has the equivalent of a hold rating on Finning
shares, said she’s not convinced Finning’s high expectations for
services and maintenance are achievable this year.  “We are concerned that capital-expenditure budget cuts and
project management in  oil sands  according to cash flow versus
timelines has lessened demand in new and for high-margin
overhaul business,” O’Brien said in a Feb. 13 note to clients.  While there is a temporary slowdown in countries such as
 China , long-term infrastructure needs in  Asia  will boost demand
for copper, oil and coal, Waites said.  “There’s a strong base of demand,” Waites said. “We have
to figure out how to pace with our customers.”  South America  Copper mining in South America, particularly in  Chile , is
“very strong,” Waites said. South America makes up a little
more than a third of the company’s business, up from less than a
quarter five years ago.  Finning’s fourth-quarter  net income  rose 49 percent to
C$105.4 million, or 61 cents a share, from C$70.6 million, or 41
cents, a year earlier, the company said Feb. 13.  Finning’s operating profit in  Canada  improved in 2012 and
the dealer has expanded product support for the oil-sands
industry with the opening of a new service center in Fort McKay,
which is “ramping up faster” than initially anticipated,
Waites said.  “Our intention is staying up on the food chain,” Waites
said. “We go up the food chain, beyond a commodity business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  