-- First Solar Seeks to Hold Its Ground as Backlog Slips 15%
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-02-27T21:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/first-solar-seeks-to-avoid-losing-ground-after-backlog-slips-15-.html
First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest maker
of thin-film solar panels, said its “expected revenue” fell 15
percent last year and its goal for this year is to avoid
slipping further. The shares plunged the most in five months.  The company had $8 billion in expected revenue at the end
of 2012, down from $9.4 billion a year earlier, Chief Executive
Officer Jim Hughes said yesterday on a conference call with
analysts. That’s a new metric the Tempe, Arizona-based company
is using to assess its performance and includes panels that will
be installed at solar farms it’s building and contracted sales
to other developers.  The company expects to add new orders to that revenue
pipeline to replace completed orders this year on a one-for-one
basis, he said. The goal indicates that the company will be
treading water as it completes large power projects and seeks to
develop new ones, and it may have trouble even meeting that
goal, said Ben Schuman, an analyst with Pacific Crest Securities
LLC in  Portland ,  Oregon .  “It will be difficult to do one-to-one on revenue,”
Schuman said in an interview yesterday. Increased competition in
markets including  India  will make it harder for First Solar to
win new orders, he said.  First Solar slumped 14 percent to $27.04 at the close in
New York, the most since Aug. 30. Before today, the shares had
gained 23 percent in the past six months.  New Measurement  The company previously measured its backlog in megawatts of
panels destined for its own solar projects. It shifted this
quarter to expected revenue, which measures its backlog in
dollars. That includes contracted panel orders, projects that
have been sold and projects under development that have deals to
sell power and haven’t been purchased, Hughes said.  “Expected revenue does not have a direct correlation to
expected module shipments because the shipments do not represent
total systems revenues and do not consider the timing of when
all revenue recognition criteria are met,” he said during the
call.  The company uses internal projections to value projects
that haven’t been sold.  Reducing Capacity  First Solar last year began reducing capacity as a global
surplus and waning government support drove down solar-panel
 prices  31 percent in 2012. The company boosted revenue last year
by expanding efforts to build large  power plants  with its
panels, and needs to develop more projects to keep its pipeline
filled, according to Rob Stone, an analyst at Cowen & Co. in
 Boston .  “They need to be booking more than they are now to keep up
with the projects they’re completing” because First Solar is
finishing high-priced solar farms faster than it’s selling new
ones, Stone said today in an interview. “Even worse, if you
look at the revenue backlog in the fourth quarter, you see the
value per watt is much less than they’re billing now.”  Net income in the fourth quarter was $154.2 million, or
$1.74 a share, compared with a net loss of $413.1 million, or
$4.74 a share, a year earlier, according to a statement
yesterday. Excluding costs related to restructuring, the company
earned $2.04 cents a share, exceeding by 27 cents the average
estimate of 21 analysts. Sales rose to $1.08 billion from $660.4
million.  ‘Battlefield Stock’  “They had a healthy quarter but it looks like revenue
guidance for the first quarter was below street expectations,”
 Sanjay Shrestha , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets, said in
an interview. “This is a battlefield stock and without full
guidance for the year the shares are getting hit.”  For the first quarter, sales will be in the range of $650
million to $750 million, less than the $803.6 million average
estimate of 18 analysts. That will result in per-share profit of
70 cents to 90 cents, which compares to an average estimate of
78 cents.  First Solar closed its plant in  Frankfurt  an der Oder,
 Germany , in the fourth quarter with about 560 megawatts of
annual production capacity. The company also idled four
production lines in  Malaysia .  First Solar has about 1,800 megawatts of panel production
capacity, mainly in Malaysia and the U.S., Stone said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  