-- Flowers Said to Win Wonder Bread After No Other Offers
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2013-02-27T20:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/flowers-said-to-win-hostess-auction-after-with-other-bids.html
Flowers Foods Inc. (FLO) , maker of
packaged bakery foods, will buy the majority of the bread-making
business of bankrupt Hostess Brands Inc., including its Wonder
bread brand, a person familiar with the situation said.  Flowers, based in Thomasville,  Georgia , will pay about $360
million for Hostess’s Wonder, Butternut, Home Pride, Merita and
Nature’s Pride brands, 20 bread plants, 38 depots and other
assets, after no other competing offers were submitted.
Tomorrow’s planned bankruptcy auction will be canceled.  The auction for Beefsteaks bread will go forward tomorrow
after the rye-bread brand received an offer from  Grupo Bimbo (BIMBOA)  SAB
to challenge Flowers’ $30 million bid, according to the person
familiar with the situation, who requested not to be identified
as the talks are private.  Hostess will sell more bread and snack-cake brand assets
next month, including the iconic Twinkies, with initial offers
totaling about $466.4 million, according to court documents.
Hostess Chief Executive Officer Greg Rayburn said Jan. 31 that
so-called stalking-horse bids total about $858 million with
about $100 million more for sale.  Snack Cakes  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  and C. Dean Metropoulos & Co.
have offered about $410 million for the Hostess snack-cake
business, which includes Dolly Madison brands, five bakeries and
equipment. Bids for the March 13 snack-cake auction must be
submitted by March 11.  Leon Black ’s Apollo, based in  New York , managed $109.7
billion in assets as of Sept. 30. Metropoulos, based in
Greenwich, Connecticut, is the private-equity firm that owns
Pabst Brewing Co.  McKee Foods Corp., maker of Little Debbie snacks, made a
bid of $27.5 million for the Drake’s brand. United States Bakery
Inc. offered to buy the Sweetheart, Eddy’s, Standish Farms and
Grandma Emilie’s bread brands, four bakeries and 14 depots, plus
certain equipment, for about $28.9 million. Both initial offers
will be tested at March 15 auctions. Bids are due by March 12
for both auctions.  Hostess will seek bankruptcy court approval to sell the
assets to all the auction winners at a hearing scheduled for
March 19.  Beefsteaks Brand  Keith Hancock, a spokesman for Flowers, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the auction. David
Margulies, a spokesman for Bimbo, declined to comment on whether
the company had made an offer for the Beefsteaks brand.
AnitaMarie Laurie, a spokeswoman for Hostess, declined to
comment.  Flowers, established in 1919, produces and markets packaged
baked goods for retail and food-service customers. The company’s
top brands are Nature’s Own and Tastykake.  Hostess, founded in 1930, is liquidating after failing to
reach an agreement with striking bakers on concessions to help
the company emerge from its second bankruptcy.  Previously known as Interstate Bakeries Corp., Hostess left
an earlier bankruptcy in 2009 under the control of buyout firm
Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders. The company, based in
Irving,  Texas , entered bankruptcy again in January 2012.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( White Plains ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  