-- Forint Drops to Four-Week Low on Hungary Central Bank Outlook
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-02-27T10:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/forint-drops-to-four-week-low-on-hungary-central-bank-outlook.html
The forint fell to its weakest in
four weeks on speculation the central bank will keep cutting
 interest rates  and may take other steps to ease monetary policy
after a new chief takes over next week.  Hungary’s currency declined for a second day after the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank cut rates for the seventh month to a record
low yesterday at the last meeting before bank President Andras
Simor’s term ends this week. Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy ,
who has urged policy makers to strengthen their support for
economic growth, will take over from Simor next week, Napi
Gazdasag newspaper reported today, matching earlier reports.  “Further rate reductions will depend on external sentiment
and possibly unorthodox policies of the new management of the
central bank,” Orsolya Nyeste and Zoltan Arokszallasi,
Budapest-based analysts at Erste Group Bank AG, said in a
research report today. “Both factors will also drive the forint
which we see weakening to above 300 versus the euro by the end
of the first quarter.”  The forint lost 0.3 percent to 296.24 per euro at 11:25
a.m. in Budapest, the weakest since Jan. 30. The currency has
retreated 1.1 percent in February, heading for its third monthly
decline. Yields on the government’s 10-year bonds rose eight
basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 6.35 percent.  Simor, who opposed lowering rates, has been outvoted each
month since August by four Monetary Council members appointed by
the ruling Fidesz party. Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will name
the new chief on March 1.  “The forint is reacting to the expectation that Matolcsy,
who is widely expected to intensify expansionary monetary
policy,” will become Simor’s successor, Erste said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  