-- Fortress Says Its Profit More Than Doubles on Fee Income
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-02-27T21:59:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/fortress-fourth-quarter-profit-more-than-doubles-on-fee-income.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
first publicly traded private-equity and hedge-fund manager in
the U.S., said fourth-quarter profit more than doubled on higher
fee income from managing funds.  Pretax distributable earnings, which exclude some
compensation costs and other items, increased to $107 million,
or 20 cents a share, from $50 million, or 9 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based Fortress said today in a statement. The
 average  estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey was for
profit of 14 cents a share.  Income tied to fund performance almost doubled as stronger
equity markets lifted returns, with Fortress’s macro hedge fund
gaining 18 percent in 2012 and the Asia macro fund rising 21
percent. Fortress is being led by co-founder Randal Nardone
after former Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  resigned last
year amid a government lawsuit stemming from his tenure as chief
of mortgage financing company  Fannie Mae .  “Better-than-anticipated performance fees in both liquid
hedge funds and credit hedge funds, coupled with lower-than-
expected performance-fee compensation, drove the beat versus our
estimates,” said  Roger Freeman , a New York-based analyst at
Barclays Plc. “Flows came in somewhat weaker than expected,”
he added, referring to new money raised and increases in
invested capital. Freeman rates the stock overweight.  Assets Rise  Fortress fell 0.3 percent to $6.21 at the close of trading
in New York. The stock, which has gained 41 percent this year,
is  down  66 percent since the company’s 2007 initial public
offering, when the company sold shares at $18.50 apiece to
become the first U.S.-listed buyout and hedge-fund manager.
Blackstone, which followed four months later, has  lost  39
percent of its value.  Fortress’s distributable earnings differ from U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Under those rules,
known as GAAP, the company’s net income attributable to Class A
shareholders was $102 million, or 24 cents a share, compared
with a net loss of $91 million, or 49 cents, a year earlier.  Revenue rose 51 percent to $417.6 million, helped by an 87
percent jump in incentive income at Fortress affiliates, to
$207.4 million. Expenses fell 51 percent to $254 million after a
principals’ compensation agreement expired. Assets under
management rose to $53.4 billion from $51.5 billion at the end
of the third quarter, with the biggest gains in credit funds and
liquid markets.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest private-equity
firm by assets, last month reported net income of $106 million
after a loss of $23 million a year ago.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  reported a
fourth-quarter profit of $97 million, compared with $46 million
a year earlier, helped by the rising value of its buyout
holdings. Both firms are based in New York.  Credit Funds  Fortress earned the most from its credit-style funds, which
produced $46 million of pretax distributable earnings, up 59
percent from a year earlier.  “Looking at investment opportunities today, we believe the
credit markets continue to price in far too much optimism,”
 Peter Briger , Fortress’s co-chairman, said in the statement.
Briger said compelling opportunities may arise when European
banks accelerate selling of distressed assets.  The firm’s private-equity funds gained about 4 percent in
value in the fourth quarter, compared with 9 percent at  Apollo
Global Management LLC (APO) , 7 percent at Blackstone, 5 percent at
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  and 4 percent at KKR. Pretax distributable
earnings in the business rose to $31 million from $29 million a
year ago.  Hedge Funds  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Fortress’s liquid  hedge funds  generated $30 million in
pretax distributable earnings and 41 percent of the $114 million
of incentive income that the firm’s main businesses produced in
the quarter. Fund managers reap incentive fees from investors
when their pools reach certain performance thresholds.  The  liquid hedge funds  raised $546 million during the
fourth quarter, partly offset by $80 million in redemptions,
Fortress said. The firm had about $400 million in redemption
requests outstanding at the end of the year, most of which will
be fulfilled this quarter.  Kauffman Departure  Fortress raised its base quarterly dividend for
shareholders to 6 cents a share from 5 cents and said it bought
back 51.3 million dividend-paying shares, or about 10 percent of
the total, at $3.50 each. The dividend is scheduled to be paid
on March 15.  Robert Kauffman , one of three Fortress co-founders, retired
from the company during the quarter after 15 years at the firm.
Kauffman said in an interview at the time that his decision was
partly due to higher tax rates on top earners that took effect
at the beginning of the year. He most recently oversaw the
company’s long-only fixed-income business, called Logan Circle
Partners.  That business, which Fortress acquired in 2010, narrowed
its loss in the quarter to $3 million, compared with a loss of
$5 million a year ago. Logan Circle has the most assets among
Fortress’s four businesses, with $20.7 billion of bonds,
investment-grade credit, high-yield  junk bonds  and emerging
market debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  