-- France Telecom Online Push Takes Orange to Italy, Africa
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-02-27T12:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/france-telecom-online-push-takes-orange-to-italy-africa.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , trying to reverse
falling sales while avoiding boosting expenses or debt, plans to
expand into new countries this year without major acquisitions
or building costly networks.  In an unusual strategic move for a phone carrier, the
former French monopoly is adding well-placed shops and online
stores for its Orange wireless brand to add sales in new markets
like Italy and South  Africa  while keeping a lid on costs,
strategy chief Elie Girard said in an interview in Barcelona.  “There are many countries in which people know our Orange
brand very well, but we’re not selling them anything,” Girard
said. “We can get extra sales and, in some cases, test the
field before we decide to go in for an acquisition or to deploy
as a full-blown carrier.”  Years of declining  sales , profit and share price combined
with a debt pile topping 30 billion euros ($39 billion) are
forcing  France Telecom  to look at new ways of finding growth.
The company is targeting regions such as Africa as competition
from smaller, cheaper rivals weighs on sales in its shrinking
home economy.  France Telecom, which last year cut its dividend and said
it will shy away from acquisitions to save cash, is part of the
bidding process for  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Yoigo in Spain, and is also
studying Mauritanian carrier Mattel, Girard said. It is also
scouting opportunities in  Libya , through network-management
contracts, as well as in Togo,  Burkina Faso  and  Benin , he said.  Girard said Paris-based France Telecom has no plans
involving  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Maroc Telecom SA (IAM) , which the French
conglomerate has been shopping around.  South Africa  France Telecom’s revamped expansion plans, dubbed “Orange
Horizons,” started a month ago in  South Africa , where it
sponsored the Africa Cup of Nations soccer tournament.  In that market, the company  sells  phones and accessories
online. Its local websites also promote services such as music
and video streaming by French startups Deezer Inc. and
Dailymotion SA, a YouTube rival partly owned by France Telecom.  Online sales have also started in Italy. In both cases,
France Telecom works with a distributor to limit its
investments, and collects a “small margin,” Girard said.  “The strategy is compatible with our financial policy,”
Girard said. “It allows us to keep our international
development rolling, with softer models.”  ‘Incomplete Vision’  At home, France Telecom is coping with falling prices amid
competition from discounters. Its  stock  was the worst performer
on  France ’s CAC 40 index last year and has lost 12 percent this
year. It rose 1.4 percent to 7.36 euros at 1:10 p.m. in Paris.  The company reported a 79 percent drop in 2012 profit, hurt
by impairment costs in Poland, Egypt and  Romania , and said 2013
would be a tough year in its markets.  “We used to think of our company as having business in 35
countries, but that’s an incomplete vision,” Girard said. “We
looked at travel and migratory routes. Our footprint is
potentially much bigger.”  Starting news websites in Latin America or shops in
airports in the United Arab Emirates or New York are all options
as part of the “Horizons” plan, Girard said. The company could
also rent network capacity from another carrier to start mobile
services as a so-called virtual operator, he said.  The new strategy is also a way to get around tough
regulation for foreign companies in some countries.  Closer to home, doing business in  Algeria  would make sense,
Girard said. The company’s brand already has visibility in the
market because French television, and thus France Telecom’s
advertisements, are popular.  “There are some countries we’ve been trying to get into
for years through the classic routes,” Girard said. “We’ll try
this approach too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Barcelona at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  