-- Fuel-Linked Fares Seen Cutting Rail Yield Premium: India Credit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-27T05:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/fuel-linked-fares-seen-cutting-rail-yield-premium-india-credit.html
Dollar borrowing costs for  Indian
Railways  are forecast to drop from a record low after the
government said it would link train tariffs to fuel costs to
protect the world’s third-largest rail network.  The extra yield investors seek on the 4.406 percent dollar
bonds due 2016 of Indian Railway Finance Corp., the funding arm
of the state-owned railroad operator, has slid 54 basis points
this year to 191, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
lowest since the notes were issued in March 2011 and less than
the average spread of 265 basis points on U.S. currency debt in
the region, according to HSBC Holdings Plc  indexes .  The oldest Asian rail network’s revenue will increase 14
percent to 1.44 trillion rupees ($26.7 billion) in the year that
starts April 1, according to Rail Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal’s
annual budget speech yesterday, after it was allowed to raise
fares for the first time in a decade in January. That would help
IRFC cap borrowings at 151 billion rupees, he estimated,
compared with 150 billion rupees this fiscal year.  “Railways should be able to benefit significantly by way
of lower funding costs,” Cornel Bruhin, who helps manage $3.9
billion at MainFirst Schweiz AG in Zurich, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “The measures in the railway budget show
the government is committed to taking strong steps to lift the
confidence of investors and stakeholders in the economy.”  Budget Deficit  The plan underscores the government’s resolve to rein in
the  budget deficit  by paring subsidies that add to losses at
state companies. Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram, due
to unveil the  federal budget  tomorrow, has vowed to narrow the
gap in public finances even as the economy slows and an election
due by May 2014 adds pressure to boost spending to win votes.
His goal is a shortfall of 4.8 percent of gross domestic product
in 2013-2014, from an estimated 5.3 percent this year.  Indian Railways , which carries 23 million passengers every
day, will start linking freight charges to fuel costs from April
1, according to Bansal, as it seeks to cut more than $4.5
billion of losses stemming from below-cost tariffs. That will
raise charges for shipping commodities by an average 5 percent,
according to the minister.  The railways will lose a record 246 billion rupees in the
year ending March 31 from subsidized passenger services, he
said, without giving a timeframe for tying fares to energy
prices.  “The fuel-linked freight increase is a good move,” said
 Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.
“That will over time minimize their losses.”  Expansion Plan  An improvement in finances would bolster Indian Railways’
goal to invest 14 trillion rupees by 2020 to expand and
modernize its facilities. It plans to spend 634 billion rupees
in the next fiscal year, according to Bansal.  India is boosting efforts to expand its 65,000-kilometer
(40,937 miles) rail network as poor transport infrastructure
hinders fuel and cargo supplies, thwarting steps to counter the
worst economic  slowdown  in a decade. The nation, which has added
an average of 180 kilometers of railroads every year since
independence in 1947, plans to add 3,300 kilometers of freight
railways by 2017. China aims to  expand  its network by 29,000
kilometers to 120,000 kilometers in the five years ending 2015.  Indian Railways’ share of freight movement in the country
has tumbled to 35 percent from 89 percent in 1951, as network
expansion failed to keep pace with requirements and as surging
highway construction boosted road haulage. The nation added
about 50,000 kilometers of highways since 1999, according to the
National Highways Authority of  India .  Debt Sales  The train operator last borrowed overseas in October, when
it issued $300 million of securities due 2017 at 3.417 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on the notes has slid
to 2.80 percent since then, as the first increase in passenger
fares in a decade boosted investor optimism the company’s
finances will improve. Indian Railways increased freight rates
last year by as much as 20 percent.  IRFC will consider a global debt issue after completing a
rupee bond sale that’s currently open, Managing Director Rajiv Datt said in an interview Feb. 19.  The company is currently offering 88.9 billion rupees of
tax-free rupee-denominated notes, according to a document on the
website of Mumbai-based Enam Securities Pvt. That’s its largest
local sale on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It raised 72.6 billion rupees selling domestic debt in 2012 and
48.4 billion rupees in 2011, the data show. The firm plans to
pay a maximum of 7.38 percent on 10-year notes.  Rupee Yields  The rate on IRFC’s 8 percent rupee-denominated tax-free
bonds due 2022 dropped to 7.30 percent this month from last
year’s peak of 8.05 percent in May, according to prices from the
Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India.  Five-year AAA yields in India dropped 18 basis points this
year to 8.92 percent, indicative rates compiled by Bloomberg
show, while rates on 10-year government debt decreased 23 basis
points. The amount paid by the benchmark 8.15 percent note due
June 2022 was steady at 7.82 percent today, while the rupee rose
0.4 percent to 53.8925 per dollar. Indian bonds due in a decade
offer 595 basis points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries.  Rupee-denominated sovereign bonds returned 11.4 percent in
the past year, the most after Philippine notes among  Asia ’s 10
biggest local debt markets tracked by HSBC.  ‘Look Attractive’  Corporate bond risk in India fell this year. The average
cost for credit-default swaps insuring against default for five
years the debt of seven Indian issuers slid 30 basis points to
240, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately
negotiated markets.  Demand for locally-issued railway bonds may increase as
India’s first infrastructure bond funds are set up to help
improve access to funding for builders of railroads, highways
and power plants.  IL&FS Infrastructure Debt Fund, India’s first fund that
buys rail, road and electricity bonds, was started this month by
Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services Ltd., a Mumbai-based
lender to transport projects, with a goal to raise $1 billion.
State-owned India Infrastructure Finance Co. is also preparing
to start a $1 billion infrastructure debt plan and has received
approval from the capital markets regulator, according to
Chairman and Managing Director S.K. Goel.  “Borrowings will become cheaper for railways as the
measures will go a long way in boosting confidence,” Aneesh Srivastava, chief investment officer in Mumbai at IDBI Federal
Life Insurance Co., said in an interview yesterday. “The budget
is probably is the biggest factor in the recent past that has
helped their debt look attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  