-- Gazprom Rises to Two-Week High in Moscow on China Gas Plan
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-27T14:55:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/gazprom-rises-to-two-week-high-in-moscow-on-china-gas-plan-1-.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  rose to a two-week high
in Moscow trading as the largest natural gas producer said it
plans to sign a supply contract with China by the end of the
year after almost a decade of talks.  Gazprom rose as much as 1.5 percent to 138.52 rubles, the
highest since Feb. 8, and was at 137.60 rubles as of 6:50 p.m.
local time.  The state-run gas exporter agreed to speed up talks with
China National Petroleum Corp. on supplies from  Russia ’s eastern
gas fields to China, according to a statement today.  Gazprom has been negotiating a deal to transport as much as
68 billion cubic meters of gas a year to  China , the world’s
fastest growing major economy, since the two companies signed a
cooperation deal in 2004. The talks repeatedly stalled because
of disagreements on prices.  “Any impulse on the China deal will be assessed as
positive,” Artem Kvas, an oil and gas analyst at Renaissance
Capital, which has a buy recommendation for the stock, said by
phone. The current market valuations of Gazprom assume the worst
case scenario with “strengthening European competition and
pressure on the domestic market,” he said.  The eastern pipeline, which will supply the industrially-
developed eastern territories of China, will support Gazprom’s
plans to develop eastern Siberia and the Far East, Kvas said.  Gazprom plans to build a 3,200-kilometer (2,000 mile)
pipeline from fields in eastern Siberia to the port of
Vladivostok, with the capacity of 61 billion cubic meters a
year. It also plans a gas liquefaction plant at Vladivostok and
may also cooperate with CNPC on that project, Gazprom said
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  