-- German Consumer Confidence to Rise in March, GfK Says
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-27T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/german-consumer-confidence-to-rise-in-march-on-economy-gfk-says.html
German  consumer confidence  will rise
for a second month in March as an improving economic outlook and
stable labor market encourage household spending,  Gfk SE (GFK)  said.  The Nuremberg-based market research company forecast today
that its  consumer-sentiment index , based on a survey of about
2,000 people, will increase to 5.9 next month from 5.8 in
February. That’s in line with the median forecast in a  Bloomberg
News survey  of 32 economists.  The Bundesbank said this month it expects the economy to
return to growth in the current quarter, even as a recession in
the euro region damps German exports. Business and investor
confidence both rose more than economists forecasts this month,
manufacturing output expanded for the first time in a year and
unemployment dropped for a second month in January.  “German consumers anticipate that the economy will
steadily improve in the coming months,” GfK said in an e-mailed
statement. “It currently seems that the turning point in
economic prospects has been reached.”  A measure of economic expectations jumped to minus 2.5 in
February from minus 11.3 in January, approaching its long-term
average of zero, GfK said. An index measuring willingness to buy
rose to 37 from 35.3, while a gauge of income expectations eased
to 31.8 from 36.  Italian bonds and stocks tumbled yesterday after elections
there failed to produce a clear winner, renewing concern over
the country’s commitment to reforms and  Europe ’s ability to rein
in the sovereign debt crisis.  At the same time, German unemployment data due today are
forecast to show the jobless rate holding at 6.8 percent, a two-
decade low. That report will be published by the Federal Labor
Agency in Nuremberg at 9:55 a.m.  “From here, sentiment will depend on how the labor market
develops this year, and signs are good that the high level of
employment can be maintained,” GfK said. “If financial markets
remain quiet, consumers won’t worry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  