-- Germany Steps Up HFT Scrutiny With Draft Bill
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-02-27T16:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/germany-steps-up-hft-scrutiny-with-draft-bill.html
High-frequency trading will be
regulated for the first time in  Germany  after a parliamentary
committee approved a bill requiring firms that use the computer-
driven strategies to register with banking authorities.  The proposed law means HFT companies would come under the
Kreditwesengesetz, or KWG, banking legislation, forcing them to
open a regulated office in Germany if they want to trade in the
nation, according to a draft bill passed by the parliamentary
finance committee today. The lower house of parliament is due to
vote on the plans tomorrow.  Germany is the first developed market to legislate on HFT,
which uses computers to buy and sell securities in fractions of
a second and profit from price discrepancies. The practice
attracted the attention of regulators after the so-called flash
crash in May 2010, when the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  briefly
lost almost 1,000 points.  “We have passed important legislation on high-frequency
trading, closing a gap in a previously unregulated area of the
financial market,” Ralph Brinkhaus, a lawmaker in Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union and a member of the
committee that drafted the legislation, wrote in an e-mail.
“This brings us another step closer to fulfilling our goal from
the coalition agreement to leave no financial product, no
financial actor, and no financial market unregulated.”  Merkel faces pressure from the opposition Social Democratic
Party to impose stricter rules on the finance industry in the
run-up to federal elections slated for September.  Trading Costs  Obtaining authorization under the KWG may increase costs
for start-up trading firms, according to Artur Fischer, chief
executive officer of Boerse Berlin.  “HFTs are not banks with other people’s money, so why
impose regulation which only costs money and serves no
purpose?” Fischer wrote in e-mailed comments. “If you put only
your own capital at risk you currently don’t need any kind of
license. The proposed law wants to change that in such a way
that, even if it’s only your own capital, as soon as you use
computer algorithms you have to be regulated.”  Requiring HFT companies to obtain KWG authorization and
have a physical presence in Germany may make global trading
firms participating in German markets liable to pay the European
Union’s proposed financial-transaction tax, or FTT, according to
Axel Troost, a member of the Left party who sits on the
financial committee.  ‘Wipe Out’  “We want the FTT to wipe out HFT,” Troost said today in
e-mailed comments. “The KWG registration is an important
requirement to achieve this objective.”  The European Commission has tabled a plan for a transaction
tax that would set a rate of 0.1 percent for stock and bond
trades and 0.01 percent on derivatives deals. The EU is trying
to curb what it sees as a patchwork of local levies with a tax
that it believes could raise 30 billion euros ($40 billion) to
35 billion euros a year.  London or Luxembourg could be the beneficiaries of an FTT
in Germany, as trading migrates to centers which are opposed to
introducing the levy, according to Dirk Klee, country head of
Germany,  Austria  and eastern  Europe  at BlackRock Asset
Management Deutschland AG in Munich.  “Financial markets are global,” Klee said in an interview
in Frankfurt today. “An FTT scenario that would only go ahead
with a few countries would mean that assets would shift into
countries which don’t have FTT. Germany could be
disadvantaged.”  HFT accounts for 40 percent of trading volumes on Deutsche
Boerse AG’s cash-market segment, Xetra, and 30 percent of
transactions on Eurex, Europe’s largest derivatives exchange,
according to the Frankfurt-based company.  Deutsche Boerse shares  slipped 0.4 percent to 47.80 euros
at the close of trading in Frankfurt today, trimming the 2013
advance to 3.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  