-- German Stocks Advance as Economic Confidence Increases
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-02-27T17:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/german-stocks-climb-before-italy-auctions-sovereign-debt.html
German stocks  advanced, after
yesterday sliding the most in three weeks, as a measure of
economic confidence for the euro area rose more than forecast.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. climbed to its
highest price since its initial public offering in 2000 after
predicting earnings will increase in 2013.  Kabel Deutschland (KD8) 
Holding AG posted its biggest decline in a week after Vodafone
Group Plc was said to put on hold its plans to approach the
company about a takeover.  The  DAX (DAX)  gained 1 percent to 7,675.83 at the close in
 Frankfurt . The equity benchmark dropped 2.3 percent yesterday,
its biggest slide since Feb. 4, as  Italy ’s voters gave former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi  a blocking minority in the upper house
of parliament. The broader HDAX Index added 1.1 percent today.  “The Italian elections are worrisome because there is the
risk that reforms that are underway may be blocked for the
coming months,” said Benoit Peloille, an equity market
strategist at Natixis in Paris. “Still, this doesn’t call into
question the rotation into stocks, which remain the only asset
class that hasn’t yet benefited from the abundance of liquidity.
For us, stocks remain fundamentally attractive.”  Italy sold 6.5 billion euros ($8.5 billion) of securities
at the first auction since elections at the weekend. None of the
coalitions taking part in the vote managed to win a majority in
both houses of the country’s parliament. The Treasury sold 4
billion euros of new 10-year bonds at an average yield of 4.83
percent, up from 4.17 percent at a previous auction on Jan. 30.
Investors bought 2.5 billion euros of five-year notes at 3.59
percent, compared with 2.94 percent at last month’s sale.  Economic Confidence  Economic confidence  in the euro area increased more than
economists had forecast. An index of executive and consumer
sentiment rose to 91.1 in February from a revised 89.5 in
January, the European Commission in Brussels said.  Economists
had forecast  an increase to 89.9, according to the median of 29
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  EADS jumped 6.5 percent to 37.08 euros. The company
predicted that  operating profit  will rise to 3.5 billion euros
this year and said that it has booked the majority of charges to
fix the wings on its A380 flagship aircraft. The company also
said that output climbed at its Airbus SAS division and
production rebounded at its commercial helicopter business,
lifting profit by 68 percent in 2012.  Kabel Slides  Kabel Deutschland  fell 3.7 percent to 67.03 euros. Vodafone
suspended its plans after leaks complicated internal
discussions, according to three people familiar with the matter.  Vodafone, which had intended to contact Kabel Deutschland
after the cable provider’s earnings report last week, no longer
has a time frame for making an approach, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the deliberations remain
confidential. Kabel Deutschland advanced more than 9 percent
since Manager Magazin reported Vodafone’s plans on Feb. 13
through yesterday.  MorphoSys AG (MOR)  sank 6.4 percent to 31.01 euros, for its
biggest two-day drop in more than 18 months, after the
biotechnology company was cut to hold from buy at Commerzbank
AG. The analysts cited the stock’s gain since the company
reported clinical trial data on MOR103 in September, and also
said they don’t expect guidance for 2013 to serve as a trigger.  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  climbed 6.1 percent to 37.17 euros.  Germany ’s
second-largest steelmaker was raised to overweight from neutral
at JPMorgan Chase & Co. after the company forecast pretax profit
in the “lower double-digit” million-euro range in 2013.  “This we believe represents realistic trough earnings for
an already underperforming stock,” analyst Alessandro Abate
wrote in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  