-- Glass Half-Empty as Bonds Perform Worst Since May: Russia Credit
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v   a n d   M a r k   S w e e t m a n
-- 2013-02-28T10:12:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/glass-half-empty-as-bonds-perform-worst-since-may-russia-credit.html
Russia sold 50 percent of the bonds
offered at an auction after canceling a planned sale, with the
start of Euroclear Bank SA trading unable to prevent the
nation’s debt from heading toward the worst month since May.  The  Finance Ministry  sold 12.2 billion rubles ($399
million) of OFZ debt due in January 2018 at an average yield of
6.2 percent, according to the  Moscow Exchange . Ruble bond
returns trail those of  Brazil , China and  India  in February after
beating them last quarter, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show.  The government axed a sale of 15-year securities at
yesterday’s auction, citing an analysis of market conditions,
even after Sberbank Investment Research forecast Euroclear’s
start may lead to $15 billion of inflows this year. Bonds have
retreated in February as  Urals crude  heads for its worst month
in nine amid a resurgence of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The correction on the ruble bond market is mainly down to
natural profit taking after the start to Euroclear,” Denis Poryvay, an analyst at ZAO Raiffeisenbank in Moscow, said
yesterday by e-mail. “The hopes of some market participants
that a significant inflow from non-residents who had yet to buy
OFZs haven’t materialized, which has also put pressure on
sellers.”  Oil Declines  Urals,  Russia ’s main export blend, has fallen 4.9 percent
in February, poised for its sharpest drop since May when a 15
percent-plunge prompted the government to cancel OFZ auctions.
The ruble has snapped three months of gains, weakening 1.7
percent this month against the dollar. The currency was little
changed at 30.5360 by 1:47 p.m. in Moscow.  Ruble notes led gains among the BRIC countries in the
fourth quarter as investors prepared for Euroclear Bank SA, the
world’s largest bond settlement system, to start operations with
the debt. Ruble bonds returned 0.2 percent this month as of Feb.
26, compared with gains of 0.8 percent for Brazil, 0.9 percent
for India and 0.3 percent for  China , according to JPMorgan
indexes.  Euroclear started handling over-the-counter transactions of
Russian government debt on Feb. 7. Delivery-versus-payment
settlement began on Feb. 27, while exchange-based operations are
due to start next month, Martin Gregson, a spokesman for
Euroclear in Brussels, said yesterday.  Opposing Trends  “There are currently two opposing tendencies,” Egor Fedorov, a credit analyst with ING Groep NV in Moscow, said by
e-mail yesterday. “There are those who bought before Euroclear
and are selling now it’s happened, and those who are cautiously
entering due to Euroclear, but at far lower yields than we saw
last year.”  Demand from non-residents will be “high” in the long-
term, he said.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps fell two basis points to
148 today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The swaps
cost nine basis points more than  Turkey , which is rated one step
lower by Fitch at BBB-. The contracts pay the buyer face value
in exchange for underlying securities or the cash equivalent if
a government or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Sovereign Bonds  Russia is ranked BBB by  Fitch Ratings , the second-lowest
investment-grade category. A gain in the country’s dollar bonds
due in April 2042 lowered the yield four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 4.61 percent. The extra yield investors
demand to hold Russian debt rather than U.S. Treasuries was
unchanged at 189, according to JPMorgan indexes. The difference
compares with 181 for debt of similarly-rated  Mexico  and 174 for
Brazil.  The yield on Russia’s ruble Eurobond due in 2018 dropped 10
basis points to 6.04 percent, while the rate on the OFZ due in
March gained four basis points to 6.13 percent. That’s a
turnaround from the end of May, when investors demanded 109
basis points of extra yield to hold the domestically traded
securities.  The shift was driven by a decline in Eurobond prices that
began in January due to a deterioration of the situation on
global markets, Alexandr Ermak, head of debt market analysis at
Moscow-based Region Broker Co., said yesterday by e-mail.  Russian economic growth slowed in January to 1.6 percent
from a year earlier compared with 2.4 percent the previous
month, the  Economy Ministry  said Feb. 22 in a website report. An
acceleration in inflation to 7.1 percent prompted the central
bank to keep its  interest rates  on hold in January.  “The weakening ruble rate, the significant decline in the
oil price, accelerating inflation and slowing economic growth
are all factors pressuring the ruble debt market,” Ermak said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Sweetman in Moscow at 
 msweetman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  