-- Glencore Buys Stake in Icahn-Backed Brazil Producer Ferrous
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-27T20:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/glencore-said-to-build-stake-in-brazil-iron-ore-producer-ferrous.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  bought a
stake in Ferrous Resources Ltd., the Brazil  iron-ore  miner part-
owned by billionaire investor  Carl Icahn , as the trader seeks to
bolster its position in the market for the raw material.  Glencore negotiated directly with investors in closely held
Ferrous, the Belo Horizonte-based company said today in a
statement, confirming an earlier report by  Bloomberg News . It
didn’t give the size of the stake bought by the largest publicly
traded commodities supplier. Glencore may increase its holding
in Ferrous, said two people familiar with the matter. Spokesmen
for both companies declined to comment further.  The deal represents Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg’s first investment in a producing iron-ore asset as
Glencore pursues a larger share of the trading of the world’s
most shipped commodity after oil. Icahn invested in Ferrous in
April, buying stock from  Phil Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC, people familiar with the talks said at the time.  “Increasing marketing exposure to iron ore has been an
area of focus for Glencore, where it has limited presence
despite strength in other bulk commodities,” Ash Lazenby, a
mining analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London , said today.
“Establishing a stake with the right iron ore company is
important, given the challenges associated with scaling up
assets. Buying into Ferrous may be an effective way to boost its
iron-ore interests.”  Additional Funding  Glencore also agreed to offer Ferrous additional funding by
March 31 to help develop its Viga mine in exchange for a bigger
stake, the two people said, asking not to be identified as the
information is confidential. Ferrous will consider any
additional funding offer from Glencore without being obliged to
accept it, the people said.  “The entrance of Glencore may bring new blood to the
project,” said Luis Nepomuceno, a partner at Belo Horizonte-
based consulting firm LCN Mining and Metals. “Ferrous is step
by step putting the house in order.”  Brazil is the second-largest exporter of the raw material
and home to  Vale SA (VALE3) , the biggest shipper of the steel-making
product. The iron-ore price has surged 75 percent from an almost
three-year low in September as Chinese growth rebounded from a
seven-quarter slowdown. Glencore owns a stake in closely held
Core Mining Ltd. which has said it’s seeking to build a $4
billion project in the Republic of Congo.  Glencore acquired the stock from minority shareholders of
closely held Ferrous, the people said. Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore has also agreed to buy 20 million metric tons of iron
ore from Ferrous over the next four years, according to the
statement.  Production Guarantee  “The agreement will guarantee a good portion of the
company’s production until 2016, on top of reinforcing the
financial position of the company given that it reduces the
working capital requirements and the commercial risks,” Ferrous
CEO Jayme Nicolato said in the statement.  Ferrous began output in March 2011 and has six mines in the
largest iron-ore producing region in  Brazil , Minas Gerais state.
It produced 3.2 million tons last year and plans to boost
production to 5 million tons this year and 17 million tons from
2016, according to the statement.  Glencore, which has a mid-March deadline to complete a $34
billion takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , gained 0.6 percent to 385.5
pence by the close in London.  Ferrous shelved plans for a $400 million London initial
public offering in 2010 and had been seeking a partner to help
finance its Brazilian projects since at least 2009.  In December 2011, Ferrous proposed a $2.3 billion takeover
of rival MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the Rio de Janeiro-based
iron-ore producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , according to a letter detailing the plan obtained by
Bloomberg News. The companies held “several discussions” on a
merger during the prior 18 months, the letter showed. MMX said a
month later that it wasn’t interested in a Ferrous merger.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  