-- MGM China Sees Macau Casino VIP Business Pick Up
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-02-28T08:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/mgm-china-sees-macau-casino-vip-business-pick-up.html
MGM China Holdings Ltd. (2282) , the Macau
casino venture between a daughter of gambling mogul Stanley Ho
and  MGM Resorts International (MGM) , said business from VIP gamblers
has picked up after the Lunar New Year holiday.  Business from VIP, or high-stakes gamblers, has seen a
“strong comeback” after the festival that ended on Feb. 17,
Bill Hornbuckle, chief marketing officer of MGM Resorts, told
reporters in Macau yesterday.  High-rollers from China’s mainland curbed spending amid a
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy last year and
analysts including those at HSBC Global Research said some VIPs
stayed away to avoid crowds during the holiday. The VIP business
accounts for about two thirds of casino revenue in Macau.  MGM China yesterday said it hasn’t seen any sign of a
Chinese crackdown on the junket operators who offer credit and
bring VIP gamblers to Macau.  “There’s never any real, concrete indication or direction
from the government,” said Pansy Ho, chairman of MGM China and
daughter of  Stanley Ho . “Although the growth rate of VIP
business may slow, I’m not aware of any crackdown.”  MGM China rose 1.4 percent to HK$18.74 at the close of Hong
Kong trading. The benchmark Hang Seng Index climbed 2 percent.  MGM China yesterday broke ground on its first resort on
Cotai, the piece of reclaimed land in Macau that is Asia’s
equivalent of the Las Vegas strip. The company joins rivals
including  Sands China Ltd. (1928)  and  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) 
in expanding in the world’s largest gambling hub.  MGM’s Cotai resort will cost $2.6 billion to construct,
will include 1,600 hotel rooms, as many as 500 gaming tables and
2,500 slot machines. It is scheduled to open by mid-2016.  Pansy Ho  said she has no plan to cut her 27 percent  stake 
in MGM China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  