-- Gold Miners Come Clean on Costs After Lost 6 Years: Commodities
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-02-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/gold-miners-come-clean-on-costs-after-lost-6-years-commodities.html
The gold-mining industry, which has
underperformed the precious metal for each of the past six
years, is pledging to report costs more accurately as part of
its efforts to win back investor confidence.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  and  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the two biggest
producers by market value, have begun reporting “all-in
sustaining costs” for the first time. The new measure averaged
$941 an ounce between the two companies in the fourth quarter.
That’s 50 percent higher than the $626 average so-called cash
cost they disclosed in the preceding three months.  The largest gold companies are seeking to lure investors
back to the $300 billion industry after a string of money-losing
multibillion-dollar takeovers and over-budget projects. Barrick
and its competitors are vowing to focus on margins and to get a
grip on soaring production costs, rather than boosting output.  Gold producers “have really done themselves a huge
disservice by effectively walking around for the last 12 years
promoting the gross margin as opposed to the net or the
operating margin,” said Joseph Wickwire, the Boston-based
manager of Fidelity Investments’ $2.9 billion Select Gold
Portfolio fund. “The managements and the boards of the gold
companies really have no one to blame but themselves for some of
the negative sentiment and disappointment.”  Earnings statements had previously carried so-called cash
costs, based on a standard developed in the 1990s that excludes
expenses such as exploration and waste-rock removal.  Margin Compression  The 55-member  S&P/TSX Global Gold Sector Index (SPTSGD)  trailed gold
each year in 2007 through 2012. The index declined 6.9 percent
during that period while gold futures more than doubled in New
York. Gold rose 1.8 percent to $1,615.50 an ounce yesterday.  Gold has advanced for 12 successive years, driven at least
in part by demand from investors looking for a store of wealth
amid concern about inflation. Despite benefiting from that
rally, gold producers’ margins have come under pressure from
rising prices for labor, equipment and raw materials.  The average cash cost of 10 of the biggest gold miners was
$694 an ounce in the third quarter, 49 percent higher than in
the same period two years earlier, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average gold price rose 35 percent in the same
comparison.  “Everyone was trying to run through the funnel of building
these new projects as big as you can, as fast as you can,”
 Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  Chief Executive Officer J. Paul Rollinson
said in an interview Feb. 13. “There was huge competition for
people, competition for steel, competition for tires and spare
parts.”  Ballooning Budget  Barrick’s gross margin, expressed as a proportion of sales,
was 47 percent in 2012, while its operating margin was 39
percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The costs of running this business are higher than it
looks and that’s how we need to manage this business going
forward,” Barrick CEO Jamie Sokalsky said at a Jan. 29
conference in Toronto.  Sokalsky has been expounding his strategy since taking
charge in June, when Barrick fired his predecessor Aaron Regent,
citing a disappointing share-price performance. The Toronto-
based company saw the cost estimate for its Pascua-Lama mine
balloon to as much as $8.5 billion in 2012, from as much as $3.6
billion in 2011.  Fired CEOs  Regent was among at least six CEOs of North American gold
producers to either announce their departure or be fired in the
past year. Kinross, which fired Rollinson’s predecessor Tye Burt
in August, has taken more than $5.5 billion of writedowns on
Mauritanian assets the Canadian company acquired as part of its
C$8 billion ($7.8 billion) takeover of Red Back Mining Inc. in
2010.  As gold miners pursued additional ounces at the expense of
profit margins, investors instead plowed billions of dollars
into gold-backed  exchange traded funds . The weight of gold
behind those ETFs, which include the $64.9 billion  SPDR Gold
Trust , has quadrupled to 2,530 tons since the start of 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The boom in ETFs may now be at an end, with physical
holdings poised for the biggest monthly decline since 2008. The
gold cycle has probably turned as the recovery in the U.S.
economy gathers momentum and investment holdings shrink, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. said in a Feb. 25 report. Still, it’s not yet
clear whether gold miners will benefit from the change in
sentiment.  Predictability, Rigor  “I don’t think the industry has done anything to persuade
some of those investors that hold, for example, gold ETFs to buy
gold shares instead,” said Neil Gregson, who manages about $5
billion in natural resources equities at JPMorgan Asset
Management in London. “Our allocation to gold equities is now
down to 20 percent, which is the lowest we’ve been certainly
since I’ve been here in the last 2 1/2 years.”  To be sure, while the gold industry has traditionally
emphasized cash-cost figures, the other components of all-in
costs were available in financial reports, Gregson said. Gold
companies have diverged since the 1990s in terms of which cost
items they included, Goldcorp CEO Chuck Jeannes said in a Feb.
25 interview.  “What we are trying to do is bring back some
predictability and rigor,” he said.  There’s still no universal agreement on the new all-in
costs. Members of the World Gold Council, a London-based
industry group, are working on issues such as how to treat
byproduct revenue, interest expenses and profits on energy
hedges, said  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM)  CEO Sean Boyd.  More Realism  Mining companies are hoping that it’s governments and not
just investors who pay attention to the new all-in costs,  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI)  CEO Nick Holland said in a Feb. 4 interview. Gold
more than quadrupled in the last 10 years and reached a record
$1,923.70 an ounce in September 2011, encouraging some countries
to seek a greater share of profits.  The Dominican Republic’s congress said last month it will
review and may change a contract with Barrick over the
development of a $4 billion mine. Burkina Faso is among
countries that have amended royalty and tax regimes.  “It could be positive for getting more realism into
governments about how much tax they really should be levying on
us,” Holland said. “There’s not the super profits that you’d
have them believe you’re making.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  