-- Goldman Sachs 50-Year Chile Bond Makes it First U.S. Issuer
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-02-27T18:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/goldman-sachs-s-50-year-bond-in-chile-makes-it-first-u-s-issuer.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to
sell bonds with a maturity of up to 50 years in Chile, making it
the first U.S. company to sell local debt in the Latin American
country.  New York-based Goldman Sachs is seeking authorization to
sell bonds worth 20 million  unidades de fomento , the country’s
inflation-linked accounting unit, which is equivalent to $966
million, according to Chile’s securities regulator.  “Chile now has the largest concentration in assets under
management per capita in Latin America, which has made the
country one of the most attractive new debt capital markets in
the region for foreign issuers,”  Michael DuVally , a spokesman
for the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said in an e-mailed
statement today. The bank is “actively considering” opening an
office in Chile, he said.  Finance Minister Felipe Larrain has relaxed restrictions to
encourage foreign companies to sell debt in Chile as he seeks to
position the country as a financial-services hub. Brazilian
lender Banco Pine SA and Mexican homebuilder Corp. GEO SAB are
the only foreign companies to sell bonds known as “huaso,”
which means cowboy in Chile, since Larrain first announced the
initiative in March 2011.  Pension funds in Chile manage assets worth 61 percent of
Chile’s gross domestic product and equal to almost 120 percent
of the nation’s capital market, according to research by Mario Castro, an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. That
compares with 18 percent of GDP in Colombia and 3.1 percent in
 Mexico .  Savings Rate  Chile’s high savings rate and limited number of large
companies mean there is a shortage of assets available for
investment, according to Valentin Carril, who oversees $5
billion as chief investment officer for Principal Vida Chile in
Santiago and often buys foreign bonds that he swaps back into
local currency.  Chile has the fourth-highest gross national savings rate in
South America after  Venezuela ,  Ecuador  and  Bolivia , according to
International Monetary fund data.  The Goldman Sachs bond sale “is very appropriate for life
insurers like ourselves,” Carril said. “It’s diversification
and we don’t have to worry about currency derivatives. When the
process of opening up markets was announced, I don’t think they
really envisaged American companies coming here. It’s big
news.”  Santander Advising  Chilean life insurers would welcome a bond due in about 30
years as it allows them to match the average duration of their
portfolios with the duration of the annuities they sell, Carril
said. The government plans to sell 30-year fixed-rate bonds for
the first time this year.  Banco Santander  Chile  is advising Goldman Sachs’s on the
transaction, according to an e-mailed statement from the
Santiago-based bank’s press office.  Chile introduced its inflation-linked accounting unit in
1967. Seventy-percent of the country’s local debt market is
denominated in unidades de fomento.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  