-- Google Pixel Laptop Is Upscale Overkill: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2013-02-27T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/google-pixel-laptop-is-upscale-overkill-rich-jaroslovsky.html
I’m writing these words on a lovely
new laptop. It’s thin, light and made of machined aluminum, but
it isn’t a MacBook. It’s got a beautiful touch screen, but it
isn’t a  Microsoft (MSFT)  Surface Pro.  It’s the Google Chromebook Pixel, and the most striking
thing about it is neither the design nor the screen. It’s the
price tag.  Google’s spent the last few years trying to establish its
Chrome Operating System as a viable competitor to Windows and
 Apple (AAPL) ’s OS X by partnering with manufacturers like Samsung, Acer
and  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  to produce inexpensive laptops.  But with the Pixel, it’s taken on the hardware
responsibility itself and gone decidedly upscale in the process.
The new machine, available from  Google Play  online and at  Best
Buy (BBY)  stores, costs $1,299 (1,049 pounds in the U.K.) for a Wi-Fi-
only model with 32 gigabytes of flash-memory storage, or $1,449
for one with 64 gigabytes and the ability to also connect to
 Verizon (VZ)  Wireless’s speedy 4G LTE network.  That’s a lot of money for a computer whose usefulness is
limited when it isn’t connected to the Internet, and that costs
even more than comparable Apple- and Windows-powered machines
unencumbered by that concern.  The Chrome OS is, essentially, a Web browser. The idea
behind it is that most everything you do exists not on the
computer itself, but on the Internet.  Google Docs  Need to write something or create a slideshow? Open the
word-processing or presentation applications in Google Docs.
Want to save it? Use your online storage space in Google Drive.
Want more apps? Choose them from the Chrome Web store, use them,
and they go away when you’re done until you summon them again.  Living in the cloud like that doesn’t require a lot of
computing power; pretty much all you need is an Internet
connection.  Acer (2353)  is currently selling a Chromebook for as little
as $199 that does nearly all that the six-times-costlier Pixel
does.  You do get a lot with the Pixel, starting with a whopping
terabyte of online Google Drive storage free for three years,
and a dozen free sessions of  GoGo (GOGO) ’s in-flight Internet access to
address one of the most common connection-less situations.  Physically, the new Chromebook is as handsome as any laptop
this side of a MacBook. It weighs 3.35 pounds and, with the lid
down, measures little more than half an inch thick. A thin strip
of lights across the back glows with Google’s signature colors,
or delivers coded status reports. (Red means “charge me.”)  Dazzling Display  Lift the lid and you meet the Pixel’s dazzling touch
display. The 12.85-inch screen is unusually proportioned, with a
3:2 aspect ratio that  Google (GOOG)  says was chosen to optimize it for
viewing Web pages over, say, widescreen videos. It’s gorgeous,
with a pixel density of 239 per inch that the company says is
the highest on any laptop.  Under the hood are components that compare well with other
high-end competitors, including the solid-state storage, an
 Intel (INTC)  Core i5 processor and four gigabytes of memory. But here’s
the thing: In a Chromebook, a lot of this stuff is unnecessary.  Having a touch screen is certainly nice -- but Google Docs
isn’t particularly optimized for touch, nor are many Web pages.
A Core i5 is useful when you’re powering through Windows 8 or
Mac applications, but here it’s overkill, plain and simple.  Costly Overkill  And overkill at a cost that isn’t just reflected in the
price: Perhaps a less potent processor would be less of a drain
on the Pixel’s battery life.  Google claims it gets five hours of use, which is 23
percent less than even the $249 Chromebook from partner  Samsung. (005930) 
I got even less: not much over four hours when I was doing
nothing more strenuous than streaming video over Wi-Fi. I also
found the battery drained after a couple of days in sleep mode,
a stark contrast to, say, Apple’s MacBook Air, which can sleep
for weeks and still hold its charge.  As for the Chrome OS, it’s much more usable than in its
early days. There are more things you can do offline, and
synchronization with the cloud is transparent when you are
connected.  Still, I continued to encounter odd glitches and ambiguous
error messages, particularly when the Pixel was in the process
of reconnecting to the cloud after being awakened from slumber.  My guess is that Google doesn’t really expect to sell a
bunch of Pixels. It seems more like a statement that Chromebooks
can be high-end as well as low, and that Google is capable of
crafting beautiful hardware that compares favorably with its
competitors.  Personally, I’d find the statement a lot more compelling at
half the price.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Warwick
Thompson on  theater .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .
On Twitter: www.twitter.com/richjaro.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 