-- Governor Says U.S. Must Empty Leaky Radioactive Tanks
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2013-02-27T22:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/governor-says-u-s-must-empty-leaky-radioactive-tanks.html
The U.S. Energy Department must
empty six leaky tanks holding radioactive waste at the Hanford
site in Washington, Governor Jay Inslee said.  The state did its part in the  Cold War  and has been “the
unpleasant home of millions of gallons of radioactive waste for
decades now,” Inslee said today at a news conference in
Olympia, the state’s capital, after a trip to Washington, D.C.  “The federal government has foisted this waste on the
citizens of the state long enough, and we’re going to demand a
solution to this problem,” said Inslee, a 62-year-old Democrat.  Inslee said last week that he learned in a meeting with
Energy Secretary Steven Chu that six tanks were leaking, five
more than identified as leaky the week before. The tanks are
among 177 buried at Hanford, about 200 miles (320 kilometers)
southeast of  Seattle  and near the Columbia River.  The leaks do not pose an imminent threat to public health
and there’s no evidence the materials have reached the
groundwater, Inslee said.  The vessels contain 56 million gallons of radioactive
waste, according to a U.S. Government Accountability Office
 report . The 586-square-mile site was used to produce plutonium
for nuclear weapons.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, yesterday asked
the GAO, the investigative arm of Congress, to investigate
maintenance and monitoring procedures at Hanford.  Reduce Risks  “I’m now asking GAO to get to the bottom of how and when
DOE found out about these leaks, and what can be done to reduce
the risk of radioactive waste contaminating the environment,”
Wyden said in a news release.  Nine nuclear reactors and processing facilities produced
plutonium at Hanford, which operated from 1944 to 1987. The man-
made radioactive element was used in atomic bombs, including the
one dropped on Nagasaki,  Japan , in 1945 that helped end World
War II.  Workers are trying to clean up millions of gallons of toxic
waste at the complex. The effort has been stymied by delays and
technical issues, causing the projected cost to triple to $13.4
billion since 2000, the GAO said in December.  The Energy Department has expressed concern that
contamination from the single-shell tanks may be making its way
toward the Columbia River, which supplies drinking water and
agricultural irrigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  Washington  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  