-- Libor Criticism, Bernanke on Currency, Oxbow: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-27T13:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/libor-criticism-bernanke-on-currency-war-oxbow-compliance.html
The London interbank offered rate
was expected to face a prominent U.S. critic yesterday as
financial regulators look to improve oversight after three banks
paid more than $2.5 billion in fines to settle interest-rate
rigging charges.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission was set to hold a
roundtable meeting scheduled to include representatives of  CME
Group (CME)  Inc.,  Intercontinental Exchange Inc., (ICE)   NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and
Pacific Investment Management Co. to consider changes to Libor.
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and the  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
were the first banks to settle charges with regulators in a
global investigation encompassing about 20 financial firms.
Banks aren’t slated to attend the meeting.  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  has questioned the long-term
viability of Libor and other benchmark rates, saying the
underlying markets must be based on transactions and not
estimates from banks.  The roundtable meeting is part of a task force run by the
CFTC and U.K. Financial Services Authority that published an
initial  consultative paper  on benchmark rates on Jan. 11.  The  Global Financial Markets Association , a trade
association representing securities advocacy groups in Europe,
the U.S. and Asia, said benchmarks don’t need to be based on
actual transaction data. Some markets have little transaction
volume and still benefit from having a benchmark, the groups
said.  “GFMA believes that it is unnecessarily limiting to
mandate that a benchmark be based solely on actual transaction
data,” the organization  said  in a Feb. 11 letter to the task
force. “Provided that a sufficiently robust governance and
control framework is in place and there is clear transparency,
benchmarks determined under a variety of methods can be of great
value to users.”  Compliance Policy  Small Bankers Call on Congress to Ease Regulations, Revamp CFPB  Independent Community Bankers of America  (ICBA) unveiled a
legislative proposal aimed at helping small banks and thrifts
lend more to local small businesses and residents, the group
said in an e-mailed statement.  The group seeks an assistant U.S. Treasury secretary for
community banks, in addition to changes at the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau to “ensure more balanced
regulation.”  The plan also calls for exempting community banks from
certain mortgage rules; reducing yearly privacy notice
redundancies to cut paperwork; easing municipal adviser
registration “burdens” to help serve local governments; and
improving accountability in bank exams with a “workable appeals
process.”  OCC Goal Isn’t to ‘Punish’ Banks, Curry Tells Attorneys General  “The purpose of our actions is not to punish banks or make
examples of anyone,” U.S. Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas
Curry  said in prepared remarks to  National Association of
Attorneys General  conference in Washington.  The OCC’s role as prudential bank supervisor “is not
always well understood, people sometimes ask why enforcement
actions are typically done through consent agreements,” Curry
said in the prepared remarks.  Banks typically take necessary corrective action when OCC
finds issues that need to be fixed.  “Those are the cases no one hears about since under law
the supervisory process is confidential,” Curry said.  The OCC, unlike the Department of Justice, has no power to
investigate, and prosecute criminal activity, he said. Most
actions brought by the Department of Justice, the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission and other
agencies are resolved through negotiated settlements for “good
reasons,” such as ensuring victims are compensated in timely
manner.  Treasury Should Curb Pay for Bailed Out Companies, Watchdog Says  The U.S. Treasury Department should reevaluate total
compensation for employees in companies that were bailed out and
apply guidelines that will curb excessive pay,  Christy Romero ,
the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, said.  “Treasury’s success should not be judged based on
reductions in pay from a time when these companies stood on
their own without taxpayer assistance,” Romero said yesterday
in prepared testimony to the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform. “Rather, Treasury’s success should be based
on whether Treasury awards appropriate pay for executives while
taxpayers continue to fund these companies’ bailouts.”  Pay for top executives at seven bailed-out companies was
scrutinized and restricted by the Treasury special master’s
office starting in 2009.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ally Financial
Inc. (ALLY)  are still in TARP.  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Chrysler Group LLC and
Chrysler Financial Corp. have left the program and are no longer
subject to the special master’s rulings.  Romero said yesterday that AIG may return to “past
compensation practices,” and that it falls to the insurer’s new
regulator, the Federal Reserve, to ensure that the insurer’s pay
practices don’t encourage “excessive risk taking.”  AIG has said pay limits imposed as part of a rescue package
that swelled to $182.3 billion harmed the New York-based
company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate employees.  Hedge Fund Employees Arrested in U.K. Inside-Trading Probe  Three hedge fund employees were arrested in London on
suspicion of insider trading by the U.K. finance regulator and
police.  The men, 33, 37 and 39 years old, are in custody for
questioning, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said in an e-
mailed statement, without identifying them. The arrests aren’t
tied to other insider-trading probes previously announced by the
agency.  The FSA and London’s Metropolitan Police also executed six
search warrants on homes and offices in the British capital and
the surrounding areas, according to the statement. The men hold
positions that required FSA approval.  The regulator has sought to limit insider trading in the
U.K.’s financial hub after previously targeting lower-profile
individuals. None of three men arrested today have been charged.
The FSA declined to provide further details.  For more, click here.  AGL Says Rules May Stop A$2 Billion in Coal-Seam Gas Plans  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK) , Australia’s second-biggest electricity
retailer, may drop plans to invest about A$2 billion ($2.1
billion) on coal-seam gas in New South Wales after the state
moved to restrict access to some areas.  “This is an arbitrary announcement,” Chief Executive
Officer Michael Fraser said today in a phone interview after the
Sydney-based company reported that it may need to write down the
value of two proposed coal-seam gas projects in the state.
“You’ve got to work out ways to develop those resources in a
way that addresses community concerns and avoids what is going
to be a huge cost to the New South Wales economy.”  AGL’s proposal to expand its Camden project southwest of
Sydney and another in the Hunter Valley wine region north of the
state capital may not go ahead after the government declared
country towns and suburbs “no-go zones” for coal-seam gas,
Fraser said. The state will prohibit exploration and production
in 2-kilometer (1.2-mile) areas around residential communities,
Premier Barry O’Farrell said Feb. 19.  AGL is seeking to extract natural gas from coal deposits to
help decrease reliance on supplies from outside Australia’s most
populous state and address a looming gas shortage. The company’s
coal-seam gas projects are among proposals that have faced
opposition from some environmental groups and farmers.  The company’s Gloucester gas project in New South Wales,
which received federal government approval earlier this month,
and its existing Camden gas operation aren’t expected to be
“materially affected,” AGL said today. AGL said it expects an
investment decision on Gloucester in mid-2014.  AGL expects to carry out further analysis of the
consequences of the regulations this half year, the company said
today.  Consob Bans Intesa, Banca Carige Short Sales  Italy’s stock market regulator banned Intesa short-sales
from 12:15 p.m. in Milan yesterday.  The stock market regulator, known as Consob, said the
decision was taken in line with European Union rules for shares
that fall more than 10 percent, according to a statement. The
ban is to last through end of trading today.  The regulator also banned short sales on Banca Carige
yesterday and today, according to an e-mailed statement. The
Banca Carige short-sale ban started at 1:20 p.m. yesterday.  Consob is in discussions with the Italian Stock Exchange on
measures to control volatility by tightening limits on stock
fluctuation, Consob official said by phone.  Consob also is considering short-sell bans for stocks in
the Milan Italian Bourse, or FTSE MIB, that move outside preset
trading bands.  Courts  Oxbow Price-Fixing Suit Against Buffett’s BNSF Dismissed  Oxbow Carbon & Minerals LLC’s price-fixing suit against
 Union Pacific Railroad Co. (UNP)  and  Warren Buffett ’s Burlington
Northern Santa Fe railway was dismissed by a federal judge, who
ruled the mineral company hadn’t shown that the rail carriers
engaged in monopolistic behavior.  Oxbow “failed to allege adequate facts to state claims”
under the Sherman Antitrust Act, U.S. District Judge Paul
Friedman in Washington said in a ruling released yesterday.  Friedman invited Oxbow to refile the suit to address the
shortcomings he cited, saying “it is possible, of course, that
plaintiffs will be able to cure these defects by amendment.”  Closely held Oxbow, which mines and markets coal and
natural gas, was founded by William Koch, son of the founder of
Koch Industries Inc.  The case is Oxbow v. Union Pacific, 11-01049, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  Interviews/Hearings  Mantega Says Currency War He Named Eases as Brazil Recovers  As the currency war intensifies in the developed world, the
Brazilian official who coined the phrase says for his country
it’s softened.  Brazil succeeded in reducing swings in the real after
letting the currency depreciate 19 percent in the two years
ending in December to protect local manufacturers from foreign
competition, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in an
interview. Now with the real hovering around 2 per dollar,
Brazil is abandoning policies to depress the exchange rate even
as Japan weakens the yen and the U.S. sticks to policies Mantega
has said spurred the start of the currency war.  “We haven’t resolved it, but we neutralized, softened the
currency war issue that other countries are facing,” Mantega,
63, said at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “We are in
Brazil in a transition to a more solid, competitive and
efficient economy.”  Brazil started introducing capital restrictions in 2010
after Mantega said rich nations had engaged in a currency war to
boost their exports at the expense of developing countries.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini said Feb. 25
Brazil had learned to operate in a currency war environment. The
more stable currency this year will also help slow  inflation 
that has exceeded the central bank’s 4.5 percent target for more
than two years, Tombini said at a conference in New York.  For more, click here.  BBA Says Resolution Plans May Hinder EU Single Market  British Bankers’ Association  Chief Executive Officer
Anthony Browne talked about bank resolution plans in some
European countries, financial-transactions tax and the outlook
for U.K. banks.  He spoke with Bloomberg Television’s Caroline Connan on the
sidelines of a banking conference in Paris organized by “The
Economist.”  For the video, click here.  Bernanke Defends Asset Purchases, Sees No Currency War  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the
central bank’s unprecedented asset purchases, saying they are
supporting the expansion with little risk of inflation or asset-
price bubbles.  “We do not see the potential costs of the increased risk-
taking in some financial markets as outweighing the benefits of
promoting a stronger economic recovery,” Bernanke said
yesterday in testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in
Washington. “Inflation is currently subdued, and inflation
expectations appear well anchored.”  Automatic federal budget cuts set to begin March 1 will put
a “significant” burden on the economy if lawmakers can’t avert
the reductions, Bernanke told lawmakers in the first day of his
semiannual monetary policy report to Congress. He also urged
lawmakers to put the budget on a “sustainable long-run path.”  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  are debating whether to curtail $85 billion in monthly
bond-buying amid concern the Fed’s record $3.1 trillion balance
sheet may encourage excessive risk-taking by investors and
complicate the Fed’s exit from easing. Several participants at
the Jan. 29-30 meeting said the Fed should be prepared to vary
the pace of purchases as the economic outlook changes, according
to minutes released last week.  Bernanke, 59, repeated prior Fed statements that the asset
purchases will continue unless the labor-market outlook shows
“substantial improvement” from current levels. He also
described the job market as being “generally weak.”  In exchanges with senators during a question-and-answer
period, Bernanke denied that the Fed is engaging in a “currency
war” through its asset purchases and responded to a suggestion
that he is a “dove” who favors easy policy.  Fed policies “are increasing demand globally and helping
not only our businesses but the businesses in other countries
that export to us,” he said. “This is not a beggar-thy-
neighbor policy.”  “You called me a dove,” Bernanke said in response to a
question from Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of Tennessee. “Well
maybe in some respects I am, but on the other hand my inflation
record is the best of any Federal Reserve chairman in the
postwar period -- at least one of the best, about 2 percent
average inflation.”  Bernanke also defended the Fed’s asset purchases and near-
zero target interest rate, saying that “monetary policy is
providing important support to the recovery.”  For more, click here.  For the related video, click here.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  EU Bonus Cap Risks Banks’ Efforts to Raise Capital, Bailey Says  A proposed European Union ban on bonuses that exceed fixed
pay would harm banks’ ability to build up capital, said  Andrew
Bailey , the U.K.’s chief banking supervisor.  Bailey, who is chief-executive-elect of the U.K.’s
Prudential Regulation Authority, said at a Paris conference he
was “skeptical and concerned” about the plan to limit bonuses,
because it would “make the cost base inflexible and make it
more difficult to retain earnings and build capital.”  Lawmakers in the  European Parliament  have insisted that the
legislation to implement Basel capital rules include tougher
curbs on variable pay.  “It also makes it harder to pull back remuneration when
things have gone wrong,” Bailey said at the Economist
conference. “Clawing back unvested remuneration when things
have gone wrong is a big part of what we are pushing for. We
favor longer time periods for vesting.”  Lawmakers will today resume negotiations with governments
on the bonus rules, as part of an attempt to seal a deal on how
to implement the so-called Basel III accord in the EU.  Banks should defer bonus payouts for staff for as long as
10 years to improve “prudence” in remuneration, Andrew
Haldane, executive director for financial stability at the Bank
of England, said last month.  For more, click here.  Australia Exchange CEO Funke Kupper Hiring for Derivatives  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , Australia’s main exchange operator, will hire at
least 25 more people this year to expand its clearing business
as the contribution of derivatives to profit expands and equity
volume falls.  Exchanges from the U.S. to Europe and Hong Kong are relying
more on derivatives as stock-trading profit wanes. Funke Kupper
is  diversifying  ASX’s business amid competition from Chi-X
Australia Pty and operators of so-called dark pools, venues that
don’t publicly display participants and prices. Average daily
value of equity trades on ASX fell by 24.5 percent in the six
months through Dec. 31, the bourse said Feb. 21.  The Australian exchange operator, which had an $8.3 billion
merger with Singapore Exchange Ltd. vetoed by the government in
2011, this month won its battle to maintain a monopoly in equity
clearing and settlement. Clearers act as central counterparties
in derivatives contracts to dilute the risk of default.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 