-- Microsoft, Google Eye Emerging Mobile Markets as Firefox Looms
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-27T15:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/microsoft-google-eye-emerging-mobile-markets-as-firefox-looms.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  have
no intention of leaving wireless customers in  emerging markets 
to the new Firefox operating system, which phone companies said
they hope to establish as a rival platform.  Microsoft is working to lower the specifications for its
Windows Phone operating system to allow it to run on cheaper
devices, said Greg Sullivan, senior product manager for the
platform. Google is looking at expanding payment options for
applications to make it easier for customers without bank
accounts to buy them, said Jamie Rosenberg, vice president for
the Google Play store.  “Payment systems is the biggest opportunity there, but
it’s also the one that can take the longest,” Rosenberg told
reporters during the  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona. “It is
an area that we’re looking at very carefully.”  While Google’s Android has cemented its dominance in the
smartphone market, billions of users in lower-income countries
don’t have a web-surfing handset. With the backing of hardware
makers and network operators who want to reduce their reliance
on Android, Mozilla Corp. on Feb. 24 unveiled a new operating
system focused on the extreme low end of the market.  Finding a way to maintain the “cool” options available
through smartphones for lower-priced phones is the key to making
significant inroads in emerging markets,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  Chief
Executive Officer Scott McGregor said in an interview at the
 Irvine , Califonia-based company’s booth in Barcelona.  Cheaper Cool  “There is a dual trend with smartphones,” McGregor said.
“There are high-end smartphones for people who are relatively
price insensitive, they want the coolest piece of technology,
and there are also people who say ‘I only want to spend $100,’
so we’ve helped take what’s in the cool, high-end smartphones
and driven the price down.”  Demand for smartphones continues to soar, accounting for
almost half of all mobile phone sales. Manufacturers shipped 219
million smartphones last quarter, 36 percent more than the year
earlier, led by Samsung Electronics Co. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which
dominated half the market, according to a report last month by
IDC, the Framingham, Massachusetts-based research firm.  “The population of the emerging markets is extremely large
and that’s an attractive factor right there,” McGregor said.
Regular mobile-phone users in those regions are “going to
replace those with smartphones so the world is mostly going to
go to smartphones. If you can bring that into the hands of
people in these markets, it’s just a huge opportunity.”  Africa  Microsoft this month said Huawei Technologies Co., which
already is a leading hardware maker in  Africa , would bring the
$150 4Afrika Windows phone to seven markets initially in the
region. Nokia Oyj, the world’s second-biggest maker of mobile
phones, unveiled its 139-euro Lumia 520 this week, its cheapest
Windows phone so far, in an attempt to broaden its smartphone
range and increase volumes.  As other Microsoft hardware partners like Nokia and HTC
Corp. sell more Windows phones, they should be able to drop the
price of individual handsets, said spokesman Bill Cox.  “One of the things is scale as we start to sell more of
these phones,” he said. “We’ll be able to better negotiate for
parts, drive the cost down, and that just happens now.”  Windows-based phones may at some point retail for as little
as $100, said Tony Mestres, vice president for the platform’s
partner and channel marketing. While cheaper ones may lack some
features like cameras, they still stay close to the
responsiveness of their pricier peers, Sullivan said today at
the  Barcelona  convention.  Firefox Phones  Firefox-based phones will cost about $100 initially,
 America Movil SAB (AMXL)  Chief Marketing Officer Marco Quatorze said at
the software’s presentation. LG Electronics Inc., Huawei, ZTE
Corp. and TCL Communication Technology Holdings Ltd.’s Alcatel
One Touch brand are already planning to introduce smartphones
running on it, executives said on the eve of the MWC convention.  Android developers are starting to program slimmed-down
versions of applications for emerging markets, Rosenberg said.
Google is already facilitating shopping for emerging-market
customers by offering Google Play gift cards and to bill
purchases directly through the phone operator, he added.  Smartphone growth in countries like  India  has been subdued
partly because of cost, Android-platform founder  Andy Rubin 
said. Infrastructure that’s fast enough to stream videos and
other content is only now being built, he said.  “That’s gonna take a little while, but when it does, a
lever is going to switch,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Barcelona at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Ewing in Barcelona at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  