-- Ikea Sausages Pulled After Meatballs on Horse-Meat Concerns
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-02-27T16:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ikea-s-meatball-halt-spreads-beyond-europe-on-horse-meat-concern.html
Ikea Group halted the sale of
sausages sold in five countries on concern about horse-meat
contamination as the Swedish home furnishings and food retailer
extended a ban on meatballs to some stores beyond Europe.  Ikea has found traces of horse meat “in a handful” of
hundreds of test results and is continuing to examine all of its
meat products, Ylva Magnusson, a spokeswoman, said today by
telephone.  The retailer extended a ban on meatball sales to  Thailand ,
Hong Kong and the Dominican Republic today, and added
restrictions on wiener sausages in the U.K.,  France , Spain,
Ireland and  Portugal  that were produced by the same company that
supplied the meatballs.  Ikea, the world’s largest furniture retailer, draws
customers with relatively inexpensive modern furniture as well
as its signature meatballs and other Scandinavian foods offered
in outlets with restaurants. The company, controlled by Swedish
billionaire  Ingvar Kamprad , suspended the sale of meatballs in
21 countries earlier this week after Czech Republic authorities
discovered traces of horse meat.  The scandal that started in Ireland in mid-January has
spread around the world as governments test products and
retailers in some countries withdraw items such as frozen beef
burgers, lasagnas and meatballs from the shelves. The European
Union has ordered testing across the region, while South Africa,
spurred by European discoveries, is investigating how unlabeled
donkey, goat and water buffalo got into supermarket products.  Swedish Production  The meatballs that tested positive for equine DNA were made
by a Swedish producer, spokeswoman Sara Paulsson said by phone.
Countries in which stores are supplied by other manufacturers
aren’t affected by the ban.  Europe  is home to 245 of Ikea’s 338
stores, including shops run as franchises, the retailer’s
website shows.  The producer, the Familjen Dafgaard brand of Gunnar
Dafgaard AB, has found horse meat in some of their own-branded
products, Lukas Linne, a spokesman for the Swedish National Food
Agency, said by phone today. Linne couldn’t comment on what kind
of products the horse meat had been found in, or in what
quantities.  Dafgaard confirmed there was horse in the batch of meat
that was withdrawn after Czech authorities found traces. The
producer has also found traces of horse meat in another three
batches of frozen meatballs, which have been withdrawn from the
market. Dafgaard said its main focus now is to continue tests to
find the source of the meat.  Mixing Meat  Sweden’s TT news agency said today that the tests at
Dafgaard indicated that horse-meat content was 1.5 percent to 10
percent in some samples of meatballs. Such a reading implies
that horse meat had been mixed into the product, and that it’s
not a case of contamination in handling, TT reported.  Prior to the ban, a meal of 10 Swedish meatballs in an Ikea
restaurant cost 3.89 pounds ($5.90) in the U.K. stores. A
portion of 15 sold for 4.50 pounds and 20 for 5.79 pounds.  Ikea said that it has also stopped selling veal burgers and
cabbage pudding, two traditional dishes it only offers at its
Swedish stores.  Separately, the U.K. government said that of 3,634 DNA
tests done by food businesses and the Food Standards Agency, 35,
or less than 1 percent, gave a positive result for horse meat,
the U.K. minister responsible for food said today.  Water Buffalo  South Africa’s probe into supermarket meats found to
contain donkey, goat and water buffalo began last month after
horse DNA was found in beef burgers and lasagnes being sold by
British retailers including  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , said Maja Popo, a
spokesman for the state national health department, by phone
from  Pretoria .  Tesco Chief Executive Officer Philip Clarke said today that
the biggest U.K. grocer will absorb the cost of testing products
for horse meat and pledged to sell more British meat.  “The total cost isn’t that great, but in the scheme of
things, our margin will come down a touch,” Clarke said in an
interview with BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program.  Greencore Group Plc, based in Dublin, said Feb. 14 it was
awaiting results of further tests after saying it supplied beef
bolognese sauce that Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda chain withdrew
after traces of horse DNA were found.  Ireland’s Agricultural Ministry is investigating the
presence of horse DNA in beef products in the country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  