-- Imperial May Spend Up to 4 Billion Rand on Acquisition Hunt
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-02-27T15:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/imperial-may-spend-up-to-4-billion-rand-on-acquisition-hunt-1-.html
Imperial Holdings Ltd. (IPL) , owner of
South  Africa ’s largest car-dealer network, said it’s planning as
much as 4 billion rand ($450 million) in acquisitions to add to
its logistics division.  “We have the capacity to take on more debt,” Chief
Executive Officer Hubert Brody said in a phone interview today.  The net debt to equity ratio widened to 52 percent on Dec.
31 from 39 percent a year earlier, Johannesburg-based Imperial
said today in a statement. The level, which remains less than
the target range of 60 percent to 80 percent, provides
“significant room for further expansion of the group,” the
company said.  Imperial is looking for acquisitions in  consumer goods  and
pharmaceuticals distribution in both Africa and  Europe  to boost
its logistics network, Brody said. It bought a health care
supply business from Johannesburg-based RTT Group (Pty) Ltd. in
January, according to the company’s earnings statement.  The logistics division is suffering from slower demand that
may impact fiscal 2013 earnings, Brody said. Its operating
profit fell 1 percent during the six months through December
because of a slowing German economy and a transport workers’
strike in  South Africa .  Imperial’s  stock  fell 2 percent, the biggest decline since
Dec. 4, by the end of Johannesburg trading at 5:00 p.m., giving
it a market value of 42 billion rand. About 1.6 million shares
traded, 1.6 times the three-month daily average.  Car Dealers  Imperial reported a 15 percent rise in first-half core
earnings per share to 8.72 rand after growing profit at its car
dealership and financial services divisions. Sales increased 18
percent in the period to 45.3 billion rand.  The vehicle sales and distribution arm is expected to
benefit from a “very good spread” of brands that include Kia,
Hyundai and Renault models, Brody said. “There is increased
demand” for cheaper cars, he added.  Imperial expects total South African vehicle sales to rise
about 9 percent this year, Brody said. That’s in line with a 9
percent rise reported by the  National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers of South Africa  for the second half of 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  