-- India’s Market Regulator Probing Crash in Small, Mid-Cap Shares
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-02-27T06:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/india-s-market-regulator-probing-crash-in-small-mid-cap-shares.html
India ’s stock market regulator said
it is probing a crash in shares of some small and  medium -sized
companies that has erased as much as 76 percent of their value
this week.  Core Education & Technologies Ltd. (CETL) , a supplier of software
to universities, sank 40 percent to 66.65 rupees at 11:44 a.m.
in Mumbai, a day after crashing by a record 62 percent. Rushil
Decor Ltd. and Gravita India Ltd. plunged 20 percent each for a
second straight day.  “An investigation is on to look at all the aspects of the
decline,” S. Ramann, executive director at the Securities &
Exchange Board of India, said in a phone interview today.  A dozen companies on the  S&P BSE 500 (BSESMCAP)  index lost at least 20
percent of their market value in five trading days through today
amid speculation the shares pledged by company founders in
return for loans have been sold. Core Education has crashed 76
percent, Gravita 38 percent and ABG Shipyard Ltd. 32 percent in
the same period. The S&P  BSE Mid-Cap index (BSEMDCAP)  is headed for the
biggest monthly decline since December 2011.  “This is not a normal, everyday event,” U.R. Bhat,
managing director of Dalton Capital Advisors India Pvt., said by
phone from Mumbai. The sell-off “needs to be investigated
thoroughly to ascertain whether it is due to pledged shares or
because of a company-specific problem. The crash will severely
dent confidence, especially that of small investors.”  Founders who have pledged a large chunk of their shares
risk losing control of their companies should a drop in equity
prices erode the value of the collateral, according to CNI
Research Ltd. Borrowing costs in the $1.8 trillion economy are
among the highest in Asia.  Core Education may ask the regulator to probe the crash,
Director Finance Nikhil Morsawala said on Feb. 25. Spokesman
Ramkumar S. Uppara said he is unable to immediately comment on
today’s decline in the shares. Gravita Chief Executive Officer
Rajat Agrawal wasn’t available at his office for a comment.  ABG Shipyard will issue a statement, Preeti Binoy, general
manager of group corporate communications, said by phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  