-- India’s Rupee Reaches Two-Week High as ‘Austere’ Budget Forecast
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-02-27T11:52:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/india-s-rupee-reaches-two-week-high-as-austere-budget-forecast.html
India ’s rupee rose to the highest
level in more than two weeks on speculation Finance Minister
Palaniappan Chidambaram will announce steps to pare the fiscal
deficit when he presents the annual budget tomorrow.  The government will aim to narrow the widest gap among
major  emerging markets  to 4.8 percent of gross domestic product
in the year through March 2014 from an estimated 5.3 percent
this year, according to research notes from Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG. Overseas investors bought $49
million more Indian stocks than they sold on Feb. 25, taking
inflows this year to $8.3 billion, exchange data show.  “In all likelihood, it is going to be the most austere
budget in recent years as the focus of the government remains on
managing its fiscal and current-account deficits and reviving
inward investment flows,” said Tim Fox, group head of research
and chief economist at  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  in Dubai, the biggest
United Arab Emirates bank by assets. The budget announcement
will be a “catalyst” for the rupee to strengthen, he said.  The Indian currency advanced 0.4 percent to 53.8750 per
dollar in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 53.6250 earlier, the strongest level since Feb. 11. One-
month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, was unchanged at 9.50
percent.  Fiscal Commitment  India will probably contain the budget  deficit  at about 5.3
percent of gross domestic product this fiscal year as it tries
to slow inflation, and economic growth is set to recover,
Finance Ministry advisers said.  “The government is committed to fiscal consolidation,”
they said in a report in  New Delhi  today, predicting GDP will
rise as much as 6.7 percent in the year through March 2014.  The shortfall in India’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, is expected to be “significantly higher”
this fiscal year than the previous period’s record 4.2 percent
of GDP,  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said
Feb. 11.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 54.99 per
dollar, compared with 55.22 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 54.86 versus 55.14. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  