-- Inhofe Seeks Pentagon Flexibility on Sequestration Cuts
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2013-02-27T20:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/inhofe-seeks-pentagon-flexibility-on-sequestration-cuts.html
The top Republican on the Senate
Armed Services Committee wants to give the Pentagon more leeway
in apportioning automatic budget cuts set to begin in two days.  Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma will introduce this week a
measure that would let military service chiefs move around funds
within the Pentagon’s budget this fiscal year, according to his
spokeswoman, Donelle Harder.  Beginning March 1, the government faces $85 billion in
across-the-board cuts over seven months -- half of it from
defense -- unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress agree on
an alternative.  “It buys time for a better fix” for the cuts, Harder said
of Inhofe’s proposal. Lawmakers in his party are seeking an
elusive consensus on how to deal with the reductions, known as
sequestration.  Inhofe’s measure, to be co-sponsored by Senator Pat Toomey,
a Pennsylvania Republican, also would provide flexibility this
fiscal year to domestic agencies facing cuts.  Inhofe’s proposal faces opposition from Republicans on the
defense panel, including Senator John McCain of Arizona and
Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire. They back an alternative
introduced by Ayotte that would delay sequestration for one year
by requiring a 10 percent reduction in federal personnel through
attrition and a pay freeze for lawmakers.  McCain, who in January was replaced by Inhofe as the top
Republican on the Democratic-controlled Armed Services
Committee, said this week that Inhofe’s approach infringes on
Congress’s authority to make budget decisions, and comes just
two months after Congress approved and President Barack Obama
signed a fiscal 2013 defense authorization measure that differs
from some of his priorities.  McCain’s Objection  “In the name of moving funds around, you can make policy
decisions which would be directly counter to the National
Defense Authorization Act,” McCain said in an interview on Feb.
25. “I’m not prepared to give over to the executive branch all
the responsibilities of the legislative branch.”  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican, also opposes giving the administration
broad authority to move funds, and instead favors expanding the
Pentagon’s authority to “reprogram” funds with advance
notification and approval from Congress.  ‘Disapproval’ Resolution  Harder said Inhofe’s approach would require the
administration to implement cuts in a manner consistent with the
defense authorization bill. Under his proposal, military service
chiefs would recommend how to move funds for the remainder of
this fiscal year equal to the amount of cuts required by
sequestration.  The Obama administration would produce a broader
government-wide plan that would be submitted to Congress for an
up-or-down vote on a “resolution of disapproval” that, if it
fails, would let Obama’s budget-cutting decisions take place.
Details are still being worked on, Harder said.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, has
said the Senate will consider two proposals concerning the
across-the-board cuts, one from each political party. Over the
next nine years, the automatic reductions would reach $1.2
trillion, with about half from defense programs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  