-- Iran Nuclear Talks Bring Signs of Potential Progress
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-02-28T01:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/iran-says-nuclear-talks-turned-corner-with-more-planned.html
Iran and six world powers came away
from two days of talks with an agreement on further meetings and
a mood among negotiators that some progress was made toward
resolving the dispute over Iranian nuclear activities.  Iran hailed a positive “turning point,” as Western
officials sounded a cautious note and urged concrete steps
toward a deal at follow-up talks in March and April. Iran’s
negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , said a “more realistic and logical”
proposal was made by the U.S. and its partners at the session in
Almaty, Kazakhstan.  “We’re obviously pleased if Iran is positively disposed
toward our proposal, but the proof of the pudding is in the
eating,” Michael Mann, spokesman for European Union foreign
policy chief Catherine Ashton, said in an interview yesterday,
adding that Iran will need to back up its words with action.  Ashton, who serves as the lead negotiator for the U.S.,
Britain,  France ,  Germany ,  Russia  and  China , said the new offer
made to Iran was “balanced” and “responsive” to Iranian
concerns. In exchange for Iran’s agreeing to cease its output of
20 percent enriched uranium, the group offered to ease
restrictions on its exports of petrochemical products and some
additional items, the chief Russian negotiator, Deputy Foreign
Minister Sergei Ryabkov, said in an interview.  If  Iran  reviews the “credible confidence-building steps”
that the six nations laid out, “these could pave the way for
negotiations that lead toward a longer-term and comprehensive
agreement,” U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said yesterday
in Paris.  Next Meetings  Technical talks will be held in Istanbul on March 18, and
political discussions with international negotiators will resume
in Almaty on April 5-6, Jalili told reporters.  “For the first time, the two sides seemed to be really
negotiating,” Trita Parsi, author of “A Single Roll of the
Dice: Obama’s Diplomacy with Iran” and president of the
National Iranian-American Council, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “Past meetings resembled stare-offs with both
sides trying to look tough while issuing threats. This time,
they engaged in a give and take.”  Still, Western officials involved in the talks said there
was no breakthrough on substance, which analysts such as Suzanne Maloney, an Iran specialist at the Brookings Institution in
 Washington , said is the real test.  “The flip side of today’s apparent good news is the
danger” that comes with raising expectation, she said by e-
mail.  ‘Real Challenge’  “The real challenge will be in maintaining momentum,
crafting a specific agreement that can withstand the harsh glare
of partisan politics in both Washington and Tehran, and then
expanding any cooperation to address the broader question of
enrichment and the rest of Iran’s” outstanding nuclear issues,
she said.  World powers led by the U.S. are seeking a deal to curb the
country’s nuclear program, which they say may have a secret
military dimension, in return for the removal of economic
sanctions imposed to punish Iran for illicit atomic work.  The stakes are high for reaching a negotiated settlement as
both the U.S. and  Israel  have said that military action is
possible to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Iran
says its program is for civilian energy and medical research.  Jalili said the world powers had dropped a key demand made
at three rounds of nuclear talks last year -- that Iran shut
down its Fordo underground nuclear facility, which Iran built
secretly before being exposed by the U.S. and its allies and
submitting to UN monitoring of the site.  Suspend Fordo  A U.S. official, who asked to not be named to discuss the
sensitive talks, said the world powers are insisting that Iran
suspend enrichment of uranium at Fordo and do so under
safeguards that would constrain its ability to quickly resume
operations there. A suspension might buy time for further
negotiations in a way that provides Iran with a face-saving
approach to meeting the longer-term demands of the world powers.  Iran is enriching uranium to 20 percent purity and
installing more advanced centrifuges at the plant built into a
mountainside that would protect it from attack. While Iran says
its 20 percent uranium is needed to fuel a medical research
reactor, medium-grade uranium can also be further enriched
relatively quickly to bomb-grade material.  The six powers proposed that Iran ship out of the country
most of its medium-enriched stockpile, though it would be
allowed to keep enough for that reactor, which produces isotopes
for the treatment of cancer patients, according to a U.S.
official.  ‘Fundamentally Flawed’  Michael Singh, former National Security Council director
for Iran under President George W. Bush, said by e-mail that any
deal would be “fundamentally flawed” if it fails to dismantle
Fordo to deny Iran a so-called “break out” capability to
produce nuclear weapons quickly.  The six nations didn’t offer to waive the  oil  and banking
sanctions on Iran that are having the most crippling effect on
the Persian Gulf state’s economy, the U.S. official said.
Instead, Iran was offered the easing of certain other U.S. and
EU sanctions, the official said. The diplomat refused to specify
those provisions, saying the two sides needed time to discuss
and consider technical issues next month.  The six nations also offered to refrain from imposing
additional United Nations Security Council and EU sanctions if
Iran agrees to its side of the bargain, the U.S. diplomat said.  “Concrete details behind these proposals are being
discussed,” Ryabkov said in an interview at the close of the
talks. “If we succeed in achieving a shift on these questions,
then wider horizons are opening up. Then we can begin to discuss
everything including a final settlement.”  Israeli Reaction  Iran was tied with the United Arab Emirates last month as
the No. 5 producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Crude oil for April delivery settled up 13 cents at
$92.76 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Iran “is continuing to defy the international community,”
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in  Jerusalem 
yesterday, according to an e-mailed statement from his office.
Netanyahu criticized the notion of easing penalties, saying the
international community needs to “ratchet up its sanctions and
make clear that if this continues there will be also credible
military sanction.”  Jalili reiterated that Iran has the right to enrichment
under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, to which it’s a
signatory. With the latest proposal presented, the U.S. and its
negotiating partners “tried to get closer” to Iran’s position,
he said, calling it “a positive step.”  U.S. negotiator Wendy Sherman today is heading to Israel,
Saudi Arabia and  Jordan  to consult with the U.S.’s closest
allies in the region.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Almaty, Kazakhstan at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  