-- Israel’s Fischer Says Spending Boost Must Not Exceed 5%
-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-02-27T18:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/israel-s-fischer-says-spending-boost-must-not-exceed-5-.html
Bank of  Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  said Israel’s economy is in “very good” shape and
called on the government to cap any increase in spending this
year at 5 percent.  “The macro situation is very good except for one aspect
and that is the budget,” Fischer said today in a speech to
students at the Ono Academic College near Tel Aviv. “We are far
from the path that we hoped to be on” for reducing the deficit.  Fischer, who announced last month that he will step down at
the end of June after running the central bank for eight years,
said he won’t raise the benchmark  interest rate  as a means to
rein in  home prices  because that would strengthen the shekel and
restrain growth.  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called early elections
after failing to reach an agreement inside his Cabinet on budget
cuts for 2013. His Likud-Beitenu ticket came first in the Jan.
22 vote and he is negotiating with potential coalition partners
to form a new government.  Israel must cut 14 billion shekels ($3.8 billion) from its
proposed 2013 budget, Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz said last
month. The deficit last year reached 4.2 percent of gross
domestic product, more than twice the government’s target.  Fischer said that promises made by the government so far
would boost 2013 spending by 10 percent if unchecked. Revenue
should be increased by 6 billion shekels, he said.  The nation’s  economic growth  slowed to an annualized 2.5
percent in the fourth quarter, the slowest in more than three
years, as exports and investment declined. Inflation slowed to
1.5 percent in January, remaining below the midpoint of the
government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target for a fourth month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Kiryat Ono, Israel at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  