-- Investors to Prompt Berlusconi-Bersani Deal, Polillo Says
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-02-28T10:37:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/italy-investors-will-force-bersani-berlusconi-deal-polillo-says.html
Italy  is headed for a broad
coalition government as bondholders pressure Pier Luigi Bersani
and  Silvio Berlusconi  to set aside their rivalries and form a
partnership, said Finance Undersecretary Gianfranco Polillo.  A joint government between Bersani’s  Democratic Party  and
the forces led by Berlusconi, a three-time former premier, is
“the only possible way,” Polillo said late yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Italian yields surged after elections Feb. 24-25 delivered
a four-way parliamentary split and cast doubt on the stability
of the next government. Bersani, the top vote getter, has
resisted engaging Berlusconi and said he would seek to hammer
out a compromise with lawmakers elected under the upstart
political movement of ex-comic Beppe Grillo. Polillo, a former
adviser to a Berlusconi ally, said this strategy wouldn’t work.  “I don’t think it’s possible to expose a government to the
caprice of parliamentary calculations in a situation of great
difficulty like this one, in which the first thing markets look
at is the governability of a country,” said Polillo “Markets
won’t sit by and watch our little games.”  Polillo has served the apolitical government of unelected
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  since November 2011. He previously
was adviser to the head of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty party
in lower house of parliament. Monti finished fourth in the
election.  Italian 10-year yields dropped 5 basis points to 4.7
percent at 11:20 a.m. in  Rome , after rising about 30 basis point
since before the election.  Under Pressure  Bersani is under pressure to provide Italy with a stable
government to pull the economy out of an 18-month recession and
help the country service its $2.6 trillion debt. Bersani’s
options were curtailed yesterday when Grillo, whose anti-
austerity 5 Star Movement will have the third-biggest
parliamentary representation, spurned his offer to make an
alliance.  Grillo told the BBC yesterday he expected Bersani and
Berlusconi’s forces to strike a deal and that Italy will hold
new elections within a year because the partnership won’t last.
Giovanni Carlo Cancellieri, one of his allies from Sicily, told
Canale 5 today Grillo could be convinced to change his mind and
back a government led by Bersani.  Stability Crucial  European Union leaders, including Olli Rehn and German
Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle , have said this week that
government stability in Italy is crucial to the region. Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report yesterday that gridlock risks
re-igniting the euro-area’s debt crisis as turmoil in the
currency bloc’s third-largest economy risks spilling over into
weaker sovereigns like Portugal and  Spain .  Italy’s borrowing costs rose to the highest in four months
at an auction of a new 10-year bond yesterday in Rome. Yields
advanced to 4.83 percent from 4.17 percent at an auction of
similar-maturity debt on Jan. 30, even as demand increased from
investors attracted by higher returns.  Bersani and Berlusconi, whose respective parties have
battled for power in Italy for the last two decades, struck a
temporary truce in November 2011 to bring Monti to power. While
that alliance was unwound during the two-month election
campaign, the risk of a surge in borrowing costs will force the
two to restore their partnership, Polillo said.  Market Risk  “We will most likely be pushed into that situation by an
emergency,” he said. “When in one week’s time we’re still up
to our necks trying to form a government how do you think the
markets are going to react?”  Economic realities will pave the way for Italian
politicians to break out of the nation’s post-election gridlock,
said  Angel Gurria , secretary-general of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development.  “Once you are in power, it’s very straightforward,”
Gurria told reporters today in Helsinki. “You have much less
room to maneuver than what the campaigns would suggest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  