-- Italy Confronts Vacuum as Leaders Seek to Avoid Election
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-02-27T18:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/italy-confronts-vacuum-as-leaders-seek-to-avoid-election.html
Italian political leaders sparred
over forming a government after inconclusive elections fueled
concern about the outlook for the euro region and the country’s
deepening recession.  Beppe Grillo, whose anti-establishment movement was the top
vote-getter in  Italy ’s election this week, rejected a call made
yesterday by Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani to back
a coalition. Grillo’s movement “must say what they want to do
for this country and for their children,” Bersani said.  To have any chance to govern, Bersani’s bloc needs to bring
Grillo into the process or join with former Prime Minister
Silvio Berlusconi, who lost to Bersani by less than half a
percentage point in the lower house. No coalition was able to
obtain a majority in the Senate in the Feb. 24-25 vote. The
prospect of a hung parliament and concern the country may need
new elections roiled markets, with the benchmark FTSE MIB stock
index falling almost 5 percent yesterday and bond yields rising.  Grillo, whose Five Star Movement has rejected allying
itself with established parties, “won’t give any vote of
confidence to the PD or others,” he wrote on his  blog  today.
“It will vote on the laws that reflect its own program, no
matter who puts them out. If Bersani wants to propose the
abolition of public funding to parties including funds for the
past election, we will vote in favor of it straightaway.”  Bersani’s junior ally Nichi Vendola said today after
Grillo’s statement that his Left Ecology Freedom party rejects
any prospect of a post-vote deal with Berlusconi. “I hope this
is not Grillo’s wish,” he added. Berlusconi  said  in a video
message on his party’s website today that “responsible parties
can’t ignore governability” and need to agree on priorities
soon to send a “message of stability.”  Yields, Rates  Italian bonds pared some of yesterday’s losses, with 10-
year  yields  down 8 basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to
4.81 percent as of 6 p.m. London time.  Italy managed to sell 6.5 billion euros ($8.5 billion) at a
bond auction today as the inconclusive elections forced the
Treasury to offer higher yields, fuelling an increase in demand
for the debt.  The vote outcome raises the chance for prolonged political
uncertainty, putting Italy’s sovereign credit rating at risk of
a downgrade, Moody’s Investors Service said before the auction.
Turmoil in Italy, the euro region’s third-largest economy and
biggest bond market, risks spilling over into the currency
bloc’s weaker sovereigns, including Portugal and Spain,
“potentially reigniting the euro area debt crisis,” the rating
company also said.  Italy will contract again this year and unemployment will
continue to rise in 2014 to reach 12 percent, the European
Commission forecast on Feb. 2. Italy’s gross domestic product
will fall 1 percent this year after a 2.2 percent decline in
2012, the Brussels-based commission said.  Parliament’s Houses  An Italian government requires a majority in both houses,
which have equal powers. Current rules make it difficult for a
party to win both. In the Chamber of Deputies, the coalition
gaining the most votes automatically gets 54 percent of the
seats. The Senate is apportioned regionally, diffusing the
bonus-premium effect. Bersani’s bloc took 345 seats in the 630-
seat lower house and 123 seats in the 315-member Senate.  Grillo, whose group of lawmakers will include 54 senators
and 109 members of the lower house, said today that Bersani is a
“dead man talking” who should resign as leader of his party
and stop making “indecent proposals” to the Five Star
Movement.  “If Grillo has anything to say, insults included, I want
to hear that in the Parliament,” Bersani replied in an e-mailed
statement. “It is there that everyone should take on their
responsibilities.”  ‘Two Clowns’  Comments on Grillo, Berlusconi and the vote outcome by  Peer Steinbrueck , the Social Democratic candidate to be  Germany ’s
next chancellor, prompted Italian President Giorgio Napolitano
to cancel a meeting with him scheduled for today during his
visit to Germany, news agency Ansa reported.  In comments reported in German newspapers Steinbrueck said
that he was “horrified that two clowns won the election.”
Napolitano told journalists in Munich today that his comments
were “totally out of place,” Ansa said. Speaking later in the
day to an audience of Italians living in the southern region of
Bavaria, Napolitano also said “we respect Germany, but we also
expect respect.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  