-- ITV Pays Special Dividend as Profit Rises on Content Sales
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-02-27T09:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/itv-to-pay-special-dividend-after-profit-rises-on-content-sales.html
ITV Plc (ITV) , owner of the U.K.’s biggest
commercial TV station, plans to pay a special dividend of 156
million pounds ($236 million) after profit rose 8.1 percent last
year as it sold more content.  Net income climbed to 267 million pounds from 247 million
pounds, the London-based company said in a statement today.
Revenue rose 2.6 percent to 2.2 billion pounds, compared with an
average estimate of 2.21 billion pounds from analysts, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ITV, whose shows include “Downton Abbey” and “X
Factor,” has been reducing its dependence on advertising by
investing in content creation and by acquiring production
assets. Non-advertising revenue rose 12 percent last year to
more than 1 billion pounds and is expected to gain 5 percent in
the first quarter of 2013, the broadcaster said.  The special dividend “should be seen as a good thing
as it shows the management team is very shareholder-friendly,”
 Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co., said in
a telephone interview. “ITV has a very strong balance sheet
and net cash of 200 million pounds and no debt. They don’t need
the cash so they are giving it away.”  ITV proposed a final  dividend  of 1.8 pence a share,
compared with 1.2 pence a year earlier, and a special dividend
of 4 pence a share.  ITV shares rose as much as 2.9 percent and were up 2.3
percent at 122.90 pence as of 9:41 a.m. in  London , giving the
company a market value of 4.81 billion pounds.  Content Production  “In 2012 we achieved double-digit earnings growth for the
third year running, in a broadly flat advertising market,”
Chief Executive Officer Adam Crozier said in today’s statement.
“We’re now building on our healthy creative pipeline with
selective acquisitions in key and emerging creative markets.”  Revenue at content-production arm ITV Studios increased by
100 million pounds to 712 million pounds, Crozier said.  “With ITV Studios we have a much better line of sight of
the future than with advertising and we see a healthy pipeline
coming forward and expect to grow more this year,” Crozier said
on a conference call today.  U.S. Success  Acquisitions for production toward the end of last year
will help earnings in 2013, he said. Crozier said ITV won’t rule
out other acquisitions.  “ITV is finally starting to see some traction from its
investments into content businesses,” Mostyn Goodwin, a partner
at OC&C Strategy Consultants Ltd., said in an emailed note
today. The success of “Downton Abbey” in the U.S. “has given
it a strong platform to build on, making it an obvious mergers-
and-acquisitions target.”  Crozier said there has been no takeover offer for ITV.  The company has had a “positive start to 2013 with first-
quarter advertising expected to be up 5 percent and continued
strong demand for ITV Studios content,” it said.  The underlying TV advertising market “continues to be
broadly flat” and the company remains cautious about the ad
market this year, ITV said. The second quarter will probably be
affected by difficult 2012 comparisons from Euro Championship
soccer, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 