-- Ivanka Trump, Speyer, Chris Hughes, Rosen: NYC Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-02-27T17:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ivanka-trump-speyer-chris-hughes-rosen-nyc-scene.html
There were fresh faces at Gracie
Mansion last night.  “I’ve never been inside before,” said Chris Hughes, the
owner of the New Republic, as he stood in the parlor of the 1799
Federal-style home. Since 1942, it has been the official
residence of the mayor of  New York  City.  The annual benefit of the  Gracie Mansion Conservancy 
offered food by Parm, Acme and other New York restaurants. A
mind reader and a conjuror were among the diversions.  “We’re guests of Rob,” Hughes said, referring to benefit
co-chairman  Rob Speyer , co-chief executive and president of
Tishman Speyer, and his wife, Anne-Cecilie, a marketing
consultant.  Sharing the hosting honors were Ivanka Trump, who like
Speyer works in her family’s real-estate firm, as well as
designing accessories, and her husband, Jared Kushner, owner of
the New York Observer and also in real estate.  Both couples were first-time chairmen of the event and
younger than their predecessors.  “At the first benefit, one of the chairmen had just
celebrated his 70th birthday,” said Susan Danilow, executive
director of the Gracie Mansion Conservancy. “Now we are
bringing in the next generation.”  Fennel Cocktails  The son of designer  Ralph Lauren , David Lauren, and his
wife, Lauren Bush Lauren, mingled in the dining room. Real-
estate developer Aby Rosen and psychiatrist Samantha Rosen were
near the bar, which offered Big Apple cocktails in glasses
rimmed with crystallized fennel.  Also spotted: Jimmy Choo co-founder Tamara Mellon; George
Walker IV, chairman and chief executive of Neuberger Berman
Group LLC; and Pace Gallery’s Andrea and Marc Glimcher.  After touring the bedrooms upstairs, Hughes said he
appreciated the house as both a history major and the owner of
an old home in the Hudson Valley -- but has no designs on ever
occupying it.  “I am not interested in elected office,” he said,
shifting the conversation to how much he was enjoying
“injecting cash and energy” into the New Republic.  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  -- the majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News -- has chosen not to
live in the house during his tenure, which ends in 2014 after 12
years.  Gracie Mansion Conservancy’s mission stays the same, to
raise funds privately to support the upkeep of the house and
improve it. It recently renovated the kitchen.  City Treasure  The conservancy’s newest ambassadors, Trump, Kushner and
the Speyers, drew 230 guests and raised $600,000. They looked
right at home.  “Gracie Mansion is one of the city’s treasures,” Speyer
said. “Anne-Cecilie and I are thrilled to help the cause of keeping
it that way.”  “It’s a great honor for us to serve as chairmen,” Trump
said. “We’re all friends, and we recognize the symbolic and
practical importance of the mansion in the city.”  The connection for her is more than civic. “I went to
school next door,” she said, referring to Chapin, “and I was
always in Carl Schurz Park. It has a lot of sentimental value to
me.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining , Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 