-- TiVo CEO Sees Retaining Virgin Media Account After Buyout
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-02-27T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/tivo-ceo-sees-retaining-virgin-media-account-after-buyout.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the developer of digital-
video recorders, expects no change in its relationship with
 Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  after the U.K. cable operator is bought by a
competitor that’s introduced its own set-top box.  “Virgin is doing dramatically well with TiVo,” adding
about 1.4 million customers last year, TiVo Chief Executive
Officer Tom Rogers said yesterday in an interview.  Rogers said he sees no disruption in the relationship with
Virgin Media, the cable company that  John Malone ’s  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA)  plans to buy for $16 billion in cash and stock in a
deal announced on Feb. 6. TiVo has rapidly expanded business
with pay-TV operators after favorable court rulings upheld key
patents, Rogers said.  Rogers spoke after TiVo, based in Alviso, California,
reported fourth-quarter revenue that beat analysts’
expectations. The loss was wider than analysts estimated because
of higher-than-expected legal costs, he said.  The digital-recording pioneer widened margins in 2012 by
selling advanced set-top boxes with more storage and the ability
to record several shows at once. TiVo is transforming itself
from a video-recorder provider into one that can shift content
around the home and on the go, Rogers said.  “We’ve extended the story to whole-home and multi-device
services,” Rogers said. “The traction we’re getting with
operators speaks to that, and we have a good deal of innovation
coming this year.”  Web Viewing  Liberty Global, based in Englewood,  Colorado , and operating
in European markets, introduced its own Web-enabled set-top box
in 2012, Horizon TV. The company plans to expand the product,
now in Holland and Switzerland, to Ireland and Germany, CEO
Michael Fries said on a Feb. 14 conference call.  TiVo’s net loss widened to $15.8 million, or 13 cents a
share, in the period ended Jan. 31, from a loss of $7.2 million,
or 6 cents, a year earlier, according to a statement yesterday.
Analysts had projected a loss of 12 cents, the average of
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue grew 34 percent to $88.9 million. That exceeded
analysts’ projections of $84.4 million, the average of 11
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  TiVo rose as much as 2.6 percent to $12.74 in  extended 
trading yesterday. The shares added 1.5 percent to $12.42 at the
close in New York, and have advanced 1 percent this year.  The company added 209,000 subscribers in the quarter, down
11 percent from 234,000 added a year ago, ending the year with
more than 3.1 million. TiVo is pursuing patent infringement
litigation against  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)  over use of recording technology in the set-top
boxes they make.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is a defendant in both
cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  