-- Ivory Coast’s Women Reject Equality in Household Debate
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-02-27T14:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ivory-coast-s-women-reject-equality-in-household-debate.html
Eugenie Kramoh says she’s angry at
 Ivory Coast ’s government for passing a law last year that
improved her legal and financial status and made the country
eligible for more donor funds.  “I doubt they were thinking about the well-being of women
when they voted the law,” the 52-year-old married house cleaner
and Abidjan resident said as she was hailing a taxi to buy
groceries at a supermarket. “It’s difficult enough to get
married and this will make it only more difficult.”  The removal of a rule that places men at the head of the
household sparked the anger of many women in Ivory Coast. They
say they’ll no longer have the lifelong financial security of
marriage, even as the new policy allows them to keep more of
their own salaries, set up businesses without their husbands’
approval and make more choices on how money is spent.  President  Alassane Ouattara  dissolved his government in
November after he faced opposition from his ruling coalition on
the law change. The bill was approved as soon as Ouattara
appointed a new prime minister, making the country eligible for
as much as $1 billion in development funds from the U.S.
Millennium Challenge Corp. a Washington-based government aid
program.  Funds from the organization will boost Ouattara’s plans to
accelerate growth in the $24 billion economy to 9 percent this
year. Output has recovered from a 4.7 percent contraction in
2011 after a violent political crisis triggered by disputed
presidential elections that halted cocoa exports from the
world’s biggest producer and shut businesses and banks.  ‘Un-African Law’  The change that altered a law allowing a man to bar his
wife from traveling, opening a bank account and having a job
triggered outrage from religious leaders, newspaper columnists
and Ivorians of both sexes, and generated hundreds of comments
on Facebook and the popular news website Abidjan.net.  Opponents argue that African culture differs fundamentally
from western society and should not try to “imitate” western
ideas. “A law that establishes perfect equality in our homes
between men and women is an un-African law,” Abidjan-based
Notre Voie newspaper wrote in an editorial.  “Our entire civilization is structured around the concept
of leadership: head of the household, head of the community,
village chief, head of state,” Yasmina Ouegnin, a 33-year-old
parliament member, said in a letter published on  Abidjan.net .
Changing the law “won’t necessarily promote  women’s rights ,”
she wrote. The letter was reprinted on her Facebook page and got
5,535 likes. She declined an interview request.  ‘Step Forward’  The old law “was completely out of step with real life in
Ivory Coast. Today, women study, travel and work,” Ranie-Didice
Bah, an economist at the University of Bouake and adviser to the
Commerce Ministry, said in a phone interview. “But there is no
question that Ivory Coast is eager to qualify for MCC funds, and
that surely accelerated the process.”  The MCC, which uses criteria such as good governance and
the economic position of women to decide whether to fund
projects in a country, invested more than $200 million in a
highway in Ivory Coast’s neighbor,  Ghana , and $180 million to
modernize  Benin ’s seaport, according to its  website .  Under the old system, married women in Ivory Coast paid as
much as five times more income tax than married men, and only
men received child support from the state, said Bah, whose own
salary increased by 10,000  CFA francs  ($20) a month as a result
of the changes.  “The idea was that the head of the household would take
care of his wife, so she didn’t need child support,” Bah said.
“Symbolically and socially, the new family code is definitely a
step forward.”  ‘Modern Country’  Yet, the passage of the law is in fact little more than a
formality, according to Affousy Bamba, who was chairwoman of the
parliamentary group that debated the bill and is now
communications minister in Ouattara’s new government.  “I find the controversy a bit of a storm in a teacup,
really,” she said. “People just don’t understand it. There is
the spirit and the letter of the law, and in spirit Ivorian men
remain the head of the household.”  Still, she said she was “shocked” that legislators,
especially some women, had voted against the bill in parliament.
“I mean, Ivory Coast is a modern country.”  Head-of-household laws are a colonial heritage limiting a
woman’s legal capacity in 18 out of 29 civil-law countries
across sub-Saharan  Africa , according to Jeni Klugman, director
of the Gender and Development department of the  World Bank . They
“can seriously hinder a woman’s ability to access finance and
do business,” Klugman said in an interview from  Washington .  Discriminatory Clause  Passing the law brings Ivory Coast in line with  France ,
from which it copied most of its policies at independence in
1960. France scrapped its head-of-household rule in 1970. The
changes also bring Ivory Coast into compliance with an
international convention signed in 1995 to abolish
discriminatory clauses.  With 51 percent of Ivorian women working, below the average
of 61 percent for sub-Saharan Africa, and 11 percent of
parliamentarians female, less than the regional average of 21
percent, Bamba said the law won’t do much to move the country
toward  gender equality .  “It won’t change much in reality,” she said. “Maybe in
20, 30 years from now, but culturally speaking, at the moment
we’re not there yet.”  ‘Safety Net’  Marriage remains a crucial “safety net” for Ivorian women
because the husband is expected to provide the family with food
and clothes, according to Namizata Sangare, a women’s rights
activist. “No matter how much money she makes by trading or
selling tomatoes on the market, generally, married women believe
their husband should pay for everything. Women prefer marriage
over equality.”  Ivory Coast ranked 136th on the 2011 annual gender
 inequality index  compiled by the United Nations Development
Programme, just below  Saudi Arabia , which was placed number 135.
The index for 2012 hasn’t been published yet.  About 55 percent of adult women in Ivory Coast can’t read
or write, compared with 35 percent of men, according to the UN
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.  Women who oppose the change don’t understand that it
improves their legal status and lifts restrictions on female
entrepreneurship, Lassana Kone, a legal adviser for Francophone
Africa at the Cape Town-based research institute Natural
Justice, said in a phone interview.  Rural Population  “It’s time that women understand they have a contribution
to make, it’s time they become aware that they have something to
say,” Kone said. “The government needs to explain what the
changes mean, especially to the impoverished, illiterate
population in the countryside.”  If educating women about the law is needed, Ivorian men may
prove to be as much of an obstacle to change.  “This law is not welcome in Africa, we have traditions
here,” said Mamadou Guindo, a 36-year-old chauffeur as he sat
smoking a cigarette in a roadside cafe. “I will never accept
that a woman who lives under my roof is equal to me.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  