-- Japan’s Industrial Output Rises as Yen Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   J a m e s   M a y g e r
-- 2013-02-28T03:22:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/japan-s-industrial-production-rises-as-boj-governor-pick-looms.html
Japan ’s industrial production rose
for a second month, highlighting an improved economic outlook as
the government nominated Asian Development Bank President
Haruhiko Kuroda to be its new central bank chief.  Output climbed 1 percent from December, when it rose 2.4
percent, the Trade Ministry said in  Tokyo  today. The median
estimate of 27 economists was for a 1.5 percent gain. Production
fell 5.1 percent from the previous year.  The yen’s more than 11 percent fall against the dollar in
the past three months is improving the outlook for exporters as
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe calls for more monetary stimulus to
end deflation. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said Abe’s proposed new BOJ
new leadership team, announced by parliament today, could
implement further easing as early as April.  “Japan’s recovery is underway,” said Naoki Iizuka, an
economist at Citigroup Inc. in Tokyo, which accurately predicted
the 1 percent rise. “Today’s data confirm that Japan’s economy
is picking up and the pace of recovery in coming quarters will
probably accelerate, helped by the global recovery and Abe’s
stimulus.”  The yen was 0.2 percent weaker at 92.39 per dollar at
12:203 p.m. in Tokyo,. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.9
percent in the morning session.  The ministry said that increases in production of cars and
memory chips contributed to the overall gain in the month. A
decline in production of electronic parts and devices capped the
rise, it said.  Earnings Boost  Of the 138 companies on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average for
which Bloomberg News has estimates,  almost 64 percent beat
earnings estimates  for the most recent quarter, as a weaker yen
pushes up profits.  In July,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  will open its first new plant in
Japan in almost 50 years, with an annual capacity of 250,000
vehicles. Honda’s share price has risen 42 percent since mid-
November when the previous government announced the election
that brought Abe to power.  Japanese exports  rose  for the first time in eight months in
January as the yen weakened, with shipments to the U.S and  China 
climbed.  Goldman Sachs Inc. last month raised its GDP forecast for
the fiscal year starting in April to 2 percent from 1.2 percent,
citing the weaker yen, fiscal stimulus and anticipated monetary
easing. The median average of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg
News  is for 1.4 percent annualized growth this quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net ;
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  