-- Japan Retains Confidence in F-35 Fighter, Defense Chief Says
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2013-02-27T11:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/japan-retains-confidence-in-f-35-fighter-defense-chief-says-1-.html
Japan  is confident  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter will overcome its development
setbacks and expects to accept an initial order of four planes
on schedule in 2016, Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera said.  “Problems tend to occur when a plane is in development,”
Onodera said today in an interview at his office in Tokyo. “We
have heard nothing from the U.S. to say there will be a delay.
We think the end result will be a good product.”  The Pentagon on Feb. 22 suspended all flights of the $396
billion F-35 program after an inspection revealed a crack on a
turbine blade. Japan ordered 42 of the planes as it upgrades its
air defense and will increase its military budget for the first
time in 11 years in response to North Korea’s nuclear
development and China’s assertiveness over disputed islands.  Asked if Japan could abandon its deal with Lockheed Martin,
Onodera said “at this point we aren’t thinking of doing that.”  Japan picked the F-35 to replace its aging F-4 aircraft,
and could increase its order as its F-2 and F-15 models are
retired. The  Air Force  has a total of 361 fighter planes,
according to a white paper published in July last year.  The remainder of the planned 42 planes are meant to be
partially manufactured in Japan, starting with two to be bought
under the budget for the year starting in April.  Mitsubishi
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  will be involved in work on aircraft
bodies,  IHI Corp. (7013)  on engines, and  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503)  on
mission-related avionics, according to the  Defense Ministry .  Weapons Ban  Israel’s participation in the  F-35  may affect plans for
Japanese production. Japan bans the exports of weapons to
countries involved in international conflicts, and the
government is considering easing the restriction. Onodera, 52,
called for action soon to resolve the uncertainty.  “The government should negotiate this before debate on
next year’s budget gets into full swing,” he said, adding that
based on parliamentary schedules this would probably be early to
mid-March. “I think it should be resolved by then.”  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is boosting the country’s defense
capabilities as tensions rise with China over islands called
Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. Ships and planes from
both countries have been tailing one another and Japan accused
China of using weapons-targeting radar last month on a Japanese
destroyer and helicopter in nearby waters.  Japan plans to increase its  defense budget  by 0.8 percent
to 4.68 trillion yen ($51 billion) next fiscal year, the first
rise in 11 years. China’s  defense spending , estimated at about
670 billion  yuan  ($108 billion) in 2012, has more than doubled
since 2006.  A former university professor and deputy foreign minister,
Onodera reiterated his call for China to return to talks on
setting up a means of marine communication to prevent accidents
that could lead to conflict.  “I don’t think anyone is seeking a conflict, but of course
there is a possibility of various accidents,” Onodera said.
“Japan has asked China to return to the talks and we are
waiting for their response.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  