-- Jet Airways Shares Rise on Report Etihad to Acquire Stake
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-27T10:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/jet-airways-shares-rise-on-report-etihad-to-acquire-stake.html
Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  surged the
most in more than three years in Mumbai after Bloomberg TV India
reported the country’s biggest publicly traded carrier signed a
deal with Etihad Airways PJSC to sell a stake.  The stock  jumped  19 percent, the most since May 18, 2009,
to 534.70 rupees at close of trading in the city. The shares had
slumped 11 percent yesterday.  Etihad may purchase a 24 percent stake in the Mumbai-based
carrier at 760 rupees a share, Bloomberg TV India reported. A
deal will make the company the first foreign airline to buy into
an Indian carrier since the government eased investment rules in
September.  Etihad said in a statement its talks with Jet Airways for
an investment continue to progress. The airline bought the
Indian carrier’s three pairs of slots at Heathrow airport for
$70 million, according to the statement.  Ragini Chopra, a spokeswoman for Jet Airways, declined to
comment on the report about stake sale.  Etihad will also give a five-year loan of $400 million to
Jet Airways to help repay debt, according to the Bloomberg TV
India report.  “It’s a surprise that Etihad is extending a soft loan to
Jet,” said  Arun Kejriwal , director at Kejriwal Research &
Investment Services Pvt. “It also indicates the hard bargain on
the deal.”  James Hogan , chief executive officer of Etihad, and Jet
Airways Chairman Naresh Goyal met Indian ministers last month
amid talks for the stake sale. Etihad, the Middle East’s third-
largest airline, is in discussions to buy 24 percent of Jet for
about 16 billion rupees ($298 million), an Indian government
official said in December.  49 Percent  A stake in Jet will help Etihad tap into one of the
fastest-growing aviation markets in the world, where  air travel 
is forecast to triple by 2021. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government in September allowed foreign carriers to buy as much
as 49 percent of local airlines.  State-owned Etihad has invested in smaller operators to
help feed long-haul flights and turn its home emirate into a hub
for intercontinental travel. It has a 29 percent holding in  Air
Berlin Plc (AB1)  and also owns stakes in Air Seychelles Ltd.,  Virgin
Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  and Aer Lingus Group Plc.  Etihad said in its statement that the purchase of the
Heathrow slots is part of a sale and lease agreement signed
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  