-- Kerry Will Seek More Syria Opposition Aid to Oust Assad
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-02-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/kerry-says-aiding-syrian-opposition-will-speed-assad-s-departure.html
The U.S. and its allies will seek
more concrete ways to support Syria’s opposition today at an
international meeting, where they plan to discuss efforts to
speed the ouster of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  The Rome meeting has become a high-stakes test for
Secretary of State  John Kerry , who is on his first trip  through
 Europe  and the  Middle East  as the top U.S. diplomat. The Syrian
opposition, which initially said it would boycott the Rome
meeting to protest international inaction, agreed to come only
after U.S. pressure.  The opposition made clear that it would re-evaluate its
relations with the West based on what happens in Rome, and Kerry
is likely to announce the new U.S. package.  “We all agree that the time has passed for President Assad
to heed the voice of his people and the voice of the people in
the world who want a peaceful transition,” Kerry said in Paris
yesterday. “That’s why we are examining and developing ways to
accelerate the political transition that the Syrian people seek
and deserve.”  Kerry has been hinting at a major shift on  Syria  policy by
the U.S., which to date has directed only medical supplies and
non-lethal equipment such as radios to the opposition and
humanitarian aid to non-governmental organizations.  The European Union has recently moved to direct non-lethal
aid -- items such as  body armor  -- to rebels fighting on the
ground. The rebels also have received weapons with help from
 Qatar  and Saudi Arabia to supplement those taken from seized
Syrian government bases.  Extremists Advance  Fear that arms may end up in the hands of radical Islamists
has kept the U.S. from taking such a step, and U.S. officials
still rule out supplying weapons to the rebels.  Extremists have made inroads nonetheless. State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said Feb. 22 that U.S. officials are
seeing reports of violence between locals and the Sunni
extremist al-Nusra Front, as the militants try to impose a
foreign imam or strict interpretations of Islamic law in areas
now under their control.  U.S. intelligence agencies have identified several rebel
groups that favor replacing the Assad regime with a broad
coalition of opposition factions until democratic elections
could be held, according to U.S. intelligence officials who
asked not to be identified discussing intelligence matters.  Yet there was no guarantee that weapons supplied by the
U.S. or its allies wouldn’t end up with Sunni extremists with
ties to al-Qaeda’s Iraqi affiliate, they said.  Al-Nusra Front  Despite that risk, the White House’s inaction on arms to
bolster moderate rebel groups opened the door for organizations
such as the al-Nusra Front to seize the leading role in the
battle, according to the officials. That may increase the
chances that a radical Islamist regime in Damascus could
threaten  Israel , destabilize Jordan, and strengthen Sunni
radicals in  Egypt ,  Libya ,  Tunisia  and elsewhere, they said.  In Paris, Kerry referred yesterday to the pull of extremism
in Syria as a reason to increase backing for the Syrian
Opposition Council.  “We need to help them to be able to deliver basic services
and to protect the legitimate institutions of the state, and to
help a sustainable situation develop where you have a vulnerable
population today that needs to be able to resist the pleas to
engage in extremism,” Kerry said at a press conference with
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius.  More Help  Assad “needs to know he can’t shoot his way out of this,”
Kerry said, “and I think the opposition needs more help in
order to convince him.”  Syrian rebels have been trying to force Assad from power
since March 2011. The conflict has killed about 70,000 people
and created almost 1 million refugees.  Kerry’s stop in Paris followed visits in  London  and Berlin,
where the 68th U.S. secretary of state also discussed  Iran  and
the rise of extremism in North Africa with his colleagues.  Talks between Iran and the so-called P5+1 group -- the
U.S., U.K.,  France ,  Russia , China, and Germany -- that concluded
yesterday in Almaty, Kazakhstan, were “useful,” Kerry said. If
Iran reviews the “credible confidence-building steps” that the
P5+1 laid out, Kerry said, “these could pave the way for
negotiations that lead towards a longer-term and comprehensive
agreement.”  Kerry also praised France for the leadership it has taken
in confronting Islamic militants in  Mali . Fabius said France
“had to intervene, because otherwise, Mali would have been, all
of it, a terrorist state with terrible menaces on all the
region.”  U.S. Pressure  Syria has been the dominant theme of Kerry’s trip to date.
Syrian opposition head Moaz al-Khatib agreed to attend the
gathering of about 60 nations in Rome after Kerry sent the U.S.
Ambassador to Syria,  Robert Ford , to Cairo to meet with him.
Kerry called al-Khatib from London on Feb. 25.  Once the Syrian leader had agreed to come, Vice President
 Joe Biden  called him to stress the importance of the meeting as
a venue for U.S. officials to confer with opposition members
“on ways to speed assistance to the opposition and support to
the Syrian people,” the White House said in a statement.  Al-Khatib, a former imam of the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus
who has presented himself as a moderate, said on the group’s
official Facebook page that the opposition would “re-evaluate
its relations with the international sides based on the
results” in Rome. Officials from the countries that back the
Syrian rebels have met four times so far on the conflict.  Kerry, in comments with Foreign Secretary  William Hague  in
London, said, “We have a lot of ideas on the table and some of
them I am confident will come to maturity by the time we meet in
Rome.” Others, he said, “will take a little gestation period,
but they’re no less part of the mix.”  Kerry met in Berlin Feb. 26 with Russian Foreign Minister
 Sergei Lavrov  to discuss Syria. Russia has supplied Assad with
weapons and vetoed United Nations sanctions against the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  