-- Killing Leaky Ships, Costly Planes Won’t Save Pentagon
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-27T23:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/killing-leaky-ships-costly-planes-won-t-save-pentagon.html
So we have reached the eve of
sequestration, with the Pentagon facing a $43 billion, one-year
budget hit called for in the 2011 debt-ceiling agreement. Don’t
fret. Despite warnings from outgoing Defense Secretary Leon Panetta that sequestration is “a disaster for national
defense,” B-2 bombers won’t fall from the sky and  Canada  won’t
invade any time soon.  In defense terms, the real problem with these cuts is their
lack of precision -- as decreed by Congress and the Office of
Management and Budget, they must be made evenly across all
programs and accounts (with the exception of personnel pay,
which was exempted by President  Barack Obama , and which we’ll
return to later).  By now, everyone involved with what President Dwight D. Eisenhower called the military-industrial complex understands
that sequestration-level spending is the long-term reality.
Combined with cuts already enacted by the Obama administration,
Pentagon spending will probably need to come down by nearly $1
trillion over the next decade from the so-called baseline
prediction. (Yes, spending in actual dollars will rise slightly,
but it will pale compared with the  35 percent  inflation-adjusted
increase of the last decade.)  Misleading Examples  As in any budget fight, people will look first at
“harmless” cuts by eliminating waste. The Pentagon, famous as
the home of the $600 hammer, is ripe. In an investigative series
last week, Bloomberg News highlighted many of the military’s
most over-budget, big-ticket programs and wasteful contracting
practices, including the next-generation  F-35 Lightning fighter
jet , the Navy’s  littoral combat ship  and unwanted  M-1 Abrams 
tanks. Yet such examples can be misleading: Cut the white
elephants, they imply, and your budget pains are solved.  But this line of thinking is no less crude than the 10
percent-off-the-top approach of sequestration and ignores the
way military procurement really works. First, companies such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , producer of the F-35, are called
contractors because they have contracts. In many cases, the
government’s cost of escape will eat up projected savings, and
the manufacturer may cover its shortfall by raising prices
elsewhere. Many contracts involve not just the U.S.’s four
services but our allies’ as well -- the U.K., with a $2.5
billion stake in the F-35, is one of nearly a dozen
international partners.  Second, for any project you kill or curtail, you either
need to replace it or diminish your military capacity. The left-
leaning Center for American Progress, for example,  proposes 
replacing the Navy’s version of the F-35 with 235 additional
current-generation F/A-18E/Fs, which it says would save $16.6
billion over a decade. Maybe. The per-plane cost for the rest of
the F-35 contract would likely rise, and the Air Force would
have to prepare to use its F-35s and F-22 Raptors to carry out
long-range missions now beyond the capability of the Navy.  Likewise, the free-market-loving Cato Institute  suggests 
cutting littoral combat ship purchases to 10 vessels, down from
a projected 52, to save $2 billion a year. The ship has been a
production nightmare: The first two in the water have been
marred by cracks and other defects. But a versatile shallow-
water ship capable of patrols,  mine clearance  and humanitarian
missions is vital to the military’s “pivot to Asia.”  The honest truth is that Pentagon procurement isn’t
terrible -- by government standards or any other. (The $600
hammer, it turns out, had a  reasonable explanation .) Initiatives
of this size are always underbudgeted at first -- the Sydney
Opera House, an icon of 20th-century big thinking, came in 10
years late and 14 times over budget; something as simple as the
Capitol’s new visitor center ended up costing twice the
estimate.  Changing Reality  Military projects, particularly, are prone to rising costs
as technology improves. The first F-35 contract was signed in
1996, when only one in five Americans had a mobile phone and the
idea of a “drone war” was science fiction. This reality forces
the Pentagon to operate under “concurrency” -- building
weapons with blueprints that may change literally every day.  A last consideration is that military contracting practices
have to keep the military-industrial complex -- or, as we now
call it, the “defense industrial base” -- in good health.
Eisenhower’s warnings were prescient, but this sort of quasi-
corporate welfare state has its purposes. The government doesn’t
want to build its own weapons, and no private entity can take on
the research-and-development and production costs inherent in
weaponry without getting money upfront from  Washington . And, of
course, there are those jobs.  The biggest procurement errors are made well before
contracts are even signed: in misdiagnosing the most urgent
needs of a decade or two hence. Occasionally those mistakes can
be wiped out -- the Marines could save more than $1 billion a
year by killing the troubled V-22 Osprey. But more often, the
missteps can only be pared down at the tail end of their
production; nobody truly expects the F-35 program to last until
its scheduled demise in 2035.  We don’t consider any program sacrosanct: In addition to
the Osprey, we have called for the Pentagon to build fewer Ford
Class aircraft carriers, eliminate the Marine version of the
F-35 (with its vertical takeoff and landing abilities, a luxury
we don’t need) and pare the arsenal of strategic nuclear
weapons. But even when you take a billion here and a billion
there, it never becomes “real” money. A new  study  for the
Hamilton Project by budgeting expert Cindy Williams, of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, suggests canceling
systems whose cost estimates increase by more than 10 percent
over five years; even this hard-nosed approach would save no
more than $6 billion annually.  That’s because the contracting debate misses a prime driver
of military spending: personnel costs. Between 2001 and 2011,
they  rose  nearly 90 percent. A huge part of this boom, as it did
for the rest of us, came in health care. Obama’s decision to
exempt personnel accounts from sequestration exemplified a
longstanding failure to consider the one place to find large-
scale savings. Bloomberg View will have specific proposals in a
follow-up editorial.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 