-- Kimco Subpoenaed by Regulators at Part of Wal-Mart Probe
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-02-28T00:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/kimco-subpoenaed-by-regulators-at-part-of-wal-mart-probe.html
Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM) , the largest U.S.
shopping-center owner, said it received a subpoena from the
Securities and Exchange Commission related to a  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  investigation.  Kimco is responding to the subpoena and will cooperate with
the probe, the New Hyde Park, New York-based landlord said today
in its annual report  filed  with the SEC. Kimco also said it was
notified that the U.S. Department of Justice is conducting a
parallel investigation.  “At this point, we are unable to predict the duration,
scope or result of the SEC or DOJ investigation,” the company
said in the filing. The probe is related to “possible
violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,” Kimco said.  Both U.S. and Mexican prosecutors said last year they were
investigating allegations raised in a  New York  Times report that
Wal-Mart bribed Mexican officials to more quickly open stores
there.  After the Times report, Wal-Mart officials said they had
started a corruption investigation of the Mexican unit and later
expanded the probe to the company’s operations in  India , China
and  Brazil . Wal-Mart officials said in November they had
assigned more than 300 lawyers and accountants to the
investigation and had spent almost $100 million on it.  Mexico Stores  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  is the country’s largest private
employer, with more than 209,000 employees. Twenty percent of
Wal-Mart’s more than 10,000 stores worldwide are in  Mexico ,
following growth over the past decade.  Kimco had 51 properties in Mexico at the end of December,
according to a supplemental filing on the company’s website.
Revenue from Kimco’s Mexico operations rose to $47.3 million
last year from $46.3 million in 2011.  Kevin Callahan, a spokesman for the SEC, and  David Tovar , a
Wal-Mart spokesman, declined to comment on the Kimco subpoena.
Michael Passman, a Justice Department spokesman, said in an e-
mail that it’s department policy to neither confirm nor deny the
existence of investigations. David Bujnicki, Kimco’s vice
president of investor relations, said the company has disclosed
all it could “at this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  