-- N.Z. May Agree on Bank Lending Rules by Mid-Year, English Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/n-z-may-agree-on-bank-lending-rules-by-mid-year-english-says.html
New Zealand’s government expects to
agree on how the central bank will be able to curb lending
during periods of excessive credit growth by the middle of the
year, Finance Minister Bill English said.  “The Reserve Bank and Treasury will finalize arrangements
and I expect to sign a memorandum of understanding with Reserve
Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler by the middle of this year,”
English said in the text of a speech in Auckland. The central
bank will publish a consultation document next month, he said.  New Zealand is exploring the introduction of tools to curb
lending and protect financial system stability when credit
growth surges. The policies, which will focus on bank balance
sheets and lending ratios, mean the central bank needn’t rely on
interest rate rises alone to curb a credit boom, at a time when
the local currency’s strength is hurting exporters.  “Under these proposals, the Reserve Bank will have a
greater ability to influence the amount of lending done by banks
and other financial institutions,” English said. “We want to
avoid a strong upswing in asset values and any unsustainable
growth in borrowing well in excess of economic growth.”  Lenders may be required to hold additional capital on their
balance sheets as a buffer during an economy wide credit boom,
or against loans in specific sectors, he said. They may need to
adjust their funding ratios to use more stable sources of money
and may be asked to restrict high loan-to-value ratio lending in
the housing sector, he said.  The policies “are not a replacement for interest rates as
the principal tool of monetary policy, although the two policy
frameworks will interact,” he said. “In the same way the
Reserve Bank takes into account government tax and spending
policy in setting interest rates, the bank will also take into
account any effect of using these tools.”  The Reserve Bank will also make decisions about the use of
these tools independently from government, just as it makes its
decisions on interest rates, English said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  