-- New Zealand Maori Lose Bid to Delay State Asset Sales
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-27T03:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/new-zealand-maori-lose-bid-to-delay-state-asset-sales.html
New Zealand ’s Maori Council, which
represents indigenous groups, lost its bid to delay the partial
sale of Mighty River Power Ltd., the first such privatization
planned by Prime Minister John Key to cut the  budget deficit .  The Supreme Court of New Zealand, the country’s highest
court, was unanimous in its ruling, upholding the decision of
High Court Justice Ronald Young who dismissed the Maori
challenge on Dec. 11.  New Zealand’s government wants to speed up a return to
surplus by raising at least NZ$5 billion ($4.1 billion) from
selling as much as 49 percent of Mighty River, Genesis Power
Ltd., Meridian Energy Ltd. and Solid Energy New Zealand Ltd.
over the next four years. Some Maori say the sales violate the
173-year-old Treaty of Waitangi, New Zealand’s founding document
that gave the indigenous people rights to land and resources.  “The partial privatization of Mighty River Power will not
impair to a material extent the Crown’s ability to remedy any
treaty breach,” the five-member panel said in its ruling.
“Similar issues will arise in relation to the partial
privatization of Meridian Energy and Genesis Energy.”  The Maori Council and groups supporting it claimed the
asset sales would be unlawful because they ignore outstanding
indigenous claims to freshwater and geothermal resources. The
companies make power from resources including rivers and
underground steam in areas of scenic beauty.  Decision Reviewable  Young ruled the courts couldn’t review parliament’s
decision to change the status of the companies from state-owned
to mixed-ownership models to allow the sale. The Supreme Court
panel disagreed with the lower court judge on that point, saying
the decision was reviewable.  Mighty River’s partial sale is scheduled for the second
quarter of this year, Finance Minister  Bill English  said in a
statement after the ruling. The listing will benefit the
nation’s capital markets, he said.  Shares in  NZX Ltd. (NZX) , the operator of New Zealand’s stock
exchange, rose after the ruling was released around 3 p.m. local
time. They increased 6 New Zealand cents, or 4.8 percent, to
NZ$1.31 at 4:09 p.m. in Wellington.  Key’s sale program is New Zealand’s biggest since the
government raised about NZ$10 billion between 1988 and 1990,
including the sale of Telecom Corp. of New Zealand Ltd. to U.S.
phone companies, government figures show.  New Zealand’s government is targeting a return to  budget
surplus  by 2014/15. The country lost its top  credit rating  at
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings in 2011.  The case is Between The New Zealand Maori Council and The
Attorney General. SC98/2012.  Supreme Court  of New Zealand
(Wellington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  