-- New World’s First-Half Underlying Profit Rises 45% on Home Sales
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-02-27T04:49:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/new-world-s-first-half-underlying-profit-rises-45-on-home-sales.html
New World Development Co. (17) , the Hong
Kong builder controlled by billionaire Cheng Yu-tung, said
underlying profit for its fiscal first half rose 45 percent
after it booked more apartment sales in the city.  Profit excluding property revaluations advanced to HK$4.1
billion ($529 million) for the six months ended Dec. 31 from
HK$2.83 billion a year earlier, New World said in a statement to
Hong Kong’s stock exchange today. That compares with the HK$3.26
billion median estimate of four analysts compiled by Bloomberg
News. Sales rose to HK$24.5 billion from HK$19.1 billion.  New World is accelerating apartment sales and the pace of
replenishing its land reserves in Hong Kong as the government
pledged to increase land supply to help make housing more
affordable to the general public. The developer and a unit of
China Vanke Co. in January paid HK$3.4 billion for a project
atop a train station in the city’s northwestern Tsuen Wan
district.  Cheng, 87, retired last year as chairman of the company and
was replaced by son Henry Cheng. The elder Cheng, who also
controls the world’s biggest jewelry retailer, is 35th on the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with a net worth of $20.1 billion.  New World was the  best performer  in the nine-member Hang
Seng Property Index last year after its share price almost
doubled. The  stock  rose 3.3 percent to HK$13.70 at the midday
break today, bringing its gain this year to 14 percent. The
property gauge gained 2.1 percent so far in 2013.  Hong Kong’s  home prices  have doubled in the past four years
on record low mortgage rates, an influx of mainland Chinese
buyers and lack of new supply.  New World, with businesses in property, infrastructure,
hotels and retail, in September won the right, for an
undisclosed price, from the Hong Kong government to develop a
residential and retail project in the city’s Mong Kok district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  