-- Newmont’s New CEO to Try Improving Mines Before Selling Them
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-02-27T21:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/newmont-s-new-ceo-to-try-improving-mines-before-selling-them.html
Gary Goldberg, who will become chief
executive officer of  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  March 1, said he’ll
try to turn around the second-biggest gold producer’s
underperforming assets before he considers selling them.  “I’ve taken a look through our portfolio and had a good
chance over the last year to look at things,” he said yesterday
in an interview, declining to name which assets need to improve.
“My first thing is to give them an opportunity to set things
straight. If that doesn’t work then we’ll look at some potential
paths to sell some assets.”  Newmont is among gold producers that say they’re trying to
contain rising mining costs and boost profit margins after
underperforming the price of the commodity.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,
its biggest competitor, is seeking buyers for assets including
an energy business and a stake in a nickel project in Tanzania.  Goldberg is currently Newmont’s chief operating officer and
president. He joined the  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based
company in 2011 after 30 years working for London-based Rio
Tinto Group. As CEO he will replace  Richard O’Brien , who
announced his departure in December. O’Brien will start as CEO
of U.S. mine-drilling company  Boart Longyear Ltd. (BLY)  next month.  At least six North American gold miners have announced a
change of CEO in the past year as the industry grapples with
cost inflation and the fallout of money-losing takeovers and
mines that went over budget.  Acquisition Opportunities  Newmont fell 23 percent in 2012 while gold gained for the
12th straight year. Goldberg said he’s focused on reducing costs
across Newmont’s operations.  “I’ve been saying no a lot more to requests within the
business,” he said in Hollywood,  Florida , where he was
attending a mining and metals conference organized by BMO
Capital Markets, referring to Newmont’s focus on costs. “That
sends the message that things are changing.”  Still, now is a good time to assess potential acquisitions
as mining companies seek to cut back on spending and consider
selling assets, according to Goldberg.  “That’s the time to look in the opposite direction from
the herd to see what opportunities might be out there that make
sense but that add good value along the way,” he said.
“There’s some potential things but I don’t have my radar locked
on any one particular thing at this stage.”  Suriname Mine  Goldberg said he’s comfortable with the company’s dividend
policy, which links payments to gold prices. Newmont may
consider repurchasing stock as cash flow increases in late 2014
and in 2015 “if there’s not other good uses for capital,” he
said.  Parliamentary approval of an investment agreement for
Newmont’s Merian project in Suriname may come in “weeks or
months,” Goldberg said. First production at the mine would
probably begin about two years after construction starts, he
said. Newmont’s board still needs to approve the project.  Newmont  fell  2 percent to $40.62 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 34 percent in the past year. Gold for
delivery in April dropped 1.2 percent to settle at $1,595.70 an
ounce today in New York, and futures have declined 10 percent in
the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  