-- NFL’s Giants Re-Sign Lineman Will Beatty to Five-Year Contract
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-27T21:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/nfl-s-giants-re-sign-lineman-will-beatty-to-five-year-contract.html
The  New York Giants  re-signed
offensive tackle Will Beatty to a five-year contract that may be
worth as much as $38.8 million, two weeks before he was set to
become a free agent.  Beatty, 27, was a second-round draft pick in 2009 and spent
the past two seasons protecting quarterback  Eli Manning ’s blind
side as the Giants’ starting left tackle.  The 6-foot-6, 291-pound lineman returned to play all 16
games last season after surgery in November 2011 to repair a
detached retina in his right eye. The procedure forced him to
miss the team’s final six regular-season games in 2011 and the
postseason run to a Super Bowl title.  “I thought I improved last year, playing the entire
season,” Beatty said, according to comments distributed by the
Giants. “I want to get back on the field and keep ascending,
keep rising. The sky’s the limit for me.”  The team didn’t disclose financial details. Beatty’s
contract is worth a total of $37.5 million and as much as $38.8
million with incentives, according to the Star-Ledger of  Newark ,
 New Jersey , which cited an unidentified person with knowledge of
the deal. Beatty will get $19 million in guaranteed money and a
$12.5 million signing bonus, the newspaper said on its website.  “If it’s a money issue, that temptation would come in,”
Beatty, who attended the  University of Connecticut , said about
the lure of free agency. “But having this be my home team, I
really didn’t want to go into free agency. This is the team that
wanted me from college. This is the team that gave me my first
chance. I saw so many great moments with this team and there are
still so many more to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  