-- Nikko Hiring in Asia as Assets Surge 51% Since Crisis, CIO Says
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2013-02-27T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/nikko-hiring-in-asia-as-assets-surge-51-since-crisis-cio-says.html
Nikko Asset Management Co. plans to
hire money managers in key markets like China and Southeast Asia
at a time of record inflows into  emerging markets , boosting
headcount as European and U.S. banks contract.  The biggest Asia-based fund manager is keen to add
specialists in equity, fixed-income and alternative investments
after buying competitors in Singapore and Australia over the
past two years, according to Yu-Ming Wang, chief investment
officer for markets outside Japan. He declined to say how many
people would be taken on by Nikko, whose assets under management
jumped 51 percent since the height of the global financial
crisis in March 2009 to  $154 billion  at end-2012.  “We have a lot of capability and scale on the ground
across Asia including Australia,” Wang said yesterday by phone
from Tokyo. “A big portion of our headcount, about 40 percent,
sits outside Japan and it’s our opportunity to shine.”  Investors plowed a record $57 billion into emerging-market
bond funds in 2012 and $47 billion into equities amid Europe’s
debt turmoil and monetary easing that drove U.S. bond yields to
near zero, according to  EPFR Global . Banks worldwide have
announced at least 300,000 job cuts since 2011 as trading
slumped, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  At the same time, Nikko spent $233 million buying Tyndall
Investment in Australia in November 2010 and DBS Asset
Management Ltd. in Singapore in September 2011, adding some $35
billion to its asset pool. It owns minority stakes in Rongtong
Fund Management Co. in China and HwangDBS Investment Management
in Malaysia. Nikko employed 733 people at the end of 2012, a 40
percent jump from 2010.  Asian Growth  Taiwan-born Wang, 47, joined Nikko on Jan. 7 after spending
more than three years managing Asian bonds at Manulife Asset
Management in Hong Kong. He graduated in engineering from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his career included a
stint as head of investment banking in Asia at Wachovia Corp.  “As the newest person in the management team, I won’t be
surprised if we keep looking for complementary assets,” Wang
said in an earlier interview on Feb. 20 in Singapore. “Not
every banker is a good fit for the buy-side but it definitely
helps to be on the hiring side.”  Apart from Japan, Wang said he considers China, Southeast
Asia and Australia as key growth markets for Nikko. It’s “too
early” to provide specific hiring targets, he added.  Junk Bonds  Wang is tasked with expanding the fund manager’s global
investment capability and developing new strategies in growth
areas such as alternative fixed income and bank loans. Sumitomo
Trust and Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s fifth-largest banking
group, bought Nikko from Citigroup Inc. in 2009.  Wang said he sees opportunity to expand the team that
invests in Asian speculative-grade bonds, which account for
about 30 percent of the $500 billion dollar-denominated bond
debt in the region. Nikko oversees more than $1 billion of junk
bonds. Its flagship Asia High Yield fund returned 22 percent in
2012, beating 94 percent of peers, according to Bloomberg data.  “The focus on income is going to be a long-term trend,
it’s not going away whether the market is up 5 percent or down
10 percent,” Wang said. “We have to be good at this.
Generationally, investors are now closer to their retirement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  