-- Norway Survey Increases Barents Sea Oil, Gas Estimates by 31%
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-02-27T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/norway-survey-increases-barents-sea-oil-gas-estimates-by-31-.html
Norway, western  Europe ’s biggest oil
and gas producer, raised its estimate for undiscovered resources
in the  Barents Sea  by 31 percent to 8 billion barrels of oil
equivalent as it seeks to open new areas to exploration.  Seismic surveys in waters previously disputed with  Russia 
indicate that about 85 percent of the additional resources could
be natural gas and the rest oil, the  Norwegian Petroleum
Directorate  said today in a statement. The new resources are
estimated at 1.9 billion barrels of oil equivalent, with a range
spanning from 350 million to 3.6 billion barrels.  This is the first assessment published for the south-
eastern Barents Sea, which the government plans to open for
exploration this year after Norway and Russia struck a
delimitation accord in 2010. Producers such as  Statoil ASA (STL)  are
expanding into the sea off Norway’s northern tip as production
falls from maturing fields in the  North Sea . The country’s oil
output is estimated to drop for a 13th consecutive year in 2013,
to less than half the 2000 peak, according to the NPD.  The new estimates “strengthen the Barents Sea’s
significance for Norway’s petroleum industry,” the directorate
said in the statement.  The Skrugard and Havis oil discoveries in 2011 and 2012,
the first commercial finds in the Barents Sea in a decade, have
boosted interest in the region, which holds 72 of 86 new
licenses that Norway will award in its 22nd round over the next
few months. The twin finds in the western part of the Norwegian
Barents Sea may hold as much as 600 million barrels of oil and
will start production in 2018 thanks to a new  oil terminal  at
Cape North that will also be able to handle volumes from
additional discoveries in the area.  Further Increase  Total undiscovered resources in the Barents Sea now amount
to 7.9 billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to the NPD.
That represents 42 percent of all undiscovered resources
offshore Norway, up from 37 percent before the new estimates
were published today.  At the end of last year, Norway estimated it had total
resources of 85.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent, including
already pumped reserves.  The NPD will continue its seismic surveys of the north-
eastern part of the Barents Sea this year. “The resource figure
from this area will further increase the estimate for
undiscovered resources,” the agency said.  The area to be opened in the Barents Sea include five
zones, of which the Bjarmeland Platform farthest north and the
Fedinsky High in the east, which stretches into Russian
territory, are considered “pure gas provinces,” the NPD said.  Jan Mayen  The agency also published estimates for an area off the Jan
Mayen island, situated 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) west of
 Norway  and 600 kilometers north of Iceland. The area could hold
about 570 million barrels of oil equivalent, with the estimate
range spanning from zero to 2.9 billion barrels.  “There’s a lot of uncertainty surrounding the petroleum
potential in the area, because we have less knowledge here than
for example in the south-eastern Barents Sea, where exploration
wells have been drilled in bordering areas which are already
open to petroleum activity,” the NPD said.  Norway’s government plans to open the Jan Mayen area at the
same time as the new Barents Sea blocks bordering Russian
waters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  