-- NYC Landlord Rechler Juggles Double Duty as Cuomo Adviser
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/nyc-landlord-rechler-juggles-double-duty-as-cuomo-adviser.html
Hurricane Sandy  flooded Scott Rechler’s Starrett-Lehigh Building in Manhattan with 20 feet of
water spread over a basement almost the size of a city block,
leaving Martha Stewart among tenants temporarily without a home.  At the same time, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo was
counting on Rechler to be his eyes and ears at the World Trade
Center, where 125 million gallons of water had inundated the
construction site.  “The days following Sandy were surreal,” Rechler said.
“I went from a state of shock to a call to action.”  The storm and the days that followed were the ultimate test
for a juggling act that Rechler, 45, has been doing for the past
year and a half. His company,  RXR Realty LLC , owns or has under
contract almost 20 million square feet (1.9 million square
meters) of space and has been the second-biggest buyer of
 Manhattan  commercial  real estate  since the recession. Since
September 2011, he’s also been Cuomo’s top appointee to the
board of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which
owns the Trade Center site and operates the city’s airports, as
well as infrastructure including the Lincoln Tunnel and George
Washington Bridge.  Rechler’s real estate holdings include the 2.3 million-
square-foot Starrett-Lehigh Building -- purchased for $920
million in 2011 in the biggest Manhattan deal of that year --and
a 99-year leasehold interest in 75 Rockefeller Plaza. Earlier
this month, he entered a joint venture to buy 237 Park Ave. from
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. While it’s routine for property
investors to serve on the Port Authority, he is one of the
largest to act as a commissioner, said Jameson Doig, author of
“Empire on the Hudson,” a history of the agency.  ‘Challenging Position’  “Scott Rechler is in a challenging position because as he
builds his real estate properties, he has to be concerned that
any work he does at the Port Authority, any influence he has
there, doesn’t undercut his own personal reputation,” said
Doig, research professor in government at Dartmouth College in
Hanover, New Hampshire. “And because he has these important
ties to the governor, he has to be certain that anything he does
doesn’t interfere with the reputation, and, I presume, the
presidential aspirations of Governor Cuomo.”  The Port Authority’s 12-member board of commissioners
includes two other real estate executives -- Jeffrey Lynford,
co-founder and chairman of the Wellsford group of property
companies, and David Steiner, chairman of developer Steiner
Equities Group LLC. The board’s chairman, David Samson, a
partner and founding member of law firm Wolff & Samson PC, was
appointed by New Jersey Governor Chris Christie.  Balancing Interests  Rechler, the third-generation scion of a Long Island real
estate family, said he keeps watch over anything that might be
construed as a conflict of interest and turns over lists of
RXR’s vendors so the authority knows when any of them come
before the board.  “The good news is my business interests and the governor’s
interests are aligned,” he said. “The better shape New York is
in, the better shape my business is in. I live and breathe New
York.”  A “very deep bench” of associates, many going back almost
20 years, help Rechler keep things moving while he balances his
public and private sides, he said.  A typical day late last year began with a meeting going
over plans to renovate one of his Manhattan office buildings,
followed by a drive downtown to inspect Trade Center
construction. In the afternoon, he huddled with his acquisitions
team, reviewing the books on a couple of Midtown towers he had
his eye on. Another day involved roaming the cubicles at RXR’s
Long Island headquarters in Uniondale, checking in with his
marketing and property managers. At any point, the telephone
could ring, and it may be the governor or one of his top aides.  Sandy Cleanup  Then there are the atypical days, like the aftermath of
Sandy, the Oct. 29 superstorm that ravaged coastal neighborhoods
and crippled New York’s subway system. Rechler arrived at the
Trade Center site to an “incomprehensible” scene -- the in-
progress vehicle security center and 9/11 memorial and museum
were submerged, he said.  “You had to fight for equipment, gasoline, diesel, oil,”
Rechler said. “I called the governor and said, ‘We need
gasoline at the Trade Center,’ so he had the National Guard to
do a convoy so we’d have fuel, because if we didn’t have fuel,
we couldn’t pump it out. I remember writing down the words he
said whenever I asked him for something: ‘I hear you, consider
it done.’”  Starrett-Lehigh  At the same time, Rechler had to determine how to get the
water cleared from the Starrett-Lehigh Building, a former
freight terminal in west Chelsea that’s home to tenants
including  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) , Tommy Hilfiger
Corp. and Ralph Lauren Corp.  He brought in a pumping team from  Pennsylvania , two 600-
horsepower steam boilers, built to run factories, from New
Jersey, and a generator from  Texas . The property was reopened
within two weeks.  “Some of the businesses in Starrett aren’t like these big
corporations,” Rechler said. “They make their money out of
that space. It’s not like they can go relocate uptown.”  Rechler again made Manhattan’s biggest office deal in 2012,
buying the leasehold on 450 Lexington Ave., a 910,000-square-
foot prewar tower kitty-corner from Grand Central Terminal, for
$720 million. That contract was signed while he was mediating a
dispute over control of the 9/11 memorial.  “When you’re in those situations, you’re moving at a
faster pace, a more intense pace, something you wouldn’t want to
sustain long-term,” he said.  Midtown Deals  Transactions this year include the 75 Rockefeller Plaza
leasehold, and the agreement to buy 237 Park Ave., a 21-story
tower near Grand Central, in a joint venture with Walton Street
Capital LLC for about $800 million. That purchase will give RXR
more than 7.5 million square feet of New York office space,
according to a company statement.  The company made the deals at a time when office vacancies
are rising in the area. The Midtown vacancy rate climbed to 10.3
percent in the fourth quarter from 9.6 percent a year earlier,
according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc. RXR plans to renovate 75
Rockefeller Plaza and bring in new tenants, while 237 Park Ave.
has leases expiring in the next three years.  RXR was the No. 2  buyer  of Manhattan commercial property
since 2009, according to research firm Real Capital Analytics
Inc. Including the latest deals, the company has either paid or
plans to pay $4.3 billion for New York properties. The biggest
 acquirer  was  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG) , New York’s largest office
landlord, with $5 billion, Real Capital data show.  Overseas Investors  Fueling RXR’s buying spree was more than $2.7 billion of
equity, mostly from foreign investors, said Rechler, who travels
to Europe and Asia in search of funding sources. About 80
percent of RXR’s working capital comes from overseas, he said.  It’s no surprise Rechler has been such an active buyer,
said Bruce Mosler, chairman of global brokerage at Cushman &
Wakefield and the leader of the team that represented RXR in the
75 Rockefeller deal.  “People forget how prominent he was in the last cycle, and
how right, I believe, he was in his timing,” Mosler said.  As real estate prices were peaking in 2007, Rechler sold
the company his grandfather started, Reckson Associates Realty
Corp., to SL Green for about $6 billion. As part of that deal,
SL Green sold most of Reckson’s suburban properties for $2
billion to a private partnership that eventually became RXR.  ‘Shrewd Businessman’  “Every deal he does has a purpose,” Mosler said. “I’ve
very rarely met anybody who knows exactly what he wants, and
where he will go to meet the market, and not pass that point.
He’s not going to execute a deal just to do a deal.”  Rechler is “a very shrewd businessman,” said Desmond
Ryan, executive director of the  Association for a Better Long
Island , a group of business leaders co-founded by Rechler’s
uncle Donald.  “He had an opportunity to see how his father moved
politically out here and developed working relationships with
elected officials that could have a direct impact on his
business future,” Ryan said.  Rechler’s relationship with Cuomo began in 2002, when he
backed the gubernatorial hopeful in his first bid for the
Democratic nomination. While more typical businessman-politician
relationships fade after the candidate loses, theirs evolved
into “a true friendship” after Cuomo withdrew from the race
that he initially was favored to win, Rechler said.  Cuomo Ties  “We’d have lunch and we would chat,” he said. “It was
pretty interesting to watch, because you could see he was doing
a lot of reflecting, and came out of that experience with a much
better understanding of what it means to be a leader.”  In 2006, Cuomo ran for attorney general and Rechler
contributed $29,500 to his campaign. He and his wife, Deborah,
and RXR have donated a total of $173,000 to Cuomo since June
2008, according to state Board of Elections data.  Cuomo appointed Rechler to the Port Authority in June 2011.
Three months later, he was named vice chairman.  Rechler is “a real asset for the Port Authority,
especially considering his years of experience and
accomplishment in the private sector,” Matt Wing, a Cuomo
spokesman, said by e-mail.  He joined the Port Authority at a time when Cuomo and
Christie determined that the agency had become bloated, with
expenses out of control. Much of their concern was focused on
the World Trade Center rebuilding. The cost of the project grew
to $14.8 billion in 2011 from $11 billion in 2008, as the agency
rushed to open the National September 11 Memorial in time for
the 10th anniversary of the terrorist attacks.  Rising Costs  The Port Authority’s share of the cost rose to $7.7 billion
from $6 billion, according to a consultant’s report that
described the agency as a “dysfunctional” bureaucracy. The
report, by Navigant Consulting Inc., found that the agency was
unable to produce documents supporting the cost increases,
didn’t tie pay to performance, and paid more than $85 million in
overtime in 2010.  Rechler was Cuomo’s point man in resolving a yearlong
dispute between the Port Authority and the National Sept. 11
Memorial & Museum Foundation, led by New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Agency officials said the foundation owed it as much
as $300 million and stopped work on a museum at the site. The
agreement gave the authority oversight of the memorial’s
finances and established a task force to coordinate decision-
making. The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Lower Manhattan  For future real estate deals, RXR is targeting  office
buildings  in need of renovations, which can grow in value even
if the market stays flat. One area Rechler has an eye on is
lower Manhattan, which bore heavy damage from Sandy.  The area is also at an “awkward stage” right now, he
said, with two gigantic towers nearing completion at the Trade
Center and about 3 million square feet of space on the market at
Brookfield Office Properties Inc.’s nearby World Financial
Center. The availability of top-quality office space in lower
Manhattan reached 19 percent in the first quarter, a 20-year
high, according to a report by brokerage Studley Inc.  Rechler sees that as an opportunity to stay ahead of other
investors in the market and make purchases at a good price.  “I’m looking at buildings that were impacted by the flood
zone,” he said. “If we can buy them right, we’d be comfortable
holding them and making the physical adjustments to make them
more resistant in the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  