-- To Fix U.S. Budget, Reform Medical Malpractice Law
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2013-02-27T23:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/to-fix-u-s-budget-reform-medical-malpractice-law.html
The sequestration that is about to
take effect imposes too much austerity too soon, does so in a
nonsensical way, and yet does little to improve the long-term
U.S. fiscal picture.  Far more beneficial would be to make sure that the
deceleration in health costs we have been enjoying continues.
This is why medical-malpractice reform, although far from a
panacea, is worth trying.  Most of the costs in the U.S. health-care system are
incurred in a small number of expensive cases. The top 25
percent of Medicare beneficiaries ranked by cost, for example,
account for 85 percent of total spending. And the expenses in
those cases are driven significantly by the recommendations that
doctors make to pursue one treatment path and not another.  In making these choices, doctors are influenced by various
things, including medical-school training, traditions among
their peers, financial incentives (which are distorted by fee-
for-service payments) and, yes, the medical-malpractice system.
Improving the criteria for what constitutes appropriate care
could significantly change doctors’ behavior and also save
money, recent research by Michael Frakes of Cornell Law School
suggests.  Customary Practices  Most proposals to amend medical-malpractice law would limit
liability in cases where doctors are found to be at fault. But
they neglect to address the more important issue of how guilt is
determined in the first place. The malpractice laws are
generally based on “customary practice” -- that is, a doctor can
be considered guilty of malpractice if he or she fails to follow
customary practice. This is a nebulous concept, however, that
only pushes doctors to look around and mimic what their peers
seem to be doing.  Other doctors, however, vary widely in their practice of
medicine. And just because one treatment or diagnostic procedure
dominates in a particular situation doesn’t mean it is the most
medically effective one.  Many states have, in the past few decades, altered their
customary-practice standard to base it on national medical
practices rather than local ones. And the change has had a
stunning effect, as Frakes’s study shows. Since 1977, he found,
the differences in the medical practices he studied between the
16 states and the nation as a whole diminished by 30 percent to
50 percent. And this suggests, as Frakes says, “that
standardization in malpractice laws may lead to greater
standardization in practices.” What’s more, this can bring down
the cost of medicine without making it any less effective,
because the more costly procedures are often not the best ones.  Notice that the effect that Frakes found is more noticeable
than what other research on malpractice laws has turned up.
That’s because most studies have examined only how variations in
health practices can be explained by variations in liability
limits, and have ignored the crucial role of how the standard of
care is defined. A slightly higher or lower liability limit in a
given state doesn’t have that much effect because doctors are
still influenced by customary practice.  Presumably, then, health-care costs could come down if all
states’ malpractice laws protected doctors who followed national
standards of practice. Yet the missing piece is to make sure the
national standards are based on good medicine rather than
tradition. That’s why the Center for American Progress, among
others, has  proposed  providing a safe harbor, under the medical-
malpractice laws, for doctors who follow evidence-based
guidelines published by medical associations. This makes a lot
of sense.  Safe Harbor  An entity such as the  National Guideline Clearinghouse  or
other public-private partnership could determine standards for
the qualifying guidelines, and say which professional
associations could issue them. As more doctors and health-care
centers adopt clinical-decision-support software, it will become
easier for them to adhere to such guidelines. Basically, then, a
patient would not be allowed to sue for malpractice if the
doctor could show that he or she was following a best-practice
guideline. Patients would also be able to use the guidelines; a
doctor’s failure to follow them, assuming the patient is harmed
as a result, would give the patient a basis for suing.  The Frakes study is at least suggestive that such a safe-
harbor approach to reforming the malpractice laws would have a
big impact on doctors’ behavior. Along with other steps to
improve value in health care -- including shifting away from
fee-for-service payment -- that change in behavior could, in
turn, do more to improve the U.S.’s fiscal picture than
implementing the sequester would.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking and chairman of the financial strategy and solutions
group at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 