-- Loan-Funded Dividends to Buyout Firms to Slow Down, Moody’s Says
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2013-02-27T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/loan-funded-dividends-to-buyout-firms-to-slow-down-moody-s-says.html
Buyout firms are poised to slow the
amount of loan-funded dividends extracted from companies they
own amid concern that tax-rate increases would hurt the biggest
earners, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The volume of such transactions is likely to fall from the
“frenetic pace” of the fourth quarter, even as low  interest
rates  fuel investor appetite for high-yield debt, Moody’s said
yesterday in a report. The majority of loan issuance this year
has been for refinancings and to reduce interest rates, Moody’s
analysts led by Lenny Ajzenman in New York wrote in the report.  The budget compromise reached on New Year’s Day to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff raised the dividend tax rate for high
earners to 23.8 percent from 15 percent, Moody’s said in the
report. There were $56.4 billion of loans in 2012 to fund
dividend deals, the most ever and comprising 12.1 percent of
total sales of the debt, according to Capital IQ Standard &
Poor’s Leveraged Commentary & Data.  “In the fourth quarter in particular we saw a lot of tax-
motivated deals driven by concern that tax rates would go up,”
Ajzenman said in a telephone interview. “Now that the tax rates
have gone up in connection with the fiscal cliff compromise, we
still think we’ll see dividend recaps but there won’t be that
sense of urgency to take out a dividend that we saw in the
fourth quarter of last year.”  Record Inflow  Investors are pouring record amounts of cash into funds
that target speculative-grade bank loans as the  Federal Reserve 
maintains its policy of keeping benchmark interest rates near
zero for a fifth year. As of Feb. 22, $119.1 billion in loans
have been sold this year to non-bank lenders, a third of total
bank-debt sales in all of 2012, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  Inflows to loan funds total $7.8 billion this year,
compared with $12.2 billion in all of 2012, according to the New
York-based bank.  HCA Inc. (HCA) ’s $2.2 billion debt-financed dividend to buyout
firms Bain Capital LLC and KKR & Co. was the largest paid in the
fourth quarter, followed by IMS Health Inc.’s $1.2 billion
payout to owners TPG Capital and Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board, according to Moody’s.  Moody’s lowered the ratings on 18 percent of the companies
that used debt to fund dividends in the fourth quarter, the New
York-based firm said in the report.  “Use of proceeds for debt-funded dividends or share
repurchases are the most credit negative transactions from our
perspective,” Ajzenman said.  Leveraged loans, a type of junk-grade debt with ratings of
less than Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P, pay coupons tied to
the three-month London interbank offered rate, which today was
set at 0.3 percent, the lowest since August 2011.  LBOs Accelerated  “Just like we saw some dividend recaps pulled into 2012,
some LBOs could have been pulled into 2012 as well because there
was concern capital gains tax rates would go up,” Ajzenman
said.  Mergers and acquisitions this year will be driven by
companies’ “significant” cash balances, large equity-capital
commitments by leveraged buyout firms, a favorable default
forecast, as well as positive conditions in the loan and bond
markets, according to Ajzenman.  “A number of companies’ growth prospects aren’t that great
because of the weak economy so M&A is a viable strategy for
companies looking to grow,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 