-- Obama to Share Cybersecurity Priorities With Congress
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/obama-to-share-cybersecurity-priorities-with-congress.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration will soon submit priorities for cybersecurity
legislation to Congress to build on an executive order issued
earlier this month, a White House spokeswoman said.  “Although this executive order will help raise the
nation’s cyber defenses, it does not obviate the urgent need for
legislation,” Caitlin Hayden, the spokeswoman, said yesterday
by e-mail. She didn’t specify the priorities or the timeframe
for sending them to Congress.  Obama’s Feb. 12 order outlined policies for wider sharing
of government data on hacking with companies, particularly
operators of vital infrastructure such as power grids. The order
directs the government to develop voluntary cybersecurity
standards for those businesses and instructs U.S. agencies to
consider adding the standards to existing rules.  Cyber espionage targeting U.S. companies gained renewed
attention last week when network security firm Mandiant Corp.
reported that the Chinese army may be behind a hacking group
that has attacked at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  Obama’s order reflected provisions of Senate legislation
blocked last year by Republicans after being opposed by the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business lobby.
Opponents said the voluntary standards envisioned under the bill
would amount to burdensome regulation and would fail to keep
pace with evolving threats in cyberspace.  Liability Protection  Legislation beyond the executive order is needed to protect
critical U.S. networks from cyber-attack, Michael Daniel, the
White House’s cybersecurity coordinator, said yesterday at a
computer-security conference in  San Francisco .  “An executive order is actually very limited in what it
can do,” Daniel said. “We definitely need Congress to act and
to update our laws and our statutes.”  Daniel didn’t elaborate and wasn’t available for an
interview after speaking.  Since the order’s release, Obama administration officials
have said they support certain liability protections for
companies that incorporate the voluntary standards and share
cyber-threat information with the government and each other.  Congress should also pass legislation to update federal
agency computer-security rules and create a national data-breach
reporting requirement, Hayden said in a Feb. 21 e-mail.  Pending Bill  House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers, a
Michigan Republican, and the panel’s top Democrat,
Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of  Maryland ,
reintroduced a proposal Feb. 13 to give legal protection for
companies that share cyber threat information with each other
and the government.  The Rogers-Ruppersberger bill passed the House last April
and failed to advance in the Senate after Obama threatened a
veto, saying the measure didn’t go far enough to boost computer
defenses and failed to protect the privacy of consumer data.  The White House has declined to comment on the reintroduced
Rogers-Ruppersberger bill while saying any cybersecurity measure
must incorporate privacy and civil-liberties protections.  Administration officials including U.S. Intellectual
Property Enforcement Coordinator Victoria Espinel pledged last
week to put diplomatic pressure on countries implicated in the
theft of  trade secrets  and to seek stronger international
enforcement of intellectual-property protections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  