-- Officials Monitor Coronavirus to Avert SARS-Like Spread
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-02-27T16:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/officials-monitor-coronavirus-to-avert-sars-like-spread.html
A deadly respiratory virus in the
Middle East and U.K. is being monitored to see if it may evolve
into a superbug like the 2002 SARS outbreak that killed almost
800 people, health officials said.  A novel coronavirus has infected 13 people, killing seven,
Gwen Stephens, with the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health, said at
an American Society for Microbiology biodefense conference in
Washington today. The World Health Organization is trying to
confirm reports of two additional cases, she said.  Health officials have seen individual cases and infections
in family clusters as well as two probable cases of human-to-
human transmission that could accelerate the spread of the
pathogen. The earliest known are two hospital workers in  Jordan 
who died in April and weren’t found to have the coronavirus
until samples were tested in November.  “Are we looking at the tip of the iceberg, or are we
making mountains out of molehills?” Alison Bermingham, with the
U.K.’s Health Protection Agency, said at the conference.  Coronaviruses are a family of pathogens that cause
illnesses ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, which sickened more than 8,000
people and killed 774 in 2002 and 2003, according to the WHO.
While the new virus is related to the one that causes SARS, it
appears far less transmissible, the WHO said.  SARS at first was sporadic, and once officials figured out
what it was, it had spread to Hong Kong and Hanoi then to
Toronto,  Singapore , the U.S. and  Thailand , Stephens said.  “There was no stopping it,” she said.  Bat Infection  Coronavirus may have the potential to spread more widely,
but not without acquiring multiple genetic changes, Ian Jones, a
professor of virology at the University of Reading in  England ,
said last week.  The origin of the novel coronavirus hasn’t been identified,
though one suggestion is bats, according to the WHO’s website.
Most of those infected live in or traveled to the Middle East or
 Pakistan . The U.K. is investigating a family of  three people 
with coronavirus, the first who traveled to Saudi Arabia and
Pakistan and two who had no travel history.  Stephens said today that men are becoming infected more
than women, noting that in a family of three men who contracted
the coronavirus, none of the wives who cared for them or their
children became ill. Two women were infected as of Feb. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  