-- Oil Heirs Find Vases Are $1.5 Million Czarist Relics
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2013-02-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/oil-heirs-find-vases-are-1-5-million-czarist-relics.html
Two gigantic vases that stood in the
foyer of a mansion outside  Oklahoma  City are heading to auction
on April 17 after a surprising evaluation.  Visiting his grandparents as a child, Randy Buttram didn’t
give the vases much thought.  “They were there all the time,” said Buttram, 66, in a
recent telephone interview. “I had no clue about their
historical value.”  Estimated at $1 million to $1.5 million, the 4.5-foot-tall
vases will be sold by the Dallas Auction Gallery, whose experts
traced them back to the Imperial Porcelain Factory in 19th-
century St. Petersburg.  Like so many czarist relics and museum masterpieces, they
were probably sold to western buyers by the nascent and needy
Soviet government.  In the mid-1920s, the vases appeared at the  Bernheimer
Gallery  in Munich. Buttram’s grandparents, who were touring in
 Europe , bought them and recorded the purchase in their travel
diary.  Buttram’s grandfather, Frank Buttram, was a rags-to-riches
oil magnate and founder of  Buttram Energies Inc . Born in a log
cabin on Oklahoma’s Indian Territory, he made his fortune before
turning 30 and was one of five founding members of the
 Independent Petroleum Association of America . During World War
II, he was tapped by President Franklin Roosevelt to serve on
the Petroleum Industry War Council.  ‘Big Deal’  Randy Buttram, a financial planner, and his brother,
Preston, who is president of Buttram Energies, inherited the
vases along with some other furnishings and art after the death
of their mother in 2011.  The brothers contacted Scott Shuford, president of  Dallas
Auction Gallery , to appraise the estate. When Shuford opened one
of the cardboard boxes, he recognized an imperial mark.  “I could not see the whole thing, but I knew the mark,”
said Shuford. “I thought, ‘Oh my gosh! This is a big deal.’”  Ekaterina Khmelnitskaya, curator of porcelain at the  State
Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg , examined the vases and
confirmed their authenticity.  “The rediscovery of these two Imperial vases is very
exciting, first and foremost because they are of extremely high
quality and date from the reign of Nicholas I, the golden era of
Russian porcelain production,” she said in a statement.  Too Big  The bandeau-shaped vases feature deep burgundy ground,
gilded ornaments and handles shaped like acanthus scrolls. One
vase is decorated with a copy of a painting titled “The
Concert” by a 17th-century Dutch artist in the Hermitage
collection.  “Based on archival records, we know that this painting was
sent from the Hermitage to the Imperial Porcelain Factory in
1832 in order to make a copy on a vase,” said Khmelnitskaya.  While astonished by the history of the vases and their
unexpected value, Randy Buttram said neither he nor his brother
can accommodate them.  “We just don’t have space for these vases,” he said.
“It’s fortunate we didn’t bump into them and knock them over.”  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining , Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 