-- Holmen Bets Magazine Paper Knock-Off Will Lure Publishers
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-02-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/holmen-bets-magazine-paper-knock-off-will-lure-publishers.html
Holmen AB (HOLMB) , which makes the pink
paper for the Financial Times, is betting on simpler and cheaper
products that mimic magazine-stock quality to win new business
as smartphones and tablets cut into newsprint sales.  The Stockholm-based company’s new paper grades such as
 TRND , which has a matte surface and is a bit thicker than
traditional magazine quality, are increasingly used by clients
for mail advertising campaigns, Chief Executive Officer
Magnus Hall said in an interview. In the next step, he’ll
targeting magazine publishers in need to cut costs.  “Our biggest challenge at the moment is in Holmen Paper,
to continue the development of new products that can compete
with traditional products,” he said. “The pace is very high
because of the importance to adapt to the changing market.”  Demand for newsprint is falling as traditional newspapers
and magazines increasingly publish online and computers,
smartphones and tablets are becoming the main sources of
information for readers. Holmen, which exports 90 percent of its
output to  Europe  and this month reported fourth-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates, is also hurt by declining
demand amid the continent’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The company’s biggest unit, Holmen Paper, generated about
45 percent of the company’s 17.9 billion kronor ($2.8 billion)
in sales last year. Holmen also owns saw mills and forest land,
makes paperboard-based packaging for  consumer goods  such as food
products, cosmetics and tobacco and offers hydro- and wind power
energy services.  Packaging Lifeline  While Holmen’s 5.2 percent increase in Stockholm trading in
the last 12 months was less than the 9.2 percent gain of the OMX
Stockholm 30 Index, the company still fared better than
competitors. Finnish rivals  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V)  and  Stora Enso Oyj (STERV) 
dropped 14 percent and 10 percent respectively and Norwegian
rival  Norske Skogindustrier ASA (NSG)  declined 44 percent.  Holmen, with a market value of 16.9 billion kronor and
paper production sites at  Hallstavik  and  Norrkoeping , is under
less pressure than other paper companies as it has a diverse
portfolio with valuable assets in its forest and energy
holdings, Handelsbanken analyst Karri Rinta said. The attempt to
sell new paper grades to magazines makes sense as it represents
a new market for Holmen which traditionally was selling to
newspapers, he said.  “They weren’t in magazine paper to begin with, so they can
make the shift without cannibalizing on other businesses,”
Rinta said. “The improved newsprint paper is cheaper and good
enough, which makes it a winning concept in the long run.”  Good Enough  The TRND newsprint grade offers quality that is good enough
for magazine makers while being cheaper as it isn’t given a
glossy appearance and uses fewer chemicals, according to
spokesman  Jonas Lindell . While the paper is a bit thicker, it
still weighs less than traditional magazine paper, making it
cheaper as buyers pay per ton, he said.  As magazines face plunging circulation and advertising
spending, their owners are seeking ways to cut costs.  Bertelsmann AG’s Gruner + Jahr unit, Europe’s biggest
magazine publisher, in November decided to shut down its
Financial Times Deutschland newspaper and said it will try to
sell investment magazine Boerse Online and monthly publication
Impulse. Washington Post Co. said this month it may sell its
downtown headquarters to relocate to a property that will make
its operations more efficient.  Holmen aims to keep the output at its paper unit, which had
an operating loss of 99 million kronor last year as sales
decreased 5.6 percent, at a stable level, Hall said. At the
Iggesund packaging division, the company targets to increase
output at a “moderate” pace in the next few years, in line
with the market, as the company is investing to remove
production bottlenecks.  Clients can cut their costs by between 10 percent and 20
percent if they choose one of the new newsprint grades,
according to Holmen. In the longer term, the company is also
betting on being able to sell more of its new papers in  emerging
markets  such as  China  and  India  to tap the local growth in
advertising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm  at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  