-- Homex Loss Highlights Builder Woes: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   V e r b r i g g h e   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-02-27T20:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/homex-plunges-to-record-low-after-reporting-fourth-quarter-loss.html
(Corrects to remove reference to Urbi bond’s relative
performance in sixth paragraph.)  Bonds and shares of  Desarrolladora
Homex SAB (HOMEX*) ,  Mexico ’s biggest homebuilder, slumped after a
surprise fourth-quarter loss deepened concerns that the industry
won’t be able to generate enough cash to pay off debt.  Yields on Homex dollar bonds maturing in 2020 soared 75
basis points, or 0.75 percentage point, to a record high of
10.98 percent at 12:19 p.m. New York time. Shares fell 8
percent, the most in 12 weeks, to 25 pesos.  Homex reported a fourth-quarter net loss of 206 million
pesos ($16 million), according to a filing with the Mexican
stock exchange, surprising analysts who estimated the company
would report a profit of 846 million pesos, according to the
median of five forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “Expectations were wrong,” Claudio Robertson, the head of
fixed-income trading at Investment Placement Group in  San Diego ,
said in telephone interview. “The market thought Homex was
different. They tried to make a differentiation between Homex
and the rest but reality was unforgiving.”  Mexico’s Habita index of homebuilder shares has plunged 18
percent since Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto said Feb. 11
that he’ll use the government’s subsidized-housing program to
promote apartment construction, which requires bigger initial
cash outlays than single-family home construction.  Bonds due 2022 from  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*) , Mexico’s
third-largest homebuilder, have lost 9 percent in the past
month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Corp. Geo SAB, the second-biggest homebuilder,
have fallen 28 percent in the past month. Urbi has plunged 37
percent, the worst performance on Mexico’s benchmark IPC index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Verbrigghe in  New York  at 
 dverbrigghe@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  