-- Hong Kong Bourse’s Li ‘Not Losing Sleep’ Over Slowed IPOs
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-02-28T00:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/hong-kong-bourse-s-li-not-losing-sleep-over-slowed-ipos.html
(Corrects company name in first paragraph.)  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing
Ltd.’s expansion into new asset classes means slowing initial
public offerings aren’t a concern, said Charles Li, chief
executive of the No. 1 bourse operator by market value.  IPOs and average daily trading volumes reflect  market
sentiment , which is why the company is entering new asset
classes, including commodities, Li told Bloomberg Television’s
 Susan Li . Hong Kong Exchanges bought the London Metal Exchange,
which handles trading of 83 percent of global base metals
futures, for $2.2 billion in December.  The bourse operator yesterday reported its lowest quarterly
profit since the global financial crisis and fifth consecutive
decline in three-month earnings. Companies raised $8 billion
through IPOs in Hong Kong last year, the least since 2003 and
down 63 percent from 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “People somehow always associate Hong Kong exchange with
IPOs,” Li said. “I’m not losing sleep over IPOs. This whole
change and shift away from cash equity is to make sure we
actually lock ourselves in -- real  global leading exchanges  are
not IPO markets. Many of the pure cash equity exchanges in the
world are really faltering.”  Global equity volumes plunged last year, squeezing
exchanges as slowing economic growth in  China  and the U.S. and
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis sapped investor confidence.  IPO Slowdown  Hong Kong Exchanges net income fell 32 percent to HK$864
million ($111 million) in the fourth quarter, from HK$1.27
billion a year earlier, according to figures derived from the
company’s  full-year statement . That compares with the average
HK$1.11 billion estimate of three analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . The result was the worst since the first quarter of 2009.  Hong Kong Exchanges will introduce after-hours futures
trading on April 8, a move it says is necessary and will allow
investors to hedge and adjust positions when news breaks in
European hours. Local brokers are concerned that changes to Hong
Kong’s market structure, also including longer trading hours and
the reinstatement of a closing auction, will mean they can’t
compete.  “We are not in the business of guaranteeing that everyone
can succeed and compete,” Li said. “What we will do is make
sure the rules are fair, the rules are equal. To the extent
there is a segment of the market that will be affected adversely
by certain things, we are trying to see whether we can mitigate
that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  