-- Hong Kong Bourse Quarterly Profit Worst Since ’09 on Trade Drop
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-02-27T07:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/hong-kong-bourse-quarterly-profit-worst-since-09-on-trade-drop.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (388) 
missed earnings estimates, posting the lowest profit since the
global financial crisis as turnover and listings fell at the
world’s largest exchange operator by market value.  Net income fell 32 percent to HK$864 million ($111 million)
for the three months ended Dec. 31 from HK$1.27 billion a year
earlier, according to figures derived from the company’s full-
year statement. That compares with the average HK$1.11 billion
 estimate  of 3 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. The result
was the worst since the first quarter of 2009 for the company
which last year bought the London Metal Exchange. The stock
 climbed  0.4 percent to HK$138.30 as of 3:24 p.m. in  Hong Kong 
today, reversing an earlier loss.  “Investors are now watching closely the LME development to
see if it will have a positive impact on the stock exchange,”
said  Ben Kwong , chief operating officer at brokerage KGI Asia
Ltd. in Hong Kong. The company’s shares are likely to trade
between HK$130 and HK$150 “until there’s a fresh catalyst for
earnings. It all depends on market activity in the coming
months.”  Shares of Hong Kong Exchanges rose 4.5 percent this year
through yesterday as improving economic reports from  China  and
the U.S. fueled optimism that increased activity in the market
will boost profitability at the exchange. The stock trades for
about 29.5 times estimated earnings, compared with 17.8 times
for the  Bloomberg World Exchanges Index. (BNWEXCH)   For the full year, net income at the Hong Kong bourse fell
20 percent to HK$4.08 billion, or HK$3.74 a share, from HK$5.09
billion, or HK$4.70 a share, a year earlier, the company said in
a statement today. That compares with the average HK$4.29
billion  estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Turnover Slide  Average daily turnover  value on the exchange was HK$53.9
billion, a drop of 23 percent from the previous year, the bourse
operator said. Sales fell 8.2 percent last year. Funds raised
through initial public offerings on the main board plunged 66
percent to HK$89 billion in 2012 from a year earlier, the
statement said.  Global equity volumes plunged last year, squeezing
exchanges and brokerages as slowing growth in China and the
U.S., plus  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, sapped investor
confidence. Hong Kong Exchanges bought the LME for $2.2 billion
in December as Chief Executive Charles Li seeks to transform the
bourse into a comprehensive exchange dealing in equities,
commodities, fixed income and foreign exchange products and
their derivatives.  Singapore, Japan  Singapore Exchange , operator of  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
stock market, last month reported a 17 percent gain in second-
quarter profit, while Japan Exchange Group Inc., created by the
merger of the nation’s two biggest bourses said it is willing to
pursue an alliance or merger.  Hong Kong’s stock market climbed last quarter, bouyed by
foreign inflows after the U.S. Federal Reserve began a third
round of asset purchase in September. The city’s de facto
central bank bought almost $14 billion to defend the local
currency’s peg to the  U.S. dollar  from October through December.  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest publicly traded
property developer, said this month that shareholders approved
its plan to convert its Shenzhen-listed B shares into Hong Kong-
listed H shares. Livzon Pharmaceutical Group Inc. also said last
month it will convert its B shares into H shares, while
 Securities Times  reported Shanghai Diesel Engine Co. is
considering the conversion.  Hong Kong Exchanges declared a final dividend of HK$1.46 a
share, a share, down from HK$2.09 in 2011.  Operating expenses rose 13 percent to HK$1.96 billion from
the previous year, the statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  