-- Monti Government Mulls Delaying Monte Paschi Bailout
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-02-27T10:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/monti-government-said-to-consider-delaying-monte-paschi-bailout.html
Mario Monti ’s caretaker government
is considering postponing a 3.9 billion-euro ($5.1 billion)
bailout for  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , leaving the
final decision on the payout to the next government, two people
familiar with the discussions said.  According to the decree approved by Monti’s cabinet in
December, the payment is set to be completed by March 1. Under
the government’s rescue plan, Monte Paschi will sell securities,
dubbed “Monti” bonds, to the government with a 9 percent
coupon that may rise to as much as 15 percent.  A decision whether to go ahead with the capital injection
may be made as soon as today, said one of the people, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private. Government
and Monte Paschi officials didn’t answer several phone calls
seeking comment. The stock  fell  as much as 4 percent in Milan
trading.  Italian elections this week produced a hung parliament,
with comedian Beppe Grillo’s anti-austerity movement winning
more than 25 percent of the popular vote, compared with the 10.5
percent of the votes received by Monti’s coalition in the lower
house. Grillo opposed the current bailout plan, arguing that a
parliamentary commission should investigate the bank’s dealings.
A delay may prompt a review of the terms, said Fabrizio Bernardi, a Milan-based analyst at Fidentiis Equities.  ‘Strong Opposition’  “Given the composition of the new parliament there could
be strong opposition to the current form,” said Bernardi, who
has a sell recommendation on the stock.  Monte Paschi (BMPS) , engulfed by investigations of its former
managers, said on Feb. 6 it will take a 730 million-euro hit to
its assets after reviewing structured deals from 2008 and 2009
that hid losses on earlier derivatives. The bank is seeking
state funds to boost capital after failing to meet regulators’
minimum requirements in a rescue that some lawmakers and
consumer groups have opposed.  Monte Paschi fell 3.6 percent to 20.52 cents by 11:04 a.m.
in Milan. The  stock  is down 30 percent since  Bloomberg News 
reported on Jan. 17 that the bank used a derivatives deal,
dubbed Santorini, to disguise losses before a previous
government bailout in 2009.  New terms for the current rescue could dilute shareholders
should the bank swap existing debt for stock instead of taking
on more debt, said  Ronny Rehn , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods in  London .  “A delay raises uncertainty on the kind of bailout it will
be offered and the level of potential dilution,” said Rehn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  