-- Monti Government Said Likely to Proceed With Monte Paschi Aid
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-02-27T16:13:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/monti-government-said-likely-to-proceed-with-monte-paschi-aid.html
Mario Monti’s caretaker government
will probably proceed with plans to give  Banca Monte dei Paschi
di Siena SpA  a 3.9 billion-euro ($5.1 billion) bailout this week
after considering a delay, a person familiar with the
discussions said.  According to the decree approved by Monti’s cabinet in
December, the payment is set to be completed by March 1. Under
the government’s rescue plan, Monte Paschi will sell securities,
dubbed “Monti” bonds, to the government with a 9 percent
coupon that may rise to as much as 15 percent.  Government officials are leaning toward meeting the March 1
deadline on the capital injection, said two people, who asked
not to be identified because the preparations are private. Ansa
earlier reported that the March 1 deadline will be met, without
citing saying how it obtained the information. A  Monte Paschi (BMPS) 
official said the bank didn’t have a comment on the matter,
while a government spokeswoman declined to comment. The stock
 fell  as much as 4 percent in Milan trading.  Italian elections this week produced a hung parliament,
with comedian Beppe Grillo’s anti-austerity movement winning
more than 25 percent of the popular vote, compared with the 10.5
percent of the votes received by Monti’s coalition in the lower
house. Grillo opposed the current bailout plan, arguing that a
parliamentary commission should investigate the bank’s dealings.  Boost Capital  Monte Paschi fell 2.8 percent to 20.7 cents at 4:55 p.m.
in Milan. The  stock  is down about 29 percent since Bloomberg
News reported on Jan. 17 that the bank used a derivatives deal,
dubbed Santorini, to disguise losses before a previous
government bailout in 2009.  Monte Paschi, engulfed by investigations of its former
managers, said on Feb. 6 it will take a 730 million-euro hit to
its assets after reviewing structured deals from 2008 and 2009
that hid losses on earlier derivatives. The bank is seeking
state funds to boost capital after failing to meet regulators’
minimum requirements in a rescue that some lawmakers and
consumer groups have opposed.  Consumer group Codacons said in a statement today it’s
appealing the ruling of an administrative court, which rejected
Codacons claim to block Monte Paschi’s state aid last week. The
Council of State will have a hearing on the appeal in Rome March
22, Codacons said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net 
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  