-- Optimer Consider Strategic Alternatives as CEO Steps Down
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   S a s h a   D a m o u n i
-- 2013-02-27T21:08:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/optimer-consider-strategic-alternatives-as-ceo-steps-down.html
Optimer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (OPTR) , a
maker of an antibiotic to treat deadly hospital infections, said
it will consider “strategic alternatives” for the company,
sending its shares up the most in almost four years.  Chief Executive Officer Pedro Lichtinger, 57, will leave,
the result of a stock deal that also spurred the resignation of
former chairman  Michael Chang  last year, Optimer said today.
Lichtinger will be replaced on an interim basis by former  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  CEO Henry A. McKinnell Jr., who took over as board chairman
in April, the San Diego-based drugmaker said in a statement.  Optimer, with a market value of $578.5 million as of
today’s close, may become a target for Pfizer, the world’s
biggest drug company, or  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the biggest global
maker of health-care products, said Brian Skorney, a New York-
based analyst for Robert W. Baird & Co. Its value may be
hampered by investigations into the stock deal, Skorney said in
a telephone interview.  “People are going to read into this that the company is
now for sale, which it clearly is,” Skorney said. “The
question is, what sort of value can we get from an acquirer at
this point given there has to be some kind of legal liability
attached to it.”  Astellas, Cubist  Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503) , a Tokyo-based company that markets
Optimer’s antibiotic in  Europe , is another logical suitor,
Skorney said. He doesn’t expect  Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc. (CBST) ,
Optimer’s marketing partner in the U.S., to be interested
because it is developing a competing product.  Marko Kozul, a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in  San
Francisco , disagreed on Cubist. It’s a likely bidder because its
rival antibiotic may not be ready until 2017, he wrote in a note
to clients.  Optimer rose 13 percent to $12.13 at the close in  New York ,
its biggest one-day increase since May 2009. The shares have
lost 7.3 percent during the last 12 months.  Julie DiCarlo, a spokeswoman for Lexington, Massachusetts-
based Cubist, declined to comment on the prospects for an
acquisition. Joan Campion, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Pfizer, said the company doesn’t comment on speculation.  “As a matter of policy, we don’t comment on market rumors
and speculation,” said Al Wasilewski, a spokesman for  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J. Jenny Kite, a spokeswoman for
Astellas, declined to comment.  Strategic Review  Optimer “cautioned that there can be no assurance that the
strategic review will result in any action” and said it would
have no further comment during the review. David Walsey,
Optimer’s vice president for  investor relations  and corporate
communications, didn’t return a phone call seeking more details.  The board is “conducting a comprehensive review of
strategic alternatives to maximize  shareholder value ,”
McKinnell said in the statement.  The company won U.S. approval in 2011 to market Dificid.
The antibiotic treats a bacterium linked to intestinal
infections in hospitals.  McKinnell was appointed board chairman after Optimer
stripped the position from Chang in connection with a grant of
1.5 million shares he received from a Taiwanese affiliate, the
company said in a statement in April. Then-Chief Financial
Officer John Prunty and Youe-Kong Shue, a vice president, were
also let go for failing to follow proper procedures after
learning of the grant, the company said.  Compliance Issues  Optimer today said Lichtinger, president and CEO since May
2010, would leave because of “prior compliance, record-keeping
and conflict-of-interest issues” stemming from the conduct that
led to last year’s moves. U.S. authorities are investigating,
Optimer said, without providing more details.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Centerview Partners LLC have been
hired to advise on the review of the company, Optimer said.
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP will act as legal adviser.  Optimer’s revenue is projected by analysts to more than
double to $310 million by the end of 2017 from 2011, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fourth-quarter earnings were 2 cents a share, Optimer said
today. Analysts had expected a 55 cent loss, according to the
average of four  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company is
scheduled to report full results tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Sasha Damouni in New York at 
 sdamouni2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  