-- Swiss Stocks Gain on Italian Debt Sale, U.S. Data
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-27T17:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/most-swiss-stocks-advance-swiss-life-temenos-abb-climb.html
Swiss stocks advanced, after
dropping the most in 10 months yesterday, as  Italy  sold debt and
a U.S. report showed durable-goods orders excluding
transportation equipment jumped last month.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  jumped the most since March 2009
after reporting a second-half loss that was narrower than
analysts had projected.  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  surged the most in 10
months after posting results and announcing a dividend.  The Swiss Market Index added 0.5 percent to 7,484.99 at the
close in Zurich. The benchmark measure tumbled 1.9 percent
yesterday as Italy’s inconclusive polls sparked concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis will deepen. The SMI has rallied 9.7
percent so far this year. The broader Swiss Performance Index
gained 0.5 percent.  “Equity markets have by no means forgotten yesterday’s
selloff, but they have found some solace today as an Italian
bond auction saw the country’s borrowing costs decline from
Tuesday’s spike,”  Angus Campbell , head of market analysis at
Capital Spreads in  London , wrote in a note. “Some strong demand
for Italy’s debt has shown that investors have not given up on
the chances of normalization even in the aftermath of a
disastrous election.”  Italy’s 10-year government bonds rose, pushing yields down
from a three-month high, after the nation sold 6.5 billion euros
($8.51 billion) of securities at its first bond auction since
its inconclusive election results.  U.S. Data  Orders for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation gear
climbed in January by the most in a year, a report showed.  Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years,
excluding demand for products like aircraft, climbed 1.9
percent, the most since December 2011, Commerce Department data
showed. That exceeded the 0.2 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Switzerland ’s  KOF economic indicator  decreased for a fifth
month in February, suggesting the economy may weaken in the
first half of this year.  The monthly gauge, which aims to predict the economy’s
direction about six months ahead, dropped to 1.03 from a revised
1.12 in January, the KOF Swiss Economic Institute in Zurich
said. Economists had forecast a retreat to 1, the  median  of 15
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Swiss Life  Swiss Life rallied 8.7 percent to 151.90 francs after
Switzerland’s biggest life insurer posted a second-half loss of
268 million francs. That was narrower than the average forecast
in a Bloomberg survey for a 300 million-franc loss.  Temenos jumped 13 percent to 20.95 francs, the biggest
increase in 10 months, after posting fourth-quarter sales and
profit that beat projections and saying it will pay a dividend
of 28 centimes on May 31. Analysts had estimated there would be
no payout.  EFG International AG (EFGN)  advanced 9.3 percent to 12.35 francs,
its highest price since May 2011. The Swiss private bank
controlled by the family of billionaire Spiro Latsis posted a
profit for the first time in three years after cost cuts.  Georg Fischer AG (FI/N)  advanced 6.1 percent to 422 francs after
Vontobel Holding AG raised the stock to hold from reduce.  “We turn a bit more positive on the stock as U.S. and
Asian macro data have shown improvements recently and the E.U.
automotive industry is likely to bottom out this year,” Fabian Haecki, an analyst at Vontobel, wrote in a note to clients
today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 12 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  