-- House Panel Chairman Says Gun Background Checks Not on Agenda
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-02-27T15:53:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/house-panel-chairman-says-gun-background-checks-not-on-agenda.html
House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte said he opposes requiring universal background checks
for gun purchases and that he doesn’t plan to take up the issue
in his committee.  Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican, said he is concerned that
requiring checks of buyers for all firearms transactions may
lead to a national registry of such purchases and unduly burden
law-abiding gun owners.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats have
made an expanded background check system a main priority in the
aftermath of the mass shooting in December at an elementary
school in Newtown,  Connecticut .  Goodlatte said that while his committee would review
whatever the Senate produces, his focus will be on beefing up
the current National Instant Criminal Background Check System by
requiring states to feed more criminal and mental health records
into the federal database.  “Universal background checks I do not think will be a part
of that,” he told reporters at a breakfast sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor in  Washington .  The Senate Judiciary Committee is aiming to advance this
week or next proposals for new gun laws. The measures include
steps to curtail gun trafficking, enhancing background checks
and placing limits on military-style semi-automatic weapons and
high-capacity ammunition magazines.  The opposition of Goodlatte and other Republicans to the
background checks underscores the difficulty the president faces
in advancing any new laws to restrict guns.  In remarks at the Senate committee’s hearing on firearms
laws today, Senator Chuck Grassley of  Iowa  emphasized his
opposition to new limits, including an assault-weapon ban.  “There’s much that can be done to enhanced safety now that
is not being done” under current laws, he said. Grassley didn’t
address wider background checks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  