-- Panasonic Names First Female Board Member as Executives Trimmed
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-02-27T09:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/panasonic-names-first-female-board-member-as-executives-trimmed.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  named the first
female board member in its 95-year history while trimming the
executive ranks as the electronics company tries to lower costs
and speed up decision-making after a record annual loss.  Japan ’s No. 2 TV maker is adding Hiroko Ota, a former
Economic and Fiscal Policy minister now teaching at Tokyo’s
National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies, to its board,
the Osaka-based company said in a statement today. The number of
executive officers will drop to 21 from 30, partly because some
are retiring without being replaced, according to the statement.  The changes come as President  Kazuhiro Tsuga , 56, prepares
to outline a revival plan as the company heads for its fourth
annual loss in five years. The maker of Viera TVs is cutting
jobs and reducing the number of business units after posting a
772 billion-yen ($8.4 billion)  net loss  in the year ended March
2012.  “We’d like to get diversified opinions from Ms. Ota by
getting her as an outside director,” said Chieko Gyobu, a
Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  The company is increasing its directors to 17 from 16,
while the number of auditors remains at five. Panasonic booked a
profit last quarter after eliminating 13,000  jobs , while closest
domestic peer  Sony Corp. (6758)  reported a net loss. Sony also has a
woman on its board, Yukako Uchinaga.  Panasonic fell 1.8 percent to close at 659 yen in  Tokyo 
trading today, trimming its gain this year to 26 percent.
Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 1.3 percent.  The retiring executive officers include Shiro Kitajima,
president of a North American marketing unit. His
responsibilities will pass to Joseph Taylor.  Tsuga is set to announce a new medium-term plan next month
that may include reform measures for unprofitable businesses,
including the TV-making unit. He plans to focus on divisions
offering the highest profit margins, including beauty products,
and decrease reliance on lower-margin products including TVs and
mobile phones.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  