-- Pandora Caps Free Mobile Listening as Royalty Costs Soar
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-02-28T14:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/pandora-caps-free-mobile-listening-as-royalty-costs-soar.html
Pandora Media Inc. (P) , the Internet
radio service, is capping free mobile listening at 40 hours a
month in the absence of sufficient advertising sales to pay for
rising music costs.  The change, which begins in March, applies to U.S. users
and will affect about 4 percent of the 65.6 million listeners,
Chief Executive Officer Joe Kennedy said in an interview. Fans
can pay 99 cents to continue listening on mobile devices, the
Oakland, California-based company said yesterday on its  website .  Pandora is seeking to contain music expenses that climbed
81 percent in the  nine months  ended Oct. 31, outpacing a 59
percent increase in advertising sales. The company pays for each
song streamed, with costs ballooning as usage grows, and
collects revenue through subscriber fees and ad sales.  “At this moment in time, this is the right lever to
pull,” Kennedy said. “We see this as a smart way to manage
monetization and growth.”  Listeners who exceed the mobile threshold can still use
Pandora for free on computers, or pay 99 cents for unlimited
mobile use for the remainder of the month. Pandora One
subscribers, who pay $4 a month or $36 a year to skip
commercials, aren’t subject to the limit.  Pandora, scheduled to report fourth-quarter results on
March 7, fell 2.4 percent to $12.44 at 9:53 a.m. in New York.
The stock has climbed 39 percent this year. Excluding items,
analysts forecast a loss of 6 cents a share, the average of 20
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, on revenue of $122.3 million.  Ad Shortfall  “It is a statement about their inability to monetize,”
Michael Pachter, an analyst with Wedbush Securities in Los
Angeles, said in an e-mail. He has a neutral rating on the
stock. “If they could sell ads for the extra hours of
listening, they wouldn’t have to do this. Their costs are rising
faster than revenues.”  The company is sending out e-mail messages today to users
who regularly exceed the 40-hour mobile limit, Kennedy said.
Going forward, Pandora will also send e-mail alerts to users who
reach 85 percent of the limit, he said.  “Limiting listening is a very unusual thing to do, and
very contrary to our mission,”  Tim Westergren , co-founder and
chief strategy officer, wrote on the website. “This is an
effort to balance the reality of increasing royalty costs with
our desire to maximize access to free listening on Pandora.”  User Options  The cap isn’t expected to create meaningful revenue,
Kennedy said. Some users will pay the 99 cents or sign up for
Pandora One, he said.  “Some will choose one of those options, but we would be
surprised if most people did that,” Kennedy said.  More than three-quarters of  Pandora  listening occurs on
mobile devices, which includes smartphones and tablet computers,
with most not exceeding the cap, the company said.  The mobile cap doesn’t apply to factory auto-sound systems
or consumer electronics devices, such as Web-connected
television sets and a Samsung refrigerator, the company said.
Pandora is available in 85 car models from Toyota, Honda, Ford,
Mercedes-Benz and others, and 760 consumer electronics products.  Pandora is increasing mobile ad sales, Kennedy said. In the
quarter ended Oct. 31, mobile advertising revenue more than
doubled to $73.9 million, outpacing the 85 percent gain in
mobile listening for the first time.  “We continue to grow mobile at a rapid pace,” Kennedy
said. “We expect to maintain and grow the size of our mobile
audience while managing the growth in hours.”  Royalty Rates  The company supports federal legislation that would lead to
lower royalty payments. Rates for music used by over-the-air,
online, satellite and pay-TV radio stations are determined every
five years by a three judge panel at the Copyright Royalty
Board, part of the Library of Congress.  Pandora and other online radio services paid 0.11 cent per
song in 2012, a fee that will rise to 0.14 cent in 2015. The
royalty board has yet to set rates for 2016 and beyond.  Those costs added up quickly, Kennedy said. The company
reported its 65.6 million active users streamed 1.39 billion
hours of programming in January, a 47 percent rise from a year
ago. Pandora has estimated royalty costs of $250 million for the
year ended last month, about 25 percent of all payments by made
radio companies worldwide, Kennedy said.  In July 2009 the company set a 40-hour limit on desktop
listening that was lifted in September 2011. During that time,
the company held music costs steady while building advertising
sales, Kennedy said. Pandora may remove the mobile cap when
mobile ad revenue catches up, he said.  “We look forward to the day, just as with desktop, that
the monetization rate rises and we can lift this cap on mobile,
too,” Kennedy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  