-- Paris Chagall Show Bewitches With Flying Horses, Brides
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2013-02-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/paris-chagall-show-bewitches-with-flying-horses-brides.html
Popularity can be a curse. Once  Marc Chagall  had made his name as one of the most successful artists
of the 20th century, he became sentimental and repetitive.  The art critic  Robert Hughes  dismissed Chagall’s late work
as “cloying ethnic kitsch.”  A show at the  Musee du Luxembourg  in Paris is a welcome
opportunity to reassess the legitimacy of his fame.  Wisely, the organizers have limited themselves to the
period between 1914, when Chagall had found his own style, and
the mid-fifties, when his tendency to plagiarize himself got the
better of him.  The sixties are represented only by a few studies for “La
Vie,” the enormous canvas he painted for the opening of the
Maeght Gallery, his neighbor in St. Paul de Vence.  Chagall (1887-1985) was born in Vitebsk in what is now
Belarus. At the time, it belonged to the Pale of Settlement, the
area in which the Jews of imperial  Russia  were allowed to live.  Chagall came from a simple, very pious family. Although he
soon left the narrow world of his childhood behind, the shtetl
and Orthodox Judaism remained the most important source of his
inspiration.  No School  From 1910 to 1914, he lived in Paris and had many friends
among the avant-garde. Although it’s easy to detect Cubist,
Expressionist and Surrealist influences in his work, he never
belonged to any school.  When the Bolsheviks seized power in Russia in 1917, Chagall
was among the many Jews who welcomed them as liberators. He
gladly accepted the job of Commissar of Fine Art in the Vitebsk
district.  The rivalry with his colleague Kasimir Malevich and the
hostility of other faculty members who disliked Chagall’s
“bourgeois individualism” drove him out of town.  In 1923, we find him again in  France  where he stayed for
the rest of his life, except for the years of the German
Occupation which he survived in  New York .  The show presents the 100 or so oil paintings, water
colors, drawings and etchings in more or less chronological
order, grouping them around the two world wars, each of which
disrupted Chagall’s life.  Limited Leitmotifs  Although the organizers do their best to vary the subjects,
Chagall’s obsession with a limited number of leitmotifs is all
too obvious.  Brides, rabbis, fiddlers and red animals, preferably flying
through the air, pop up again and again.  Perhaps the most surprising among his obsessions is a
Christian theme, the Crucifixion. Chagall used it as a symbol
for Jewish suffering and the destruction of Vitebsk in World War
II.  Several color lithographs in the show illustrate “The
Thousand and One Nights.” Although the suggestion originally
came from Chagall’s French dealer, Ambroise Vollard, the
oriental fairy tales and the artist seemed to be made for each
other.  Chagall himself said: “Remember that my painting is not
really European. It’s partly oriental.”  Many Parisians haven’t forgiven their government for
inviting Chagall to repaint the ceiling of the Opera. For the
500,000 tourists who visit the house every year, it’s the main
attraction.  They should complement their visit with this most enjoyable
show.  “Chagall, Between War and Peace” runs through July 21.
Information:  http://www.museeduluxembourg.fr .  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on U.K. art,  Ryan
Sutton  on New York food,  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater and
 Greg Evans  on television.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 