-- Pentagon Escalates Rhetoric Against Lockheed Over F-35
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2013-02-28T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/pentagon-escalates-rhetoric-against-lockheed-over-f-35.html
Pentagon officials are offering
increasingly blunt criticism of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the
world’s largest defense company, in efforts to curb the
escalating cost of its F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.  Air Force Lieutenant General Christopher Bogdan, the top
defense official overseeing the program, used an appearance at
an Australian air show to berate Lockheed and engine maker Pratt
& Whitney for trying to “squeeze every nickel” out of the
Pentagon and not doing more to cut costs.  “What I see Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney doing
today is behaving as if they are getting ready to sell me the
very last F-35 and the very last engine and are trying to
squeeze every nickel out of that last F-35 and that last
engine,” Bogdan told reporters at this week’s Australian
International Airshow, according to Reuters.  “I want them to do the things that will build a better
relationship,” Bogdan said. “I’m not getting all that love
yet.”  The broadside underscored the Pentagon’s growing
frustration with its lead contractors on the F-35, the most
expensive U.S. weapons system. Cost estimates have ballooned to
$395.7 billion, a 70 percent increase since 2001. The aircraft
program may face cutbacks because of sequestration, the across-
the-board  federal budget  reductions scheduled to begin taking
effect tomorrow.  Bogdan caused a similar stir in September, when, as the
deputy F-35 program manager, he said his office’s relationship
with Lockheed was “the worst I’ve ever seen.”  ‘Business Goals’  The Pentagon’s top weapons buyer, Frank Kendall, faulted
Lockheed in November for being too “focused on short-term
business goals” and not “focused more on execution of program
and successful delivery of the product.”  The public criticism is designed to prod Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed and Pratt & Whitney to change their
behavior, said Raymond Jaworowski, an aerospace analyst at
Forecast International of Newtown,  Connecticut .  “When you hear comments like this from military program
officials, it’s generally a way to put pressure on the
contractors in hopes of getting increased contract performance
or better prices in negotiations,” Jaworowski said in an
interview. “What stands out about this is that Bogdan has been
consistently critical and more than once taken occasion to make
public criticism of the program. That is a bit unusual.”  Companies Respond  Lockheed said in an e-mailed statement that it's working with
the Pentagon ``daily to drive costs out of the program.''  It said the company is ``making significant progress in
enhancing affordability of the jet as evidenced by the fact that
we have reduced costs by 50 percent since the procurement of the
first production aircraft.''  Pratt & Whitney, a unit of Hartford, Connecticut-based 
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , said the company is ``committed to the
F-35 program's long-term success.''  ``Despite numerous cuts in the F-35 acquisition plan, Pratt
& Whitney has maintained a long-term view and demonstrated our 
commitment by investing more than $50 million of our own 
funds and taking on risk ahead of contract schedule to prevent the
program from experiencing delays,'' the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Some Love’  Dan Goure, a defense analyst at the Lexington Institute, a
research group based in Arlington, Virginia,  criticized Bogdan
for blaming the contractors.  “If the general wants some love, perhaps he and the
Department of Defense should give a little back and stop
behaving like a battering spouse,” Goure wrote in a blog
posting. He said the Pentagon has complicated efforts to curb
costs because of “decisions to restructure the program and to
move production of hundreds of aircraft farther out in time.”  “Rather than accusing the companies he has to work with of
gouging him, General Bogdan should be thanking them for being
willing to stay in a business where the profit margins are low
and the environment fraught with uncertainty,” Goure wrote.  Bogdan’s criticism “should not be aired in public,” said
Richard Aboulafia, vice president of analysis at Teal Group
Corp., an aerospace research firm in Fairfax,  Virginia .  “It’s one thing to do it in front of Congress, but in
front of a foreign customer?” Aboulafia said in an interview.  Bogdan defended his tough talk as necessary for the success
of the airplane.  “Don’t expect me to be a cheerleader for the F-35
program,” he said at the air show, according to Australian
Aviation Magazine. “That’s not my job. My job is to execute
this program. If I start becoming an advocate or a zealot for
this program, I lose my credibility.”  Helping Boeing  The public rebuke may benefit  Boeing Co. (BA) , which makes the
Navy’s F-18, an alternative fighter that the Chicago-based
company has billed as cheaper and less of a risk than the newer
F-35, Aboulafia said.  Australia , which plans to buy 100 F-35s,
has already ordered 24 F-18s and may buy more, he said.  “The impression that the F-35 enemies in Australia are
going to convey is that the program doesn’t have its act
together yet,” Aboulafia said. Bogdan’s comments, he said,
aren’t “doing the program any favors, but on the other hand,
the contractors need to know that he’s the guy who signs the
checks.”  Fixing flaws and incorporating design changes on the first
63 Joint Strike Fighter jets may cost the Pentagon as much as
$1.26 billion, Kendall said in a report to Congress last year.  The criticism of contractor performance hasn’t stopped the
Pentagon from pushing forward with the F-35. A contract for a
fifth batch of fighters -- valued at about $3.8 billion -- was
signed in December in a move that protected those funds from the
automatic cuts that had been slated to begin Jan. 2, before the
deadline was extended.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  