-- Peregrine Financial’s $20 Million HQ Going Up for Sale
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-27T00:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/peregrine-financial-s-20-million-hq-going-up-for-sale.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
$20 million corporate headquarters and its 22-acre  Cedar Falls ,
 Iowa , site can put up for sale, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in Chicago today
granted, with no one opposed, a court-appointed receiver’s
request to retain  Woodland Hills , California-based GA Keen
Realty Advisors LLC to help market the building.  “The receiver believes the sale of the property may prove
difficult,” Randall Lending, an attorney for receiver Michael Eidelman, said in a Feb. 20 court filing seeking permission to
start that process. Lending cited the building’s size, its
location and what he called its “unique nature.”  Peregrine Financial collapsed last year after the
commodities firm’s founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr., revealed in
the course of a failed suicide attempt that he’d been stealing
from the business and its clients.  Accused of taking more than $200 million, he pleaded guilty
to fraud and was sentenced to 50 years in prison last month.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued
Wasendorf and the firm in  Chicago  one day after the July suicide
attempt and hours before the firm filed for bankruptcy.  Eidelman was then appointed by Pallmeyer to liquidate
Wasendorf’s assets, which included a Chicago lake shore
condominium that sold for $1 million in December, an Italian
restaurant, a publishing company and a part of a construction
business, for the repayment of creditors.  Natural Stone  In 2008, Wasendorf Construction LLC built the two-story
headquarters for the commodities firm. Peregrine’s now former
office has an all-glass exterior, 48,250 square feet of space,
floor coverings of natural stone, carpet, cork and bamboo,
geothermal heating and cooling and holds a gold certification
from the U.S. Green Building Council, in recognition of its
leadership in energy and environmental design.  It’s also encumbered by a $6.3 million mortgage held by
U.S. Bank NA, according to the receiver’s filing. The bank has
the right to utilize that credit should it decide to bid on the
property, according to the Feb. 20 court filing.  “I felt the employees would be proud of it,” Wasendorf,
the firm’s founder and chief executive officer, said on the
 video  celebrating the opening of the office in 2009.  While a sale price for the property hasn’t been
established, the receiver proposed that GA Keen oversee an
auction on or by May 31 and a court-approved closing by June 14.  “Due to the unique nature of the Property, the status of
the Cedar Falls/Waterloo real estate market and the likely list
of buyers for a building of this size and quality, sale of the
property will likely require significant marketing efforts to
obtain a successful bidder to purchase the property,” Lending
said.  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
Peregrine Financial Group, 12-cv-5383, in the U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  