-- Petrofac Falls to Three-Month Low on Offshore Investment
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-02-27T16:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/petrofac-falls-to-three-month-low-in-london-on-offshore-spending.html
Petrofac Ltd. (PFC)  fell to a three-month
low in London as the U.K.-based oil and gas engineering company
said it would invest $1 billion in its offshore business.  The company slid 6.3 percent, the biggest drop this month,
to 1,497 pence, the lowest level since Nov. 16. Petrofac expects
a “capital outlay of around $1 billion over the next five
years,” it said today in the 2012 earnings statement.  “We expect a negative reaction to the $1 billion offshore
investment announced, despite the fact that this is somewhat
anticipated,” Andrew Dobbing, an analyst at JPMorgan Cazenove,
wrote in an e-mailed note. “There is little in these results to
trigger any meaningful near-term share price upside.”  The company reported that net income rose 17 percent to
$632 million and its order backlog expanded by about 9 percent
to a record $11.8 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Ayman Asfari, who has overseen a
fourfold jump in share price since the start of 2009, said the
company is set to meet a target of doubling earnings from 2010
to 2015. Petrofac is spending to build its offshore capabilities
and integrated energy services, catering to state oil companies
in the Middle East,  Africa  and Latin America. The offshore unit
last year signed contracts in  Iraq , the North Sea and Malaysia.  “We’re confident we can generate the same margins,”
Asfari said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “We were
hoping to grow our backlog a bit more last year, but we’re
confident we can increase our awards again this year.”  The integrated energy services unit, which develops and
runs fields without booking reserves, tied up with  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB) , the largest oilfield services provider, to enhance output
in  Mexico . In Cameroon, Petrofac plans to work with  BowLeven Plc (BLVN) 
to provide gas to Ferrostaal AG for fertilizers from 2016.  “We expect to deliver good growth in net profit in 2013
and our strategy underpins long-term earnings growth, including
the achievement of our 2015 earnings target,” Asfari said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  