-- Pistorius Holds Memorial for Model He’s Accused of Killing
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-02-27T17:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/pistorius-holds-memorial-for-girlfriend-he-s-accused-of-killing.html
  Oscar Pistorius , the double-amputee
South African track star who ran in the Olympics, held a private
memorial service yesterday for Reeva Steenkamp, the 29-year-old
model he’s been accused of killing.  Pistorius was charged with murder after Steenkamp was shot
in his home on Feb. 14. The 26-year-old, who says he mistook
Steenkamp, 29, for an intruder, was released on 1 million rand
($113,000) bail on Feb. 22. The conditions of his release
included surrendering his guns and passports, abstaining from
alcohol and not leaving the South African capital,  Pretoria ,
without permission.  “I can confirm the memorial service took place,” Janine
Hills, chief executive officer of Vuma Reputation Management,
which is representing the athlete, said by phone today. “I
cannot give any more detail or say who attended it.”  The service, which was announced because of a “leak” to
the media, was held at the home of his uncle, Arnold Pistorius,
Vuma said yesterday, requesting privacy. The Pistorius family
was “devastated” following the reports of the service, Hills
said.  The athlete, known as the “ Blade Runner ” because of his
prosthetic running blades, met prisons officials yesterday to
discuss visiting rights as Steenkamp’s family appointed lawyers
to protect their interests.  Pistorius is free to move around Pretoria at specific times
during the week, Vuma said in an earlier e-mailed statement.
“The bail conditions of Oscar Pistorius do not specifically
state that he has to report to Pretoria’s Brooklyn Police
Station,” it said.  Family Shielded  Steenkamp’s parents appointed attorney Mike Venter and
senior advocate Dup de Bruyn to “act as a shield” for the
family, De Bruyn said by phone from  Port Elizabeth , on  South
Africa ’s southern coast. The death and investigation have been
on the front pages of most South African newspapers since Feb.
15, the day after Valentine’s Day, when Steenkamp was slain.  “This is a very sad and traumatic time for us,”
Steenkamp’s parents, Barry and June Steenkamp, said in a
statement e-mailed by De Bruyn yesterday. “Therefore, for the
time being, there will be no interviews or discussions with the
media whatsoever.”  Pistorius is considering asking the court to ease the bail
conditions, his lawyer Kenny Oldwage said Feb 25. These include
a probation officer providing weekly reports on Pistorius’s
mental health and emotional state to South Africa’s National
Prosecuting Authority and his defense team, according to the
statement. His curfew is 7 p.m. from Monday to Friday, 2 p.m. on
Saturday and 1 p.m. on Sunday.  Paralympic Gold  A substance found in Pistorius’s bedroom was Testis
compositum, a herbal remedy which helps muscle recovery, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing his public relations company.
The former lead police investigator on the case, Hilton Botha,
told a Pretoria court on Feb. 20 substances found at the
runner’s home were testosterone. The prosecution backtracked
from the statement and Botha has since been removed from the
case.  Pistorius has won six Paralympic gold medals. He became the
first amputee runner to compete at an  Olympic Games  in  London 
last year and was named by Time Magazine in its list of the
world’s 100 most-influential people. Pistorius was born without
fibulas and had both legs amputated below the knee when he was
11 months old.  Since the shooting, Pistorius has lost sponsorships with
 Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s largest sporting-goods company,  Luxottica
Group SpA (LUX) ’s Oakley and Clarins SA’s Thierry Mugler perfume
brand.  Pistorius is next scheduled to appear in court on June 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net ;
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  