-- Police Officials, Republicans Clash on Assault Weapon Ban
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-02-27T22:10:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/police-officials-republicans-clash-on-assault-weapon-ban.html
Law enforcement  officials and
Republican lawmakers clashed over a proposed assault-weapon ban
as it was debated in Congress for the first time since the
December shootings in Newtown,  Connecticut .  The Senate Judiciary Committee today heard from law
enforcement officials who spoke in support of restrictions on
semi-automatic assault weapons. Also testifying was Neil Heslin,
the father of a 6-year-old boy slain at the Sandy Hook
Elementary School in Newtown on Dec. 14.  “I just can’t believe that that could happen,” Heslin
told lawmakers while choking back tears. “Those weapons were
used in the battlefields of  Vietnam , in the  Persian Gulf , in
Afghanistan and  Iraq . Their sole purpose is to put a lot of lead
on the battlefield quickly.”  It’s “false logic” that a ban on assault weapons would
strip Americans of their Second Amendment right to bear arms,
said Edward Flynn, chief of the Milwaukee police department.
“These weapons are designed for combat” and “to cause lethal
wounds to human beings,” not for sporting or self-defense, he
said.  “A lot of people make a lot of money selling firearms and
ammunition,” Flynn said. “It’s time for Congress to pick a
side. This time I hope it’s law enforcement.”  Some Republicans said an assault-weapon ban would be
ineffective and would infringe on gun owners’ rights. Senator
Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican, emphasized his opposition to
new limits, including an assault-weapon ban.  ‘Enhance Safety’  “There’s much that can be done to enhance safety now that
is not being done” under current laws, Grassley said.  House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia
Republican, said earlier today he opposes an assault-weapon ban
and expanding background checks to cover almost all gun
purchases. He said he doesn’t expect his panel to take up either
issue.  The opposition of Goodlatte and other Republicans to
increased background checks signals the difficulty President
 Barack Obama  and advocates in Congress confront in advancing gun
restriction measures.  Given the hurdles to an assault weapon ban, Obama and
Democrats in Congress have made an expanded background check
system a priority following the shooting in Newtown that killed
20 children and six adults.  Judiciary Committee  The Senate Judiciary Committee is seeking to advance
legislation in the next two weeks. The measures include steps to
curtail gun trafficking, enhancing background checks and placing
limits on semi-automatic weapons and high-capacity ammunition
magazines. The committee may act on those bills as early as
tomorrow.  Republicans including Goodlatte and Grassley say Congress
should focus on adding more resources to the existing
background-check system and passing new laws to prosecute gun
traffickers and individuals who knowingly transfer guns to
criminals, commonly called straw purchasers.  In one tense exchange during today’s hearing, South
Carolina Senator  Lindsey Graham , a Republican, pressed the
Milwaukee police chief to cite the number of cases he’s
initiated against individuals who failed a background check.  “Clearly your focus is not on prosecuting people who fail
background checks,” said Graham, who challenged Flynn to cite
an example. “We ought to start enforcing the law that’s on the
books.”  70,000 People  “I want to stop 70,000 people from buying guns
illegally,” Flynn responded. He said his department has 2,000
gun-related cases a year.  “We’re not in a paper chase. We’re trying to prevent the
wrong people from buying guns,” Flynn said. “That’s what a
background check does.”  In the Senate, a bipartisan group of four lawmakers is
trying to reach agreement in the next week on expanding
background checks to most private sales of guns, with an
exception for transfers between family members.  The sticking point is how the records of gun sales should
be maintained. Advocates for tighter laws say licensed gun
dealers should retain a record to allow federal authorities to
track firearms found at crime scenes. A number of Republicans,
including Goodlatte, say that could lead to a national registry
of all gun purchases.  Goodlatte, whose committee oversees consideration of
firearms measures, said he is concerned that requiring
background checks in all firearms transactions would unduly
burden law-abiding gun buyers.  Federal Database  He said while his committee would review whatever the
Senate advances, his focus will be on measures to beef up the
current National Instant Criminal Background Check System by
requiring states to feed more criminal and mental-health records
into the database.  “Universal background checks I do not think will be a part
of that,” he told reporters at a breakfast sponsored by the
Christian Science Monitor in Washington.  Representative Mike Thompson, a California Democrat who led
a House panel on gun violence, predicted yesterday the House
would have to act on a background-check bill if it passed the
Senate. A Quinnipiac University poll released Feb. 7 found more
than 9 in 10 Americans support universal background checks for
firearms purchases.  “The American people want it,” he told reporters gathered
in his office, “and I’m not going to stop talking about it.”  Mayor Bloomberg  New York  City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , co-chairman of
Mayors Against Illegal Guns, met with Vice President  Joe Biden 
and four senators at the White House to discuss stopping gun
violence.  He told reporters that yesterday’s victory by Robin Kelly
in a Democratic primary in  Illinois  to replace former
Representative Jesse Jackson Jr. was a “harbinger of things to
come.” The mayor’s political committee financially backed Kelly
over her opponent, who opposes a ban on assault weapons. The
mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP.  Bloomberg said he was leaving Washington “with a smile on
my face” that there is a lot of support for new gun laws.
Still, he said, “I’m not under any delusion that this is a
slam-dunk or that it is already in the bag.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in  Washington  at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  