-- Gilts Rise Third Day as Economy Shrinks, Investors Seek Safety
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-02-27T16:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/pound-weakens-for-second-day-versus-euro-before-u-k-growth-data.html
Gilts advanced for a third day after
a government report showed the U.K. economy shrank last quarter,
boosting demand for the relative safety of Britain’s debt.  Ten-year yields dropped to the lowest level in eight weeks
as Bank of England Deputy Governor Charles Bean said policy
makers were ready to add more monetary stimulus. U.K. bonds also
rose amid speculation  Italy  faces a political vacuum after 5
Star Movement leader Beppe Grillo said his lawmakers wouldn’t
vote confidence in any government. Today’s gain means gilts have
risen every day since Moody’s Investors Service cut Britain’s
credit rating last week. The pound weakened versus the euro.  “Now the downgrade is behind us we have the perfect
backdrop for a rally in gilts,” said Jamal Meliani, a fixed-
income analyst at Newedge Group in Paris. “There’s loose
monetary policy, low growth and a demand for safe havens. That’s
a very powerful mix.’”  The 10-year gilt yield dropped two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.95 percent at 4:22 p.m. London time after
falling to 1.93 percent, the lowest level since Jan. 2. The 1.75
percent bond due in September 2022 rose 0.13, or 1.30 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 98.25.  The benchmark yield has declined 16 basis points since
Moody’s lowered the U.K.’s rating to Aa1 from Aaa on Feb. 22.
Investors including Pacific Investment Management Co. and Ignis
Asset Management said the decision was unlikely to have a
material impact on the country’s government bonds.  ‘Further Stimulus’  “We don’t expect that the rating cut will result in a
badly performing gilt market,” said Andreas Burhoi, a money
manager at DWS Investment in  Frankfurt ,  Germany ’s biggest mutual
fund, which oversees $379 billion. “The Bank of England will
provide any needed liquidity to support the gilt market and we
expect further stimulus.”  Britain’s economy  shrank  0.3 percent in the fourth quarter
after expanding 0.9 percent in the previous three months, the
Office for National Statistics said. The office revised its
full-year data and said the economy grew 0.2 percent in 2012
instead of stagnating.  Bean said in a speech in London that while the central bank
was ready to add more stimulus, there is “a danger of expecting
too much” from monetary policy.  “We stand ready to take further such action should it be
warranted,” he said. “But such policies cannot -- and should
not seek to -- prevent the necessary deleveraging and
rebalancing. That is a real process that takes time and means
that the recovery is likely to remain somewhat subdued.”  Asset Purchases  Fellow Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said yesterday he is
open to adding to asset purchases as policy makers stressed the
Bank of England has the flexibility to boost stimulus if needed.  Gilts also rallied as Italy’s Grillo, whose populist
movement was the top vote getter in parliamentary election this
week, rejected a call by Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani to join a coalition. A failure to form a government is
likely to set back steps to combat the nation’s debt crisis.  U.K. government bonds returned 2.7 percent over the past
year through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bonds gained 4.1 percent and Treasuries rose
2.2 percent.  The pound fell 0.3 percent to 86.61 pence per euro after
sliding to 88.15 pence on Feb. 25, the weakest since October
2011. It was little changed at $1.5127 after dropping to $1.5073
on Feb. 25, the lowest since July 2010.  Worst Performer  Sterling has overtaken the yen as the world’s worst-
performing major currency this year amid speculation the Bank of
England will add more monetary support to the economy.  Britain’s currency has fallen 5.4 percent in 2013,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The yen dropped 3.8 percent,
while the dollar strengthened 2.5 percent.  “I don’t see why people should buy the pound,” said John Hardy, head of currency strategy at Saxo Bank A/S in  London .
“Low growth, high inflation and policy outlook should continue
to pressure sterling. I need to see signs of more dynamism in
the economy and signs of investment coming back to the U.K. to
change that view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  