-- Puerto Rico Governor’s Pension Plan Increases Retirement Age
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-02-27T23:18:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/puerto-rico-governor-s-pension-proposal-increases-retirement-age.html
Puerto Rico  officials today unveiled
a plan to raise the island’s  retirement age  and employee
contributions to strengthen a pension with a funding level lower
than any U.S. state.  Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla, a member of the Popular
Democratic Party who took office last month, wants to boost the
6.8 percent funding level of the commonwealth’s largest
retirement system. The plan will run out of assets in 2014,
according to the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico,
the fiscal agent of the self-governing commonwealth.  The pension strains contributed to Moody’s Investors
Service’s move in December to lower the island to one step above
junk. Puerto Rico securities are tax-exempt in all U.S. states
and have lured investors nationwide hunting for extra yield.  The governor’s plan includes lifting the retirement age in
stages, to 65 from 58 for workers who have been in the system
the longest, and to 67 from 60 for the newest employees,
according to a press release from the  Development Bank .
Employees would also pay 10 percent of their salaries toward
retirement, from about 8 percent, according to the release.  Debt Prelude  Puerto Rico’s legislature will consider the proposal. The
commonwealth must implement pension changes before it can sell
debt, Javier Ferrer, president of the Development Bank, has
said.  The e-mailed proposal doesn’t include selling pension-
obligation bonds. Puerto Rico had almost $3 billion of such
bonds and $9.8 billion of general-obligation debt as of March
31, according to the commonwealth.  The recommendations would reduce workers’ December bonuses
and eliminate summer bonuses, while also cutting some health-
care contributions. The system would gain $100 million annually
from Puerto Rico’s general fund, according to the release.  The plan increases some benefits, such as raising minimum
pension levels. Employees hired after 2000 would receive an
annuity upon retirement rather than a one-time payment.  The commonwealth’s Government Employees Retirement System,
which includes 131,361 workers and 116,658 retirees, had $25.5
billion in projected obligations to current and future retirees,
according to the most recent actuarial report.  Trailing Illinois  By comparison,  Illinois  had about 43 percent of needed
assets, the weakest funding ratio among states, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Moody’s rates Puerto Rico Baa3, its lowest investment
grade, with a negative outlook.  Standard & Poor’s  has the
commonwealth one level higher at BBB, also with a negative
outlook.  Puerto Rico general-obligation bonds maturing in July 2041
traded today with an average yield of 5.09 percent, or 2.1
percentage points above a benchmark index, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The commonwealth had $51.9 billion of net tax-supported
debt, or $14,004 per capita, about 10 times the U.S. average,
according to the latest Moody’s tally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  