-- RBA Says Up to 34 Central Banks Holding Australian Dollars
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-02-28T06:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/rba-says-up-to-34-central-banks-hold-australian-dollar-reserves.html
The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  said
the country’s currency is held by as many as 34 central banks
from Reykjavik to Santiago, and models suggested the Aussie
dollar was as much as 15 percent overvalued, documents showed.  The central banks of Slovakia and Slovenia were recent
additions in a list of 16 economies that publicly hold the
Australian currency, according to papers prepared in the second
half of 2012 and released today under a Freedom of Information
Act  request  by  Bloomberg News . Newcomers on a list of 18
possible holders included China, France, India, South Korea,
Thailand and South Africa.  “Most models -- including the staff’s internal models and
the IMF’s models suggest the  exchange rate  is overvalued by 4-15
percent,” a document for the RBA’s September board meeting
showed. The so-called Aussie was at $1.0277 at 4:32 p.m. in
Sydney, having traded between $1.0167 and $1.0625 in September.
While the models suggested the currency was overvalued, it
wasn’t “substantially so,” the document showed.  Australia’s economy is struggling under the sustained
strength of the nation’s currency, which has remained above
parity with the  U.S. dollar  for eight months, the longest
stretch since it was freely floated in 1983. The RBA cut
 interest rates  by 1.75 percentage points in the past 16 months
and has said it takes the exchange rate into account when
setting monetary policy.  ‘Somewhat Too High’  Governor  Glenn Stevens  said last week the currency is
“somewhat too high” considering declines in prices for the
nation’s commodity exports, while adding he would need to be
confident it is “seriously overvalued” before considering
intervention to weaken the exchange rate.  “The RBA is on the edge of a policy dilemma with respect
to the currency,” said  Matthew Johnson , a Sydney-based
interest-rate strategist at UBS AG. “Substantial further
strength, say a move above $1.10, would require further rate
cuts, but there is a limit to how far one ought to push such a
policy, as it may create financial stability issues a little
further down the track.”  Demand from abroad for Australian government bonds helped
drive yields on all the securities to record lows last June.
Benchmark 10-year rates touched 2.698 percent June 4 after
foreign holdings of federal securities reached as high as 82.3
percent in the third quarter of 2011. The rate was little
changed today at 3.35 percent.  Traders see about a 75 percent chance the central bank will
lower its 3 percent benchmark rate to a record 2.75 percent by
June, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Weak Growth  The RBA predicted below trend 2013 growth on Feb. 8. It
lowered its estimate to about 2.5 percent, from about 2.75
percent forecast in November, citing weak investment outside the
 mining industry  and a stronger-than-expected currency.  Along with the  New Zealand , Canadian, Swedish and other
currencies, the Aussie has strengthened since 2008 as nations
such as the U.S., Japan and the U.K. reduced rates to near-zero
and carried out quantitative easing to boost their economies.  “Australia has been one beneficiary of the global
portfolio reallocation to highly rated assets resulting from the
increased relative riskiness of holding euro-denominated
assets,” the September document showed. “ Canada  and a number
of Scandinavian countries, as well as  Switzerland , have seen
similar flows.”  Swiss Intervention  The Swiss central bank has pledged to stop its currency
strengthening beyond 1.20 francs per euro.  The SNB’s foreign-currency  reserves  surged 86 percent in 12
months to 427 billion francs ($460 billion) at the end of
January as policy makers stepped up euro purchases to curb flows
sparked by the region’s debt crisis. The reserves reached a
record 429 billion francs in September.  “While the extreme circumstances facing Switzerland last
year presented a clear and credible case for intervention, the
circumstances in Australia cannot yet be considered
comparable,” the RBA documents showed. “There is not strong
evidence that the Australian dollar is posing an imminent threat
of deflation or is highly contractionary for the domestic
economy.”  The RBA said 21 central banks, including the  Federal
Reserve ,  European Central Bank ,  Bank of Japan (8301) ,  Bank of England 
and  Bank of Canada , don’t hold the so-called Aussie.  Slovakia and Slovenia’s central banks were added to a list
of 15 Australian currency holders that was created in July by
the RBA and released in September under an earlier FOI request
by Bloomberg News. Germany’s classification was moved from
definite to possible.  Saudi Arabia  An e-mail among the documents, in which the sender’s name
was redacted, said researchers have been unable to uncover
official announcements from Middle Eastern countries on their
holdings of Australian dollars.  “However, based on their relatively large holdings of FX
reserves and the media reports below, we would classify U.A.E.,
Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait as countries possibly holding
AUD,” it said. “The composition of Iran’s FX reserves, on the
other hand, would most likely be classified as ‘unknown.’”  The central banks confirmed or possibly holding the
Australian dollar manage as much as $7 trillion between them in
their reserves, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They
have benefited from including the Australian dollar as the South
Pacific nation’s bonds delivered this year’s only returns among
top-rated sovereign debt.  Azerbaijan’s State Oil Fund, known as Sofaz, started
investing in Australian dollars last year as the third-biggest
oil producer in the former Soviet Union diversified reserves.
The fund had $34.1 billion of assets as of Jan. 1, according to
Sofaz’s website.  “The demand for Australian  government bonds  is part of the
reason the Aussie dollar is strong,” said Johnson at UBS.
“Inflation risk is a very large factor in the portfolio
allocations of bond investors, including central banks, that
choose to take exposure to currency moves. Australia, with low
debt and conventional monetary policy, has very low inflation
risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  