-- Real Madrid Readies Bale Bid; PSG Targets Rooney: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-27T05:55:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/real-madrid-readies-bale-bid-psg-targets-rooney-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Real Ready  Real  Madrid  has the desire and finances to sign Tottenham’s
Gareth Bale in the offseason, the  Daily Telegraph reported ,
citing the Spanish club’s former president Ramon Calderon.  Spurs wouldn’t listen to offers below 50 million pounds
($75.5 million) for the Wales winger, who is also being closely
monitored by Paris Saint-Germain, Bayern Munich,  Barcelona  and
Manchester City, the newspaper added.  “There is always a limit but Real Madrid is in a very
healthy situation, economically speaking, so it would be in the
position to sign him,” the Telegraph cited Calderon as saying.  Select Group  Real is prepared to pay Spurs 30 million pounds up front
for Bale with a further 10 million pounds over the following
four years, the  Daily Star reported .  According to the terms of the four-year contract Bale
signed in June, Real is among a select group of clubs he’d be
allowed to talk to if they show interest, the newspaper added.  PSG Wants Rooney  Paris Saint-Germain is giving serious consideration to
making a bid for Manchester United striker Wayne Rooney at the
end of this season, the  Times of London reported .  It’s not clear what the French league leader is prepared to
offer for the 27-year-old Rooney, who will enter the final two
years of his United contract in June, the Times said.  Fellaini Fight  Everton faces a fight to keep midfielder Marouane Fellaini
after Real Madrid, Chelsea and both Manchester clubs expressed
an interest in signing the Belgian, the  Daily Mail reported .  Fellaini is aware of the attention and is interested in
possibilities away from Everton, which usually sells one
valuable player each offseason to boost its financial situation,
the Mail added.  Defoe Return?  Tottenham striker Jermain Defoe could make a surprise
return in the north  London  derby against Arsenal on March 3, the
 Sun reported .  Defoe, who’s scored 14 goals for Spurs this season, resumed
training this week after injuring his ankle Feb. 3 playing
against West Bromwich Albion, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  