-- Treasury Wine Profit Beats Estimates on Higher Asia Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-28T06:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/treasury-wine-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-higher-asian-sales.html
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE) ,
 Australia ’s largest winemaker, posted first-half profit that
beat analyst estimates as rising Asian sales and cost-cutting
limited negative currency movements. The shares surged.  Net income  rose 31 percent to A$52 million ($53 million) in
the six months ended December from A$40 million a year earlier,
the Melbourne-based company said in a statement today. That
exceeded the A$47 million median estimate of six analysts
surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Better availability of luxury and premium wines over the
next six months should support demand for higher-value labels
that make up as much as 70 percent of operating profit, Chief
Executive Officer David Dearie told an investor call. Treasury
has been buying land and planting new vines to develop higher-
margin wines as the strong Australian dollar makes cheaper
labels less profitable.  “Treasury Wine has performed better than the branded
Australian market,” Stuart Jackson, an analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in Sydney, wrote in a note to clients Feb. 5. Asian
growth was “extremely robust,” he wrote.  Treasury shares rose 8.2 percent to close at A$5.30 in
Sydney, their best performance since July 2011 and a four-month
high. The move capped a 36 percent gain over the past year
that’s outpaced the 20 percent advance in the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 index.  Forecast Earnings  The winemaker is counting on luxury and high-end products
to boost earnings as the strength of the Australian dollar makes
lower-priced export labels unprofitable and domestic liquor
chains push for cheaper products under their own labels.  The dollar means it’s “hard to compete at more commercial
or popular price points,” Dearie said in the investor call. A
lack of investment in rebranding Australian wines was
exacerbating this effect and the country’s federal and state
governments need to do more to support the industry, he said.  The global wine industry is “edging ever closer to supply
and demand balance,” Dearie said in a statement, reaffirming a
forecast that Treasury’s earnings would grow this year in the
“mid-single digits”.  Strong Dollar  The earnings measure excludes interest, tax, and
adjustments for the value of vineyards, and assumes no move in
exchange rates. The Australian dollar rose 1.4 percent against
the  U.S. dollar  during the six-month period, and ended the year
up about 15 percent from its level three years earlier.  Oversupplies of wine have depressed industry profits in
recent years.  Global stocks of wine declined by nearly four billion
liters between 2006 and 2011 to at least a 10-year low as
production slipped below consumption, according to an October
report by Rabobank International.  Treasury’s sales during the period declined 1.4 percent to
A$851 million as volumes fell 2.5 percent to 16.5 million nine-
liter cases.  Treasury, spun off from Fosters Group Ltd. in 2011 before
the brewer was taken over by  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , has posted profit
 increases  in three consecutive semi-annual periods, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings before interest, tax, one-time items and
adjustments for the values of its vineyards dropped 20 percent
to A$73 million as a result of the strengthening of the
Australian dollar, the company said.  Overseas sales accounted for about 65 percent of  total 
revenue during the year ended June 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  