-- Reed Smith, Fulbright, Sheppard Mullin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-27T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/reed-smith-fulbright-sheppard-mullin-business-of-law.html
Reed Smith LLP  opened the firm’s
first Texas office in Houston, with 12 partners from seven
firms, including Fulbright & Jaworski LLP,  Baker Botts  LLP and
Haynes & Boone LLP, half of whom will bolster the energy and
natural resources industry group.  This is just the beginning for the office, which currently
totals 17 with associates and counsel, Michael Pollack, the
firm’s global head of strategy said in an interview.  “Ultimately we would like the office to be a well-
balanced, full service office with 100 plus lawyers,” he said.  Six of the new lawyers joining Reed Smith, will be in the
energy natural resources industry group including E. Lee Haag
and Chris Watt from Fulbright & Jaworski; Paul B. Turner, from
Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP; Craig R. Enochs and Daniel
Nossa from Jackson Walker LLP; and Charles “Stan” Perry from
Haynes & Boone.  Haynes & Boone lawyers Kenneth E. Broughton and Francisco
Rivero, join  Reed Smith ’s U.S. commercial litigation practice.  Wanda G. Holloway joins the labor and employment practice
from Seyfarth Shaw LLP; Carol M. Burke, joins the financial
industry group from Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP; and
Robert R. Riddle joins the firm’s IP practice from Baker Botts.
Baker Botts’s Stephen E. Scheve joins the life-sciences health
industry group.  Four additional lawyers also joined in several practice
groups, including two in energy and natural resources.  Reed Smith real estate and energy and natural resources
partner David A. Thompson, who has been the  San Francisco 
managing partner since 2003, will move to Houston to handle the
integration of the new lawyers at the firm.  Pollack said the firm looked for a local firm to merge with
or acquire but when that didn’t work out it sought to build its
own office though lateral hires. More than half of the firm’s
largest clients have operations in Houston, particularly in the
oil, banking and health care sectors.  “So many clients want to work with fewer and fewer law
firms. That’s part of what drove us here,” he said.  Houston is the Reed Smith’s 14th U.S. office and 25th
world-wide. The firm has more than 1,700 lawyers in 25 offices
in the U.S.,  Europe , Asia and the  Middle East .  News  Fulbright & Jaworski Litigation Trends Survey Finds Rise in 2012  U.K and U.S. corporate law departments had an increase in
litigation and regulatory investigations spending last year,
according to a  survey  by Fulbright & Jaworski LLP law firm.  Litigation rose to 2010 levels, with labor and employment
and contract suits leading the rebound, according to the survey,
which the firm has done for the last nine years. The number of
lawsuits initiated by and defended by corporations increased
last year. The survey found that 60 percent of the companies
surveyed initiated lawsuits compared to 48 percent in 2011.  Regulatory investigations also increased, reaching a five-
year high, with U.S. companies hiring outside counsel at a rate
of 60 percent compared to 55 percent in 2011. In the U.K., those
numbers increased from 27 percent in 2011 to 72 percent last
year.  “As litigation rebounded in 2012, more companies,
particularly in energy, health care, and manufacturing,
experienced an increase in government and regulatory
investigations,” Otway B. Denny, the head of Fulbright’s global
disputes practice said in a statement. “All three of these
industries, along with technology, were involved in
investigations that concerned at least six different U.S.
regulators.”  The survey gathered input from 392 in-house attorneys, 82
percent of whom are general counsel. Among the respondents, 275
are from the U.S.  The survey found that corporate law offices don’t expect
much change in 2013. Ninety two percent, compared to 89 percent
last year, expect legal disputes to increase or stay the same.  Obituary  Mary Ross, Early Leader of Female New York Lawyers, Dies at 102  Mary R. Cowell Ross, a former president of the  New York 
Women’s Bar Association who got her break in law because of the
shortage of men in the civilian workforce during World War II,
has died. She was 102.  She died on Feb. 2 at her apartment at the  Pierre Hotel  in
New York, according to a death notice published yesterday in the
New York Times.  On her way to becoming the 14th president of the New York  
Women’s Bar Association  from 1955 to 1957, Ross led its
committee for equal opportunities. In a speech wrapping up her
two-year term, she reported that women being turned away from
law firms remained a “common occurrence” and that female
lawyers were paid less than men and had slim chances of becoming
partner, according to the New York Times.  Ross began her college studies at the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln and graduated from Vassar College in
Poughkeepsie, New York, in 1932. She worked as a department
store buyer in Lincoln, then as a legal secretary in
Springfield,  Missouri , before enrolling in what today is the
University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys  School of Law . She
earned her law degree in 1938.  She worked in  Washington  for the federal government during
World War II, chiefly in the branch of the  Justice Department 
that disposed of enemy-owned property in the U.S.  She moved to New York in 1946 to work for a predecessor of
law firm Rogers & Wells, which in 2000 became part of London-
based Clifford Chance LLP. Her specialty was wills, trusts and
estates. She left Rogers & Wells in 1961 to go into private
practice.  For more, click here.  Firm News  White Named Managing Partner of Jackson Lewis’s Houston Office  Jackson Lewis LLP named Ruthie N. White to the role of
Houston office managing partner, succeeding Teresa S.
Valderrama. Valderrama will continue in her role as partner and
litigation manager of the Houston office, the firm said.  White, who has more than two decades of business and legal
experience, handles discrimination, harassment and retaliation
cases.  Jackson Lewis has 750 attorneys practicing in 52 locations
nationwide.  Moves  Sheppard Mullin Hires Two Partners in California  David A. Randall has joined the Los Angeles office of
Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP as a partner in the
firm’s intellectual property practice group. He was previously
at Dickstein Shapiro LLP.  The firm also hired Robert J. Guite as a partner in the
firm’s business trial practice group in San Francisco. Guite
joins from Squire Sanders LLP, where he was hiring partner for
that firm’s Northern California offices, the firm said.  Randall has represented clients in patent, trademark, and
trade secret disputes. Recently, he successfully defended
Belkin, Best Buy and RadioShack against Aerielle Technologies in
a multi-patent case related to FM transmitters, according to a
firm statement.  Guite focuses his litigation practice on commercial, class
action, products liability, ERISA and insurance matters.  Sheppard Mullin has 630 attorneys in 16 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  Litigation  Wiretapping-Law Challenges Barred by U.S. Supreme Court  Lawyers and civil rights activists can’t challenge a
federal law that allows government surveillance of international
phone calls and e-mail, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a
victory for the Obama administration.  The justices, voting 5-4 along ideological lines, yesterday
said groups and people represented by the  American Civil
Liberties Union  hadn’t shown they were being harmed by the
surveillance. The ACLU’s clients include  Amnesty International ,
lawyers, international rights activists and journalists.  The activists contended that the 2008 law violates the
Constitution by allowing the monitoring, with minimal court
supervision, of international communications by Americans who
aren’t suspected of criminal or terrorist activities.  “It is speculative whether the government will imminently
target communications to which respondents are parties,”
Justice  Samuel Alito  wrote for the majority.  Yesterday’s ruling didn’t address the lawfulness of the
wiretapping law itself, saying only that the ACLU and its allies
lack legal “standing” to pursue their suit. The standing
requirement stems from the constitutional limit on federal
courts’ authority to decide “cases” and “controversies.”  The administration argued that the law is aimed at
monitoring communications by non-Americans outside this country,
not the people on the U.S. end of a phone call or e-mail.  Justices Stephen Breyer,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan  dissented. Writing for the group,
Breyer said the people and organizations that sued probably
would be involved in at least some of the conversations that are
intercepted.  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Antonin Scalia,
 Clarence Thomas  and  Anthony Kennedy  joined Alito in the
majority.  The law was enacted following the public disclosure in 2005
that President  George W. Bush , after the 2001 terrorist attacks,
ordered the National Security Agency to intercept telephone
calls between suspected terrorists overseas and their comrades
in the U.S. The surveillance was conducted without court review.  The case is Clapper v. Amnesty International USA, 11-1025,
U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  Podcast  N.Y. Anti-Terror Law Hurts Pursuit of Terrorism, Lawyer Says  Catherine Amirfar, litigation partner at Debevoise &
Plimpton LLP, talks about recently obtaining a landmark victory
on behalf of her client, Edgar Morales, in the first ever case
of a gang member tried as a terrorist. On December 11, 2012, New
York’s highest court threw out manslaughter, attempted murder
and weapon possession convictions of the alleged Bronx gang
member who was the first defendant to be prosecuted under an
antiterrorism statute passed several days after the September
11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  Amirfar, speaking with Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck, also
explains why the statute should not be applied to commonplace
street violence and how the court’s decision will impact other
states with similar anti-terror laws.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 