-- Romania Leu Best Emerging-Market Performer on Bond Index Entry
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-27T13:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/romania-leu-best-emerging-market-performer-on-bond-index-entry.html
Romania ’s leu gained the most in two
weeks, the best-performing emerging market currency, as the
inclusion of the nation’s debt into JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  bond
index  spurred investors’ interest for the country’s assets.  The leu headed for a fourth monthly advance as some of
Romania’s fixed-income securities are eligible for entry to
JPMorgan’s and Barclays Plc’s emerging-market bond indexes from
March 1 and from March 31. The euro strengthened for the first
time in three days against the dollar as  Italy  reached its
target in a bond sale.  “From March, the structural flow of real money into
Romanian bonds will begin, which will mean better balance of
payments support for currency appreciation,”  Roderick Ngotho , a
London-based strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,
wrote in a note. “Long leu is a good idea for the medium
term.”  The currency appreciated 0.4 percent to 4.3832 per euro by
2 p.m. in Bucharest today, the highest level on a closing basis
since Feb. 1. The leu has advanced 1.8 percent this year, the
second-best performance among emerging  Europe ,  Middle East  and
Africa currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after Iceland’s Krona.  The euro gained 0.4 percent versus the dollar to 1.3106,
after falling more than 1 percent yesterday on concerns Italy’s
inconclusive parliamentary elections will worsen Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis. Economic confidence in the euro area
increased more than economists forecast in February.  “Today we can see a slight rebound of the euro as the
sentiment index in the Eurozone was slightly better than
expected,” Bernd Berg, emerging-markets strategist at Credit
Suisse AG in Zurich, said by e-mail. “As a result Eastern
European currencies like the leu are recovering.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  