-- Runway Closings Certain Under U.S. Cuts, FAA Chief Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-27T18:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/runway-closings-inevitable-if-u-s-cuts-happen-faa-chief-says.html
The two busiest U.S. airports may
have to close runways and limit arriving flights if automatic
budget cuts cause furloughs of air-traffic controllers, Federal
Aviation Administrator Michael Huerta said.  Huerta’s remarks to a House aviation subcommittee today in
Washington dovetailed with forecasts by the National Air Traffic
Controllers Association that runway closings in Atlanta,  Chicago 
and Houston would reduce hourly flight arrivals by as much as 37
percent.  Congressional Republicans said the FAA could find other
ways to move funds within its budget and trim spending to avoid
having to close more than 200 towers and reduce air-traffic
services.  “The FAA is going to have to make some tough decisions,”
said Bill Shuster, the Pennsylvania Republican who is chairman
of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  Atlanta’s Hartsfield-Jackson International and Chicago’s
O’Hare International, which ranked first and second by
departures in the 12 months ended in November, may have to close
runways at times, Huerta said.  Hartsfield typically uses three runways for arriving
flights, he said. Under some weather conditions, controllers may
have to trim arrivals to two runways, he said. When weather or
visibility deteriorates, FAA procedures may require more
controllers to ensure safety.  United, Delta  O’Hare is a hub for  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ’s
United Airlines, the world’s biggest carrier, and  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American Airlines. Atlanta is  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ’s largest
base and Houston’s George Bush Intercontinental Airport is a
United hub. U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood on Feb. 22
warned of 90-minute delays in New York and San Francisco as well
as Chicago.  Shuster said he is “a little frustrated” with the FAA’s
estimates that so-called sequestration would result in delays at
major airports starting in April.  The FAA will have to cut $627 million by Sept. 30, Huerta
said at the hearing. The only way to reach that level is by
subjecting most of the agency’s 47,000 employees to at least one
unpaid day off every two weeks, Huerta said.  The agency has already reduced travel, training and
consultant contracts, Huerta said. Broader cuts are required to
reach the levels needed, he said.  Sequestration will go into effect March 1 if lawmakers
can’t agree on a deficit reduction plan. The agency will have to
close as many as 238 airport towers at small- and mid-sized
airports and begin furloughs in April if no agreement is
reached, Huerta said.  Two Towers  O’Hare has two towers to oversee its seven runways. If
controllers are furloughed, the agency may have to close one of
the towers, which would prohibit flights from using the runway
in that area, Huerta said.  “These are the sort of impacts that could result at large
airports,” he said.  Transportation Security Administrator John Pistole,
testifying to a House Appropriations subcommittee, said the
agency may be able to save money by pulling screeners out of
some small airports where the FAA plans to close towers, if
carriers elect to stop flying there as a result.  “If the airlines aren’t flying, and there’s no FAA, then
obviously, there’s no need for TSA security,” Pistole said.  No Surge  The longer the automatic budget cuts last, the greater the
effects, Pistole said. The agency is looking at a hiring freeze
and reducing overtime before it institutes furloughs, he said.
The impact of reduced overtime would be seen during peak travel
times like spring break, the summer and holidays, when TSA
increases staffing at checkpoints to speed screening.  “If we’re not paying overtime, then we would not have the
ability to surge those resources,” Pistole said.  Shuster and South Dakota Senator John Thune, ranking
Republican on the Senate Commerce Committee, said in an e-mailed
statement that the FAA should cut spending from the $500 million
allotted for “consultants” before furloughing controllers.  Huerta said that area of the FAA’s budget is for contracts
to maintain equipment such as the communication networks
controllers use to talk to pilots. It can’t be eliminated
without creating new effects on air travel, he said.  Shuster said he wasn’t convinced. “I believe that you will
find $30 million a month without the threat of furloughs,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  