-- Russian Treasury to Offer Budget Funds by Repos This Year
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-02-27T13:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/russian-treasury-to-offer-budget-funds-by-repos-this-year.html
Russia  plans to begin offering banks
money from the treasury through  repurchase agreements  this year,
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  “We must continue working to introduce a way to provide
temporarily available budget funds through repo deals,”
Siluanov said in a speech to Federal Treasury officials in
Moscow today. “We and the central bank will provide liquidity
on roughly equal terms.”  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, ran a  federal
budget   surplus  that reached 789 billion rubles ($26 billion) in
the first 11 months of last year before ending with a deficit of
less than 0.1 percent of gross domestic product. Providing
additional cash throughout the year would help reduce the
government’s impact on the amount of rubles held by lenders,
which the central bank says complicates its monetary policy.  The plans have already received backing from the central
bank and are currently being approved by the  Finance Ministry ,
Roman Artyukhin, head of the treasury, told reporters today. The
repo deals can only begin after changes are passed to the Budget
Code, he said.  Repo agreements with the treasury will be similar to those
now offered by Bank Rossii, and they’ll be available to a larger
group of lenders because the loans are backed by collateral,
Artyukhin said.  Short Horizon  “Our horizon is very short, 30 days tops,” he said,
responding to a question on the length of the treasury repo
deals. “Even better would be one day, one night -- that’s our
market.”  The government will continue offering the same funds
through deposit auctions, which don’t require collateral and are
limited to the largest and safest banks, Artyukhin said.  “They’ll be for a small group of banks -- the very best --
and very expensive,” he said.  Banks bid for 25.6 billion rubles at the treasury’s deposit
auction yesterday, more than the maximum of 20 billion rubles
offered, even after the minimum rate was raised to 5.8 percent
from 5.6 percent a week earlier.  A second auction of 20 billion rubles for five days will be
held tomorrow, the treasury said on its website last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  