-- Ryanair Bid for Aer Lingus Blocked by EU Antitrust Agency
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-27T15:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ryanair-s-aer-lingus-bid-blocked-by-eu-over-monopoly-concerns.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ’s 694 million-
euro ($909 million) bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  was blocked by
the European Union for a second time after regulators decided it
would increase fares and reduce choice on flights from Ireland.  Merging the two Dublin-based airlines would have created a
monopoly or a near-monopoly on 46 routes from Ireland, the
European Commission said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The acquisition of Aer Lingus by Ryanair would have most
likely led to higher fares,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement. Ryanair’s concessions
“were simply inadequate to solve the very serious competition
problems which this acquisition would have created.”  Europe ’s largest discount carrier said earlier this month
that the EU was planning to block its bid. Ryanair owns about 30
percent of Aer Lingus and in June renewed its attempt to buy the
rest after two prior takeover efforts failed.  The decision by the EU antitrust agency comes just a month
after it banned  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) ’s proposed takeover
of  TNT Express NV. (TNTE)   Ryanair will challenge today’s ruling in the EU courts, the
airline said in a statement. It said regulators rejected its
proposed concessions in response to “the narrow and misguided
political interests of the Irish government,” which owns 25
percent of Aer Lingus and opposed the takeover.  Two Airlines  Irish Transport Minister  Leo Varadkar , who controls the
state stake in Aer Lingus, said “the continued presence of at
least two strong competing airlines serving Ireland’s air
transport needs is clearly good for competition,” according to
an e-mailed statement.  The bid raised “unprecedented” antitrust concerns, the EU
said, giving the combined airline an outright monopoly on 28
routes and facing only weak competition from charter airlines on
another 11 routes. The joint airline would dominate another
seven routes, the EU said.  EU regulators in 2007 blocked a previous Ryanair bid for
Aer Lingus, saying a takeover would allow the discount airline
to dominate 35 routes and control 80 percent of the market in
Dublin. Ryanair lost a 2010 appeal of the merger ban.  Aer Lingus said in a statement today it was pleased with
the EU’s prohibition of the deal, saying it was the first time
the agency “needed to block the same deal twice.”  Flybe Unsuitable  In an effort to persuade regulators to approve the deal,
Ryanair had offered to pay  Flybe Group Plc (FLYB)  100 million euros to
take over almost half of Aer Lingus’s short-haul business,
indicating the U.K. airline could replace the Irish carrier as a
competitor. It also agreed to cede three London routes to
 International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) ’s British Airways.  Flybe wasn’t a “suitable purchaser” of the Aer Lingus
assets, regulators said, and didn’t seem to have financial
resources, incentive or experience to operate an Irish carrier
on a lasting basis. The regional U.K. operator would have faced
“a challenge in operating” the larger Airbus aircraft used by
Aer Lingus and had limited experience in the Irish market.  Almunia told reporters today it was unlikely Flybe would
have made a profit on the 43 routes it would have operated.  Flybe said it “remains firmly of the view” that Ryanair’s
transfer to the company of aircraft and operating routes “would
have afforded credible and robust competition, including new
jobs and bases in Ireland.”  London Routes  The EU also said it expected BA would have exited or scaled
back on the London routes after an agreed three years of
operations.  Ryanair separately faces an investigation by the U.K.’s
 Competition Commission  into its Aer Lingus stake. Ryanair has
also said it faces 18 probes by EU regulators examining state
subsidies to airports across Europe. Those investigations are
examining whether subsidies may have funded lower landing
charges and other arrangements that benefited the low-cost
carrier over rivals.  Ryanair Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in
September that the company would consider selling its Aer Lingus
stake if regulators turned down a “revolutionary” package of
concessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  