-- Sarkozy Ex-Aide’s Office Searched in Tapie Award Investigation
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2013-02-27T17:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sarkozy-ex-aide-s-office-searched-in-tapie-award-investigation.html
French police raided the home and
office of former President Nicolas Sarkozy’s chief-of-staff in
relation to a 385 million-euro ($504 million) arbitration award
to businessman Bernard Tapie,  France Info radio  said.  The police searched Claude Gueant’s addresses in Paris as
part of an investigation of the 2008 arbitration court decision
in favor of Tapie, a Sarkozy supporter, the radio station said
today, without citing anyone. The Paris prosecutor’s office
declined to comment.  Separately, the  Cour de Justice de la Republique , which
investigates ministers’ actions in office, is looking into
whether then French finance minister Christine Lagarde erred in
agreeing to an arbitration to end the dispute with Tapie. The
court opened its investigation into whether there was
“complicity in forgery” or “complicity in misuse of public
funds” in the case in 2011, soon after Lagarde became head of
the  International Monetary Fund .  The first documents seized at Gueant’s home and office may
show that Sarkozy’s office pushed Lagarde to use an arbitration
panel to end the dispute, the radio station said. The state
turned to arbitration to avoid further appeals after winning a
2006 ruling by the nation’s highest court overturning what had
been an award of less than half what Tapie eventually got.  Lagarde has stood by her decision in the case, saying in an
interview with  France  2 television on Jan. 25 that “it was the
best solution at the time and I think it was the right choice.”  Mediapart news website reported this month that the Cour de
Justice may indict Lagarde in the case.  Adidas Sale  The arbitration panel awarded Tapie 385 million euros in
damages to settle his dispute over his company’s sale of German
sportswear brand  Adidas AG. (ADS)  Tapie claimed Credit Lyonnais
mishandled the 1993 sale and pursued a claim against the
formerly state-owned bank’s liquidator.  The arbitration court awarded Tapie 45 million euros in
damages on top of 240 million euros for his creditors and about
100 million euros in interest. Lagarde refused to appeal the
decision, saying “a very large majority” of the money would
return to the state through the creditors’ claims.  Lagarde was France’s longest-serving finance minister since
the 1970s. Questions about her handling of the dispute involving
Tapie, a former Socialist minister who endorsed Sarkozy’s
presidential bid, lasted throughout her time in office.  French police have also searched the homes of  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard, who was
Lagarde’s chief-of-staff when she was finance minister, Tapie,
the arbitration panel judges and Tapie’s lawyer’s office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  