-- SEC Must File Fraud Suits Sooner, U.S. High Court Rules
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-27T19:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sec-must-file-fraud-suits-sooner-u-s-supreme-court-rules-1-.html
The Securities and Exchange
Commission must move more quickly in pressing some fraud
lawsuits, the U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled in a decision that may
affect agencies across the government.  The justices today unanimously ruled in favor of two
Gabelli Funds LLC officials seeking to block SEC claims that
they improperly let a client engage in market timing, a practice
of making frequent, short-term trades at the expense of other
investors. They contend the SEC missed the five-year deadline to
file the lawsuit.  The case raised issues similar to those addressed by the
Supreme Court in 2010, when it ruled that the two-year period
for shareholder fraud suits doesn’t begin until investors have
indications of intentional company wrongdoing. The new case
concerned SEC enforcement actions, rather than private suits.  “Unlike the private party who has no reason to suspect
fraud, the SEC’s very purpose is to root it out, and it has many
legal tools at hand to aid in that pursuit,” Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote for the court.  The ruling might affect the SEC’s investigation of alleged
 insider trading  at  Steven Cohen ’s SAC Capital Advisors LLC. This
July will be the five-year anniversary of its 2008 sale of a
$700 million-plus position in two drug companies, just days
before the public release of negative information drove those
companies’ share prices down.  Mathew Martoma  In November, the SEC notified the hedge fund’s management
that it planned to bring a civil case against SAC Capital
claiming it failed to supervise its employees. The SEC in
November sued former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma,
accusing him of using non-public information to persuade Cohen
to make the sale. Prosecutors also filed criminal charges
against Martoma.  In the Supreme Court case, Marc J. Gabelli and Bruce Alpert
contended that the SEC sued after the five-year window for
seeking penalties had expired. A federal appeals court in  New
York  had said the suit could go forward because the window
doesn’t open in fraud cases until the SEC has reason to know a
violation has occurred.  At the time of the alleged wrongdoing -- from 1999 to 2002
-- Gabelli was the portfolio manager for the Gabelli Global
Growth Fund and Alpert was chief operating officer of Gabelli
Funds. The SEC filed its complaint in 2008.  The SEC and the Obama administration argued that the
Supreme Court has repeatedly endorsed the so-called discovery
rule in fraud cases.  The case is Gabelli v. SEC, 11-1274.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  