-- SEC Said to Probe Milken’s Guggenheim Links for Ban Violation
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-02-28T13:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sec-said-to-probe-milken-s-guggenheim-ties-for-ban-violation.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating whether junk-bond pioneer  Michael Milken  acted as an adviser to Guggenheim Partners LLC in
violation of a lifetime ban from the securities industry, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Investigators are reviewing whether Milken, an investor in
the $170 billion asset-management firm, has in effect managed
other clients’ money by playing an active advisory role to the
firm, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
matter isn’t public. Neither Milken nor Guggenheim has been
accused of wrongdoing.  Milken, the former head of junk-bond trading at Drexel
Burnham Lambert Inc. in the 1980s, served 22 months in prison
after pleading guilty to  securities fraud  in 1990 and was
permanently barred from serving as a broker or investment
adviser. In 1998, Milken agreed to pay $47 million to settle SEC
claims he had violated the ban; he didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing.  Guggenheim gained attention last year after it joined a
group that bought the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team for
$2.15 billion. The firm in September agreed to buy  Dick Clark
Productions , which produces television programs including “New
Year’s Rockin’ Eve” and “The Golden Globes,” along with
Mandalay Entertainment and Mosaic Media Investment Partners LLC.  According to Fortune magazine, which reported the
investigation yesterday, the firm has handed over documents
including trading records and e-mails in response to an SEC
subpoena. Investigators are reviewing transactions that Milken
has done jointly with Guggenheim, Fortune said.  Guggenheim Statement  Guggenheim said in a statement yesterday that it received
an inquiry from the SEC during an examination that began two
years ago with respect to the firm’s relationship with Milken,
and is fully cooperating with the agency.  “As Guggenheim has stated publicly, Mr. Milken, while a
valued client, does not have an ownership or managerial role in
the firm in any way, shape or form,” Torie von Alt, director of
public relations at Guggenheim, said in an e-mailed statement.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  In the two decades since his release from prison, Milken
has become known for high-profile philanthropy, funding research
on prostate cancer and epilepsy and providing college
scholarships through the Milken Family Foundation.  In response to a request for comment, Geoffrey Moore, a
senior adviser to Milken, provided a link to a statement given
to Fortune. In that statement, Milken said he discusses his and
his family’s investments with advisers and money managers from
time to time, but only as an investor. He has had no desire to
be in the securities business in any capacity and has strictly
avoided doing anything that could be interpreted otherwise,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  