-- Securities-Fraud Suits Backed by High Court in Amgen Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-02-27T20:05:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/securities-fraud-suits-backed-by-supreme-court-in-amgen-case-1-.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  made it
easier for shareholders to press class action securities-fraud
suits, ruling that  Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  must defend against claims that it
misled investors about the safety of two drugs for anemia.  The justices, voting 6-3, today said investors can sue as a
group without having to first show that misinformation propped
up a company’s stock price.  The ruling is a defeat for business groups, including the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce. They say class action cases are so
expensive that companies are pressured to pay settlements
regardless of the merits of the suit itself. Shareholder
advocates said a ruling for Amgen would especially hurt small
investors who can’t afford to press individual cases.  Writing for the court, Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg , said it
would “waste judicial resources” to require investors to show
that an alleged deception affected stock prices before a case
could go forward as a class action. Amgen’s position “would
necessitate a mini-trial” at a preliminary stage in the
litigation, she wrote.  Justices Anthony Kennedy,  Clarence Thomas  and  Antonin Scalia  dissented.  Investors, led by Connecticut’s public employee pension
plans, allege that they were misled by Amgen and its executives
for more than three years about its Aranesp and Epogen anemia
drugs. Amgen, based  Thousand Oaks ,  California , is the world’s
largest biotechnology company.  Safety Concerns  The suing shareholders say the company played down safety
concerns, including possible links between the drugs and the
growth of cancerous tumors. Amgen says that it didn’t mislead
investors and that information about drug-safety questions was
widely known and reflected in the company’s share price.  “The issue pending before the Supreme Court was solely
procedural and was not ruling on the merits of the case,”
Ashleigh Koss, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “Amgen
will vigorously defend itself” after the case returns to a
federal trial court, she said.  All sides agreed that the investors must, at some point,
show that misrepresentations by Amgen had an effect on its share
price. The question was whether judges should resolve disputes
about stock impact before letting investors band together in a
class action suit.  Lower courts had been divided on the issue. In the Amgen
case, the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
said evidence about the effect on share price should wait for
the trial itself. The appeals court said the case against Amgen
could proceed as a class action.  The case is Amgen v.  Connecticut  Retirement Plans and Trust
Funds, 11-1085.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  