-- Segro Full-Year Profit Rises After Asset Sales Reduce Revenue
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   R o s s   L a r s e n
-- 2013-02-27T07:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/segro-full-year-profit-rises-after-asset-sales-reduce-revenue.html
Segro Plc (SGRO) , the U.K.’s largest
publicly traded owner of industrial properties, said full-year
earnings rose 4.8 percent after the company sold assets.  Profit excluding changes in property values and one-time
items rose to 143 million pounds ($216 million) from 136.4
million pounds a year earlier, the Slough, England-based company
said in a statement today. The average of seven analyst
estimates was for earnings of 138.9 million pounds, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Segro in January said the value of its real estate
portfolio declined by about 180 million pounds in the second
half of 2012 on weaker markets in the U.K. and continental
Europe. Offices in southeast  England  accounted for 75 million
pounds of the decline. The company’s assets, which include data
centers, distribution warehouses and light-industrial parks, are
also located in France, Germany, the Netherlands and  Poland .  “Increased levels of international trade, the outsourcing
of distribution by manufacturers and retailers and growth in
 consumer spending  have created robust demand for warehousing
space over this period,” Chief Executive Officer David Sleath
said in the statement. “The opportunity to convert industrial
land to ‘higher value uses’ such as offices, retail units or
trade counters, has also enhanced the returns available from
owning industrial property.”  Revenue fell 6 percent to 254.8 million pounds. The net
loss widened to 197.3 million pounds from 30.4 million pounds,
the company said.  Sleath said in November 2011 that he plans to sell 1.6
billion pounds of real estate to help pay debt and focus on more
profitable properties close to major transportation hubs or
large cities across Europe. So far, the company has sold 700
million pounds of properties, including 152 million pounds
received since the end of the financial year, at a 3.6 percent
average discount to December 2011 book values.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Ross Larsen in London at 
 Rlarsen2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 