-- Senators Delay Brennan Vote After Seeing Benghazi E-Mails
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-02-27T03:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/senators-delay-brennan-vote-after-seeing-benghazi-e-mails.html
The Senate intelligence committee
delayed a vote on  John Brennan ’s nomination to head the CIA by
at least a week after the Obama administration provided internal
communications demanded by Republicans about last year’s deadly
attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi,  Libya .  Republican Senators Susan Collins of  Maine  and  Richard Burr 
of  North Carolina  said they still haven’t received all the
information they want from the Obama administration. They were
among senators on the intelligence panel who viewed e-mails
yesterday between administration officials who shaped disputed
“talking points” in the days after the Sept. 11 assault.  Democratic Senator  Dianne Feinstein  of  California , the
intelligence panel’s chairman, said in an interview after
reviewing the e-mails that she will postpone a vote on Brennan
until at least March 7. She said it wasn’t unusual to delay a
vote on a nomination as significant as President  Barack Obama ’s
choice of Brennan as Central Intelligence Agency director.  Republicans have criticized the administration for months
for providing an initial, erroneous account to the public that
indicated the Benghazi attack grew out of a “spontaneous”
demonstration. They also have questioned security at the mission
before the attack and whether more could have been done by the
military to respond as it happened.  “We’ve got a lot more documents and requests to be
fulfilled,” Burr told reporters after the closed-door session
at the Capitol. “There’s a tremendous amount more documents
that deal with the days leading up to and the days preceding
Benghazi.”  ‘Still Gaps’  Collins said she believes “there are still gaps in the
information” that lawmakers have been provided about the attack
that killed Ambassador Christopher Stevens and three other
Americans.  The Obama administration granted senators on the
Intelligence Committee access to the e-mails in part to help
smooth the confirmation of Brennan, Obama’s counterterrorism
adviser.  The e-mails show that Brennan “was involved” as part of a
group of administration officials who helped shape the
government’s message about the attack, Senator  Saxby Chambliss 
said after reviewing them. He didn’t elaborate.  “The talking points were obviously changed,” said
Chambliss, a Georgia Republican. “There was a collaborative
process that was extensive, bureaucratic and frankly
unnecessary.”  Style Changes  White House spokeswoman Caitlin Hayden said Brennan
suggested “two minor edits that were stylistic” for the
talking points.  “He simply re-ordered two sentences and took out the words
‘from across many sectors of Libyan society’ from one
sentence,” Hayden said in an e-mail. “Neither edit made its
way into the CIA’s final product, which was then used by the
State Department and with Congress.”  Feinstein downplayed Brennan’s role, saying he was
responsible for “one small change” and that she didn’t believe
it was significant.  “I am very satisfied that we have adequate information
from an intelligence point of view on Benghazi,” she said.  If administration officials can win support for Brennan
from Republicans by releasing information on the Benghazi
attack, they may be able to continue resisting demands from some
Democrats for more information on the use of drones to kill
suspected terrorists abroad.  Drone Program  Democrats led by Senator  Ron Wyden  of  Oregon  have been
pushing to see more of the classified Justice Department legal
opinions underpinning the administration’s use of the armed,
pilotless aircraft before a vote is held on Brennan’s
nomination.  “To do vigilant oversight, the committee must have those
legal opinions before the vote,” Wyden told reporters
yesterday. “This is not about pre-decisional information or the
information that goes to how the president made the decision.
This is actually the interpretation of the law and whether the
interpretation of the law is in effect going to be kept
secret.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  