-- Sequester Won’t Spur U.S. AAA Rating Downgrade, Fitch Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-27T14:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sequester-won-t-spur-u-s-aaa-rating-downgrade-fitch-says-1-.html
While triggering the U.S. spending
cuts known as the sequester and a government shutdown won’t
prompt a ratings downgrade, those outcomes “erode confidence”
of achieving deficit reduction needed to sustain the nation’s
top credit grade, according to  Fitch Ratings .  If Congress doesn’t act before the March 1 deadline,
federal spending will be reduced by $85 billion in the final
seven months of the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 and by $1.2
trillion over the next nine years. Legislation passed last year,
known as a continuing resolution, funds the government through
March 27. Fitch has had a negative outlook on the U.S.’s AAA
ranking since 2011.  “Fitch expects to resolve the negative outlook placed on
the sovereign ratings of the U.S.” this year, the company said
today in a report. “Further delay in reaching agreement on a
credible medium-term deficit reduction plan would imply public
debt reaching levels inconsistent with the U.S. retaining its
AAA status despite its exceptional credit strengths.”  The U.S. must implement $1.6 trillion of  deficit reduction 
through tax increases and spending cuts, beyond the budget
changes in the sequestration, to stabilize federal debt at 76
percent of gross domestic product, Fitch said. The deficit would
have to be reduced by about $3 trillion to put the nation’s
debt-to-GDP ratio on a downward trajectory, the rating company
said.  Debt Ceiling  “Elevated levels of public indebtedness render the economy
and public finances vulnerable to adverse shocks,” Fitch said.
“Stabilizing the rating would need to be underpinned by a
reasonable degree of confidence that public debt will be placed
on a downward path in the latter half of the decade.”  Congress suspended the U.S. debt ceiling until May 18.
Failure to increase the limit “in a timely manner,” which
Fitch said it doesn’t expect to happen, “would prompt a review
and likely downgrade of the U.S. sovereign rating,” the company
said.  The sequestration cuts, with half in defense expenditures
and half from domestic spending, would amount to about 0.5
percent of the $16 trillion economy this year and slice growth
in gross domestic product by 0.6 percent while costing 750,000
jobs, according to the non-partisan  Congressional Budget Office .  U.S. Downgrade  The measure stems from the 2011 negotiations to raise the
debt ceiling that led to the creation of the so-called
supercommittee, charged with finding additional savings in the
budget on top of those agreed to by Congress.  The group failed to reach an agreement, triggering $1.2
trillion of cuts during the next nine years.  Treasuries rallied after  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the
U.S. of its top ranking on Aug. 5, 2011, with yields touching a
record low 1.379 percent in July 2012.  U.S. government debt 
gained 9.8 percent in 2011, the most in three years, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. S&P and Moody’s,
which assigns the U.S. its top Aaa ranking, have negative
outlooks on the America’s credit rating.  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December on
Moody’s and S&P grades.  Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse than the
longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than 300
changes since 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  