-- Sequestration: Washington’s Latest Economy-Hobbling Act
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-27T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sequestration-washington-s-latest-economy-hobbling-act.html
In isolation, sequestration might
not be terribly damaging, given that the $85 billion in spending
cuts are expected to  reduce  U.S. gross domestic product by 0.6
percentage point in 2013.  Yet this observation is misleading: The actual economic
damage is compounded by the other  deficit-reduction  measures
that have already slowed growth, including a 2 percent payroll
tax increase. All told, economists expect the sequestration plus
last month’s fiscal-cliff deal to slow the pace of GDP growth by
1.5 percentage points. That’s no small change for an economy
growing about 2 percent a year, particularly one that appears to
have  lost steam  in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The wreckage could be even greater if Congress fails to
extend the government’s temporary spending authority, which
 expires  March 27. Without a budget or an extension of current
spending levels, some federal operations will need to shut down,
a situation that will take its own toll. And let’s not even
begin to contemplate what might happen come August, when the
U.S. again hits its debt ceiling.  Consumers, who last month began paying an extra $15 a week
on average in payroll taxes, are already feeling the pain.  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW) ,  Darden Restaurants
Inc. (DRI)  and  Kraft Foods Group Inc. (KRFT)  have lowered earnings forecasts
because of sluggish sales. The  National Retail Federation   says 
it expects almost 50 percent of consumers to curtail spending
because they have less take-home pay. The gloomy spending mood
is perhaps best summed up in internal Wal-Mart e-mails obtained
by  Bloomberg News : “Where are all the customers? And where’s
their money?”  Yet rather than replacing the indiscriminate cuts that kick
in March 1, the two parties are busy fighting over who came up
with the idea and which party should take the blame. The reality
is that they are equally at fault: Both sides accepted the
across-the-board cuts if they couldn’t agree to more sensible
ones. Instead of talking, both parties have decamped to their
ideological corners,  refusing  to even look for areas of
compromise.  The White House, which had  gone  on the offensive by
outlining the damaging repercussions from sequestration, is
blaming Republicans for caring more about the wealthy than
education, national security and  food safety . Yet rather than
view the seriousness of the cuts as a reason to focus on the
U.S.’s real problems, including unsustainable entitlement
spending, Democrats offered up a millionaire’s tax and other
 long-rejected  ideas.  Republicans, it should be noted, are no better: Their
approach is to gut government programs, particularly those aimed
at alleviating poverty and the recession’s aftereffects, to
offset $55 billion in defense cuts.  The intractability might be understandable if there truly
were no path to an agreement. But there is a path, a pretty
clear one, in fact.  Democrats could agree to entitlement changes that curb the
rate of spending without chopping benefits, including raising
Medicare premiums for high earners, reducing payments to drug
companies and adopting a more accurate measure of government
inflation.  Republicans could agree to limit  tax expenditures ,
particularly for wealthier earners, something the party’s
leaders have shown a willingness to consider. A new  proposal  by
deficit hawks  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles  splits the
difference, offering $600 billion in health-care savings and
$600 billion in new revenue to offset the entire $1.2 trillion
sequestration.  The path is there. When they meet at the White House at the
end of the week, President  Barack Obama  and the congressional
leadership could choose to walk down it -- if they truly want
to, that is.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 