-- Sequester Threatens Ladybug Lessons for L.A. 4-Year-Olds
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-02-27T02:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sequester-threatens-ladybug-lessons-for-l-a-4-year-olds.html
Far from the halls of Congress and
the debate over “sequestration,” Rafael Folgar flaps his arms
to mimic a flying ladybug to teach 4-year-olds about colors and
numbers in a partially abandoned shopping center near  Los
Angeles  International Airport.  If $85 billion in automatic federal spending reductions
take effect March 1, some pupils in Folgar’s Head Start class at
Hawthorne Plaza could lose four hours of instruction and two
free meals a day, according to the foundation that runs the
program.  The cuts would strip about 8.2 percent of funding for
children and family services such as Head Start, started in 1965
to help prepare low-income preschoolers for kindergarten,
 according  to the National Head Start Association.  “This would just kill my spirit because Head Start has
been my passion,” said Elaine Atlow, executive director of the
 Training and Research Foundation , the nonprofit organization
that runs Folgar’s school and 16  others  in Los Angeles County.
“This would be a major impact for us. We serve over 2,000
children. They meet the income criteria, so they’re
categorically poor. The most critical part is, what happens to
these babies?”  About 24,000 children ages 3 to 5 in the nation’s most-
populous county are enrolled in Head Start, said Kostas
Kalaitzidis, a spokesman for the Los Angeles County Education
Office, which doles out federal aid to groups such as Atlow’s
Inglewood-based foundation.  Fewer Children  The program stands to lose $15.8 million, according to a
letter from Keesha Woods, the county’s Head Start director, to
Atlow and other nonprofit leaders. That equates to reducing
enrollment by about 2,000 children, according to figures
provided by Filemon Santos, the foundation’s chief financial
officer.  Investors haven’t acted like they see a crisis. The extra
 yield  bondholders demand for owning California state and local
debt was 55 basis points yesterday, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The difference had declined from 78 basis points
in January, to the lowest in three months.  The Hawthorne center, known simply as Site 42, teaches
about 140 children and has a waiting list of 48, said Faye Bell,
the site director. Hawthorne, a city about five miles (eight
kilometers) southeast of the airport, had a median household
income of $45,622 in 2011, about 26 percent less than the
California median,  according  to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Parents dropping off their children on Feb. 25 spoke of the
benefits of Head Start and expressed dismay that automatic
budget reductions could harm the program unless President  Barack Obama  and Congress agree on an alternative.  Angie Garcia, 22, said her 5-year-old, Jonathan, wouldn’t
be as ready for kindergarten without the two years of
preparation he has received.  ‘Completely Lost’  “He’d be completely lost,” said Garcia, a stay-at-home
mother. “He already knows his ABC’s, his colors, everything.”  All four of Alvaro Mendoza’s children have gone to the Head
Start program in South Los Angeles, one of the city’s most
impoverished neighborhoods. Mendoza, a 33-year-old valet, said
the children gained “confidence and independence” through the
program.  “It’s been difficult to find any resource that’s free and
available in the community,” Mendoza said. “This is going to
be devastating for some.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  