-- Three Killed in Shooting at Swiss Wood-Processing Factory
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-02-27T14:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/several-people-killed-injured-in-swiss-shooting-incident.html
Three people were killed and seven
injured in a shooting at a wood-processing plant in central
 Switzerland , police said.  The gunman, a 42-year-old Swiss national who worked at
wood-processing company Kronospan Switzerland AG, was among the
dead, Lucerne cantonal police said today at a press conference.
Rescue services arrived at the factory in Menznau, a town about
20 kilometers (12 miles) west of Lucerne. The police said the
motive isn’t known.  “It’s unbelievable what has happened,” said Swiss Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf at a press conference in Bern.
“It’s really horrible.”  Switzerland, where men can keep army-issue firearms after
mandatory military service, has been debating stricter gun
control measures since January, when a 33-year-old gunman killed
three people in the southern Swiss village of Daillon. That was
the country’s worst mass shooting since 2001, when a man with an
assault rifle opened fire in a regional government building in
the city of Zug, killing 14 people, according to Daniel Warner,
assistant director at the Geneva Centre for the Democratic
Control of Armed Forces.  The Menznau plant was closed off to the public and a phone
hotline for relatives set up, the police said, adding the
shooting occurred shortly after 9 a.m. Swiss time.  National Registry  Swiss lawmakers will consider a proposal next month to
connect existing cantonal gun registries. Voters two years ago
rejected a plan to require the registration of all firearms as
well as a motion to change Switzerland’s tradition of letting
citizens keep army-issue weapons at home.  While Switzerland ranks third behind the U.S. and Yemen in
firearms per capita, it has a gun homicide rate one-seventh of
that in America. The country’s 8 million people owned an
estimated 3.4 million guns in 2007, according to the independent
 Small Arms Survey .  Firearm-related homicides rose to 45 in 2011 from 40 in
2010 in Switzerland, according to police statistics.  “Switzerland used to be the world’s largest gated
community,” Warner said. “Those days are over.”  Kronospan Switzerland sells wood products worldwide, and
has about 450 employees, according to the Menznau municipality.  Swiss news agency SDA said rescue helicopters evacuated
four injured people from the factory. The Tages-Anzeiger
newspaper said the shooting occurred in the plant’s cafeteria.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  