-- Sierra Nevada, Embraer Win $427 Million U.S. Air Force Award
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-27T23:49:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sierra-nevada-embraer-win-427-million-u-s-air-force-award.html
Sierra Nevada Corp. and  Embraer SA (ERJ) ,
its Brazilian subcontractor, have won a $427 million U.S.
military contract to provide aircraft for the Afghan army after
more than a year of delays and protests.  The Air Force award is for 20 light-attack planes,
maintenance support and training, the Defense Department said
today in a statement. The contract is valued at a maximum of
$950 million over its lifetime.  The Pentagon originally awarded the work to Sierra Nevada
in December 2011. It canceled the award about two months later
after Beechcraft Corp., formerly Hawker Beechcraft Corp., sued
the military over its exclusion. Today, Beechcraft lost out for
the second time.  “The United States is trying its best to stand up the
Afghan Air Force to function as we pull out,” Charles Tiefer, a
former member of the U.S. Commission on Wartime Contracting,
said in an interview. “This contract is at the heart of whether
the Afghan Air Force can make a go of it on its own.”  Deputy Defense Secretary Ashton Carter called Brazilian
Minister of Defense Celso Amorim today to inform him about the
decision, according to George Little, a Pentagon spokesman.  Door Opener  Brazil ’s Defense Minister Celso Amorim said in a statement
that the decision was a “big victory” for the country’s
national industry. “This will certainly open many new doors to
a sound project that has already proven its success at
home and in other parts of the world,” Amorim said, according
to the statement posted on the ministry’s website.  For Embraer, a deal with the Air Force would be a “door
opener” at the U.S. Department of Defense and in other
countries, Chief Executive Officer Frederico Curado said in an
interview in March 2012.  About 13 percent of Embraer’s $5.36 billion in revenue in
fiscal 2010 came from the company’s defense and security
category, according to data provided by the company in January
2012. At the time, Sao Jose dos Campos-based Embraer, Brazil’s
biggest planemaker, hadn’t done any business with the U.S.
government or military.  “I’m still trying to digest this myself,” Gary Spulak,
president of Embraer’s U.S. unit, said in an interview. “We’re
ready to get to work.”  ‘Great Honor’  Taco Gilbert, a vice president at Sierra Nevada, said it’s
a “great honor” to provide the aircraft and support for the
contract.  “The Light Air Support program is essential to the United
States’ objectives in  Afghanistan  and to our national
security,” he said.  President  Barack Obama  has pledged to withdraw most U.S.
troops from Afghanistan by the end of 2014. The turbo-prop
aircraft are part of a plan to leave the Afghan army with the
weapons and technology it needs to fight the Taliban.  The aircraft were originally set to be delivered in May
2013 and are now scheduled for May 2014, according to company
documents provided to Bloomberg News. The contract will extend
through Feb. 19, 2019, according to the Pentagon.  The Air Force award is lucrative because it includes
training and maintenance in addition to aircraft.  The award would have boosted Beechcraft’s shrinking revenue
from U.S. military contracts. The company’s prime, or direct,
contracts with the Pentagon plunged 67 percent to $340 million
in fiscal 2011, which ended Sept. 30, from $1.03 billion in
fiscal 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Beechcraft ‘Disappointed’  “We are disappointed that our proposal was not chosen,”
Nicole Alexander, a spokeswoman for the company, said in a
statement. She wouldn’t say whether Beechcraft would protest the
award.  The company plans to meet with the Air Force “for a full
debrief of the award and determine our next steps forward at
that time,” Alexander said.  Beechcraft announced on Feb. 19 that it had emerged from
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.  The loss of the contract makes it harder for Wichita,
Kansas-based Beechcraft to turn around its business, Tiefer, a
University of Baltimore law professor, said before the
announcement.  Sierra Nevada provides electronics and engineering services
to the Defense Department, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, and the Department of Homeland Security. The
value of the Sparks, Nevada-based company’s U.S. military
contracts rose 39 percent to $1.3 billion in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30 from $938 million the previous year.  The award comes after an especially bumpy contracting
process.  Award Protested  Beechcraft protested the original December 2011 award to
the Government Accountability Office, which arbitrates contract
disputes. The company claimed that the Air Force sent a notice
of its exclusion to the wrong company address, causing it to
miss key deadlines.  After reviewing both sides’ claims, the GAO dismissed the
case. Beechcraft in January 2012 sued the government in the U.S.
Court of Federal Claims in  Washington . The next month, the Air
Force terminated the award, issuing a revised request for
proposals in May 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  