-- Slovenia’s Economy Contracted Further on Austerity, Survey Shows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-02-27T11:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/slovenia-s-economy-contracted-further-on-austerity-survey-shows.html
Slovenia’s economy probably shrank
again in the fourth quarter as exports to Europe eased and
consumption slumped because of the government’s austerity drive.  Gross domestic product contracted 3.5 percent from the same
period in the previous year after a 3.3 percent drop in the
July-September period, according to a  Bloomberg survey  of seven
economists. GDP shrank 2.5 percent in 2012, the survey shows.
The statistics office will publish the data at tomorrow at 10:30
a.m. in the capital Ljubljana.  “The economy will be dragged lower by most components of
GDP, including government and private consumption, as well as
investment,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by e-mail. The only boost
will come from goods shipped abroad, though “a contraction in
exports for the first time since 2009 should not come as a
surprise given the absence of a bounce-back in Slovenia’s main
trading partners.”  Slovenia’s government is crumbling as the country is trying
to avert a bailout and emerge from a recession. Lawmakers are to
vote today on replacing Prime Minister Janez Jansa, who is
embroiled in a corruption scandal. His loss of political support
puts him at risk of joining leaders across  Europe  who were
toppled by the waves of the economic crisis that started more
than four years ago.  Crisis Impact  The Alpine nation’s economy will shrink the most in the
European Union after Greece and Cyprus this year on weakening
investment, a rising jobless rate and faltering domestic
consumption, the European Commission said in a Feb. 22 report.
GDP will decline 2 percent this year after an estimated 2
percent contraction last year, the EU’s executive arm said.  Jansa’s minority government which sought to overhaul the
economy, including with the formation of a “bad bank” that is
meant to clean up balance sheets of lenders such as Nova
Ljubljanska Banka d.d. The bank recapitalization plan, worth as
much as 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion), may be derailed by a
caretaker government that will proposed by Alenka Bratusek, the
leader of the largest opposition party , if Jansa is ousted.  “While I believe Slovenia’s growth prospects are positive
in the medium-term, the ongoing banking-sector woes will mean
the country will suffer the greatest economic contraction in
2013 amongst central and eastern European countries and will not
participate in any regional bounce-back,” Ameli-Renani said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  