-- South Africa Delays Plan to Narrow Budget Deficit
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-02-27T13:06:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/south-africa-delays-plan-to-narrow-budget-deficit.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  will delay plans to narrow the budget deficit as
mining strikes and a slow recovery in  Africa ’s biggest  economy 
curb tax revenue.  The deficit target was raised to 5.2 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March from 4.8 percent
estimated in October, Gordhan said in his budget speech in Cape
Town today. The government will cut spending to help bring the
shortfall down to 4.6 percent next year, compared with an
earlier projection of 4.5 percent, and 3.9 percent in 2014/15.  “We do have a revenue squeeze,” the minister told
reporters in Cape Town. “You have to cut your suit according to
the cloth available.”  Gordhan, 63, is struggling to rein in the fiscal deficit
and restore investor confidence after credit-rating downgrades
from three companies since September. At the same time, he’s
facing increasing pressure to step up spending as the ruling
 African National Congress  pledges to cut joblessness ahead of
elections next year.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 11 economists
was for the deficit to reach 4.8 percent this year and 4.5 in
2013/14. As recently as 2012, Gordhan was targeting a 3 percent
gap by 2014/15.  A former head of the nation’s tax agency, Gordhan was
forced to cut revenue projections as a slump in export demand
from  Europe  and strikes in the  mining industry  curtailed growth.  Revenue Undershoots  The rand extended its drop after the budget was released,
falling 0.7 percent to 8.8829 per dollar at 2:28 p.m. in
Johannesburg. The yield on the government bond due in December
2026 roses 6 basis points to 7.3 percent, the highest in a week.  South Africa  will miss its revenue target by 16.3 billion
rand ($1.8 billion) this year and reduce spending by 10.4
billion rand in the next three years, Gordhan said. The state
will limit expenditure growth to an average of 2.3 percent a
year from 2.9 percent previously.  “It will be quite difficult for them to cut back on their
expenditures,” Michelle Pingo-de Abreu, an economist at  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED) , said in a phone interview from Johannesburg. “The
 ratings agencies  will be looking at that. It is something that
will be factored into the market and will create a base for a
weaker rand going forward.”  The economy will probably expand 2.7 percent this year,
lower than the 3 percent estimated in October, Gordhan said.
That’s less than half the pace the 7 percent pace the government
says is necessary to slash the  jobless rate  to 14 percent by
2020 from 25 percent currently.  Mining Taxes  Growth is set to quicken to 3.5 percent next year and 3.8
percent in 2015, the finance minister said.  “South Africa’s economic outlook is improving, but it
requires that we actively pursue a different trajectory if we
are to address the challenges ahead,” Gordhan said.  The government will give companies a tax break for hiring
young people entering the labor market, he said.  The worst mining strikes since the end of apartheid that
shut gold and platinum mines last year cost the economy 15.3
billion rand in lost output, higher than a previous estimate of
about 10 billion rand, the Treasury said. Mining companies will
contribute 7.5 percent of corporate taxes in the year through
March, down from 11 percent last year, it said.  The government plans to collect 985.7 billion rand in
revenue in the coming fiscal year, down from 986.1 billion rand
estimated in October. Spending will be little changed at 1.15
trillion rand.  “There are some nuggets in there,” Oupa Magashula, the
head of the tax agency, said in an interview. “Under the
circumstances when revenue is coming down, we are still giving
some concessions.”  Tax Increases  Rising debt is putting pressure on South Africa’s credit
rating, which was lowered by one level by  Standard & Poor’s ,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. Net debt is set to
climb to 40.3 percent of GDP in the year through March 2016, up
from an earlier projection of 39.2 percent, according to the
Treasury.  An increase in borrowing to plug the deficit may curb a
rally in bonds. The yield on notes due December 2026 has dropped
37 basis points to 7.22 percent in the past six months. It fell
to a six-week low of 7.21 percent on Feb. 20 after a report
showed  inflation  slowed for the first time in five months to 5.4
percent in January.  With weak  consumer spending  and mounting job losses,
Gordhan has little room to raise income taxes to help finance
the budget deficit. While the government plans to impose a tax
on  carbon emissions  and increase fuel levies, new policy
programs will mainly be funded from the budget, he said.  “If we succeed in driving growth towards 5 percent a year
and government revenue doubles in the next 20 years, major
infrastructure projects and new policy initiatives such as
national health insurance and expanded vocational education will
be affordable with limited adjustments to  tax policy ,” Gordhan
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  