-- South Africa Focused on Sustainable Growth, Gordhan Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-02-28T06:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/south-africa-focused-on-sustainable-growth-gordhan-says.html
South Africa’s budget is focused on
achieving sustainable economic growth to reduce poverty rather
than satisfying the concerns of credit rating companies, Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  Gordhan yesterday raised his targets for the  budget
deficit , delaying plans to narrow it to 3 percent of gross
domestic product. Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings have downgraded the nation’s debt since
September, concerned by a slowing economy and rising spending
pressures. Moody’s and S&P have a negative outlook on the
rating, indicating they may lower it further.  “They will keep their negative outlook and we respect
their right to do so,” Gordhan said in an interview in  Cape
Town  after his budget speech. “At the same time, we can’t be
doing things only for  ratings agencies . We have to do things
that are right for our country and ensure we build the economic
base for this country and build it in a sustainable way.”  The deficit target was raised to 5.2 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March from 4.8 percent
estimated in October. The government will cut spending to help
bring the shortfall down to 4.6 percent next year, compared with
an earlier projection of 4.5 percent, and 3.9 percent in
2014/15. As recently as 2012, Gordhan was targeting a 3 percent
gap in two years’ time.  A former head of the nation’s tax agency, Gordhan was
forced to cut revenue projections as a slump in export demand
from  Europe  and mine strikes curtailed growth.  Government Debt  South Africa will miss its revenue target by 16.3 billion
rand ($1.8 billion) this year and reduce spending by 10.4
billion rand in the next three years, he said. The state will
limit expenditure growth to an average of 2.3 percent a year
from 2.9 percent previously.  “We do have a revenue squeeze,” the minister said
yesterday. “You have to cut your suit according to the cloth
available.”  Tax revenue may undershoot targets again next year if the
recovery remains weak, Gordhan said at a briefing today in Cape
Town. While the government is curbing spending growth, it
doesn’t want “austerity measures,” he said in an interview on
Johannesburg-based SAfm radio.  Government debt is rising as the government borrows more to
finance the fiscal deficit. Net debt is set to climb to 40.3
percent of GDP in the year through March 2016, up from an
earlier projection of 39.2 percent, he said.  Rand Volatility  “He is asking for quite a lot to happen: an acceleration
in growth and improvement in revenue collection,”  Kevin Lings ,
an economist at Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg, said
in a phone interview yesterday. “This is a bit optimistic.”  The rand fell 0.3 percent against the dollar to 8.8458 as
of 8:46 a.m. in Johannesburg. It’s dropped 4.3 percent this year
and is the third-worst performer among the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the British pound and yen.  The economy “can live” with a weaker rand as long as the
impact on import prices, including fuel, is limited, Gordhan
said in an interview.  “In recent times, we have found a balance, where you don’t
hear public noise about the currency issues and people begin to
understand the negative effects on fuel prices,” he said. “We
can live with it. The key is still the volatility question.”  Gordhan lowered his forecast for economic growth this year
to 2.7 percent from 3 percent. That’s less than half the 7
percent pace the government says is necessary to slash the
 jobless rate  to 14 percent by 2020 from 25 percent currently.
Growth is set to quicken to 3.5 percent next year and 3.8
percent in 2015, he said.  “ South Africa ’s economic outlook is improving, but it
requires that we actively pursue a different trajectory if we
are to address the challenges ahead,” Gordhan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  