-- Sovereign Credit Ratings Should Be Scrutinized, OECD Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-02-27T17:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sovereign-credit-ratings-should-be-scrutinized-oecd-says.html
Investors should “scrutinize”
sovereign-credit ratings, according to the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development, which changed its
standards for what it considers “safe assets.”  “Since the track-record of ‘sovereign-risk pricing’ is not
very impressive, suggested market measures of this risk
(including ratings) should be treated with great caution,” the
Paris-based OECD said today in a  report . “Downgrades and their
implications for the supply of ‘safe sovereign assets’ should
not be taken at face value but more carefully scrutinized.”  The intergovernmental group last year assigned sovereign
bonds of Greece and  Portugal , which received European Union-led
bailouts, the same country-risk  classification  as  Germany  and
the U.S. The organization no longer reviews or classifies those
countries. About two-thirds of OECD’s members are EU nations.  “In view of the conflicting signals” of market measures
of sovereign risk and ratings, a government borrower ranked AA
or higher by one of the major rating companies is considered
“safe,” the OECD said. The standard relaxes the group’s
previous “2 out of 3 rule.”  Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings are the three-biggest ranking companies, supplying 96
percent of all grades in the $42 trillion  debt market  in 2011,
according to a November SEC  report .  Studies signaling that market-based measures of credit
worthiness, such as credit-default swaps, respond to changes in
 credit quality  before rankings has spurred suggestions policy
makers, investors and debt managers should use swaps spreads for
determining risk rather than credit ratings, the OECD said.
Those measurements however must also be treated “great
caution.”  CDS Levels  Credit swaps protecting against a borrower’s default
typically fall as investors’ perceptions of creditworthiness
rise and increase as they deteriorate. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt.  Swaps tied to the U.S. are priced at 42 basis points,
compared with 41 basis points for Germany and 82 basis points
for  France , according to CMA data compiled by Bloomberg. Those
linked to Portugal are at about 400 basis points.  Treasuries rallied after S&P stripped the U.S. of its top
ranking on Aug. 5, 2011, with yields touching a record low 1.379
percent in July 2012.  U.S. government debt  gained 9.8 percent in
2011, the most in three years, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  Yield Relationship  Moody’s cut France’s country’s top rating on Nov. 19 by one
level. S&P lowered the rating by one step to AA+ from AAA on
Jan. 13, 2012. Yields on the nation’s 10-year bonds have climbed
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, since the Moody’s
downgrade.  “Many sovereigns experienced lower bond yields in the wake
of the downgrade,” the OECD said. “These conflicting signals
are raising fundamental questions about the information value of
sovereign credit risk ratings.”  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published in December.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s rating and outlook
changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse than the
longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than 300
changes since 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  