-- Spain’s Bankia-Led Bailout Won’t Spell End of Bank Troubles
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-27T16:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/spain-s-bankia-led-bailout-won-t-spell-end-of-troubles-for-banks.html
Spain ’s 41 billion-euro ($54
billion) rescue of lenders, prompted by record losses at  Bankia (BKIA) ,
won’t spell the end of troubles for the nation’s financial
industry as the economy remains mired in recession.  The lender that received the biggest Spanish bailout said
in November it plans to cut about 6,000 jobs and 50 billion
euros of assets as it targets a return to a profit this year
after an estimated record loss of 19 billion euros in 2012.
Bankia will report earnings tomorrow before the stock market
opens in  Madrid .  Bankia, whose collapse last May helped push Spain to seek a
European bank bailout, underlines the excesses of a financial
system that turned a decade-long credit boom into a bust. With
 Italy ’s political gridlock undermining investor confidence
across the region, a quarter of the Spanish working population
unemployed and the economy shrinking, the country’s banks may
still face more loan losses and uncertain access to financing.  “It’s going to go down in history books as a massive crash
that contributed to an explosion in unemployment and a massive
loss in income -- it’s an unmitigated disaster,”  Charles Wyplosz , director of the  International Center  for Money and
 Banking Studies  in Geneva, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
not over yet.”  Bank Losses  Other Spanish lenders are also reporting losses. Catalunya
Banc SA and NCG Banco SA, which were both nationalized, are
estimated to post about 20 billion euros in combined pretax
losses, according to the European Union. Banco de Valencia,
which was also bailed out, had a full-year loss of 3.6 billion
euros, while  Banco Popular Espanol SA (POP) , Spain’s No. 6 commercial
lender, reported a shortfall of about 2.5 billion euros.  Bankia was forced to pass 22.3 billion euros of soured
assets linked to real estate to a so-called  bad bank . Under the
auspices of its European bailout, it published a new business
plan in November, pledging to eliminate about a quarter of its
 workforce  and reduce its branch network by 39 percent.  One lesson to be learned from Bankia is that consumer banks
may pose just as big a threat to the financial system as
investment banks with their riskier models, said  Peter Hahn , a
lecturer at Cass Business School in  London .  “In Spain, it was the plain-vanilla, consumer-type banking
that became the casino banking,” said Hahn, a former managing
director at Citigroup Inc.  ‘Reset Button’  Bankia Chairman Jose Ignacio Goirigolzarri, the former
 second-in-command  at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , has
said he expects the restructured bank to earn 1.2 billion euros
in 2015. The bank estimates 3.1 billion euros in accumulated
profits through 2015.  Bankia’s collapse strengthens the case to take banking
supervision out of the hands of national regulators and pass it
to a pan-regional authority, said Wyplosz.  “The local supervisor is a branch of government and
governments have many, many reasons not to make the life of the
banks too tough,” he said.  Still, the government’s orders to banks last year to
recognize 84 billion euros of losses on real estate and the
creation of the bad bank to absorb  soured assets  from bailed out
lenders means the scope for future losses has been reduced, said
Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an analyst at  Banco BPI SA. (BPI)   “We already know that the quarter will be bad -- and
that’s an understatement -- but after this they may be able to
press the reset button,” Porto, Portugal-based Peixoto said.
“They still have a lot of work to do.”  Bankia shares have dropped 21 percent this year and are
down 92 percent since its initial public offering.  Spanish Bailout  Steps by the Bank of Spain to limit excessive yields on
deposits will help bolster margins, according to Peixoto. The
European Commission said last week it didn’t foresee further
banking bailout payments being needed for Spain beyond the 41
billion euros disbursed to recapitalize the nationalized banks
and the new bad bank.  The refusal by auditor Deloitte LLP to sign off on Bankia
group’s accounts for 2011, a year in which it raised more than 3
billion euros by selling shares, set in motion a chain of events
that led to the resignation of Chairman  Rodrigo Rato  and the
lender’s request for 19 billion euros of state aid in May 2012.
Spain formally sought a bailout for its banking system a month
later, when it requested as much as 100 billion euros in aid.  While banks have stepped up efforts to return to health,
Spain’s deepening economic slump threatens to push up loan
defaults and further undermine lending. The country’s gross
domestic product will probably drop 1.5 percent this year after
decreasing 1.4 percent in 2012, according to a Bloomberg survey
of 40 economists. Spanish unemployment was at 26.1 percent in
December, more than double the euro-area average.  Transition Year  “2013 is still a year of transition and very much depends
on the course of the economy,” said Antonio Ramirez, a London-
based analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Ltd.  Europe ’s economy may struggle to return to growth this year
as governments toughen austerity measures to restore confidence.
Stocks tumbled and borrowing costs rose this week after Italy’s
inconclusive elections triggered renewed market concerns over
the region’s fiscal crisis that has forced five nations
including Greece and Ireland into seeking external aid.  For their part, Spanish bank executives have signaled
confidence in the country’s economic outlook.  Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of BBVA, the second-biggest bank,  predicted 
an “inflection point” for the economy toward the end of this
year. Emilio Botin, chairman of  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , the largest
lender, said Jan. 31 a “change in the cycle” was close.  ‘Bright, Shiny’  Still, Banco BPI’s Peixoto said some banks with focus on
Spain may find it more difficult to restore earnings.  “It’s not as everything is going to be bright and shiny
from now on because there are a lot of doubts about the
economy,” he said. “Not all the banks have had the opportunity
to make their  balance sheets  as clean as Bankia.”  Past crises affecting the Spanish banking industry have
included a suspension of payments by Philip II in 1575 that hit
financiers in Sevilla and the collapse of 21 banks from 1882 to
1884, Alvaro Cuervo, director of the University College of
Financial Studies in Madrid, wrote in a 1988 study. Twenty-nine
lenders were seized in the crash in the years after the death of
dictator  Francisco Franco  in 1975, he wrote.  Economists and historians will now seek to learn the
lessons from Bankia and other  lenders  formed from former savings
banks that were at the heart of the latest crash, Cuervo said in
a telephone interview.  “We have seen the loss of 30 percent of Spain’s banking
system and yet it seems no one is responsible,” he said. “I
find that troubling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  