-- Spy Death Probe to Hold Closed Hearing on U.K. Documents
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-02-27T13:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/spy-death-probe-to-hold-closed-hearing-on-u-k-documents.html
The inquiry into the death of a
former Russian spy poisoned in  London  with radioactive tea
should close its hearings to the press and public when it
reviews files the U.K. said contain sensitive information, the
judge leading the probe ruled.  Judge Robert Owen issued the decision today after lawyers
for the  Home Office  asked for a so-called public immunity
certificate, or PII, over information about  Alexander Litvinenko ’s ties to British intelligence. Disclosure of the
information would risk “serious harm to the public,” the Home
Office said.  Litvinenko, a critic of the Kremlin who lived in London,
died in November 2006 about three weeks after being exposed to
radioactive polonium. British prosecutors said after a prior
investigation in 2007 that former Russian intelligence officer
 Andrei Lugovoi  should be charged with murder. There is evidence
indicating the Russian government was involved in the 2006
poisoning, lawyers working on the inquest said in December.  The British government is attempting to stall the inquiry
to preserve trade with  Russia , lawyers for Litvinenko’s widow
Marina, said at a hearing yesterday.  “We cannot allow Her Majesty’s Government, by misusing the
PII system, to use this inquest to dance to the Russian
tarantella,” Ben Emmerson, one of the lawyers, said at a
hearing yesterday. “This has all the hallmarks of a situation
which is shaping up to be a stain on British justice.”  Owen said the application made on behalf of the Secretary
of State “must be subjected to the most stringent and critical
examination,” while also indicating he would “conduct this
inquest with the greatest possible degree of openness and
transparency.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  