-- Standard Life’s Newton Purchase Unlikely to Fuel Flurry of Deals
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-02-27T14:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/standard-life-s-newton-purchase-unlikely-to-fuel-flurry-of-deals.html
Standard Life Plc (SL/)  doesn’t expect its
purchase of  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. ’s British private
client business to trigger a wave of mergers and acquisitions in
the U.K. wealth management industry.  “We don’t see massive consolidation,” Richard Charnock,
chief executive officer of  Standard Life Wealth , said in a
telephone interview today. “Opportunities like this will come
up but there are not going to be lots of them. Our organic
growth opportunities are unlimited.”  The unit of the Edinburgh-based life insurer agreed to buy
the Newton Management Ltd. private client business, which has
3.6 billion pounds under management ($5.4 billion), for as much
as 83.5 million pounds, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Rathbone Brothers Plc (RAT) , a U.K. wealth manager founded in
1742 that now has 18 billion pounds under management, is looking
to buy private client businesses with between 200 million and
300 million pounds of assets, Chief Executive Officer Andy
Pomfret said in an interview on Feb. 20. Larger acquisitions
were much more complicated, he said.  Standard Life Wealth was set up in 2008 to cater to wealthy
individuals. The acquisition will triple assets managed for
clients to more than 5 billion pounds and allow it to offer an
alternative, riskier investment strategy, Charnock said.  Its current strategy is based on the largest fund at
Standard Life Investments, Edinburgh’s biggest manager of money.
The 14.4 billion-pound Global Absolute Return Strategies Fund,
which invests in a mix of stocks, bonds and currencies, has
returned 45 percent over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Complementary  The Newton private client unit, which has about 3,000
customers and about 120 charities, has a so-called long-only
investment strategy betting on rising markets, Charnock said.  “That is why it is entirely complementary” to what
Standard Life Wealth does, he said. “This covers the majority
of private client requirements, which is one of the attractions
of this particular business.”  Standard Life Wealth had been talking to London-based
Newton since about September or October, he said. The
transaction is due to complete within seven months. All the 79
Newton employees in the private client unit will transfer to
Standard Life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  