-- Office Depot Holder Starboard Urges Unit Sale to Gigante
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-02-27T15:33:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/starboard-said-to-back-sale-of-office-depot-de-mexico-to-gigante.html
Starboard Value LP, the activist
investor that has pressured  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  to improve
operations, urged the second-largest office-supply chain to sell
its Mexico unit to Grupo Gigante SAB.  Gigante, the Mexico City-based retailer that owns the other
50 percent of Office Depot de Mexico, offered to pay 8.78
billion pesos ($683 million) for the rest of the company,
according to a Feb. 21 filing. Office Depot agreed to buy
 OfficeMax Inc. (OMX)  for $1.17 billion the day before Gigante’s offer
was made public. As part of the merger agreement, OfficeMax has
to approve the sale of the Mexican unit.  “A sale of this asset at a full and fair price is clearly
in the best interest of both Office Depot and OfficeMax
shareholders,” Starboard said in a letter to Office Depot made
public today in a statement.  Given that Gigante’s offer expires tomorrow, Office Depot
should obtain consent from OfficeMax to immediately explore the
sale, said New York-based Starboard, Office Depot’s largest
 shareholder  with 14.8 percent.  Brian Levine, a spokesman for Office Depot, told  Bloomberg
News  on Feb. 25 that OfficeDepot is still discussing a sale of
its Mexico unit to Gigante.  “We are discussing it with the merger partner,” he said,
adding that if OfficeMax approves, then the board would need to
sign off on the deal.  The shares rose 1.3 percent to $4.04 as of 10:31 a.m. in
New York. They increased 36 percent in the year through
yesterday.  Office Depot de Mexico includes operations in  Colombia  and
Central America. Office Depot entered the joint venture with
Grupo Gigante in 1994, and the business has since expanded to
more than 200 stores, according to regulatory filings.  Starboard disclosed a stake in  Boca Raton , Florida-based
Office Depot last September and said then that the chain should
cut general expenses, lower advertising costs and move to
smaller stores.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  