-- Sturm Ruger Profit at 25-Year High on Rising Gun Demand
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2013-02-28T16:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sturm-ruger-profit-rises-to-25-year-high-on-surging-weapon-sales.html
Sturm Ruger & Co. (RGR)  posted the highest
yearly profit since at least 1987 as speculation that the U.S.
would regulate guns more strictly spurred record firearms
demand.  Net income  increased to $70.6 million, or $3.60 a share, in
2012 from about $40 million, or $2.09, a year earlier, the
Southport, Connecticut-based company said in a regulatory filing
yesterday. That topped the $3.41  average estimate  of analysts in
a Bloomberg survey.  Sturm Ruger, the second-largest publicly traded U.S.
firearms-maker by sales, and rival  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp. (SWHC) 
are benefiting from the re-election of President  Barack Obama 
and his push to tighten gun laws after an elementary school
massacre in Newtown, Connecticut. Buyers have increased
purchases amid concerns that such laws will curb availability.  “People are willing to pay whatever it is at this point in
time” to buy guns,  Peter Zeuli, chief investment officer at
Voorhees, New Jersey-based Philadelphia Investment Partners LLC,
said in a telephone interview. Zeuli’s firm manages about $125
million, including Sturm Ruger stock.  Sturm Ruger has gained 18 percent this year through
yesterday, after slumping 15 percent over the three trading
sessions following the Newtown shootings, which left 28 dead.  The shares fell 1.8 percent to $52.56 at 11:29 a.m. in  New
York  after Chief Executive Officer Michael Fifer declined to
give a forecast for 2013 results during an earnings call. An
earlier drop of 5.4 percent was the largest on an intraday basis
since Feb. 11.  Not Sustainable  “The forward-looking part, I’m not going to answer at
all,” Fifer said on the call. “So just completely forget
that.”  Zeuli said afterward that the surge in profit may not be
sustainable.  “You’re going to see a more normalized growth rate,” he
said. “When you book a sale, the sale is booked. Basically,
that person is not going to buy again for a while. What’s the
life expectancy of a gun or a pistol? It’s pretty long.”  Revenue at the gunmaker rose 50 percent to $491.8 million
in 2012, trumping the average  estimate  of analysts by about $20
million.  Background Checks  Sales in the fourth quarter climbed to $141.8 million, the
highest since at least 1990. The period included both Obama’s
re-election and the  Connecticut  massacre, and the data help
quantify just how lucrative the spike in gun demand has been for
manufacturers.  Pre-purchase background checks hit a record high in
December, climbing almost 59 percent from a year earlier to 2.2
million, according to federal data adjusted by the Newtown-based
National Shooting Sports Foundation to eliminate checks not
related to sales. The previous record was set in November, the
month Obama was re-elected, the industry group’s data show.  There were 13.8 million background checks in 2012, up 28
percent from 2011, according to the foundation. Sales growth at
Sturm Ruger outpaced the jump in background checks on both an
annual and quarterly basis, the company said yesterday.  “The reason why gun sales expanded was because of what
people thought -- that there would be some more gun laws on the
books and plus, people wanted to protect themselves,” Zeuli
said. “It was an emotional purchase.”  After the Newtown shootings, the president proposed
measures including universal background checks and banning
military-style weapons sold by both Sturm Ruger and Smith &
Wesson.  “All of us at Ruger are deeply saddened by the horrible
criminal events that took place in Newtown,” Fifer said today.
“We have employees who live around Newtown who have family,
friends and acquaintances that were affected. Our thoughts and
prayers go out to those families and to the victims.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  