-- Sugar Seen as Driver in Rise of Diabetes, Study Suggests
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-02-28T00:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/sugar-seen-as-driver-in-rise-of-diabetes-study-suggests.html
Excessive sugar consumption may be
the main driver of a global rise in diabetes, independent of
obesity, according to a study rekindling old debates about the
sweetener’s role in an illness affecting 350 million worldwide.  Because diabetes levels are high in several countries with
low obesity rates and vice versa, some scientists have theorized
that rising consumption of processed, sugar-laden foods was a
key driver of the diabetes epidemic. In a nutritional analysis
of 175 countries published today in the journal  PLoS One ,
researchers found that every 150 calorie increase in sugar was
tied to a 1.1 percent boost in diabetes, after controlling for
other foods, total calories, weight gain and sedentary
lifestyles.  The study “adds another piece to the increasing evidence
that everybody would be a lot healthier if they ate less
sugar,” said Marion Nestle, a professor of nutrition, food
studies and public health at  New York  University, who wasn’t
involved in the study.  While the study doesn’t prove sugar causes diabetes
directly, it shows that the longer a population was exposed to
high levels of sugar, the higher its diabetes rate was after the
researchers subtracted out other influences, such as physical
activity.  Diabetes  is caused by high levels of blood sugar. Symptoms
include blurry vision, excess thirst and fatigue. Over time,
diabetes can lead to trouble seeing, painful sores, amputation,
and nerve damage.  Global Diet  The scientists, led by  Robert Lustig , a pediatric
endocrinologist at the University of  California , San Francisco’s
Benioff Children’s Hospital, used estimates from the United
Nation’s Food and Agricultural Organization on the types of food
typically eaten in 175 countries. They compared those numbers
with the prevalence of diabetes among those ages 20 to 79, as
estimated by the International Diabetes Foundation.  The group then used statistical methods to control for
other conditions linked to diabetes, including the portion of
the population older than 65, alcohol use, sedentary lifestyles
and overweight and obese individuals. Even excluding those
influences, the link between sugar and diabetes remained, Lustig
said.  Sugars in food are broken into glucose, which is released
into the bloodstream. The liver is the body’s glucose storage
unit, and keeps the blood sugar levels constant. Insulin signals
the liver to slow glucose production.  Insulin Resistance  Excessively sugared foods can contribute to obesity through
added calories, and may also increase the likelihood of diabetes
by forming excess liver fat and starting inflammation, according
to the study. That may in turn block the pathway insulin uses to
stop the production of sugar, which may lead to insulin-
resistance.  “People have been talking about sugar and diabetes for
decades,” Lustig said in a telephone interview. “First the
food industry said there was no relationship. Then in the 70s,
they said, ‘Oh yes, we know sugar is associated with diabetes,
but only because all calories are associated with diabetes, it’s
an obesity issue.’”  This data shows otherwise, Lustig said.  His group used publicly available databases to see if
anything in the food supply has changed in the past decade to
explain the worldwide rise in diabetes rates. The only change
they saw was an increase in sugar consumption, he said.  The study was editorially rejected from “virtually every
journal,” before being published in  PLoS ONE , Lustig said. He
is known for his strident views on sugar, which he calls a
toxin, and has published a book called “Fat Chance: Beating the
Odds Against Sugar, Processed Food, Obesity, and Disease.”  Raises Questions  Because the study doesn’t directly control all variables
save diet, it shouldn’t be taken as a final word, Nestle said.
For decades, some scientists have held that eating too much
sugar causes diabetes. Others believe that ingesting too many
calories cause the illness.  “It’s really difficult to separate sugars from calories,”
she said.  Elizabeth Seaquist,  the president-elect of medicine and
science for the American Diabetes Association, said more work
needs to be done.  “It raises as many questions as it solves,” Seaquist said
in a telephone interview. “There are so many limitations,
trying to understand the source of the data. But the study does
help us know this is a question worth pursuing.”  Further Research  She suggested that a prospective study, controlling
participants’ calories and changing the content of those
calories would be the best way to pursue the question.  The databases used by Lustig’s group are “notoriously
unreliable,” Nestle said. While they’re good at giving trends,
they’re not accurate for absolute amounts of certain foods in
the diet, she said. The numbers show the data on all the food in
the country, less exports and plus imports, “so you can imagine
how difficult it is to get that information accurately.”  Follow-up research to examine links between types of foods
and obesity may help clarify the study’s observations, she said.  The study didn’t separate sugars that were eaten versus
those people drank, nor did it distinguish between cane sugar
and high fructose corn syrup. Seaquist, of the  American Diabetes
Association , also suggested looking at differences between types
of sugars in future studies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in San Francisco at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  