-- Swiss to Ban Big Cash Purchases to Curb Money Laundering
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-02-27T16:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/swiss-propose-ban-on-big-cash-purchases-to-curb-money-laundering.html
Switzerland  is proposing to ban cash
payments in excess of 100,000 francs ($107,500), including on
watches and real estate, and wants to tighten the due diligence
requirements for banks to prevent  money laundering .  Transactions above that amount will have to be processed
through a bank, the government said in a draft law presented in
Bern today. Political parties and interest groups will now be
able to comment on the proposal.  Switzerland is trying to shed its image as a tax haven as
the U.S. probes whether banks including  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
and  Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER)  helped Americans evade taxes.  According to the proposal, banks will also have to
undertake thorough checks to ensure funds are tax-compliant and
must in the future refuse to accept any funds they believe are
not declared. A clients’ wish to use complex holding structures
could be considered an indicator of elevated risk, the
government said. In the case of existing accounts, a client
whose behavior seemed suspicious would have to prove his money
was declared and the bank would terminate the account if he were
unable to provide the evidence.  The Swiss Banking Association said that while it welcomed
the risk-based assessment, it opposed “general” due diligence
requirements for clients, according to a statement today. “The
mandatory termination of existing coustomer relationships in
cases of tax dishonesty is to be rejected,” it said.  Cash Payments  Watches, including some of those made by  Swatch Group (UHR)  AG
and  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA (CFR) , can cost tens of thousands of
francs. Richemont’s Roger Dubuis brand sells its rose-gold
version of the Excalibur Quatuor watch for 380,000 francs.  Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said there was no
evidence of watches being used to launder money.  “We just said that if you’re proceeding in this manner
with property and disallow cash purchases to prevent even the
appearance of money laundering, then you have to do that for
 luxury goods  as well,” she told reporters in the Swiss capital
today. “Above 100,000 it doesn’t seem to be common practice to
pay in cash.”  The government is also proposing to ramp up the penalty for
 tax fraud  in excess of 600,000 francs.  Switzerland has taken steps to prevent money laundering in
recent years. In the wake of the Arab spring it froze the assets
of former Libyan ruler  Muammar Qaddafi  and Egypt’s  Hosni Mubarak .  The government said it was proposing the measures to
implement recommendation from the Financial Action Task Force,
an international organization tasked with co-ordinating the
fight against money laundering.  The European Union is also ramping up rules to stop money
laundering. A Feb. 5  proposal  would force companies such as
banks and law firms to carry out checks on their customers if
they carry out cash transactions worth at least 7,500 euros
($9,800), compared with a 15,000 euro threshold under existing
EU law.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  