-- Swooning Virgins Meet Kitsch Saints at Barocci Exhibit
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2013-02-27T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/swooning-virgins-meet-kitsch-saints-at-barocci-exhibit.html
Federico Barocci had his life
transformed by a poisoned salad. He was fed this dish at a
picnic in  Rome  in the 1560s, and never quite recovered.  From that point onwards, the Italian artist became an
invalid and recluse, returned to his native Urbino and spent the
rest of his long life producing, very slowly, the works that are
revealed in a  London  exhibition that opens today. “Barocci:
Brilliance and Grace” is at the National Gallery in London.  Whether, as Barocci alleged, the fateful salad dish was
actually poisoned by jealous rivals or whether the whole episode
was really an excuse to lead the quiet life he craved, the
results were spectacular.  There is a great deal to enjoy in Barocci’s art; also, for
some 21st-century viewers at least, one drawback. He was pious in
a gentle way that means some of his figures, often the central
one, Christ or the Madonna, can seem just off religious kitsch.  It wasn’t fake devotion. Barocci (c.1535-1612) was painting
at the height of the counter-Reformation. He was one of the
great painters of  Italy  in a neglected period: the late 16th
century, the interval between the Renaissance and 17th-century
Baroque.  Swooning saints such as Teresa of Avila were his
contemporaries. The Catholic revival was all around.  In his peaceful studio, the neurotic Barocci shared in that
mood. It isn’t a very modern one, less congenial to tastes in
2013, perhaps, than Caravaggio’s violence and drama.  Tear Glazed  There’s a feeling of tremulous emotion about Barocci’s art
-- and not only about the religious pieces. Even in his
portraits, the subjects’ eyes are unnaturally big and shiny, as
if glazed with tears.  Barocci’s picture of his patron, the Duke of Urbino,
suggests that nobleman was a delicate soul, a pallid poet inside
his ornate armor.  If you can swallow, or even relish, that sweet side,
there’s a great deal to enjoy. His big altarpieces are careful
composed harmonies of all manner of unusual hues: Dusky pinks,
blue-grays, and violets are favorites. And viewed as abstract
arrangements in luminosity and color, some of his paintings are
fabulous.  The “Nativity”’ he painted in 1597 as a gift for Urbino to
give to the Queen of  Spain  is all about light. It radiates from
the Christ child in the crib, and illuminates his mother, the
Madonna, her face, her rose-colored dress and lemon yellow
garment underneath. The rest is in shadow.  Looking at a picture like that, you could think of Barocci
as a late-16th-century  Mark Rothko .  Pastel Pioneer  One of the reasons his work took a long time to finish was
that he made enormously thorough preparations. Sometimes, those
are the best bit: wonderfully delicate studies of faces, heads
and hands, occasionally in pastel, a medium he pioneered.  These look like much later art: Rubens,  Van Dyck , even
Watteau (who was a known Barocci Fan).  Even though he was very much a man of his times -- the era
of Jesuit missionaries and the Inquisition -- Barocci was a
progressive, forward-looking artist.  This is an exhibition that, instead of focusing on a known
star such as Leonardo or Monet, takes a fresh look at a painter
who is almost forgotten, except by specialists.  Barocci was well worth reviving. Assuming his life was
really changed by a poisoned salad, this definitely shows the
upside of eating toxic greenery.  “Barocci: Brilliance and Grace” at the National Gallery,
London, from today to May 19.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris culture,
 Ryan Sutton  on  New York  food,  Jeremy Gerard  on New York theater
and  Greg Evans  on television.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 