-- U.A.E. Gulf Petrochem Will Triple Fujairah Fuel-Storage Capacity
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-02-27T15:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/u-a-e-gulf-petrochem-will-triple-fujairah-fuel-storage-capacity.html
Gulf Petrochem FZC, an oil-products
trader based in the United Arab Emirates, plans to triple the
size of a $135 million fuel storage facility it inaugurated
today at the port of Fujairah, outside the  Strait of Hormuz .  The company plans to expand the facility, which can store
412,000 cubic meters of fuel oil and gasoil, to hold as much as
1.2 million cubic meters by the end of 2015, Chief Executive
Officer Sanjeev Sisaudia told reporters at the opening ceremony.  Fuel-storage operators lease out space to oil companies or
traders or use tanks to store products they buy and sell
themselves. Sisaudia said Gulf Petrochem has leased most of its
storage and will keep about 10 percent for its own trading.  Fujairah, one of the U.A.E.’s seven sheikhdoms, lies
outside the  Persian Gulf  and south of Hormuz, a chokepoint for
regional tanker traffic. Fujairah’s location on the Gulf of Oman
has attracted international traders and tank operators such as
Vitol Group and  Royal Vopak NV (VPK) , which have storage sites there.  Gulf Petrochem received $80 million in financing from five
banks for the project, Group Director Prerit Goel said in an
interview.  Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank PJSC (ADIB)  led the group arranging
the seven-year syndicated loan, he said. Gulf Petrochem is
privately held, with headquarters in the U.A.E. emirate of
Sharjah.  GPS Chemoil, a fuel-storage company with a 95,000 cubic-
meter tank farm in Fujairah, plans to open an additional 600,000
cubic meters of capacity by early April, its General Manager
Tarun Arora said in an interview today. The company is owned 60
percent by GPS, a privately held business based in the U.A.E.,
and 40 percent by Singapore-based  Chemoil Energy Ltd. (CHEME) , in which
Glencore International AG has an 89 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 