-- FSA Arrests Three in London Insider-Trading Investigation
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-02-27T18:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/u-k-fsa-arrests-three-men-in-insider-trading-investigation.html
Three finance workers, including one
at  Man Group Plc (EMG) ’s GLG Partners hedge-fund division, were
arrested in London on suspicion of insider trading by the U.K.
finance regulator and police.  The men, 33, 37 and 39 years old, are in custody for
questioning, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said in an e-
mailed statement, without identifying them. The arrests aren’t
tied to other insider-trading probes previously announced by the
agency.  The FSA told Man Group the investigation relates to the
employee’s actions “as a private individual and not as an
employee of Man or GLG,” the company said in an e-mailed
statement today. The employee was suspended, Man Group said,
without identifying the person.  The FSA and London’s Metropolitan Police also executed six
search warrants on homes and offices in the British capital and
the surrounding areas, according to the statement. All those
arrested hold positions that required FSA approval.  The regulator has sought to limit  insider trading  in the
U.K.’s financial hub after previously targeting lower-profile
individuals. The FSA arrested five people including a  Schroders
Plc (SDR)  equity trader in another insider-trading investigation last
month, making today’s arrests the agency’s second new case this
year.  None of three men arrested today were charged and the FSA
declined to provide further details.  Block Trades  The FSA charged seven other individuals over the past year
as part of an investigation into the front-running of block
trades, known as Operation Tabernula, the regulator’s highest-
profile case to date. One of the suspects, former Legal &
General equities trader Paul Milsom, pleaded guilty last month
to passing inside information to Graeme Shelley, an independent
stockbroker.  Shelley, who appeared at a  London  magistrates court today,
had his case transferred to a higher criminal court for another
hearing on April 9.  The FSA is currently prosecuting another insider-trading
case against a former self-employed London trader. Richard
Joseph made 692,644 pounds ($1 million) spread-betting using
inside tips he received about upcoming mergers, the regulator
said at the trial, which began last month.  The agency last year failed to convict Jessica Mang and
Christina Weckwerth, two girlfriends of former Mizuho
International Plc investment banker Thomas Ammann, for insider
trading on tips from him.  Ammann, a German national who worked on the Mizuho mergers
and acquisitions team, had pleaded guilty to insider trading and
encouraging the women to commit the crime. He was sentenced to
32 months in prison in December.  In Britain, insider trading is punishable by as many as
seven years in prison.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  