-- U.K. Stocks Rise on Italy Debt Auction, U.S. Data
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-02-27T16:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/u-k-stocks-advance-before-italian-debt-sale-weir-climbs.html
U.K. stocks  rose the most in a week
as Italy met its maximum target for debt sales in an auction and
orders for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation equipment
increased more than estimated in January.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  gained the most in a month after it was
said to put on hold its takeover approach for  Kabel Deutschland 
Holding AG.  Weir Group Plc (WEIR)  rallied to the highest level in 23
years after saying it will increase the dividend in 2013.
 Petrofac Ltd. (PFC)  fell 6.3 percent after posting full-year sales
that missed analyst estimates.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  rose 55.44 points, or 0.9 percent, to
6,325.88 at the close in London, the most since Feb. 19. The
equity benchmark tumbled 1.3 percent yesterday as Italy’s
inconclusive polls fueled concern the euro-area debt crisis will
worsen. The gauge has rallied 7.3 percent so far this year. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index climbed 1 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 0.3 percent.  “The Italian auction shows that the reassurance provided
by the  European Central Bank  continues to hold firm,” said Guy Foster, head of portfolio strategy at Brewin Dolphin Ltd. in
London. “There’s a new wall of worry for investors to climb
after Italy’s elections, and the country’s access to the  bond
market  is the first step.”  Italy sold 6.5 billion euros of debt today, meeting its
maximum target, as borrowing costs rose after the country’s
election results. The Treasury in Rome sold 4 billion euros
($5.2 billion) of a new 10-year bond at 4.83 percent, up from
4.17 percent at an auction of similar maturity debt on Jan. 30.
It also sold 2.5 billion euros of a 5-year note due in 2017 to
yield 3.59 percent, compared with 2.94 percent last month.  Durable Goods  Orders for U.S. durable goods excluding transportation gear
climbed in January by the most in 13 months, a report showed.  Bookings for equipment meant to last at least three years,
excluding demand for aircraft and some other goods, climbed 1.9
percent, the most since December 2011, Commerce Department data
showed. That exceeded the 0.2 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In the U.K., the economy contracted in the fourth quarter,
a report from the  Office for National Statistics  showed. Gross
domestic product dropped 0.3 percent from the three months
through September, when it fell 0.3 percent. The latest figure
matched the average economist projection in a Bloomberg survey.  Quantitative Easing  Bank of England  policy maker  Paul Fisher  said he favors a
more prolonged period of asset purchases at a slower pace, as he
explained his decision to vote for 25 billion pounds of
additional quantitative easing this month.  “If we were to do that, then it would be straightforward
to accelerate or to stop purchases as the economic outlook
developed and the risks became clearer,” he said in a speech
yesterday after BOE officials testified at a Parliament hearing
in London.  At the hearing, Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said he has
raised the topic of negative  interest rates  at Monetary Policy
Committee meetings.  Vodafone rose 2 percent to 165.1 pence as three people
familiar with the matter said the wireless carrier no longer has
a time frame for an approach for Kabel Deutschland after leaks
on a potential offer complicated internal discussions. Vodafone
planned to contact Kabel Deutschland after the German cable
provider reported earnings last week.  Weir Group jumped 7.3 percent to 2,322 pence, the highest
level since at least 1989, after the company said in a statement
it sees “double-digit” dividend growth and increased cash
generation in 2013.  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc (BPTY)  jumped 8.9 percent to
150 pence and  888 Holdings Plc (888)  surged 4.3 percent to 156.75
pence. The British betting companies rallied after New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  signed legislation authorizing online
gambling in his state, in a bid to boost revenue at Atlantic
city casinos.  Petrofac declined 100 pence to 1,497 pence. The oil-and-gas
engineering company posted full-year revenue of $6.3 billion,
missing the average analyst estimate of $6.44 billion according
to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  