-- U.K. Defense Budget Gap Set to Widen, RUSI Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-27T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/u-k-defense-budget-gap-set-to-widen-rusi-says.html
Spending cuts under consideration by
the U.K. government threaten an 11 billion-pound ($16.7 billion)
hole in the  defense budget , a research organization said.  “If the 2013 spending review leads to further  defense
spending  cuts, the extent of the prospective gap between planned
spending and available resources could be significant,” Malcolm
Chalmers, research director at the  Royal United Services
Institute , said in a report published in London today. The
defense ministry “may need to find around 11 billion pounds in
savings over 10 years,” he said.  The government said last month it brought defense spending
plans in line with budget projections following more than two
years of efforts to plug a mismatch of more than 70 billion
pounds. Lower tax receipts, brought on by a  lack of economic
growth , are leading to a new round of budget cutting as the
government extends its austerity program.  “There are indications that defense, along with some
other, relatively smaller departments, will be the main focus of
savings efforts,” Chalmers said. A further possible spending
cut of 2.5 percent in the 2015 budget review would increase the
funding gap to about 17 billion pounds.  Slowing inflation could further crimp available funding for
equipment, Chalmers said. Prime Minister  David Cameron  has
promised that annual spending on equipment will increase by 1
percent more than inflation starting in 2015. Revised inflation
projections mean expenditure could be curtailed to 17.7 billion
pounds rather than 18.8 billion pounds in the fiscal year
starting in April 2021, according to Chalmers.  Successor Submarine  There will be increased pressure on purchases of combat
aircraft, helicopters and other hardware as the U.K. increases
spending on modernizing its nuclear arsenal, Chalmers said. The
government will decide in 2016 whether to build new submarines
to carry nuclear missiles, though it has already awarded  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/)  and  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  design contracts.  Spending on the submarines and related weapons will grow to
35 percent of the total procurement budget early next decade,
Chalmers said.  The growing mismatch between available funds and spending
plans may mean another defense-strategy review is needed before
the one planned in 2015, Chalmers said, while noting that
political challenges make it an unattractive prospect before the
elections scheduled in May that year.  “The government’s strong preference is likely to be
agreement on a program of further efficiency savings,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  