-- U.K. FSA Doesn’t Want Power to Prosecute CEOs of Failed Banks
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-02-27T16:08:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/u-k-fsa-doesn-t-want-power-to-prosecute-ceos-of-failed-banks.html
The U.K. finance regulator doesn’t
need the power to prosecute executives at banks that fail or
take bailouts because such matters are unlikely to be criminal,
the agency told lawmakers.  Bank failures are most often due to mismanagement rather
than deliberate wrongdoing, the  Financial Services Authority 
said in a written response to questions from the Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards, published today.  “The causes of a major bank failure are always likely to
be complex and include a combination of decisions made within
the bank and inextricably linked to external events,” the FSA
said.  The regulator is “not convinced” that bankers would act
more cautiously in taking risk or that the public would have
greater confidence in authorities’ ability to take action
against mismanagement if it had the power to criminally
prosecute them because it would rarely be used.  Instead, the FSA said it would prefer stronger regulatory
powers. In September, it told the committee it would like an
extension of the three-year statute of limitations on probes and
the ability to temporarily ban senior managers from their jobs
while they’re under investigation.  The regulator also disclosed that it spent around 10.9
million pounds ($16.5 million) pursing two civil cases that
included penalties against former bank executives. One resulted
in a 500,000-pound fine against Peter Cummings, a former HBOS
Plc banker, over the aggressive expansion of corporate lending
that led to its near-collapse.  Enforcement Budget  In the other case, the FSA fined UBS AG and several
individuals over unauthorized trading in its wealth-management
unit in  London . The FSA lost part of the case, against former
unit Chief Executive Officer John Pottage, for not heeding
warning signs of ineffective risk controls before the trading
was discovered. Pottage challenged the regulator at a tribunal
in London and had a fine overturned.  The FSA’s enforcement budget has risen to 51.1 million
pounds for the upcoming year from 36.4 million pounds in the
fiscal year ending in 2011, driven by an increased headcount,
the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  