-- UBS Shuts L.A. Investment-Banking Office With Up to 20 Staff
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-27T21:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/ubs-shuts-l-a-investment-banking-office-with-up-to-20-workers.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the Swiss lender
restructuring its investment bank, is closing a Los Angeles
office with as many as 20 bankers and support staff.  UBS may move some employees to the  San Francisco  office,
which will continue to serve clients in Southern California,
 Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for the Zurich-based company, said
today in a phone interview. The bank said in October it will cut
about 10,000 jobs and retreat from capital-intensive trading
businesses to boost profitability.  “You can consider these changes to be part of the next
step in the implementation of our strategy, a refinement of our
investment-bank model by focusing on those areas where we
believe we can be successful,” Byrne said.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti , 52, is exiting most
debt trading to concentrate on money management and boost return
on equity, a measure of profitability, to at least 15 percent in
2015. UBS, Switzerland’s largest lender, will continue to offer
advice and underwrite debt and equity offerings for corporate
clients.  The closing of the Los Angeles office affected 15 to 20
people, and the bank continues to employ “a small group” of
fixed-income traders in the city, Byrne said.  UBS has advised on three transactions this year involving
California-based companies, ranking 22nd by total disclosed deal
size, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It ranked 12th
last year and eighth in 2011.  The bank advised cable channel  Al Jazeera  in its January
purchase of San Francisco-based Current TV, the network co-
founded by former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore . Al Jazeera, based
in Doha, Qatar, paid about $500 million, two people with
knowledge of the deal said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  