-- UN Effort to Raise Carbon Offset Supply Won’t Beat EU Deadline
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-02-28T00:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/un-efforts-to-speed-up-carbon-supply-won-t-beat-eu-deadline-1-.html
United Nations efforts to speed up
issuance of  carbon offsets  by accepting electronic transfer
requests won’t be enough for some emitters to meet a European
Union compliance deadline, project developers said.  The changes are “unlikely to have a very significant
impact on meeting the deadline because the forwarding process is
only one small part of the much longer verification and issuance
process,”  Gareth Phillips , chairman of the Project Developer
Forum, said by e-mail from  Singapore  yesterday.  The UN’s Clean Development Mechanism, which oversees the
supply of Certified Emission Reductions, told stakeholders last
week that requests for credits to be forwarded to national
registries can be made electronically. The change, one of two,
followed an “an enormous influx” of project registration
requests at the end of 2012, David Abbass, a CDM spokesman, said
by e-mail Feb. 26.  It typically takes at least five months to issue new
offsets, which represent greenhouse-gas reductions that
compensate for emissions made elsewhere. Buyers who need CERs to
meet their caps in the EU’s emissions-trading system for 2012
must get their offsets before April 30, so they can transfer
them to the bloc’s registry account.  CERs for December closed 2 euro cents higher yesterday at
37 euro cents ($O.48) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London . They fell to a record 28 cents on Jan. 21.  Hard Copy  The CDM secretariat said in its letter to stakeholders that
project owners and investors forwarding CERs no longer need to
submit a hard copy request signed by all project participants.
This process can take as long as 10 days, Phillips said.  “The ‘fast-tracking’ is only a capacity for electronically
submitting forms instead of sending them via physical mail,”
Abbass at the UN said. “There has been no change in the board’s
procedures and the issuance process prior to forwarding remains
as it was.”  The CDM board will also allow owners and investors to pay
issuance fees in advance of the delivery of credits, instead of
waiting until they’re issued before paying the charge. This may
save from three to five days, Phillips said.  “PD Forum has been requesting the secretariat to accept
pre-payment of issuance fees since 2008 and now they have
finally implemented this option, albeit on a temporary basis, we
would ask them to extend it permanently,” he said.  Pre-Payment  The changes don’t represent a short-cut in the way the
emissions reductions are verified, the UN’s Abbass said.  “There has been no change in the board’s procedures and
the issuance process prior to forwarding remains as it was,” he
said.  The  Project Developers Forum  said in a letter to the UN and
published on its website yesterday that while the changes were
welcome, more must be done to bring CERs to market faster.  The time the UN takes to verify and check the accuracy of
paperwork, known as the information and reporting check, should
be cut from its current 23 days, according to the forum. Also,
the 28 day-review of an auditor’s verification is unnecessary
when the CER issuance isn’t the first for a project.  “If we reduced the issuance process, we could save four
weeks or more” in the time investors wait for their offsets to
be delivered, Phillips said.  The EU’s April 30 compliance deadline is also the last
opportunity for some investors to surrender offsets from
projects that reduce hydrofluorocarbon-23 and nitrous oxide
emissions. Credits from the two technologies will be banned in
the EU market from May 1.  Requests for CERs from these project types total 21.7
million tons scheduled for issuance through March 27, with a
further 6.5 million tons in preliminary stages, UN data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  