-- Urbi’s Greek-Like Distress Captivating Greylock: Mexico Credit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-02-27T19:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/urbi-s-greek-like-distress-captivating-greylock-mexico-credit.html
The rout in Mexican  homebuilder 
bonds is luring distressed-debt investors including Greylock
Capital Management who say the yields on the securities are too
attractive to pass up.  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB’s $300 million of dollar notes
due in 2020 have plummeted 11 cents to 82 cents on the dollar in
the past month, helping make homebuilder debt the worst-
performing securities in  Mexico . At 13.6 percent, Urbi’s bonds
yield 12.16 percentage points more than similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries, meaning they’re considered distressed.  While Mexico’s homebuilders are slumping as the government
pushes the industry to boost investment in capital-intensive
apartment construction, the companies still have the ability to
pay their debt in the short term, allowing investors to profit,
Greylock said. The investment firm likens homebuilders to its
investment in Greek bonds, whose 10-year debt more than doubled
in value since it was issued in February 2012.  “You have to step back and say, ‘That’s fine, there are
these issues, but with the ongoing business and the residual
value -- that’s more than what it’s trading at,” Juan Pedro Moreno, who helps oversees $500 million in investments at
Greylock, said in a telephone interview. “We were receiving the
same kind of accusations when people were saying, ‘Oh,  Greece  is
too risky, or it may default.’ Yeah, OK, it may default, but at
13 cents on the dollar you’re getting compensated for that.”  Housing Policy  Alma Beltran, a press official at Urbi, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment on the company’s bonds.  The securities rallied today 1.93 cents on the dollar to
84.31 cents, sending the yields down 0.42 percentage point to
12.74 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto said Feb. 11 that
he’ll use the government’s subsidized-housing program to promote
apartment construction, which requires bigger initial cash
outlays than single-family  home construction .  His administration will focus on building apartments in
cities to help ease Mexico’s housing shortage, extending the
policy initiated in 2011 by then-President  Felipe Calderon ,
according to a statement on the presidential website on Feb. 11.  While Mexican homebuilders have traditionally focused on
single-construction housing, apartments require longer planning,
building and sales cycles.  Alejandro Nieto, the head of the National Housing
Commission, held a closed-door meeting with industry analysts
yesterday.  Fitch’s Concern  Urbi’s bonds touched a record low 80.6 cents on Feb. 22
after  Fitch Ratings  put the industry on rating-watch negative,
citing dwindling cash and the prospect of land writedowns.  With government subsidy programs now placing increased
emphasis on more urban areas, builders will have to sell some of
their lands that “are now unsuitable for future projects,”
Fitch said in the note, referring to Urbi, Corp. Geo SAB,
Servicios Corporativos Javer SAPI and Desarrolladora  Homex (HOMEX*)  SAB.
Urbi and Javer are  rated  B by Fitch, five levels below
investment grade, while Homex and Geo have a BB- rating.  Geo’s bonds due in 2020 have dropped 12 cents in the past
month, pushing yields to a record high 10.45 percent. Similar-
maturity debt from Javer and Homex have dropped at least nine
cents.  Alejandro Haiducovich, a Geo spokesman, didn’t respond to
phone calls and e-mail messages seeking comment on the
possibility of writedowns and the performance of their bonds.
Eugenio Garza y Garza, Javer’s chief executive officer, said by
e-mail that his company is “not contemplating any writedowns.”  ‘Still Positive’  Vania Fueyo, an investor relations official at Homex, said
her company is “confident in the quality and location” of its
land reserves and doesn’t expect writedowns.  “It’s not worth selling now,” Omar Zeolla, an analyst at
Oppenheimer & Co., said in a telephone interview from  New York .
“The biggest homebuilders represent between 25 and 30 percent
of the market. They’re an important group, and the government
wants to keep cutting down the housing deficit. That’s still
positive.”  Charles de Quinsonas, a credit analyst at Spread Research,
says it’s too early to make an  investment decision  because the
impact of the government’s policy on the homebuilders is still
unknown.  “The fears are coming from the government,” de Quinsonas
said by telephone from Lyon,  France . “We don’t know what’s
going to happen.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of Treasuries fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 180 basis points at 2:50 p.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Default Swaps  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps fell one basis point to 103
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  The peso strengthened 0.6 percent to 12.7619 per  U.S.
dollar .  Urbi, which has lost three-fourths of its market value in
the past year, will report negative free  cash flow  to equity for
the fourth quarter of 2012, according to a company official with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Cash Generation  The amount of cash generated in the fourth quarter that can
be paid to the company’s owners after expenses, reinvestments
and debt repayments will be similar to the third quarter, when
the homebuilder had negative 152.3 million pesos ($12 million)
in free cash flow to equity, according to the official. Sales
will be in the lower end of the company’s 3 billion peso to 4
billion peso projection, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Urbi’s stock has tumbled 37 percent in the past month.  Greylock’s Moreno says land writedowns are already factored
into his wager on the sector.  “We’re expecting those writedowns,” Moreno said. “With
debt trading at 80 cents and the equity trading at a fraction of
the value that it was a couple years ago, it’s all about taking
advantage of guys that are throwing in the towel.”  7  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  