-- Turkish Banks May Face $828 Million Fine for Rate-Rigging
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2013-02-27T16:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/turkey-banks-may-face-828-million-fine-after-rate-setting-probe.html
Turkish banks  may be fined about 1.5
billion liras ($828 million) should the antitrust regulator rule
they formed a cartel to fix interest rates, according to two
Turkish officials close to the investigation.  Banks including Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, part-owned by
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , the country’s biggest
by market value, and  Akbank TAS (AKBNK)  are telling the Competition
Board in Ankara that any fine, set at a maximum of 10 percent of
total annual revenue, should be reduced because any cooperation
on rates was informal, the officials said today, asking not to
be identified because the discussions aren’t public.  Twelve banks in Turkey are under investigation for
allegedly colluding to set rates on loans, deposits, credit card
fees and commissions from 2007 to 2011. The probe comes after
 Barclays Plc (BARC) , UBS AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc were fined
$2.5 billion for fixing the London interbank offered rate and
other global benchmarks. Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has
accused banks of charging consumers and businesses too much
interest on loans.  The regulator, which is autonomous, heard banks’ verbal
defense over the past two days. It may bring forward the ruling
from March 12 to help ease concern among investors, one of the
officials said.  Regulatory Presssure  Yapi Kredi (YKBNK)  has never been part of a cartel to set rates or
proposed any agreement to do so, it said in an e-mailed
statement today. Akbank follows rules on competition and is not
involved in cartels, Chief Executive Officer Hakan Binbasgil
told this week’s hearings. Akbank’s press office declined to
comment further. Garanti’s press office referred to a statement
made by Deputy CEO Aydin Duren at the hearings, where he
complained about regulatory pressure on banks. It declined to
comment further.  The main banking index in Istanbul rose 0.7 percent to
159,544.9 at the close of trade, paring losses this year to 1.8
percent. The emerging market  MSCI EM Banks Index (MXEF0BK)  climbed 2.2
percent since Jan. 1 and Turkey’s benchmark  ISE National-100 (XU100) 
index was unchanged.  The amount of the fine will depend on whether the
collaboration between the banks can be classified as a cartel,
one of the officials said.  Akbank TAS, Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS and Garanti are three
of the banks accused of forming a group to fix rates, Sabah
newspaper reported earlier today, without saying where it got
the information. While Yapi Kredi admitted to proposing a
“gentlemen’s agreement,” it said the suggestion was never
implemented, Sabah said.  The report in Sabah is not accurate or truthful, Yapi Kredi
said in the e-mailed statement.  Other banks named by the regulator in the probe are
 Denizbank AS (DENIZ) ,  Finansbank AS (FINBN) , the Turkish units of  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) ,  Turkiye Halk
Bankasi AS (HALKB) ,  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISCTR)  AS,  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi TAO (VAKBN) 
and TC Ziraat Bankasi AS.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  