-- Vale Promises Turnaround After Posting Record Loss
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-28T20:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/vale-posts-record-quarterly-loss-after-5-66-billion-writedowns.html
Vale SA (VALE) , the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer, said it’s poised to benefit from a price recovery
and a balance-sheet cleanup that spurred a record quarterly
loss. Shares rose the most in a month.  The miner, based in Rio de Janeiro, is focusing only on
projects that bring “big returns,” Chief Executive Officer
Murilo Ferreira told analysts on a conference call today. Vale
yesterday posted a fourth-quarter net loss of $2.65 billion
after writing down the value of some nickel, coal and steel
assets, compared with a year-earlier profit of $4.67 billion.  Ferreira is selling assets, cutting investments and writing
down unprofitable projects amid falling metal and mineral
prices. The company, which in October ceded its place as the
world’s second-largest miner by market value to  Rio Tinto  Group,
is also focusing on expanding its profitable iron-ore unit after
output fell 0.8 percent in 2012.  “We see initial signs of cost, expenses and working
capital reduction,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts led by
 Marcelo Aguiar  wrote in a note to clients yesterday. The “stock
is trading at one of its highest historical discounts to peers
on regulatory uncertainty that we view as overdone.”  Vale  rose  3.1 percent to 36.55 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo  today, the most since Jan. 31. The stock was the most
traded by value on the benchmark Bovespa Index today at 2.2
times the company’s three-month full-day average. Vale fell 14
percent in the 12 months before today, more than the 13 percent
decline in  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa Index.  ‘Discipline, Persistence’  “We have great confidence that these negative numbers that
you see today will become strongly positive,” Ferreira said on
today’s conference call. “With discipline, persistence and
patience we will bring the results that our investors and
analysts expect.”  Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization declined 41 percent to $4.39 billion in the
quarter, missing a $4.79 billion average estimate by 14 analysts
 compiled  by Bloomberg.  “The lower-than-expected Ebitda generation was a
combination of realized iron-ore prices being 6 percent less
than forecast combined with higher expenses, mostly due to
higher freight costs,” HSBC Holdings Plc analyst Jonathan Brandt said in a note yesterday.  The quarterly loss includes $5.66 billion in charges. Vale
cut the value of its Onca Puma nickel project by $2.85 billion,
took a $1.03 billion charge on Australian coal assets and a $975
million writedown on its stake in aluminum producer  Norsk Hydro
ASA. (NHY)  It also booked a $583 million charge on its share of
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s CSA steel plant in Rio state and a $94 million
charge for its oil and gas assets.  Industry Writedowns  The writedowns follow similar decisions by other producers
including Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s largest
mining company.  Declining metal and mineral prices have triggered more than
$60 billion in writedowns in mining and steel companies since
early 2012. Failed deals in aluminum and coal caused $14 billion
in writedowns at Rio and led CEO Tom Albanese to lose his job.
Cost overruns at Anglo American Plc’s flagship Minas-Rio iron-
ore project in Brazil were followed by  Cynthia Carroll ’s
announced departure as the company’s top executive. Anglo
slashed $4 billion from the value of Minas Rio.  Vale’s net sales dropped 19 percent to $11.7 billion in the
quarter after the company sold iron ore at an average $93.70 a
metric ton, down from $121.38 last year and more than a $90-a-
ton estimate by Banco Santander SA. Nickel’s average sales price
fell 4.5 percent and copper slid 2.6 percent.  Better Prices  The fourth-quarter loss is the largest since at least 1997,
when the company went public.  The company expects better iron-ore prices in the first
half, while prices “may suffer a bit” in the second half of
2013 because of an expected supply increases, Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s head of ferrous and strategy, said on the
conference call. He forecast a “quite healthy” performance in
 China  this year.  Vale shipped 84.8 million tons of  iron ore  and pellets in
the quarter, 5.1 percent more than a year earlier. Pellets are a
processed form of iron ore used by the  steel industry . Nickel
sale volumes dropped 16 percent to 58,000 tons and copper
shipments fell by 30 percent to 79,000 tons, the company said.  Iron-ore prices  rallied  39 percent in the fourth quarter,
capping a 4.6 percent annual gain after tumbling 19 percent in
2011, according to data compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  “Driven by Chinese steelmakers carrying out restocking and
the impact of winter related lower Chinese iron ore production,
Vale managed to successfully boost its iron ore sales,” Alan
Glezer, an equity analyst at Banco Bradesco BBI SA, wrote in an
e-mailed note to clients.  Halted Project  The company, which earlier this year halted works at its
$5.9 billion Rio Colorado potash project in  Argentina , will
discuss options for the venture at a board meeting scheduled for
March 11, Ferreira told reporters in a call yesterday. Vale,
which aimed to announce the sale of a stake in its general cargo
unit VLI by February, will need a few more weeks to make a
“final decision” on its possible partners, he also said.  Vale invested $17.7 billion in 2012, or 83 percent of the
$21.4 billion initially budgeted for the year, it said. Total
debt as of Dec. 31 rose 4.5 percent to $30.5 billion from the
previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  