-- Van Cliburn, U.S. Pianist, Dies at 78
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-02-27T17:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/van-cliburn-u-s-pianist-who-put-thaw-in-cold-war-dies-at-78.html
Van Cliburn , the pianist from  Texas 
whose triumph in a 1958 Tchaikovsky competition in Moscow united
Americans and Russians in appreciation of his artistry,
providing a brief thaw in the  Cold War , has died. He was 78.  He died today, the  Associated Press  reported, citing his
publicist, Mary Lou Falcone. On Aug. 27 he said through his
representative that he had advanced bone cancer.  At a time when the U.S. and Soviet Union were competing for
military and political supremacy not just around the world but
in space, with the successful launch of  Sputnik  shattering
Americans’ confidence, Cliburn’s prodigious musical abilities
managed to draw East and West together.  At 23, he traveled to the U.S.S.R. in March 1958 for the
first Tchaikovsky International Piano and Violin Festival, held
at the Moscow Conservatory.  Within days, he had emerged from the field of 50
competitors, from 19 nations, “as the darling of the serious
listeners and bobby-soxers alike,” the  New York  Times reported,
and was “mobbed everywhere by fans, autograph seekers and girls
bearing flowers.” The two-week competition ended with composer
Dmitri Shostakovich handing Cliburn the first-place prize of
25,000 rubles, then worth about $6,250.  Feted at the Kremlin, the 6-foot-4-inch Cliburn got a hug
from Soviet Premier  Nikita Khrushchev , who, according to an
account in Time magazine, asked him why he was so tall.  “Because I’m from Texas,” Cliburn replied.  Hero’s Return  He performed in Moscow, visited Tchaikovsky’s home-turned-
museum in Klin, then played to crowds in Leningrad, Riga, Kiev
and Minsk, delighting fans with his willingness to play encore
after encore. Back home, he was greeted by President Dwight Eisenhower at the White House and given a ticker-tape parade up
Broadway in  Manhattan .  Time magazine hailed him on its  cover  as “The Texan Who
Conquered  Russia ” and reported:  “Through a rare combination of sheer talent, the tension
of the cold war and the thunderous amplifier of modern
publicity, the long-legged 23-year-old winner of Moscow’s
International Tchaikovsky Piano Competition had overnight become
the object of the most explosive single outpouring of popular
acclaim ever accorded a U.S. musician.”  His recording of Tchaikovsky’s Piano Concerto No. 1, one of
the pieces he had played at the Moscow competition, was
certified platinum by the  Recording Industry Association of
America  by topping 1 million copies sold. The Van Cliburn
International Piano Competition, held every four years, was
 established  in  Fort Worth , Texas, in 1962.  Nixon Performance  He returned to the  Soviet Union  during concert tours in the
1960s and 1970s. During a 1972 visit, he performed for President
Richard Nixon and Soviet officials at the Moscow residence of
the U.S. ambassador.  “Of all the Americans of his generation, Cliburn was able
to produce the most sensuous of sounds -- rich, never
percussive, a real piano sound that reminded old-timers of the
great romantic pianists of the past,” Harold C. Schoenberg
wrote in “The Great Pianists” (1987).  He took a break from performing from 1978 to 1987 and
followed a highly selective concert schedule after that.  “Right now, this is my intermission ” he told Texas
Monthly magazine in 1987, a year after he had moved from New
York to Fort Worth. “Every good concert program has an
intermission, and I’m waiting for the second half to begin.”  For Gorbachev  He ended his hiatus in December 1987, accepting an
invitation from President  Ronald Reagan  to perform at the White
House state dinner in honor of  Mikhail Gorbachev  and his wife.  In a 2008 interview with  National Public Radio , Cliburn
said he was happiest watching and listening to his first love,
opera.  “I was never really the kind of person that needed the
stage,” he said. “I love music. I love listening to it. When
you listen to music, you can be 100 percent. When you’re having
to serve music, you must be thinking of others, not yourself.”  Harvey Lavan Cliburn Jr. was born on July 12, 1934, in
Shreveport,  Louisiana . He was the only child of Harvey Lavan
Cliburn, a purchasing agent with Magnolia Petroleum Co. (a
predecessor of Exxon Mobil Corp.) and the former Rildia Bee
O’Bryan, a pianist whose own budding performance career had been
halted by her parents.  Cliburn began learning piano from his mother at 3. His
first recital, at Dodd College at Shreveport, was at age 4.  Orchestral Debut  When he was 6, the family moved to Kilgore, Texas, about
120 miles east of  Dallas . He made his orchestral debut with the
Houston Symphony Orchestra at 12. Excused from physical
education at 14 to protect his hands, he expedited his studies
so that he could graduate from Kilgore High School in 1951,
before his 17th birthday.  He moved to  New York City  to study at Juilliard School of
Music under  Rosina Lhevinne , an illustrious piano instructor
born in Russia who had left before the Communists took power in
1917.  In 1954 he won the international Leventritt Competition for
young pianists and violinists, which gave him the opportunity to
perform with the  New York Philharmonic  and orchestras in
 Cleveland , Denver, Indianapolis and Pittsburgh. He toured the
U.S. in 1955 and 1956. Inducted into the Army, he was declared
ineligible to serve because of recurring nose bleeds.  Urged by Lhevinne to enter the 1958 Tchaikovsky
competition, he spent two months in his West 57th Street
apartment, across from  Carnegie Hall , spending six to eight
hours a day on the “staggering repertory each entrant was
expected to master,” Time reported.  Cliburn made a surprise appearance at the 50th Anniversary
Gold Medalists Concert in September. Prior to the performance,
he walked out on stage at Fort Worth’s Bass Performance Hall and
thanked the audience.  “Thank you for your faithful support,” he said. “I love
you from the bottom of my heart, forever.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  