-- Veterans Seen as Suffering as U.S. Scraps Health-Records System
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-02-27T17:28:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/veterans-seen-as-suffering-as-u-s-scraps-health-records-system.html
The Pentagon and Department of
 Veterans Affairs  may let veterans care fall through the cracks
by scrapping a plan to build a joint health-records system, U.S.
lawmakers said.  Last year, then-Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  pledged to
“meet or beat” a 2017 deadline to integrate the two agencies’
networks, one for troops and the other for veterans.  The agencies instead this month scrubbed their plan because
of cost and time concerns, and said they will integrate the data
without building a new system. The move may hurt veterans
struggling to access military medical records and seeking
compensation for injuries, said Representative Jeff Miller,
chairman of the House Committee on Veterans Affairs.  “Each time the objective changes or the goalposts move, it
is service members and veterans who lose the most,” Miller, a
Florida Republican, said today at a hearing. “That is
unacceptable to this committee, and should be to the VA and the
Defense Department as well.”  The two agencies must work together or “veterans fall
through the space” between them, said Representative Mike Michaud, a Maine Democrat and the committee’s ranking minority
member. “You have no greater responsibility to those who have
served and those who serve than to ensure a complete and smooth
transition from military back to civilian life.”  Costs Double  A joint health records system might have helped improve
veterans’ ability to obtain medical information and speed claims
processing, Jacob Gadd, a deputy director for health care at the
 American Legion , said during the hearing.  Almost 900,000 disability compensation and pension claims
were pending as of Feb. 18. More than two-thirds of those claims
have been in the system for more than 125 days, the agency’s
target processing time.  President  Barack Obama  in 2009 ordered the agencies to
figure out how to share the electronic information. The
departments, though, struggled with rising costs.  A joint system was projected in September 2011 to cost $4
billion to $6 billion. A year later, those estimates had
doubled, Roger Baker, the VA’s chief information officer, told
lawmakers today.  The departments’ new plan will meet the same goals as the
joint records system, with “common data, common applications
and a common user interface,” Baker said.  “We have done a poor job of communicating the changes we
are making to the program,” he said. “We are looking to
achieve those goals through a lower-risk, lower-cost path than
we were on.”  By scaling down their plans, VA and Defense Department
officials said they would be able to deliver a solution by 2014.  The decision to continue using existing records systems
benefits incumbent contractors such as  SAIC Inc. (SAI) , Hewlett-Packard Corp.,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Harris Corp. (HRS) , according to
Bloomberg Government.  -- Editors: Stephanie Stoughton, Daniel Enoch  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  