-- Victoria’s Secret Plans to Open First Stores in Hong Kong
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-02-28T05:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/victoria-s-secret-said-to-plan-first-stores-in-hong-kong.html
Limited Brands  Inc.’s Victoria’s
Secret, the lingerie chain known for its supermodels called
“Angels,” is planning its first stores in Hong Kong, where
surging demand from shoppers has sent retail rents to a record.  Limited Brands this year will open two 1,500-square-foot
(139-square-meter) Victoria’s Secret shops at the International
Finance Centre in the Central business district and at New Town
Plaza, a favored stop for mainland Chinese shoppers in the
city’s north, according to an e-mail from Robin Hoffman, a
spokeswoman for Columbus, Ohio-based Limited Brands.  An influx of mainland Chinese visitors has fueled
consumption of branded apparel and accessories in Hong Kong,
which commands the world’s highest occupancy costs in some of
its areas.  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  and Gap Inc. are among
international clothing labels that have opened flagship stores
in the city in the past 18 months.  Both IFC and New Town Plaza malls are owned or part-owned
by  Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd. (16) , the world’s biggest developer
by value.  Brenda Wong, a spokeswoman for Hong Kong-based Sun Hung Kai,
declined to comment on its tenants.  Planet’s Biggest  Limited Brands’s  shares  rose 2 percent to $44.50 at the
close in  New York  yesterday, the biggest gain since Jan. 15. The
company yesterday reported fourth-quarter net income rose 14
percent as sales grew.  Limited Brands, while “very, very optimistic” about
Victoria’s Secret’s potential outside of  North America , has been
measured in openings to ensure its stores run well, Chief
Executive Officer Les Wexner said in an October presentation to
investors.  “We’re very aware that  China  will be the biggest market on
the planet at some point,” Martin Waters, president of
international business at Limited Brands, said at the October
investor meeting. “We just don’t feel pressured by the time to
go and do that immediately. We’ve got so many building blocks to
put in place.”  Hong Kong ’s Causeway Bay overtook New York’s Fifth Avenue
as the world’s most expensive retail location last year, with
annual average shop rents reaching $2,630 per square foot at the
end of June, a 35 percent increase from a year earlier,
according to property broker Cushman & Wakefield Inc.  Hong Kong’s retail sales rose 9.8 percent in 2012 after
gaining 25 percent a year earlier, according to the city’s
census and statistics department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  