-- Viking Undies Model; God-Awful ‘Bible’; Dim ‘Widow’L: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/viking-undies-model-god-awful-bible-dim-widow-l-tv.html
Not every hero could slaughter all
the monks in a monastery and sail home with his swagger intact.  But so it goes on “ Vikings ,” History channel’s latest bid
for some of TV’s “ Spartacus ” mojo.  Different gods, cooler haircuts and (this being basic
cable) significantly fewer unsheathed body parts than Starz’s
pay-channel orgy of ancient Romans, the Dark Age “Vikings”
looks and sounds like the final longboat in a played-out trend.  Created and written by Michael Hirst -- the one-man cottage
industry responsible for such costume dramas as “ The Borgias ”
-- the nine-part “Vikings” stars former underwear model Travis
Fimmel as Ragnar Lothbrok, a Norse raider bored with the same
old summer routine (head east, plunder, rape, kill, sail home.
Repeat).  “There are no lands to the west!” cautions Ragnar’s
corrupt chieftain (Gabriel Byrne) when the upstart suggests a
new direction.  Sailing off with a few compatriots, Ragnar proves the
chieftain wrong, returning from  England  with a boatload of
church treasures, not to mention an enslaved young monk named
Athelstan (George Blagden), who speaks to Ragnar and his wife
Lagertha (Katheryn Winnick) of a strange new god of peace and
love.  “Vikings,” of course, wants both worlds -- the blood-and-
gore action of sword-wielding barbarians and the feel-good
veneer of a blossoming Christian conscience.  Even the pious Athelstan can’t decide which way to turn.
One episode he’s declining a three-way with the buff Lothbrok
and another he’s praying for buddy Ragnar’s safety. Has he
forgotten all those dead monks or is he suffering from history’s
first case of Stockholm Syndrome?  “Vikings” airs Sunday, March 3, on History at 10 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: **  ‘The Bible’  “Vikings” is looted gold compared to “ The Bible ,”
History’s god-awful 10-part drama having its debut the same
night.  With British accents and the simple-mindedness of an
illustrated children’s storybook, “The Bible” reduces the
poetry of its source to the bland, dimwitted re-enactments that
usually pepper cable’s low-budget documentaries.  Among the low points of the four episodes available for
review, I’d be hard-pressed to choose a winner, but the double-
sworded angel of death, played by an Asian actor with martial-
arts training, kicking and stabbing his way through Sodom is a
top contender.  The show’s producers include reality TV king  Mark Burnett 
(“The Celebrity Apprentice”) and “ Touched by an Angel ” star
Roma Downey, who gives herself a plum role as the  Virgin Mary ,
complete with the blue robes of countless Sunday-school
pageants.  “The Bible” airs Sunday, March 3, on History at 8 p.m.
Rating: *  ‘Red Widow’  If low expectations are a blessing, ABC’s new mob drama
“ Red Widow ” is absolutely charmed.  Arriving in the wake of network midseason megaflops “Do No
Harm” and “Zero Hour,” “Red Widow” bests those two only by
trodding safe, unadventurous ground.  Adapted by “ Twilight Saga ” screenwriter Melissa Rosenberg
from a Dutch series, “Red Widow” stars Radha Mitchell as Marta
Walraven, a Marin County mom drawn into her family’s criminal
doings.  “It’s not my business!” she tells a drug lord (Goran
Visnjic) about the cocaine allegedly stolen by her recently
murdered husband.  “It is now,” comes the response.  Judging from the 2-hour premiere, neither Rosenberg nor
Mitchell give Marta nearly enough depth to hold our interest.
This mob wife is no Carmela Soprano, lacking the willful
ignorance or high-cost taste that could make her dilemma worth
pondering.  “Red Widow” airs Sunday, March 3, on ABC at 9 p.m. New
York time. Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Ryan
Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 