-- VimpelCom Seeks Mergers in Canada, Control in Algeria, CEO Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-27T14:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/vimpelcom-seeks-mergers-in-canada-control-in-algeria-ceo-says.html
VimpelCom Ltd (VIP) , an international
mobile operator co-owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman 
and Norway’s  Telenor ASA (TEL) , may consider acquisitions to expand in
Canada, its Chief Executive Officer said.  VimpelCom’s unit Orascom gained control of Wind Mobile
Canada last month after the acquisition of shares from founder
 Anthony Lacavera , according to a regulatory filing. The Toronto-
based operator has about 600,000 subscribers.  “We have an interesting opportunity in Canada,” VimpelCom
CEO Jo Lunder said in an interview during the Mobile World 
Congress in Barcelona. “There is a strong economy with 
relatively high average revenue per user.”  VimpelCom may consider organic growth or acquisitions to
expand in the North American country, Lunder said, declining to
elaborate. Roger Wireless Communications Inc., Bell Mobility
Inc. and  Telus Corp. (T)  are among Canada’s largest mobile phone
operators.  Separately, Lunder said VimpelCom is “optimistic” about
resolving its long-running dispute with the Algerian government
regarding ownership of local operator Djezzy. “We have asked
for a few things on this deal,” Lunder said. “We’ve asked for
operational control of the company, for the ability to
consolidate, and we’ve asked for a fair valuation.”  Djezzy, which had a  margin  of about 59 percent on earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the
third quarter, is one of VimpelCom’s most profitable assets. The
Algerian government has been in talks with the Russia-focused
company for more than a year about buying a controlling stake.  VimpelCom acquired Djezzy and a stake in Wind Mobile Canada
as a part of its 2011  acquisition  of telecommunications assets
from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris . The deal made
VimpelCom the world’s six-largest mobile operator by users and
boosted its debt, which stood at $26.6 billion as of  Sept. 30 .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  