-- VirnetX $368 Million Verdict Against Apple Upheld by Judge
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   A n d r e w   C i n k o
-- 2013-02-27T21:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/virnetx-368-million-jury-verdict-against-apple-upheld-by-judge.html
VirnetX Holding Corp. (VHC) ’s $368.2
million jury victory against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  over patents for
virtual-private-network technology was upheld by a federal
judge.  U.S. District Judge Leonard Davis in Tyler,  Texas , denied
Apple’s requests for a new trial or a reduction in the damage
award. VirnetX lost its bid for an order that would have limited
Apple’s ability to provide virtual private networks on its
products, and the judge ordered the two sides to confer within
the next 45 days to work out a license for future royalties.  A federal jury in Tyler in November said Apple’s VPN on
Demand and FaceTime features, used on the iPhone, iPod Touch and
iPad as well as Mac computers, infringed four VirnetX patents.
There was “substantial evidence” to support both the finding
of infringement and the damage award, Davis wrote yesterday.  “We are extremely pleased with the court’s order in our
suit against Apple,” VirnetX Chief Executive Officer Kendall Larsen said in a statement. “We look forward to negotiating a
license with Apple that includes an ongoing royalty agreement.”  VirnetX rose $1.62, or 4.8 percent, to close at $35.58 in
 New York  trading.  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, said the company had no comment.  VirnetX, based in Zephyr Cove,  Nevada , had asked for at
least $708 million in the trial, while Apple argued the patents
were worth no more than $9.1 million. VirnetX also said it would
drop its U.S. International Trade Commission case against Apple
over other patents and instead pursue further damages in the
Texas court.  VirnetX had won a $200 million settlement from Microsoft
Corp. in 2010 over the same technology and has claims pending
against Cisco Systems Inc. A trial on the Cisco claims is
scheduled to begin March 4.  The case at trial is VirnetX Inc. v.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
10cv417, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas
(Tyler).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Cinko in New York at 
 cinko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  