-- Vornado Reports $224.9 Million Loss on J.C. Penney Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-02-27T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/vornado-reports-224-9-million-loss-on-j-c-penney-stake.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , the real
estate investment trust that owns office and retail properties,
said it had a $224.9 million loss on its 11 percent interest in
 J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)   The owner of more than 100 million square feet (9 million
square meters) of U.S. properties concluded that the stake is
“other-than-temporarily” impaired, the New York-based landlord
said in its  annual report , filed yesterday.  “Our conclusion is based on the severity of the decline in
the stock and our inability to forecast a recovery in the near
term,” Vornado said in the filing.  Vornado invested in Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney in 2010
along with  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management
LP, with a plan to close stores, wind down the retailer’s
catalog business and implement a new selling strategy. J.C.
Penney closed yesterday at $21.02, down 38 percent in two years.  “We weren’t expecting it, but it’s not a surprise,”  Alex Goldfarb , analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said of
the J.C. Penney loss. He has a hold  rating  on Vornado shares.
Goldfarb said he believes “that the other investments Vornado
is involved in take away from the core of their business, which
is their office and retail portfolio.”  Vornado yesterday reported fourth-quarter funds from
operations, a measure of  cash flow  used by REITs, of $55.9
million, or 30 cents a share, down from $280.4 million, or
$1.46, a year earlier. Adjusted to eliminate certain one-time
items, including the J.C. Penney loss, FFO was $1.22 a share,
compared with $1.03 a year earlier.  Vornado executives probably will be asked about their
strategy for the J.C. Penney investment on the REIT’s quarterly
conference call, scheduled for today, Goldfarb said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  