-- Vornado Chairman Roth Named CEO as Fascitelli Resigns
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-02-27T20:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/vornado-chairman-roth-named-ceo-as-fascitelli-resigns.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , the owner of
more than 100 million square feet of U.S. properties, said Chief
Executive Officer Michael Fascitelli resigned and will be
replaced by Chairman  Steven Roth .  The change is effective April 15, New York-based Vornado
said in a statement today. Fascitelli, who joined the real
estate investment trust 16 years ago, will remain on the board
of trustees and maintain an office at the company, Roth said in
a  memo  to employees posted on the company’s website.  “The transition will be seamless,” Roth said in the memo.
“Vornado will continue its business plan of measured growth in
its core New York and Washington businesses, simplification and
balance sheet fortification.”  Roth vowed in his annual chairman’s letter last year to
simplify Vornado’s operations in response to shareholder
complaints that it has too many disparate businesses. The
company yesterday reported an 80 percent decline in fourth-
quarter funds from operations, a measure of  cash flow  used by
REITs, including a $224.9 million loss on its 11 percent stake
in retailer  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  and a $40 million impairment on its
investment in  Toys R Us Inc. (TOYS)   “Vornado has been my consuming passion for 16 years,”
Fascitelli, 56, said on a conference call with investors. “Now
is the right time for me to take a break, before doing something
different.”  Prior CEO  Roth, 71, joined Vornado in 1980 and has been chairman
since 1989. He was CEO from May 1989 through May 2009.
Fascitelli started at the company in 1996 as president and chief
growth officer after 12 years at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the
last four as a partner. He took over as chief executive after
Roth gave up the title.  “The question is, does Steve Roth really want to be CEO,
and if not, who’s going to take that CEO role?” said  Alex Goldfarb , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New
York, who said the company should sell its J.C. Penney and Toys
“R” Us stakes. He has a hold  rating  on Vornado shares.  “The board decided the right thing was for me to do
another tour of duty, and there you have it,” Roth said on the
call. “I’m a Vornado lifer. I’m not going to do this forever.
I’m not saying I’m going to do it shortly, but I’m not going to
do it forever.”  Fascitelli’s duties will be split among Roth, Joseph Macnow, Vornado’s chief financial officer, and other senior
managers, Roth said.  Asset Sales  Terms of the separation with Fascitelli probably will be
disclosed in a regulatory filing tomorrow, Roth said. Fascitelli
will be restricted from competing with Vornado for one year, the
chairman said.  “Mike’s not going that far,” Roth said on the call. “If
I need him to work an all-nighter or two to do something, he’s
going to do it.”  Vornado has sold $2.75 billion of assets since the
chairman’s letter in April, Fascitelli said. The company had a
net gain of $718 million from 26 transactions, he said. Sales
included the Kings Plaza shopping center in  New York ’s Brooklyn
borough, for $751 million; the Green Acres Mall in Valley
Stream, New York, for $500 million; and Vornado’s stake in LNR
Property LLC, the biggest manager of troubled U.S. commercial
mortgages, for proceeds of $241 million.  “They’ve taken some baby steps toward simplification, but
they haven’t done anything material,” Goldfarb said. “People
are going to say its time for action, enough of the chairman’s
letters, enough of these small things on the side.”  Retailer Investments  Vornado’s J.C. Penney stake, which the REIT bought in 2010,
“is struggling right now,” Roth said on the conference call.
Shares of the Plano, Texas-based retailer have lost about 38
percent in past two years.  “I’m a director of J.C. Penney so I can’t talk very much
about it, but J.C. Penney is an investment that is in progress
now, and it would be inappropriate for me to talk about what our
holding period might be, or our plans in terms of sale or not-
sale,” Roth said.  Toys “R” Us, meanwhile, “was a business that we bought
to sell,” Roth said. “We’ve been struggling to sell it.”  Vornado was little changed at $82.88 at 2:42 p.m. New York
time. The  shares  fell 1.4 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday, compared with a 12 percent gain in the Bloomberg REIT
 Index. (BBREIT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  