-- Warren Urges an End to Re-Arguing Consumer Bureau’s Structure
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-02-27T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/warren-urges-an-end-to-re-arguing-consumer-bureau-s-structure.html
U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren said
her Republican colleagues should stop arguing over “settled
decisions” and confirm Richard Cordray to lead the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  Warren, speaking today at a Credit Union National
Association conference in Washington, said bureau opponents must
move beyond debating its structure, which was set by the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act. The Massachusetts Democrat, who set up the
bureau before being elected to Congress last year, has pledged
to fight Republican efforts to alter its structure or funding.  “It’s time for Washington to stop re-litigating settled
decisions -- holding our government hostage over ideology,” she
said in her prepared remarks. “It is time for a clear path
forward that allows for certainty.”  President  Barack Obama  installed Cordray as director in
January 2012 with a recess appointment after Senate Republicans
blocked his nomination. In January, Obama re-nominated Cordray
and Republicans again pledged to block confirmation until
Democrats agree to changes, including putting the bureau under
the control of a bipartisan commission and subjecting its
funding to the congressional appropriations process.  Cordray, 53, can be confirmed by a majority vote, but to
call the vote on the Senate floor, Democrats need the support of
60 members. Since the chamber’s Democratic caucus has 55
members, five Republicans would have to break ranks to let a
vote proceed.  Republican Pledge  On Feb. 1, a group of 43 Republican senators said they
would continue to block any nominee for director until there are
changes to the consumer bureau’s structure and funding.  “Never before in American history has a minority in the
Senate blocked a nominee to try to get changes in a law they
don’t like and don’t have the votes to change,” Warren said in
her prepared remarks. “Maybe I shouldn’t have been surprised.
This is the same position those senators took two years ago.”  Warren was passed over to be the first director of the
consumer bureau, which she has been credited for conceiving as a
Harvard Law School professor and organizing as an Obama
administration adviser. She was elected in November.  A federal court ruling last month overturned the validity
of three recess appointments made at the same time as Cordray’s,
making him vulnerable to a similar legal challenge. Such a
challenge threatens actions the bureau took under his
leadership, including levying fines against credit card firms
for improper marketing practices and the setting of new
standards for mortgage lending and servicing.  Using Clout  Warren urged credit unions in  Washington  for their
conference to “use your clout” with lawmakers to get Cordray
confirmed.  “Do what you can to tell your senators and those who will
listen that it’s time to move on, time to stop re-litigating
settled decisions, and time to confirm a director so the CFPB
can create a safe harbor for your work so you can go about the
business of serving your members,” Warren said. “It’s time to
move forward.”  In comments at the conference before Warren spoke, House
Majority Leader Eric Cantor said the consumer bureau was more a
problem than a solution for credit unions.  “It’s important you’re here because it’s important that
the members of Congress hear the threat that you feel by the new
CFPB and its implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act,” Cantor, a
Virginia Republican, said at the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  