-- We Learned Everything About Hagel -- Except What Matters
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-02-27T20:45:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/we-learned-everything-about-hagel-except-what-matters.html
Former Nebraska Senator Chuck Hagel
was sworn in today as secretary of defense, and yet, as of 3:30
p.m. Eastern Standard Time,  Israel  still exists. So that counts
for something, doesn’t it?  The debilitating, sometimes farcical and mainly unserious
debate about Hagel’s record has yielded numerous lessons, some
of which might have a useful effect on the national discourse if
actually understood. Here are a few:  1. The most vicious hatred in  Washington  is hatred for the
apostate. Hagel is the  Joe Lieberman  of the Republican Party.
His betrayal -- to turn on President  George W. Bush  over  Iraq ,
and to oppose Army General David Petraeus’s Iraq “surge” --
served to exile him forever from the hearts of most of his
fellow Republicans.  If you’ve ever spoken to partisan Democrats about Lieberman
(who was cast into the wilderness for supporting what Hagel
opposed), you’ll know the sound of contempt. Hagel, who won the
support of only four Senate Republicans in yesterday’s
confirmation vote, won’t win back the affection of his all-but-
former party no matter what he does. Washington tribalism, which
sacrifices intellectual rigor and moral honesty for thoughtless
loyalty, explains the dire need for a third party. Also maybe a
fourth party.  2. The pro-Israel lobby (or the “Jewish lobby,” as Hagel,
to his discredit and eventual embarrassment, once called it)
isn’t quite as powerful as the anti-Israel academics John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt posit it to be. These men, authors
of the polemic “The Israel Lobby,” believe that pro-Israel
groups in Washington have a virtual veto over U.S. policy in the
 Middle East .  But more disinterested (and less Judeophobic) observers
have always known that the power of The Lobby (as Walt and
Mearsheimer ominously titled it in their original article on the
subject) is inferior to the power of President  Barack Obama ,
among others. Pro-Israel groups get what they want when most
everyone else wants it as well. Like most effective lobbying
groups, they succeed because large numbers of Americans agree
with them.  3. A subsidiary observation: AIPAC, the main pro-Israel
lobbying organization, didn’t oppose Hagel’s nomination, despite
the assertions of its adversaries. In fact, the group was
assiduously silent on the matter. The American Israel Public
Affairs Committee isn’t in the business of lobbying against the
president’s personnel choices. The anti-Hagel movement -- at
least the part of it that was motivated mainly by preserving
close U.S.-Israel relations -- included mostly right-wing, pro-
Likud  Republican Party  activists.  4. These conservative anti-Obama agitators (Obama, of
course, was always their real target) did a disservice to their
cause by exaggerating Hagel’s faults and spreading malicious
gossip about him. At one point, one of the more fanatical of the
anti-Hagel campaigners, Ben Shapiro of the Breitbart media
combine, suggested that Hagel was supported by a group called
“Friends of Hamas,” which, it was soon discovered, doesn’t
exist. After Hagel was cleared for confirmation, Shapiro posted
to Twitter: “Congrats to Islamists, anti-Semites, isolationists,
anti-Israel extremists of all stripes, and people who just
wanted a moron as SecDef!”  5. The anti-Hagel agitators also did another disservice,
this one to the truth. Hagel’s record on Israel, his
understanding of the nature of the Iranian government and his
 general analysis  of Middle East strife are all worthy of close
inspection. But just as hysterical and paranoid McCarthyites of
the 1950s gave anti-Communism a bad name, the extreme anti-Hagel
forces inadvertently turned their target into an object of
widespread sympathy, and kept complicated issues from getting
properly vetted.  6. Internet arsonists such as Shapiro are working very hard
to turn American support for Israel into a partisan issue, so
they can reach another goal of theirs: to break the bond between
American Jews and the  Democratic Party . To date, support for a
strong U.S.-Israel relationship is a bipartisan matter. If
Shapiro and Co. succeed in identifying Israel with Republicans,
they’ll imperil Israel’s standing in Congress and among ordinary
Americans.  A victory by  Mitt Romney  in November’s presidential
election would have freed the not-insubstantial portion of
Democrats who are uneasy with the policies of Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  to become more frankly anti-Israel.
This is why smart Israeli politicians worry incessantly about
the efforts of Jewish Republicans to cast the Democrats as anti-
Zionist devils.  7. The anti-Hagel campaign will probably make the new
secretary of defense hesitant to discuss the Israeli-Arab
dispute in public. He won’t become an advocate for rethinking
the U.S. stance on Hamas any time soon. The counterargument to
this observation comes from the former Central Intelligence
Agency official  Paul Pillar , who, writing in the National
Interest, argues that Hagel may now feel free to speak his mind
because “it’s not as if he ever will face another confirmation
vote in the Senate.”  This may be true, but it might not matter much in the
formulation of policy. Because Hagel is now an employee of the
president, and the president is the one who sets policy on  Iran ,
on Middle East peace, and on everything else. So Hagel will have
the opportunity to argue with him, but it’s unlikely Hagel will
express his freelance opinions publicly. If Obama eventually
chooses to use military force to stop Iran from obtaining a
nuclear weapon, Hagel will be the one to carry out his
instructions. If Obama decides not to use force, it won’t be
because of Hagel.  The ultimate question, never really examined in this
dysfunctional process, is whether Hagel is qualified to manage a
department that has a budget of more than $600 billion, employs
roughly 718,000 civilians, oversees more than 1.4 million
military personnel, and is undergoing some of the most
controversial budget cuts in a generation while attempting to
end a decade-long war and protect American interests around the
world.  This seems like a fairly important area to explore.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 