-- Wells Fargo Boosts Estimate of Possible Mortgage Costs
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-02-27T19:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/wells-fargo-boosts-estimate-of-possible-mortgage-costs.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest U.S.
home lender, said faulty mortgages could cost the company as
much as $2.4 billion beyond its reserves, an increase of $300
million from a year earlier. The bank also trimmed its estimate
of possible legal costs.  The projected expense for refunds on loans sold to
investors represents the worst case for “reasonably possible
losses in excess of our recorded liability,” the San Francisco-
based company said today in its annual regulatory filing. At the
same time, Wells Fargo reduced the maximum for potential
litigation losses beyond its reserves to $1 billion from $1.2
billion. The estimates reflect data as of Dec. 31.  Banks including Wells Fargo, run by Chief Executive Officer
 John Stumpf , have spent almost $100 billion to clean up
defective mortgages and improper foreclosures since 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wells Fargo previously said it set aside $1.67 billion in
reserves last year to cover the cost of buying back mortgages
from investors. Banks typically agree to give refunds if errors
are later found in documents supporting the loans, such as
appraisals or a borrower’s income.  The bank is being probed by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, which is examining the firm’s mortgage
originations and compliance management and may target mortgage
servicing next, Wells Fargo said. Servicers send out bills,
collect payments and handle foreclosures.  “At this time, the company cannot predict the full  impact 
of the CFPB’s rulemaking and supervisory authority on our
business practices or financial results,” the filing said.  In January, the bank agreed to contribute $766 million in
cash and $1.2 billion for foreclosure prevention as the industry
settled U.S. accusations that lenders seized homes using faulty
or faked documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rick Green  in  New York  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  