-- White House Says It Wasn’t Asked About Freeing Detainees
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-02-27T22:59:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/white-house-says-it-wasn-t-asked-about-freeing-detainees.html
The White House wasn’t asked for
advice before U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials
release hundreds of immigrants facing deportation, a spokesman
said today.  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said the decision
came from career officials “as a result of fiscal uncertainty”
stemming from the automatic budget cuts scheduled to take effect
March 1 and the need to fund the government after March 27.  The move was made just weeks before the agency’s director
of enforcement and removal operations, Gary Mead, is to leave
his position. A spokeswoman for ICE, Gillian Christensen, said
Mead announced weeks ago that he would retire at the end of
April after 40 years in U.S. government service.  Carney said the government released only “low-risk, non-
criminal detainees” who will continue to be monitored under
less-expensive procedures to stay within the agency’s budget.  “They remain in the process for deportation,” Carney
said.  Representative Michael McCaul, chairman of the House
Homeland Security Committee, questioned whether any detainees
should have been released, calling the decision “indicative of
the department’s weak stance on national security.”  McCaul, a Texas Republican, said in a letter to ICE
Director  John Morton  that there should be enough money to keep
all of those facing deportation behind bars. He said Congress
appropriated funds to detain 34,000 immigrants, and fewer than
31,000 were behind bars as of last week.  Budget Cuts  The impending budget cuts, known as sequestration, would
take $85 billion from federal spending in the final seven months
of this fiscal year and $1.2 trillion during the next nine
years. Half of the reductions will come from  defense spending .  President  Barack Obama  and U.S. lawmakers have been unable
to agree on alternatives to the cuts. Democrats have called for
replacing some with higher taxes on the wealthy.  House
Republicans , who last year voted to offset the defense
reductions with cuts to  food stamps  and other domestic programs,
remain opposed to any tax increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 