-- Wii Games Boost Performance of Trainee Surgeons, Study Finds
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/wii-games-boost-performance-of-trainee-surgeons-study-finds.html
Playing Nintendo Co.’s Wii console
improved the performance of surgeons learning operations
involving tiny cameras and instruments in a study that suggests
the device could have a role to play in educating doctors.  In a trial among 42 post-graduate surgeons in  Italy , those
who were asked to play Wii games such as Tennis and a 3D battle
game an hour a day, five days a week for four weeks did better
at 13 out of 16 measures on a surgical simulator than those who
didn’t play the games, researchers from Sapienza University of
Rome  wrote  in the journal PLoS One today.  Trainee surgeons commonly hone their keyhole surgery skills
on computer simulators such as those made by Cleveland-based
 Simbionix USA Corp.  However, the expense of the machines,
combined with the difficulty of a technique that involves
maneuvering tiny operating tools through very small incisions,
as well as increased risks of lawsuits, have raised the need for
training outside the operating theater, researchers led by
Gregorio Patrizi from the university’s department of surgical
sciences wrote.  “It is hard to suggest that academic institutions adopt a
video-game console as a didactic tool for surgery,” Patrizi and
colleagues wrote. “We hope this may be a trigger to develop
dedicated software aimed to help young surgeons as the economic
impact of these consoles is significantly lower than traditional
laparoscopic simulators and they provide basic didactic value.”  The researchers said they chose the Wii for the trial
because its motion-sensing interface resembles the movements
required for keyhole surgery more closely than other video-game
consoles.  Gallbladder Removal  They used Simbionix’s LAP Mentor simulator to test all 42
participants before and after the four-week trial. In one task
that simulated moving a camera inside a patient, those who had
played the Wii were 83 percent more accurate after four weeks,
compared with a 10 percent improvement in those who didn’t play
the Wii.  In another task that simulated removing a gallbladder, the
Wii group had a 35 percent improvement in performing safe
cauteries, the practice of burning tissue to remove or close it
off, compared with a 12 percent gain for the other group.  “The Nintendo Wii may be adopted in lower-budget
institutions or at home by younger surgeons to optimize their
training on simulators before performing real procedures,”
Patrizi and colleagues wrote.  Eye-Hand Coordination  Previous studies have shown playing video games can enhance
spatial attention and eye-hand coordination. Other research has
shown they can contribute to  childhood obesity , and violent
games can make teenagers more aggressive and perform more poorly
at school.  Ben Challacombe, a consultant urologist at Guy’s and St
Thomas’ Hospitals in  London , said that on the basis of the study
he’d recommend his students spend time playing the Wii to refine
their skills.  “We already knew that people who are good at video games
are more easily trainable at laparoscopic keyhole surgery,”
Challacombe said in a telephone interview. “What this has shown
is that if you train using a computer game you get much better
more quickly.”  Challacombe said his students use Simbionix’s da Vinci
simulator that sells for about 60,000 pounds ($91,000). A Wii U
console sells for 249 pounds, according to Curry’s, a unit of
Dixons Retail Plc.  Nintendo, based in Kyoto, is the world’s largest maker of
video-game machines. It wasn’t involved in funding the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  