-- Wind Power to Compete With Fossil Fuels by 2015, Make Says
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2013-02-27T16:51:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/wind-power-to-compete-with-fossil-fuels-by-2015-make-says.html
Onshore wind power will become
competitive with traditional fossil fuels in Europe, the U.S.
and  Asia  by 2015, Danish researcher Make Consulting said.  Worldwide, the technology is an average of about 10 percent
above grid parity -- the level at which it’s able to compete
with other technologies if all are subsidy-free -- according to
a paper e-mailed today by Make. Larger and more efficient
machines will help wind become competitive within two years, and
further drive down costs through 2020, Make said.  “Wind will be a very competitive power generation
technology in 2020, cheaper than all the fossil fuel
technologies” in the European Union, Robert Clover, research
director at Aarhus, Denmark-based Make, wrote in the study. In
the U.S., “in 2020 wind will be one of the most competitive
power generation technologies, cheaper than coal and nuclear
technologies and at least comparable to gas.”  The forecast shows how renewables are moving from expensive
carbon-cutting technologies to more mainstream forms of power
generation. Investment in new renewable energy generating
capacity in 2010 for the first time surpassed spending on new
fossil fuel plants, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Global wind installations rose about 10 percent to a record
44,711 megawatts last year, according to the Global Wind Energy
Council, a Brussels-based industry group.  Graphics in the report show the levelized cost for onshore
wind at below 75 euros ($98) per megawatt-hour in  Europe  in
2020, a level comparable to nuclear -- without factoring the
costs of decommissioning old atomic plants -- and above only
hydro power and geothermal, which are “limited” in their use
by geography and geology, according to Make.  Buying Fuel  Levelized costs factor in the lifetime costs of building
plants and buying fuel for power generation. In the U.S., the
2020 estimated cost of onshore wind, at just below 60 euros per
megawatt-hour, is greater only than combined cycle gas turbines
and geothermal. In the Asia Pacific region, nuclear, gas and
geothermal are all deemed cheaper than onshore wind in 2020.  London-based analyst Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates
onshore wind currently has a global average levelized cost of
energy of about $85.11 per megawatt-hour, a level similar to
coal and about 10 percent higher than gas. It puts the cost of
offshore wind at $225.80.  Offshore wind power, with its more expensive
infrastructure, is still likely to be close to grid parity in
the Asia-Pacific region in 2020, according to Make. In Europe,
it may reach that benchmark in 2023, and in the U.S., it’ll take
until 2026, Make said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  