-- Winter Storm Scrubs Flights as It Moves Across U.S East
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-02-27T16:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/winter-storm-scrubs-flights-as-it-moves-across-u-s-east.html
A winter storm drifting across the
eastern U.S., delaying flights from  Chicago  to New York, may
bring as much as a foot of snow (30 centimeters) to New England
ski slopes and smaller amounts to cities in southern Canada.  The storm has two halves, centered in  Michigan  and  New
Jersey , and is pushing a wave of snow ahead of it, said  Paul
Walker , a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc., based in  State
College ,  Pennsylvania .  “The two centers of the storm are moving in tandem to the
northeast,” Walker said by telephone. “The big snows of this
storm are starting to move out of the U.S.”  Delays of more than an hour have been reported at Newark
Liberty International Airport in New Jersey and at LaGuardia and
John F. Kennedy International in New York, according to the
 Federal Aviation Administration  website. Waits average about 30
minutes at O’Hare International in Chicago and in Philadelphia.  The second major storm for the central U.S. in two weeks
blanketed the southern Great Plains with over a foot of snow,
dropping a record 19 inches in Amarillo, Texas, two days ago.
More than 1,580 flights were canceled around the U.S. as the
storm moved east, according to FlightAware, an airline tracking
service in Houston.  The system brought 4.8 inches yesterday to O’Hare, the
biggest snowfall at Chicago’s airport this season, the  National
Weather Service  said.  Flights Scrubbed  As of 11:15 a.m. New York time, 352 flights in the U.S.
were canceled, 109 of them into or out of O’Hare. Toronto’s
Pearson International Airport had the most in North America with
193 arrivals and departures scrubbed,  FlightAware  said.  Toronto, where snow is now falling, may receive 1 to 3
inches, said Rob Carolan, founder and meteorologist at  Hometown
Forecast Services Inc.  in Nashua,  New Hampshire . Montreal may
see 3 to 6 inches, he said.  New York City and Boston will get rain, Carolan said.  The heaviest snow today will fall from the Berkshire Hills
in western Massachusetts across the mountains of New Hampshire,
Carolan said. The  weather service  predicts 10 to 14 inches from
central New Hampshire into Maine.  “This will be real good for the ski areas across northern
 New England ,” Carolan said. “They will be skiing into April.”  Winter storm warnings and advisories stretch from parts of
Iowa across the Great Lakes to Maine.  The two surface lows making up the storm’s halves are
connected to a low-pressure system at high altitudes. Carolan
said the upper-level low will linger in the region through the
rest of the week, keeping skies overcast and perhaps trigging
drizzle and light snow.  “The sun is going to be real hard to find from the Ohio
Valley to the Northeast for the next couple of days,” Carolan
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  