-- Two ECB Board Members Warn of Risk in Loose Monetary Policy
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-27T19:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/two-ecb-board-members-warn-of-risks-in-loose-monetary-policy.html
Two European Central Bank Executive
Board members today warned of the risks in leaving emergency
monetary stimulus in place for too long.  “The maintenance of our extraordinary measures over a too-
long timeframe creates false incentives and leads to moral
hazard,” Yves Mersch said in his first speech as an ECB board
member in  Frankfurt , adding that a retreat from certain
emergency measures “would be desirable because new market
distortions could otherwise develop.” In a separate speech,
board member Peter Praet said there’s a risk that the ECB’s
policies will become less effective the longer they are left in
place.  The ECB has cut its  benchmark interest rate  to a record low
of 0.75 percent, extended over 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion)
in cheap loans to banks and pledged to buy the bonds of debt-
strapped nations if they agree to economic reforms. ECB
President Mario Draghi said today that while the central bank is
“far” from considering tightening monetary policy, there are
limits to what it can do.  “It is important to stress that the ECB’s mandate only
extends so far,” Draghi said at event in Munich. “There are
clear limits to what monetary policy can and should aim to
achieve. We cannot repair unsound budgets. We cannot clean up
struggling banks. We cannot solve deep-rooted problems in the
structure of  Europe ’s economies.”  Banking Union  Mersch said the region’s proposed banking union can
strengthen the foundations of the single currency and ease the
load placed on monetary policy.  The banking union can help “dissolve blockages in the
transmission mechanism of monetary policy,” he said. “Then the
emergency kit of monetary policy in the crisis won’t be needed
to the same extent, so that one can phase out or unwind
emergency measures. That’s not to be mixed up with a divergence
from accommodative monetary policy.”  Praet said ECB stimulus could become less effective the
longer it is relied upon.  “I am referring to what used to be known as ‘instrument
instability’ in policy-making,” he said. “The need to apply
larger and larger doses of the same policy interventions only to
see their macroeconomic influence becoming more and more
tenuous.”  Weakened Incentives  Expectations that interest rates will remain low for a long
time and that abundant liquidity will be provided “might weaken
the incentives for banks to downsize operations and repair their
balance sheets,” Praet said, adding that the ECB has “all the
necessary instruments” to reduce liquidity in the financial
system.  The provision of emergency liquidity assistance, or ELA, by
national central banks in the euro region can only be a
temporary fix because it risks undermining the ECB’s single
monetary policy, Mersch said.  “Monetary-policy tensions are built up between the
national and the European level, which shouldn’t be permanent,”
he said. “A re-nationalization of the monetary-policy
architecture wouldn’t be helpful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  