-- Won Advances Most in Week on Current Account; Bonds Rise
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-02-27T06:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/won-weakens-on-yen-drop-foreigners-selling-shares.html
The won rose the most in more than a
week after  South Korea ’s current-account surplus widened and
 consumer confidence  held at the highest level since May. Three-
year government bond yields fell to a record low.  The surplus in the current account, the broadest measure of
trade, widened in January to $2.25 billion from $2.14 billion
the previous month, the central bank said in a report today. The
won rebounded after falling yesterday as Italy’s election
results stoked concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will worsen.  “A surplus in the current account increases expectations
of more dollar supplies, supporting the won,” said Hong Seok
Chan, analyst at Daishin Economic Research Institute in  Seoul .
“Improved economic data in the U.S. are encouraging foreign
investors buy more stocks in markets including  Korea , while
lingering concerns about Italy’s political uncertainty limit
further gains in the won.”  The won climbed 0.3 percent to 1,084.48 against the dollar
in Seoul, the biggest gain since Feb. 15, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
dropped 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to 7.29
percent.  South Korea is likely to post a current-account surplus
this month, though it may narrow, Bank of Korea director Cho
Yong Seung told reporters in Seoul today.  Consumer Confidence  A separate central bank report today showed an index of
consumer sentiment in South Korea was unchanged in February from
the previous month as recent gains in the won drove down prices
of imported goods. The currency strengthened 8.3 percent in
2012, the best performance among the 11 most-traded Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, rebounding from the worst drop
since November, after purchases of  new homes  surged in January
by the most in two decades and consumer confidence jumped in
February. Stocks also rose after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  defended the central bank’s unprecedented asset
purchases, saying they are supporting the expansion with little
risk of inflation or bubbles in equities and bonds.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due 2015 dropped two basis points to 2.62 percent, Korea
Exchange Inc. prices show. That is the lowest yield for a
benchmark three-year note since Bloomberg began compiling the
data in 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  