-- Woolworths Profit Climbs 19% on Reduced Supermarket Costs
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-28T06:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/woolworths-first-half-profit-rises-19-percent-on-margins.html
Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s largest
retailer, said first-half earnings rose 19 percent as cheaper
imports and cost-cutting helped wring more profit from sales
that increased only 3.2 percent. The shares hit a record.  Net income  rose to A$1.16 billion ($1.19 billion) in the
six months ended December from A$967 million a year earlier,
Sydney-based Woolworths said in a statement today. The result
compares with the A$1.17 billion median estimate of seven
 analysts  surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Woolworths sold its Dick Smith electronics chain and spun
off shopping malls to investors as Chief Executive Officer Grant O’Brien invests in the company’s biggest business of
supermarkets. Second-ranked Coles, owned by  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , has
revamped stores and cut the price of everyday staples such as
milk and bread to win customers.  “It’s a well-managed franchise, food inflation’s coming
back, and there’s operating leverage in the business,” Rhett Kessler, a  fund manager  at Pengana Capital Ltd., said by phone
from Sydney before today’s announcement.  Woolworths rose 2.7 percent to close at A$34.93, the
highest level since a 1993 stock market listing. The stock has
 gained  19 percent this year, outstripping the 9.8 percent
advance for the S&P/ASX 200 index.  Investigating Claims  Earnings before interest and tax from Australian
supermarkets, which accounted for about 85 percent of first-half
sales, rose 6 percent to A$1.65 billion. Those at the second-
ranking Coles supermarket jumped 15 percent to A$755 million
over the equivalent period, owner Wesfarmers Ltd. reported Feb.
14.  Australia’s antitrust regulator is investigating claims
that major supermarkets are abusing their position, the agency
said Feb. 14. Woolworths was co-operating with the regulator and
had to strike a balance between suppliers and shoppers, O’Brien
told a media call today.  “Competition is alive and well in this country and that’s
borne out by the deflation” in grocery prices, he said. “The
customer is why the business exists and that’s who we favor in
those negotiations.”  The retailer has increased store space by about 2.4 percent
in the past six months to expand its retail network which serves
20.2 million customers per week, equivalent to about 88 percent
of  Australia’s population .  Hotels Unit  The improvement in earnings was supported by a A$231
million writedown of the Dick Smith electronics chain in the
previous year. Woolworths sold the business in September to
buyout group Anchorage  Capital Partners  for A$20 million, or
about five days worth of revenue for the business.  Woolworths also spun off its malls into  Shopping Centres
Australasia Property Group (SCP)  last year to boost shareholder
returns, and took a A$94 million charge in the most recent
period due to costs from that and the Dick Smith deal.  The Big W discount chain had an 8.3 percent increase in
earnings to A$130 million as it sourced more of its clothing
directly from  Asia , raising  profit margins , Julie Coates,
director of the chain, said in the media call.  Direct sourcing from Asia had also helped as the
supermarket division introduced own-brand Chevron batteries,
Tjeerd Jegen, director of the unit, said on the call.  The hotels unit,  Australia ’s biggest operator of pubs, had
a 21 percent rise in profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  