-- Yen Weakens Third Day as Abe Nominates Kuroda for BOJ Governor
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-28T08:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/yen-lower-after-two-day-decline-before-abe-submits-boj-nominees.html
The yen fell for a third day against
the dollar as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe nominated Asian
Development Bank President Haruhiko Kuroda to become  Bank of
Japan (8301)  governor, raising the prospect of more stimulus this year.  Japan ’s currency headed for a fifth monthly decline, the
longest stretch since August 2008, as Abe also named economics
professor Kikuo Iwata and BOJ official Hiroshi Nakaso as deputy
governor candidates. The dollar was poised for a monthly gain
versus most of its major peers before data forecast to show the
 U.S. economy  expanded last quarter. The New Zealand dollar rose
after an index showed business confidence increased.  “Prime Minister Abe has been very vocal on what he wants
the BOJ to do and Kuroda will push for that easing to support
growth,” said Janu Chan, an economist at St. George Bank Ltd.
in Sydney. “That’s what’s behind the yen weakness of recent
months. All those expectations are embedded in the yen now.”  The yen fell 0.2 percent to 92.38 per dollar at 8:32 a.m.
in London extending this month’s decline to 0.7 percent. Japan’s
currency dropped 0.2 percent to 121.35 per euro. The euro was
little changed at $1.3137.  Kuroda said in a Feb. 11 interview that he favors
additional stimulus this year and the central bank has “really
substantial room for monetary easing.”  Japan’s currency has depreciated 11 percent versus the
dollar since Abe’s  Liberal Democratic Party  won elections on
Dec. 16 with a policy of increasing monetary stimulus to
encourage growth.  The yen has fallen 4.7 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. The euro gained 1.7 and the dollar
rose 2.1 percent.  The  New Zealand dollar  strengthened 0.5 percent to 83.19
U.S. cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  