-- Mylan’s CEO Says Strides Deal Helps Biotechnology Push
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-02-28T21:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/mylan-to-buy-strides-injectables-unit-for-1-6-billion.html
Mylan Inc.’s $1.6 billion agreement
to buy  Strides Arcolab Ltd. (STR) ’s injectable-medicine unit will help
the U.S. company’s push into copies of expensive biotechnology
drugs, Chief Executive Officer Heather Bresch said.  “Injectables have been high on our list, because it’s
something we did not have critical mass around and we saw it as
an important precursor to leverage biogenerics,” Bresch said in
a telephone interview today. The agreement to buy Strides’ Agila
Specialties unit will add markets and increase per-share results
immediately, Mylan said in a statement yesterday.  Mylan, the second-biggest generic-drug maker, will gain
Agila’s manufacturing plants that can be used to make cheaper
versions of expensive biotechnology medicines including insulins
and blood-boosting treatments, which U.S. lawmakers allowed as
part of a 2010 law. Canonsburg, Pennsylvania-based  Mylan (MYL)  looked
at other injectable-drugs companies and assets and was
disappointed, Bresch said.  “A lot of these facilities out there are really old,”
Bresch said. “I would say that what differentiated Agila is
their state-of-the-art, high-quality facilities.”  Purchasing Agila is part of Mylan’s strategy to grow into
one of the three biggest providers of injectable medicines.  “We believe that risks are well taken in that arena,”
Bill Smead, chief executive officer of Seattle-based Smead
Capital Management, said of Mylan’s plans. “They’re creating
quite a powerhouse.” His fund owned 317,000 shares of Mylan as
of December, according to filings.  Shares Trading  Mylan  shares  rose 3.6 percent to $29.61 at the close in New
York. The company has gained 26 percent in the past 12 months.
Bangalore-based Strides fell 6.9 percent to 917.25 rupees in
Mumbai trading.  Off-patent, injectable medicines are in high demand because
of shortages in the U.S., where the  Food and Drug Administration 
 listed  more than 120 medicines with low supply as of Nov. 28.
The shortages, which include the sedative injection propofol and
the ovarian cancer treatment Doxil, are caused by manufacturing
issues and decisions by companies to stop production of some
generic therapies.  Mylan said it will finance the acquisition with an
unsecured bridge loan of $1 billion and may pay Strides a
further $250 million based on certain conditions.  Strides plans to distribute as much as $800 million to
shareholders and also pay off debt, according to a company
statement. The Bangalore-based company had debt of 11.89 billion
rupees ($221 million) as of June 30, according to  data compiled 
by Bloomberg.  Biocon Partnership  Mylan already has a deal with  Biocon Ltd. (BIOS)  to develop
generic versions of biotechnology drugs. Biocon, based in
Bangalore, is  India ’s biggest biotechnology drugmaker. The
companies have agreed to develop treatments together and split
sales. The deal includes generic versions of versions of
insulins made by Sanofi, Eli Lilly & Co. and Novo Nordisk A/S.  The deal for Stride’s unit will add manufacturing and
technology capacity for Mylan to help manufacture the therapies
because of the similarities in how biotechnology drugs and
injectable medicines are made and administered.  “Having critical mass around that area goes hand-in-
hand,” Bresch said.  In November, Strides received FDA approval for an
oxaliplatin injection used to treat advanced cancer, which will
be distributed in the U.S. by New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  The
Agila unit also has partnerships with London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Basel, Switzerland-based Novartis AG,
according its website.  FDA Approvals  Agila had the highest number of injectable-medicine
approvals by the FDA for generic drugs, with 32 from 2008 to
2010, compared with 23 at  Hospira Inc. (HSP)  of  Lake Forest ,  Illinois ,
according to a May presentation. The company has eight
manufacturing facilities in India,  Brazil  and  Poland , according
to its website.  The deal will boost Mylan’s  portfolio  of injectable drugs
from 500 to 700, with another 350 awaiting approval around the
world. The company projects the generic-drug market to grow at
about 13 percent a year through 2017, and the deal will give it
entry into new markets including Brazil.  The drugmaker’s goal is to double in size over the next
five years, Bresch said.  The deal is expected to close in the fourth quarter, the
companies said.  Morgan Stanley is Mylan’s financial adviser and is
providing the $1 billion loan. Milford Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLC served as legal adviser. Jefferies Group Inc.
was the financial adviser to Strides Arcolab.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  