-- Tymoshenko Murder Case Is Disaster for Ukraine, EU Official Says
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-02-27T15:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/tymoshenko-murder-case-is-disaster-for-ukraine-eu-official-says.html
The murder charge against jailed
former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko  is a “political
disaster” for Ukraine, a European Union official said.  A ruling by the  European Court  of  Human Rights  on
Tymoshenko’s conviction for abuse of office may come next month,
according to Aleksander Kwasniewski, an ex-Polish president who
monitors her situation on behalf of the European Parliament.
Ukraine should maintain her medical treatment for back pain and
free her former colleague Yuriy Lutsenko from prison, he said.  “The new case against Tymoshenko is a political
disaster,” Kwasniewski told a conference organized by
investment bank Dragon Capital today in the capital, Kiev.
“Lutsenko’s case isn’t serious. Each day he’s in prison is bad
for Ukraine’s image.”  The EU postponed an association and free-trade agreement
with Ukraine indefinitely after Tymoshenko was jailed in 2011 in
a case the bloc deems politically motivated. It’s given the
country three months to carry out changes to its justice and
electoral systems to seal the pact, which must be ratified by
the European Parliament. Prosecutors accused Tymoshenko last
month of organizing the 1996 murder of lawmaker Evhen Shcherban.  Tymoshenko, who’s serving seven years in prison for signing
a 2009 energy contract with Russia that officials say damaged
Ukraine’s interests, appealed to the Strasbourg-based rights
court after exhausting domestic avenues for appeal. While she’s
currently hospitalized, which is delaying the start of her
murder trial, a Health Ministry commission said last week that
she should be discharged. She denies involvement in the murder.  Lutsenko, an interior minister in Tymoshenko’s government,
should be released by mid-April to show Ukraine’s commitment to
closer European integration, according to Kwasniewski.  President  Viktor Yanukovych , who attended the EU-Ukraine
summit in Brussels on Feb. 25, said he’ll respect the  European
Court of Human Rights ’ decision on Tymoshenko, Kwasniewski said,
urging the authorities not to “complicate her situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  