-- Yuan Overtakes Ruble as World Payments Currency: SWIFT
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-27T16:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/yuan-overtakes-ruble-as-world-payments-currency-swift.html
For the first time,  China ’s  yuan  has
overtaken the Russian ruble for transactions in the global
payment system, according to Society for Worldwide Interbank
Financial Telecommunication, a financial messaging platform.  The use of the yuan increased 24 percent in January from
December and 171 percent from a year ago, while that of the
ruble declined 5.4 percent on the month, the Belgium-based SWIFT
said in a  report  today. The Chinese currency accounted for an
all-time high of 0.63 percent of the global payments, making it
the 13th most-used currency, compared with 0.56 percent for the
ruble, now the 15th most-used. The euro leads the list, followed
by the  U.S. dollar  and  British pound .  China, the world’s second-largest economy, is promoting the
role of the yuan, also known as RMB, in international trading
and financing as it moves to reduce the control over its
currency and open up its financial markets. Trading of the yuan
outside the mainland has at least doubled to $6 billion a day
from a year earlier, said Charles Feng, regional head for fixed-
income trading at Standard Chartered Plc. in  Hong Kong , last
month.  The yuan is “a very young currency,” James Wills, a
senior business manager at SWIFT, said in an interview from  New
York . “Growth has been dramatic and this is something we expect
to continue.” Offshore financial centers such as Hong Kong,
 London  and  Singapore  are fueling the growth of the yuan
payments, according to the SWIFT report.  Euro, Dollar  The euro was the most-used currency for global payments,
making up 40.2 percent of the market share, down from 44 percent
a year ago, according to Swift. The dollar accounted for 33.5
percent, up from 29.7 percent last year, and the pound
represented 8.6 percent, down from 9 percent. The top four
currencies, which also include the Japanese yen, took about 85
percent of the market share in January.  While the yuan is playing a bigger role in global markets,
China’s capital controls will hinder it from becoming a
“dominating” currency, according to  Mark Williams , an
economist at Capital Economics Ltd.  “Undoubtedly, the RMB will continue to become a more used
currency in next few years, but expectations that it will become
a dominating currency are wide off the mark,” said Williams,
who previously advised the U.K. Treasury on China, in an
interview from London. “It’s growing at a rapid pace, but there
are significant restrictions to hold it back to make a major
currency.”  Yuan Forwards  The yuan climbed 0.04 percent today to 6.2273 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency reached a 19-year high of 6.2124 per dollar on Jan.
14. The 12-month  non-deliverable forwards  traded at 6.3228,
suggesting traders expect the currency to weaken less than 0.1
percent in a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yuan’s increased use in January compared with an
average increase of 13 percent for all currencies, according to
SWIFT, which provides services to more than 10,000 banks,
financial institutions and companies in 212 countries.  In December, yuan payments exceeded those of the Danish
krone, South African rand and  New Zealand dollar .  While use of the yuan more than doubled from a year
earlier, the ruble’s volume increased 18 percent, according to
the report. A year ago, the yuan’s market share for global
payments was 0.25 percent while the ruble accounted for 0.52
percent, according to SWIFT.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  