-- Yuan Advances for Fourth Day as Bernanke Defends Asset Purchases
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2013-02-27T09:23:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/yuan-advances-for-fourth-day-as-bernanke-defends-asset-purchases.html
China’s  yuan  rose for a fourth day
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the
central bank’s unprecedented asset purchases that boost supply
of dollars, spurring demand for emerging-market currencies.  Bernanke said yesterday the Fed’s bond buying is supporting
U.S. expansion with little risk of inflation or asset-price
bubbles. The People’s Bank of China raised the yuan’s  reference
rate  for a second day, strengthening it by 0.02 percent to
6.2842 per dollar. China may add 100 billion yuan ($16 billion)
of  Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor quotas for
Taiwan investors, Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  “Bernanke’s comments eased concerns of an early exit of
quantitative easing, which is supporting the yuan,” said  Daniel Chan , a Hong Kong-based executive vice president at Glory Sky
Global Markets Ltd. “The PBOC may intend to keep the  exchange
rate  a bit stronger as it seeks to boost demand among foreign
investors.”  The currency climbed 0.04 percent to 6.2273 per dollar in
Shanghai, prices from the China Foreign Exchange Trade System
show. It touched 6.2262 earlier, the strongest level since Feb.
4.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.08
percent to 6.2244 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.06
percent to 6.3220, a 1.5 percent discount to the onshore spot
rate.  Taiwan started interbank trading in yuan on Feb. 6 and
Chiantrust Commercial Bank, a unit of Taiwan’s fourth-biggest
lender by market value, sold 1 billion yuan of three-year notes
at 2.9 percent on Feb. 25. The debut yuan sale followed an
August pact on cross-strait currency clearing with China’s
central bank, which allowed the island’s lenders to offer yuan
deposits onshore from this month.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, was
little changed at 1.29 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  