-- Zogenix Climbs on Optimism Zohydro Pill Will Win Approval
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-02-27T17:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/zogenix-climbs-on-optimism-zohydro-pill-will-win-approval.html
Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX) , the drugmaker seeking
to bring the first pure hydrocodone painkiller to market, rose
the most ever on increased investor expectations of U.S.
regulatory approval.  Zogenix  climbed  40 percent to $1.69 at 12:44 p.m.  New York 
time, after jumping 55 percent for the largest intraday increase
since the company first sold shares to the public in November
2010. The stock fell 51 percent in the year through yesterday.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said it will miss a March
1 deadline to decide whether to approve the painkiller, called
Zohydro, because the agency needs more time to review data,
according to a statement yesterday from San Diego-based Zogenix.
Analysts at Leerink Swann & Co. and  Wells Fargo Securities LLC 
said the delay indicates the drug likely will be approved.  “The agency could have simply issued a complete response
letter (CRL) if it wanted to follow the panel recommendation
from last December” to deny the application, Michael Schmidt, a
Leerink Swann analyst in New York, wrote in a note to clients.  FDA advisers in December recommended that Zohydro shouldn’t
be approved until regulators examined greater measures to curb
opioid abuse. The pill would be the first pure hydrocodone
painkiller, as opposed to combination treatments like the
acetaminophen-mixed Vicodin. The FDA isn’t obligated to follow
the recommendations made by advisory panels.  Drug Access  While regulators didn’t provide the company with a reason
for the delay, the FDA indicated it may last only several weeks,
Zogenix said in the statement. The company said it hadn’t been
informed of any deficiencies in its application.  “We continue to believe the odds for eventual approval are
high,”  Michael Tong , an analyst with Wells Fargo, wrote in a
note to clients. “We speculate FDA is dealing with issues of
access and potential misuse.”  Zogenix, whose $38 million in 2011 revenue came from its
migraine medicine Sumavel, has been counting on Zohydro to
increase sales.  Zohydro uses  Alkermes Plc (ALKS) ’s drug delivery technology to
provide extended release of the painkiller. Zogenix and
Alkermes, based in Dublin, agreed Nov. 2 that Alkermes would be
the exclusive manufacturer and supplier to Zogenix of Zohydro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  