-- Zogenix Says FDA Delays Approval Decision on Painkiller
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-02-27T01:25:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-27/zogenix-says-fda-delays-approval-decision-on-painkiller.html
Zogenix Inc. (ZGNX)  said U.S. regulators
are expected to miss the scheduled March 1 decision date on the
company’s effort to gain marketing approval for the first pure
hydrocodone painkiller.  The  Food and Drug Administration  informed Zogenix that it
was unlikely to reach a decision on the drug, named Zohydro, by
the action date, the San Diego-based company said today in a
statement. The painkiller is intended as an alternative to
hydrocodone-combination treatments such as the acetaminophen-
mixed Vicodin.  While regulators didn’t provide the company with a reason
for the possible delay, they indicated it may last only several
weeks, Zogenix said in the statement. The company said it hadn’t
been informed of any deficiencies in its application.  “We are confident in the Zohydro ER program and our NDA
submission and are committed to working with the FDA while it
completes its review,”  Stephen Farr , president and chief
operating officer of Zogenix, said in the statement. “We
believe there is an important medical need for an extended-
release hydrocodone medicine without acetaminophen and that
Zohydro ER can fill this need based on its safety and efficacy
profile.”  FDA advisers said in December Zohydro shouldn’t be approved
until regulators examined greater measures to curb opioid abuse.  The concern was that the painkiller doesn’t contain tamper-
proof technology to deter people from crushing the capsules and
snorting for a more intense effect. Zogenix, whose $38 million
in 2011 revenue came from its migraine medicine Sumavel, has
been counting on Zohydro to boost sales.  Zohydro uses  Alkermes Plc (ALKS) ’s drug delivery technology to
provide extended release of the painkiller. Zogenix and
Alkermes, based in Dublin, agreed Nov. 2 that Alkermes would be
the exclusive manufacturer and supplier to Zogenix of Zohydro.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  