-- 
‘Anything Goes’ for $252 as Broadway Premium Ticket Sales Grow

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/-anything-goes-for-252-as-broadway-s-premium-tickets-plow-new-territory.html
New York ’s tax-exempt theaters with
Broadway houses have shied away from charging “premium” prices
for choice seats at hit shows. They’ve left that to their
commercial competitors.  Until now.  Roundabout Theatre Co. , enjoying its biggest hit in a
decade with the Broadway revival of  “Anything Goes,”  increased
the top ticket price in June to $252, 84 percent more than the
regular orchestra-seat price of $137.  The Roundabout isn’t alone. Earlier in the year, as “God
of Carnage” starring  James Gandolfini  broke box office records
at Center Theatre Group in  Los Angeles , it raised its top ticket
price 66 percent to $200.  Introduced in 2001 for “The Producers,” premium seats
allow commercial producers to legally tap into the secondary
market that used to be the domain of illegal scalpers. They give
deep-pocketed buyers instant access to the best seats at the
hottest shows, and enhance revenue and profit in an industry
where investors typically lose money.  First Time  Now, more and more nonprofit theaters are following suit.
In its first-ever offering of premium tickets, the Roundabout
sets aside about 30 center orchestra seats per performance at
the Stephen Sondheim Theatre for “Anything Goes.” The  Royal
Shakespeare Company  charged as much as $250 for tickets during
its recent New York engagement at the  Park Avenue Armory .  Premium seats were also sold for “Hair” and “The
Merchant of  Venice .” Both were first produced by the  Public
Theater , which moved them to Broadway jointly with commercial
producers. The Kennedy Center’s acclaimed revival of “Follies,”
which recently opened on Broadway, offers premium seats for
$225.  A Roundabout spokesman, Jessica Johnson, said in an e-mail
that box office income helps fund Roundabout programs for
developing new work, arts education in New York City public
schools and commissions for writers.  At Center Theatre Group, premium seats are part of
“dynamic pricing,” in which prices rise or fall during a
show’s run, based on demand.  Funding New Work  “The people buying these tickets are underwriting our
discounts,” said Michael Ritchie, artistic director of Center
Theatre Group, which operates the Ahmanson Theatre, the Mark
Taper Forum and the Kirk Douglas Theatre. “There is no profit
that gets skimmed off into our pockets. Premium prices pay for
the mission.”  Both Center Theatre Group and Roundabout sell tickets as
cheap as $20. (The Roundabout offers some $10 tickets to
previews.) Additionally, New York’s three TKTS outlets, operated
by the nonprofit  Theatre Development Fund , offer 50 percent off
on most “Anything Goes” performances.  Ben Cameron, who helps dispense $13 million annually as the
program director for the arts at the  Doris Duke Charitable
Foundation , said high prices are fine so long as cheaper ones
are also available.  “In a climate where subsidies are so minimal,
organizations have to maximize revenues where they can,” he
said.  Roundabout’s Broadway rivals don’t necessarily agree. The
top ticket for  Lincoln Center Theater ’s “War Horse,” a
sentimental equine drama set in the World War I era, remains
$135 even in the wake of winning the  Tony Award  for best play.  At Odds  Administrators discussed introducing premium pricing,
Lincoln Center Theater spokesman Philip Rinaldi said.  “We have decided against it for philosophical reasons,”
he said in an e-mail, declining to elaborate.  Similarly,  Manhattan Theatre Club , another nonprofit,
“will not be selling premium seating tickets at the Friedman,”
its Broadway house, MTC executive producer Barry Grove said in
an e-mail.  Both companies have mitigating factors the Roundabout
lacks. The Friedman hasn’t housed a long-running hit on the
order of “Anything Goes.”  Lincoln Center Theater had a $76 million endowment in June
2010 -- five times that of the Roundabout, according to the
companies’ tax returns. LCT pays below-market maintenance to
 Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts  for  office space  and two
theaters. It had a $19 million surplus in 2009-2010, while the
Roundabout, with five theaters, ran a $3.4 million deficit.  Todd Haimes, the Roundabout’s artistic director, declined
to comment. In an earlier interview with Bloomberg, he said he’d
consider premium prices for a show that extends beyond its
initial run for subscribers.  Nix Scalpers  “I’m not philosophically against that because frankly I
would rather the producers -- whether it’s Roundabout or a
commercial producer -- get the money than a ticket scalper,”
Haimes said.  It’s not just the producer who sees that extra cash.
“Anything Goes” increased prices partly to offset higher labor
costs after the show extended beyond its initial 12-week run,
said Johnson, the spokesman. The Roundabout contract with
 Actors’ Equity Association  calls for the minimum performer
salary to increase from $1,231 to $1,653 after the extension.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 