-- 
Australia Military Ends Ban on Frontline Women

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-27T06:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/-unconscious-bias-hinders-australia-women-in-work-study-shows.html
Australia will end a 110-year ban
on women serving in frontline combat roles, clearing the way for
female soldiers to potentially fight the Taliban in  Afghanistan .  The message to women in the military is that “in the
future, your role in the defense force will be determined on
your ability, not on the basis of your sex,” Defense Minister
Stephen Smith said at a news conference in Canberra today.  Smith said he knew of a female soldier who was “the best
shot in her platoon,” yet unable to serve as a sniper in
Afghanistan. “Why would we take away the chance of the best
shot in the platoon from playing that role?” he said. The
changes will be phased in over the next five years, Smith said.  While the move puts Australia closer to  New Zealand  and
 Canada  and ahead of the U.S. military, a release today showed
Australian women suffer an “unconscious bias” in the civilian
workplace that impedes their rise to leadership roles.  The  Committee for Economic Development of Australia report 
underscores evidence of discrimination that  Julia Gillard , the
nation’s first female prime minister, has pledged to address.
Gillard said in a Sept. 15 interview with Bloomberg News that
“it’s not acceptable to me in the modern age” that some major
companies’ boards lack even one woman.  Seventy-two companies included in the nation’s benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index of stocks have all-male boards, and women hold
8 percent of key executive managers’ positions, CEDA said today.  ‘Gender Gap’  Australian women earn about 17 percent less than men and a
reduction of the “gender gap” of about 1 percentage point
could increase gross domestic product by A$4.4 billion ($4.3
billion), the report showed.  At the nation’s central bank, three women, including
members Jillian Broadbent since 1998 and Catherine Tanna since
March, have served on the 51-year-old Reserve Bank board,
compared with 57 men. One of six assistant governors at the RBA
is a woman.  “The need for action is indisputable and is also vital if
 Australia  is to meet future skills and labor demand,” Stephen Martin, chief executive of CEDA, a Melbourne-based independent
nonprofit organization, said in a statement. Among its
recommendations, CEDA urged that companies move now to ensure
all core strategic meetings are held from 9 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. to
help improve equality of access.  Failure to implement an effective promotion strategy means
only an aggregate 4.1 percent of women are in line roles, or
senior management positions, the group said.  ‘Quite Prevalent’  “Unconscious bias is quite prevalent, often in sharp
contrast to the way individuals perceive their view of
themselves,” Hannah Piterman, a business adviser, said in the
report. “Gender biases lead managers to view talent in
predetermined ways, and make decisions based on these
predetermined views leading to inequity and loss of current and
future capability.”  Failure to use the “hidden resource” of Australian women
is costing the A$1.3 trillion economy as much as 13 percent in
lost annual production, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists
estimate. Women account for a majority of  consumer spending  in
the nation, according to the Australian Women Chamber of
Commerce & Industry.  “We have an Australian Army that’s been going for 110
years, an Australian Navy that’s been going formally for 100
years, and an Australian Air Force that’s been going for 90
years, and last night we resolved to remove the final
restrictions on the capacity of women to serve in frontline
combat roles,” Smith told reporters today.  About 1,500 members of  Australia’s military  are serving in
Afghanistan and another 800 are serving in the  Middle East ,
according to the nation’s defense department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  