-- 
AAA Sues Port Authority to Reverse N.Y. Toll Increase That Will Fund WTC

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-27T22:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/aaa-sues-port-authority-to-reverse-n-y-toll-increase-that-will-fund-wtc.html
Two New York-area chapters of AAA
sued to reverse toll increases they said are being illegally
used to subsidize the rebuilding of the World Trade Center.  AAA  New York  and AAA North Jersey sued the Port Authority
of New York & New Jersey in federal court in  Manhattan  to roll
back toll increases that took effect this month at bridges and
tunnels including the George Washington Bridge and the Holland
and Lincoln Tunnels.  “The Port Authority forces bridge and tunnel users to fund
cost overruns and subsidize the speculative and unprofitable
reconstruction and operation of the World Trade Center from
which toll payers receive no benefit,” AAA claimed in its
complaint filed today.  AAA is seeking a court declaration that the toll increase
is illegal and an order reinstating the earlier toll rates.  “We have reviewed the complaint and it is without merit,”
 Port Authority  spokesman Ron Marsico said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Port Authority, citing economic recession, increased
security costs and the need to overhaul its facilities,
announced proposed toll and fare increases on Aug. 5.  Beginning Sept. 18, the Port Authority raised the price for
passenger cars using its E-ZPass system from $6 to $7.50
roundtrip for off-peak travel and from $8 to $9.50 during peak
hours.  AAA claimed the increase violates the Commerce Clause of
the U.S. Constitution, the federal Highway Act of 1987 and
various court decisions, which require that the tolls on Port
Authority bridges and tunnels be “just and reasonable,”
according to AAA.  The case is Automobile Club of New York Inc. v. Port
Authority of New York and  New Jersey , 11-cv-06746, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 