-- 
Accounting Firms Face ‘Big Impact’ From Draft EU Restrictions

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-27T12:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/accounting-firms-face-big-impact-from-draft-eu-restrictions.html
Large auditing firms face
restrictions on offering consulting services and may be forced
to share work with smaller rivals under proposals from the
European Commission.  Companies that are publicly traded “shall appoint at least
two statutory auditors” under the measures, which are designed
to improve trust in “the veracity of the financial statement,”
according to a draft version of the proposals from the European
Union’s executive arm obtained by Bloomberg News.  “Many of these ideas aren’t new but we’ve never seen
proposals that include all of these ideas at the same time,”
Michael Izza, the chief executive of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of England and  Wales , said in a telephone interview
today. “They’ve been aggregated in one place and that’s where
you get the big impact.”  The EU is reviewing audit rules following the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , which raised questions about
“the context of the audit” of the bank,  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services commissioner, told lawmakers last year.
The top four accounting firms have a market share of about 90
percent in the majority of EU member states, according to the
commission’s report last year.  The firms will also be prohibited from providing “services
other than statutory audit services” to auditing clients, which
include management advisory and risk-management services,
according to the document.  “The audit sector displayed clear failings during the
crisis and this is why we believe more has to be done,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for the commission in Brussels, said
today.  The  European Commission , the European Union’s executive
arm, will propose the new rules for auditors in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  