-- 
Macklem Says Canada Will Be Prudent on Stimulus in Recovery

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-09-27T21:29:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/macklem-says-canada-will-be-prudent-on-stimulus-in-recovery-1-.html
Bank of  Canada  Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem said policy makers will be cautious about
reducing monetary stimulus in a slow economic rebound threatened
by weak U.S. demand and Europe’s debt crisis.  “As the Canadian recovery has progressed, we have
emphasized that we would be prudent with respect to the possible
withdrawal of any degree of monetary stimulus,” Macklem said in
a  speech  today in  Vancouver . “An anemic U.S. recovery, as well
as a persistently strong Canadian dollar and elevated global
risks, are all weighing on growth here.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  met Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  and central bank Governor  Mark Carney  earlier today to
review Europe’s debt crisis and the progress made by Group of 20
policy makers toward solving it. Canada and other G-20 members
said  Europe  made some progress at meetings last weekend in
Washington, and pushed for a complete solution.  Macklem said European leaders must create a facility large
enough to deal with investor concerns about defaults. “The
immediate priorities are to provide a funding backstop for
vulnerable European sovereigns that is sized to the scale of the
problem and a comprehensive capital plan for European banks,”
Macklem said.  “While the situation in Europe is immediate, the need for
agreed measures to restore fiscal sustainability in the United
States and Japan is no less important,” he said. “This
presents a fundamentally new landscape in which government debt
can no longer be considered a risk-free asset in many advanced
countries.”  Facing Collapse  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou today won
parliamentary backing for a property tax to meet deficit-
reduction targets required to avoid default. Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos told Greeks they face economic collapse if
they don’t reduce their budget gap, which would put at risk an 8
billion-euro ($11 billion) aid payment due next month.  Macklem also reiterated that the extended period of low
 interest rates  around the world pose new risks if they lead
investors to again become overly leveraged. He also said after
the speech that there is a risk Canadians may take on more debt
than they can handle once interest rates begin to rise.  Macklem also said it’s in  China ’s own interest to allow
more exchange-rate flexibility, as it would give them a way “to
slow growth a little to make it more sustainable and to bring
inflation down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 