-- 
Goldman Sachs, Galleon, Madoff, News Corp., Macquarie in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-09-27T11:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/madoff-carter-s-news-corp-goldman-macquarie-court-news.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  won
dismissal of lawsuits over employee bonuses filed in  New York  by
shareholders who called the awards a waste of assets.  Security Police & Fire Professionals of America Retirement
Fund and Judith A. Miller sued the investment bank in December
2009, accusing directors and executives of breaching their
fiduciary duties by reserving half of the company’s net revenue
for employee compensation. Shareholders Ken Brown and Central
Laborers Pension Fund filed similar suits the following month.  New York State Supreme Judge Bernard J. Fried ordered the
lawsuits dismissed on Sept. 21, according to court documents
filed yesterday. The plaintiffs agreed to the dismissal in
January 2010, after New York-based Goldman Sachs said its ratio
of compensation and benefits to net revenue for 2009 was its
“lowest as a public company,” Fried said in his ruling.  Fried denied the plaintiffs’ request for attorney fees and
expenses, and rejected a request from Brown -- who died in
December 2010 -- for an incentive fee award of $25,000. Brown’s
attorney, Lynda J. Grant, didn’t return a voice-mail message
seeking comment on Fried’s ruling.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The cases are Brown v. Blankfein, 650003/2010, and Central
Laborers’ Pension Fund v. Goldman Sachs, 600036/2010, both in
New York State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Rajaratnam Judge Asks to Review Sentencing Report on Jiau  The U.S. judge who is to sentence Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Raj Rajaratnam for insider trading on Oct. 13 asked to
see the sentencing report for Winifred Jiau, a former consultant
for Primary Global Research LLC.  Jiau was sentenced to four years in prison last week for
her role in an insider-trading ring. She was convicted in June
of one count each of conspiracy and securities fraud for passing
earnings and other information about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to two hedge fund managers.  Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May of 14 criminal counts
of conspiracy and securities fraud for directing what
prosecutors said was the largest hedge-fund insider trading
ring. The U.S. has said Rajaratnam should be sentenced to a term
of 19 1/2 to 24 1/2 years, a penalty the defense has called
“grotesquely severe.”  The request by U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in
Manhattan, who presided over Rajaratnam’s trial, was granted
Sept. 23 by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who sentenced Jiau,
according to a court filing yesterday.  “Judge Holwell would like to review that presentence
report in preparation for the upcoming sentencing of the
defendant Raj Rajaratnam,” Thomas McCarthy, a senior U.S.
probation officer, wrote in the request to Rakoff.  The U.S. said Rajaratnam made $63.8 million using illegal
tips to trade in the stocks of companies including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies Inc. and
 Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney
 Preet Bharara , declined to comment on yesterday’s filing.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Strauss-Kahn Cites Diplomatic Immunity to Fend Off Maid’s Suit  Former International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-
Kahn, who was cleared last month of charges that he assaulted a
hotel maid in New York, asked a judge to dismiss the lawsuit
brought by his accuser.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, said in a motion filed with Judge Douglas
McKeon in New York State Supreme Court in the Bronx borough of
New York City yesterday that the lawsuit filed by the maid,
Nafissatou Diallo, should be thrown out because Strauss-Kahn had
diplomatic immunity.  “As managing director -- which is the chief executive
position at the IMF -- Mr. Strauss-Kahn enjoyed absolute
immunity from civil suit under applicable principles of
international law,” according to the filing by William W.
Taylor III, an attorney for Strauss-Kahn.  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office last
month dropped sexual-assault charges filed against Strauss-Kahn
in May after Diallo accused him of trying to rape her in his
suite at the Sofitel in midtown Manhattan. Diallo, 33, sued
Strauss-Kahn on Aug. 8, seeking unspecified damages.  Diallo’s attorneys, Kenneth P. Thompson and Douglas H.
Wigdor, said in a statement that Strauss-Kahn’s claim of
diplomatic immunity will fail because he isn’t a diplomat, was
in New York on personal business and paid for his own room.  “This baseless motion is another desperate attempt to
avoid having to answer for the deplorable acts he committed
against Ms. Diallo,” Thompson and Wigdor said in the statement.  The case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065, New York
State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  Merkin Fund Investor Lawsuits Over Madoff Losses Dismissed  Lawsuits filed by investors in three of J. Ezra Merkin’s
hedge funds, holding him and BDO International responsible for
their losses in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, were dismissed by
a federal judge.  U.S. District Judge  Deborah Batts  in Manhattan ruled that
investors in funds named Ascot Partners, Gabriel Partners and
the Ariel Fund can’t show that Merkin lied about money invested
in Madoff’s fund or that BDO, an accounting firm, ignored “red
flags” of the fraud.  “The offering memoranda and prospectuses contain warnings
sufficient to preclude a claim of intentional or reckless
misrepresentation in those documents,” Batts said in an opinion
released yesterday. “In addition, plaintiffs’ allegations of
red flags are unavailing given the opposing considerations of
Madoff’s immense reputation and deep deception.”  The suit was filed in 2008 by a group of investors seeking
to represent a class of all the investors in the funds.  Arthur Abbey, a lawyer representing the investors, didn’t
return a phone message and e-mail seeking comment on the ruling.  Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year term in federal prison in
North Carolina after pleading guilty to orchestrating history’s
biggest Ponzi scheme.  The case is In Re Merkin and BDO Seidman Securities
Litigation, 08-cv-10922, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Goldman Sachs Asks Judge to Put Thornburg Suit on Hold  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., sued by defunct  Thornburg
Mortgage Inc. (THMRQ) , asked a bankruptcy judge to put the lawsuit on
hold while a district judge decides whether to take the case.
Bankrupt TMST Inc.’s contract claims should be dismissed because
Goldman Sachs was exercising its rights after an
“incontrovertible margin default,” the New York-based bank
said in a Sept. 23 court filing.  TMST trustee Joel Sher filed at least eight lawsuits from
April 28 to April 30, seeking  more than $2 billion from
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc, Bank of
America Corp. and other companies, alleging that they made
unjustified margin calls that helped to cause Thornburg’s
downfall.  News Corp. Marketer Used Mafia Lessons to Instill Fear  A  News Corp. (NWSA)  unit that used lessons gleaned from Mafia
films to motivate employees and crush rivals is the latest arm
of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire to be swept up in a probe that
began with hacking and bribery allegations.  Already the subject of inquiries in America and the U.K. of
police payoffs and illegal voice-mail access by its British
newspapers, News Corp. has been asked by U.S. investigators for
documents relating to its News America Marketing Group, which
places in-store ads in supermarkets and retailers worldwide,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The U.S. government last month asked a lawyer at Williams &
Connolly LLP for documents from a 2009 trial between News
America and a New Jersey advertising company, Floorgraphics
Inc., according to the person, who declined to be identified
because the request was confidential. New York-based News Corp.
in July hired Brendan Sullivan, a criminal defense lawyer at the
 Washington  law firm, amid claims of illegal hacking at the now-
defunct News of the World tabloid.  The expanding review by U.S. prosecutors of potential
wrongdoing at News of the World, which represented only 1
percent of annual revenue for News Corp., has now touched a
subsidiary that generated four times that much, and about 12
percent of the parent company’s profit for fiscal 2011.  That unit, rivals claimed in court papers, has expanded by
flouting antitrust laws, and in one case, computer hacking. News
America’s CEO, also publisher of the New York Post, testified in
one case that he used popular Mafia films such as “‘A Bronx
Tale” and “The Untouchables” to teach employees how to
instill fear in potential clients.  “There is a pattern of anticompetitive behavior by News
Corp.,” said Melanie Sloan, executive director of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a government watchdog
group. “We’ve seen it in Britain, and we’ve seen it in
America.”  Suzanne Halpin , a spokeswoman for News America, declined to
comment on the U.S. request for information.  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Deloitte Sued for $7.6 Billion in Taylor Bean Collapse  Deloitte & Touche LLP, one of the so-called Big Four
accounting firms, was sued for failing to detect a fraud that
allegedly led to more than $7 billion in losses at defunct
mortgage lender Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.  Deloitte, which audited Taylor Bean’s financial statements
from 2002 to August 2009, ignored red flags in the company’s
books, allowing the lender’s former chairman, Lee Farkas, to
orchestrate a fraud that toppled the company, according to the
complaints filed yesterday in state court in Miami. Taylor
Bean’s bankruptcy trustee, Neil Luria, and its Ocala Funding
unit are seeking more than $7.6 billion in damages.  “Deloitte’s negligence, and willful blind eye, was the
fuel without which the looters’ fraud would have sputtered out
long before it resulted in the multibillion-dollar debt under
which TBW collapsed,” according to Luria’s complaint.  The claims are “utterly without merit,” Jonathan Gandal,
a spokesman for New York-based Deloitte, said in an e-mail.
Taylor Bean and Ocala were wholly owned private companies
through which “convicted felon Lee Farkas and his co-
conspirators committed their crimes,” Gandal said.  “The bizarre notion that his engines of theft are entitled
to complain of injury from their own crimes and to sue the
outside auditors they lied to defies common sense, not to
mention the law,” Gandal said in the e-mail.  The cases are Luria, Plan Trustee of the Taylor, Bean &
Whitaker Trust v. Deloitte & Touche LLP; Ocala Funding LLC, v.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial
Circuit, Miami-Dade County, Florida.  For more, click here.  Carter’s Ex-Executive Elles Pleads Not Guilty to Fraud Charges  Joseph Elles, a former sales executive at  Carter’s Inc. (CRI) ,
pleaded not guilty to charges he reported inflated sales at the
world’s biggest maker of children’s clothing.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Janet King in Atlanta granted Elles
$100,000 bail after his arraignment yesterday on 32 counts
including securities fraud, wire fraud, causing the filing of
false financial statements and falsifying corporate books and
records.  Elles, 57, a former executive vice president, “induced”
customers such as  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  to make “substantial purchases”
of Carter’s products at unauthorized millions of dollars in
discounts that he didn’t disclose, according to the indictment
filed Sept. 21.  Elles allegedly hid those discounts, causing the company to
overstate profit, prosecutors said. He also aided others, some
of whom U.S. prosecutors haven’t identified, according to the
indictment.  The U.S. Securities Exchange Commission sued Elles in
December. The SEC charges mirror the indictment by the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Atlanta.  The SEC agreed not to sue Atlanta-based Carter’s because of
the company’s “prompt and complete self-reporting.”  Raymond Joseph Burby, a lawyer for Elles, said in an e-
mailed statement that his client will defend himself against the
charges and “absolutely denies that he intended to defraud
anyone in connection with the purchase or sale of Carter’s
securities, as alleged in the indictment.”  Prosecutors should have waited to see what the evidence
“revealed about the conduct of all employees at Carter’s and
Kohl’s who were involved in this matter,” Burby said in his
statement.  Prosecutors yesterday asked the judge to set bond at
$200,000, saying that Elles’s financial statements indicated he
has close to $1 million in cash. Attorneys for Elles sought a
lower bond, arguing that their client isn’t a flight risk.  “He came here today to voluntarily surrender,” Burby told
King. “He is going to be here when the court needs him to be.”  Elles faces as long as 10 years in prison if convicted,
Assistant U.S. Attorney David M. Chaiken said yesterday in
court.  The case is U.S. v. Elles, 11-CR-445, U.S. District Court,
Northern District Court of Georgia (Atlanta).  News Corp. Faces Another Round of Hacking Claims From 2008  News Corp., former publisher of the shuttered News of the
World tabloid, was hit last week with accusations that reporters
hacked into voice mails as late as 2008, a year after a reporter
and detective were jailed for the offense.  Jade Goody, the reality TV star who died of cervical cancer
in 2009, may have had her phone hacked by News of the World
reporters in the months leading up to her death, according to
 Max Clifford , her former public-relations representative.  If proven true, the allegation indicates hacking continued
two years after private investigator Glenn Mulcaire and former
royal reporter Clive Goodman illegally accessed story subjects’
voice mails. Goodman and Mulcaire were jailed in 2007 for
hacking. James Murdoch, deputy operating chief of News Corp. and
head of the company’s U.K. publishing unit, has repeatedly said
he didn’t know hacking was widespread at the tabloid and that
wrongdoing took place before he joined the company in 2007.  “If it was going on as late as 2008, serious questions
will be asked as to what procedures were in place to stop it
from happening again internally,” said Niri Shan, the head of
media law at Taylor Wessing LLP in  London . Murdoch “is in
charge, so he’s ultimately responsible.”  News Corp.’s directors will also be sued in the U.S. by
victims of News of the World hackers, lawyer Mark Lewis said in
an interview broadcast on Sky News last week. Lawyers are
looking at what directors at the New York-based corporation
should have known about hacking activities and will seek to
speak with James Murdoch and his father, News Corp. Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch, Lewis said in a separate
interview on the  BBC .  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Macquarie Wins A$95 Million Tax Dispute Over Minara Sale  Macquarie Bank Ltd., a unit of Australia’s biggest
investment bank, won a A$95 million ($93 million) dispute with
the Australian Tax Office over the 2004 sale of a stake in
nickel producer Minara Resources Ltd.  Federal Court Justice Richard Edmonds in Sydney yesterday
dismissed the tax office’s claim that Macquarie used a tax
avoidance scheme when it engineered the sale of 165.5 million
shares held by MatlinPatterson Global Opportunities Partners LP
at A$2.90 each.  The unit of the Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  claimed
at a hearing in June that the government was attempting to
assess taxes against it on profit made by MatlinPatterson.  John Hurst, an outside spokesman for Macquarie, declined to
comment on the ruling.  MatlinPatterson, which was Minara’s second-biggest
shareholder, bought a 35.9 percent stake in 2003 in the mining
company as part of an attempt to take it over, according to
court documents. Macquarie arranged a “bought deal” in
February 2004 for the MatlinPatterson shares, purchasing them
for A$2.65 each and selling them on to institutions for A$2.90,
earning A$41.4 million on which the bank paid A$12 million in
taxes, according to the court papers.  The case is Macquarie Bank Ltd. v. Commissioner of
Taxation. NSD105/2010. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  On The Docket  Gribkowsky Trial Set For October Over Formula One Stake Sale  A German regional court allowed breach of trust, accepting
bribes and tax evasion charges against Gerhard Gribkowsky, a
former Bayerische Landesbank risk manager, to go to trial.  The trial over the sale of the lender’s stake in Formula
One racing is set to start Oct. 24, the regional court said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Focus magazine had reported on the trial date earlier this
weekend and had said that Formula One Chief Executive Officer
Bernie Ecclestone will testify in the case, without saying where
it had obtained the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 