-- 
Most of Madoff Trustee Suit Against Mets Owners Dismissed

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-27T21:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/madoff-trustee-may-pursue-main-claims-against-mets-after-judge-pares-suit.html
A U.S. judge dismissed most counts
of a $1 billion lawsuit against New York Mets owners Fred Wilpon
and Saul Katz by the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm.  Trustee Irving Picard’s effort to clawback most of the 
$1 billion from the Major League Baseball team owners was based 
on allegations they suspected Madoff’s fraud and failed in their
duty to investigate it, according to court papers.  Picard sued the Mets owners in bankruptcy court in
December, demanding the return of $300 million in what he called
“fictitious” profit and $700 million in principal taken out of
the Madoff firm by Sterling Equities Inc. and its partners. He
alleged they had “concerns” that Madoff was conducting a
fraud, even shopping for fraud insurance.  Asking U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff to dismiss the suit,
the Mets owners said they “never suspected Madoff was running a
 Ponzi scheme  or any other fraudulent enterprise, never shopped
for fraud insurance, never thought they needed fraud insurance,
and never purchased fraud insurance” for their Madoff
investments.  Rakoff’s ruling is another challenge to Picard, who with
his firm has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking $100 billion
for Madoff investors and charged more than $224 million for work
since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ). The district court case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-
03605, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in  New York  at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  