-- 
Equilar’s Social Atlas Helps Advisers Lure Wealthy Facebook-Skipping CEOs

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-09-27T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/advisers-may-use-equilar-s-atlas-to-woo-facebook-skipping-ceos.html
Equilar, a provider of executive
compensation data, is offering those who manage money a social-
networking tool to attract high-net-worth clients.  Financial advisers at 10 nationally ranked brokerage firms
have joined Equilar Atlas, which officially goes live today and
contains professional profiles of about 250,000 chief executive
officers, board members and executive directors at almost 5,000
public companies and 5,000 nonprofits, according to David Chun,
CEO and founder of  Redwood City , California-based Equilar.  After subscribers load their contacts, the system
automatically identifies and populates connections, so users can
see who their contacts are connected to and use that as a
reference point when reaching out, Chun said in an interview.
The database initially is being marketed to brokerage firms,
registered investment advisers, universities and nonprofits.  “This extends the social graph to see how you may be
connected to a very exclusive network of individuals that
frankly aren’t out there on other sources” such as Facebook
Inc. and LinkedIn Corp., said Chun, who worked for six years as
an investment banker at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. “We give
people a turnkey social network that’s already been built based
on public information out there.”  The database of potential clients may be vital as brokers
and investment advisers try to attract more assets. Brokers at
the largest full-service brokerage firms managed 38 percent of
the $13.5 trillion U.S. wealth-management market in 2010,
compared with 41 percent in 2007, according to data from
research firm Aite Group LLC in  Boston . Independent registered
investment advisers have gathered an additional 2 percent of the
market since 2007, bringing their share to about 11 percent.  Facebook, LinkedIn  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
doesn’t share the number of CEOs at public companies who are
users. LinkedIn counts executives from all 2011 Fortune 500
companies as members, said Krista Canfield, a spokeswoman for
the  Mountain View , California-based professional-networking
website.  Unlike  Palo Alto , California-based Facebook and LinkedIn,
people in the Equilar database don’t sign up to be a part of the
network because they’re automatically entered using public
filings.  People in the database also don’t have to agree to connect
with subscribers and let them view their contacts. To be linked
together, executives generally must have served on the same
board for at least one year together or been at the executive
level at the same firm for at least one year, Chun said.  ‘Money in Motion’  Equilar Atlas also contains compensation information, which
is derived from filings including proxy statements and Form 4s,
so users can see when payouts, such as stock vesting, are
scheduled. The cost is $10,000 annually for unlimited access to
the database for the first three users and $2,400 for each
additional person.  “It gives you money in motion at a point in time when it
matters,” said Eric Harrison, a partner overseeing portfolio
construction and investment in private vehicles at Los Angeles-
based Luminous Capital investment advisory firm, which manages
$4.6 billion for about 300 families.  One way Luminous has traditionally tried to acquire new
business is by cold calling executives at firms going through
mergers and acquisitions, said Harrison, whose firm joined the
network in its testing phase about six months ago.  “It allows us to click and see who we know knows and how
they know that person, which is a very powerful tool,” Harrison
said. The limitation of Equilar Atlas is that it doesn’t include
executives at private companies, he said. Luminous doesn’t use
Facebook or LinkedIn to connect with prospective clients, said
Harrison.  Worthwhile Prospects  Equilar Atlas has begun adding private companies and is
expected to have more than 4,000 by the end of the year, said
Chun.  Since people in the wealth-management industry already know
who the wealthiest CEOs are, the database may be most helpful in
revealing names and compensation for CEOs of smaller public
companies that may be below the radar, Chun said.  Firms are more interested in finding worthwhile prospective
clients than just reaching the maximum number of prospects, said
Chuck Richard, vice president and lead analyst for business-to-
business trade publishing and company information at Outsell
Inc., a research firm based in Burlingame,  California .  That means they may be more interested in a product like
Equilar’s database, especially as companies reduce staff and
spending on sales and marketing, Richard said. Outsell doesn’t
have any shares or investment in Equilar.  WealthEngine  WealthEngine, an internet-based wealth identification
service, offers nonprofits, financial institutions and luxury
goods companies a way to find new clients. The database has 100
million households in it, 16 million of which have a net worth
of at least $1 million, said Kimberly O’Donnell Mullins, a
spokeswoman for the Bethesda, Maryland-based firm.  The online service, which has more than 3,000 clients and
begins at about $3,500 for an annual subscription, started in
2000, O’Donnell Mullins said.  Justin Fulton, a principal and client strategist at
Signature, a family office in Norfolk,  Virginia , with $2.2
billion in assets under management, said in an interview before
the Equilar site went live that his firm traditionally attracts
clients from referrals or sponsoring local events where
prospective clients may be.  “I don’t ever see a social-networking tool as a
replacement for face to face” in attracting high-net-worth
clients, Fulton said. “It would purely be a complement.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 