-- 
Aikbee, Bandar, Multi-Purpose Holdings: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-09-27T00:06:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/aikbee-bandar-multi-purpose-holdings-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  Malaysia’s  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index tumbled 2.5
percent to 1,331.80.        Aikbee Resources Bhd. (AIK)  : The timber group said a
group of shareholders with a combined 38 percent stake has made
an offer to buy the rest of the shares they don’t already own at
1 ringgit apiece, according to a stock exchange filing. The
stock last traded at 86 sen on Sept. 23. The shares were
suspended yesterday.        Bandar Raya Developments Bhd. (BRD)  : The property
developer has ceased talks to sell its office and malls to
Ambang Sehati Sdn. for 430 million ringgit ($136 million) and
will instead dispose them by way of a tender exercise. An
independent international property valuation firm will be
appointed to manage the bids and Ambang Sehati will be invited
to participate in the tender, the company said in a statement.
Bandar fell 6.2 percent to 1.82 ringgit.        Hap Seng Consolidated Bhd. (HAP)  : Lei Shing Hong
Investment Ltd. bought 4.5 million shares in the plantation and
property group, raising its stake to 6.6 percent, a stock filing
showed. Hap Seng fell 2.3 percent to 1.27 ringgit.        Multi-Purpose Holdings Bhd. (MPU)  : The property and
gaming company agreed to sell its  office tower  in Kuala Lumpur
to the Malaysian Chinese Association for 375 million ringgit, it
said in a statement. The stock fell 6 percent to 2.21 ringgit.       Puncak Niaga Holdings Bhd. (PNH MK): Lembaga Tabung Haji
has emerged as a substantial shareholder in Puncak after buying
1 million shares in the water-treatment operator, raising its
stake to 5.1 percent, a stock exchange filing showed. Puncak was
unchanged at 1.05 ringgit.  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  : Malaysia’s fifth-biggest lender
wants to name Johari Abdul Muid as managing director of its
commercial banking unit, a person familiar with the matter said.
It has requested central bank approval to appoint Johari to head
RHB Bank Bhd., said the person who asked not to be named as the
information is private. Johari declined to comment in a text
message to Bloomberg. RHB Capital Chairman Mohamed Khadar
Merican couldn’t be immediately reached at his office for
comment. The stock dropped 7.6 percent to 7.13 ringgit.        SEG International Bhd. (SYS)  : The college operator has
received stock-exchange approval to extend a deadline by six
months to complete the sale of a 10 percent stake, according to
a stock filing. The shares slid 1.7 percent to 1.74 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  