-- 
American Airlines Plans First Debt Since January as Risk Rises

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-09-27T15:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/american-airlines-plans-first-debt-since-january-as-risk-rises.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American Airlines may
pay up on its offering of $725.7 million of debt backed by
airplanes in its first such offering since January as the cost
to protect against a default on its bonds rises.  The 10-year pass-through certificates will be used to
finance aircraft, the company said today in a filing with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. American Airlines has $828.8
million of 7.858 percent pass-through certificates maturing on
Oct. 1, rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are paying the most to protect against a default
on bonds from  Fort Worth , Texas-based AMR for five years than
other major U.S. airlines, according to data from London-based
CMA, as the owner of  American Airlines  failed to post an annual
profit for three consecutive years. AMR will need to refinance
aircraft supporting the maturing debt with a new bond deal,
which is likely to yield about 8 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts said in a Sept. 23 note.  “A successful execution of this anticipated deal is
critical in our opinion to AMR’s ability to manage its liquidity
during the winter months,” JPMorgan analysts  Jamie Baker , Scott Tan, Joseph Abboud and Mark Streeter wrote in the note.
“Assuming AMR pulls the trigger on a new deal near this
pricing, AMR will pay a steep price for not having issued
earlier in the year to refinance this maturity when the markets
were more receptive.”  Credit-Default Swaps  Credit-default swaps on the parent of American Airlines
soared to 49.5 percent upfront yesterday from 29.25 percent on
Aug. 1, according to CMA. That means it costs $4.95 million
upfront and $500,000 a year to protect $10 million of debt for
five years, the highest of the major U.S. airlines tracked by
the CME Group Inc. unit.  That compares with about 18 percent upfront for  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the JPMorgan
analysts wrote in the Sept. 23 note.  Speculation that AMR may seek  bankruptcy protection 
“weighs on the entire sector, along with, of course, the
natural market fear of a recession and the potential impact from
an economic slowdown on an improved but still vulnerable
sector,” the JPMorgan analysts wrote. “We remain in the
minority camp that AMR will continue to tread water and avoid an
in-court restructuring.”  American Airlines last tapped the U.S. debt market in
January, issuing $503.21 million of 10-year, 5.25 percent
second-lien pass-through debt and $153.83 million of seven-year,
7 percent first-lien pass throughs, Bloomberg data show.  Today’s debt is expected to be graded Baa3 by Moody’s and
A- by S&P, said a person with knowledge of the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Relative yields on BBB rated corporate bonds expanded to
306 basis points yesterday from 211 basis points at the start of
the year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  