-- 
MAN SE Surges After Volkswagen Wins EU Antitrust Clearance for Takeover

-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-27T08:20:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/man-se-surges-most-in-10-months-as-volkswagen-takeover-gains-eu-approval.html
MAN SE (MAN)  rose the most in more than
10 months after the European Union cleared  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
takeover bid for the German truckmaker.  Europe ’s biggest carmaker obtained EU antitrust approval
without the need for asset sales or other remedies because the
“merged entity would continue to face strong competition from
other well-established manufacturers,” the European Commission
said late yesterday.  The maker of the Golf hatchback triggered a mandatory bid
for MAN by raising its stake to 30.5 percent from 29.9 percent
on May 9 to pave the way for closer cooperation between Munich-
based MAN and  Sweden ’s  Scania AB (SCVB) , which VW already controls. A
three-way truck alliance may save as much as 1 billion euros
($1.35 billion) in annual costs, according to VW.  “MAN shares are getting a lift from EU approval,” said
Helena Wuestenfeld, a Frankfurt-based analyst with Bankhaus
Metzler. Once the tender closes, “VW would have the opportunity
to buy more shares in MAN.”  MAN gained as much as 4.45 euros, or 7.5 percent, to 63.48
euros, the most since Nov. 15, 2010, and was up 7.3 percent to
63.34 euros as of 10:15 a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The shares
have declined 29 percent this year, valuing the German
truckmaker at 9.2 billion euros. VW rose as much as 4.7 percent
to 106.30 euros and was up 4.5 percent.  The Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker will own 55.9 percent
of MAN’s voting rights after the deal closes. VW said on Aug. 23
that “numerous” national authorities already approved the
planned combination. The company sought 40 percent of MAN’s
voting rights in May when it started the bid.  Substantial Synergies  Volkswagen “assumes that the remaining outstanding
completion conditions will be fulfilled during the coming
weeks,” the carmaker said in a statement after winning the EU’s
approval. “Substantial synergies can be realized through a
closer cooperation of MAN, Scania and Volkswagen in the fields
of procurement, development and production.”  The combination of MAN and Scania would leapfrog
Gothenburg, Sweden-based  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Daimler AG to create
Europe’s largest truckmaker. MAN and Scania together had 30
percent of the European heavy-truck market last year, according
to the  European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association . Volvo and
Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler each had 21 percent.  Volkswagen backed off plans in June to name Chief Executive
Officer  Martin Winterkorn , Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch and  Jochem Heizmann , the carmaker’s commercial-vehicle
division chief, to MAN’s supervisory board before gaining
approval of the planned merger. The reversal was prompted by
guidance from the European Union’s executive arm during
antitrust talks, VW said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at   creiter2@bloomberg.net  