-- 
Apple-Samsung, Crocs, Tony Chachere’s, NinjaVideo: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-27T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/apple-crocs-tony-chachere-s-ninjavideo-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  has infringed upon
Samsung Electronics patents since entering the mobile-phone
market with the iPhone 3G, a lawyer for Samsung told a Dutch
court as the Korean company seeks a ban on some Apple products
in the Netherlands.  “Apple just entered the market in 2008 without taking care
of the licenses,” Bas Berghuis van Woortman, a lawyer for
Simmons & Simmons LLP who represents Samsung, said in The Hague
court. “Apple is consciously, structurally infringing the 3G
patents.”  Samsung, the world’s second-largest maker of mobile phones,
filed four lawsuits against Apple in the Netherlands and the
first scheduled hearing was yesterday. Samsung is claiming
Cupertino, California-based Apple’s iPhone and iPad that use
third-generation technology infringe Samsung patents and is
seeking a ban on their sale in the Netherlands.  The legal battle between Apple and rival smartphone makers
is intensifying as an increasing number of consumers use smart
phones and wireless handsets to surf the Web, play games and
download music and videos. Samsung and Apple have been involved
in lawsuits around the globe since Apple claimed in an April
lawsuit filed in the U.S. that the Korean company’s Galaxy
devices copied the iPhone and iPad.  Apple told the court it uses  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s chipsets for
iPhones in Europe, and licenses are covered that way.  “When we entered the market we did have patent licenses,”
said Rutger Kleemans, a lawyer for Freshfields Bruckhaus
Deringer LLP, which represents Apple in the Netherlands. Samsung
wants to get 2.4 percent of the chip price on the patents in
question, which is “excessive,” he said, without elaborating.  The two companies are in talks on 3G licenses, “so an
injunction is premature,” Kleemans said. Samsung holds a
standard-essential patent and is obliged to provide third
parties with a license under reasonable, non-discriminatory
terms, he said.  Apple has blocked sales of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 in Germany,
which Strategy Analytics forecasts will be  Europe ’s third-
largest market for touch-screen mobile computers this year.  In  Australia , Samsung’s debut of its Galaxy 10.1 tablet
computer may be delayed beyond the end of the month after a
judge today said she needs time to study Apple’s patent-
infringement claims.  Among mobile-device patent battles is a dispute between
Apple and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. over the iPhone’s
touch screen.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung lost a preliminary court
ruling over sales of its Galaxy S, S II and Ace smart phones in
the Netherlands in a patent dispute with Apple last month. The
judge in that case didn’t extend the ruling to Samsung’s tablet
computers.  The Hague court intends to rule on Oct. 14 whether Samsung
has a case.  Crocs to Counter Slowdown With New Shoe Styles at Higher Prices  Crocs Inc. (CROX)  plans to counter any global slowdown by pushing
consumers to shift to new, higher-priced shoe styles from the
plastic clogs for which it’s better known, Chief Executive
Officer John McCarvel said.  “Our whole desire is to go upscale,” McCarvel said in an
interview at the World Retail Congress in Berlin today. “This
is many years in the making. It has evolved constantly,
upgrading the line, trying to stretch the consumer up to 40, 45
euros, pounds or dollars.”  The 400-store company won a patent-infringement ruling in
April aimed at helping it block U.S. imports of Double Diamond
Distribution Inc.’s Dawgs footwear and Waldies Comfy Clogs made
by Effervescent Inc. That was a ruling from the U.S.
International Trade Commission, which has the power to block
imports that infringe U.S. patents.  McCarvel said he was a “bit negative” about the amount of
time it took to impose the ban, which resulted from a complaint
filed in 2006, as the products Crocs was protecting now
represent only 10 percent of sales.  “By the time you get the judgment, business is closed,”
he said.  The ITC case was In the Matter of Foam Footwear, 337-567,
U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  Samsung Tablet Faces Further Delay in Australia Amid Apple Row  Samsung Electronics Co.’s debut of its Galaxy 10.1 tablet
computer in Australia may be delayed beyond the end of the month
after a judge said she needs time to study Apple Inc.’s patent-
infringement claims.  Federal Court Justice Annabelle Bennett may grant a
“brief” injunction on sales of the Samsung tablet as she
considers arguments from Samsung and the iPad maker, the judge
said during the first day of a two-day hearing over whether the
Galaxy Tab should be banned in Australia until the dispute is
resolved. The judge urged both sides to consider starting their
patent-infringement trial as soon as possible.  The dispute is part of a global fight between the two
companies, the world’s two largest makers of tablet computers,
which began in April in the U.S. after Cupertino, California-
based Apple sued Samsung claiming Galaxy products “slavishly”
imitated the designs and technologies used in iPads and iPhones.
Samsung struck back with lawsuits in  South Korea ,  Japan ,  Germany 
and Australia.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, targeted the iPad 2
and adopted as many of its features as it could in developing
its newest tablet, Steven Burley, Apple’s lawyer, said
yesterday.  It must have been “as plain as the Opera House to
Samsung” that the design of the Galaxy Tab 10.1 infringed Apple
patents, Burley said. “They ought to clear the way in advance
rather than attempt to crash through.”  A ban on the sale of the product would go too far, David
Catterns, Samsung’s lawyer, told the judge.  “This is a high-stakes fight,” Catterns said. “This is
where we draw the line.”  Samsung agreed in August to delay a planned release of the
Galaxy 10.1 tablets in Australia until Bennett rules on Apple’s
request for an injunction barring the sale of the product.  Under usual circumstances it would take “well into next
year” to resolve the patent dispute, Catterns said. Apple would
be prepared to go to trial next week, Burley told the judge.  Catterns said that by the time the patent dispute is
resolved at trial, Apple would be selling the iPad 9.  Samsung had altered its Galaxy 10.1 tablet from a U.S.
version that Apple claimed infringed 10 of its patents, for
release in Australia. The Australian version, although with
“reduced functionality,” still infringes at least three
patents, according Burley. Catterns denied the Australian tablet
has reduced functionality.  Apple didn’t object to earlier versions of Samsung’s
tablets even though they used the same technology, Catterns
said.  The 10.1 is a bigger threat to Apple because it’s the
thinnest tablet computer on the market, Catterns said.  Samsung countersued Apple on Sept. 17, saying the iPhone
and iPad infringe seven of its patents related to wireless
communications standards.  The agreement to halt advertising and the sale of the
Galaxy 10.1 tablet doesn’t affect any other Samsung tablet or
smartphone available in Australia, or other countries, the
company said following the Aug. 2 hearing.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  White House Directive on Software Patents Sought by Petitioners  Among the 65 petitions seeking action from the Obama
Administration that were published on the White House website by
yesterday, one with a high number of signatures calls for an end
to the issuance of software patents.  The petition , which was created Sept. 23, had more than
11,000 signatures by yesterday. According to the petition,
software patents have “become a tool of antitrust employed by
large companies against small ones.”  Petitioners claim that the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office’s “original interpretation” of software as language
“is much closer to reality and more productive for innovation”
than what it terms “the current practice of issuing software
parents with no understanding of the patents being issued.”  According to the government website, the right to petition
the government is guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution, and the
threshold for review by the White House is the amassment of more
than 5,000 signatures in 30 days.  The present group of petitions published on the website
cover a wide range of issues including the legalization of
marijuana, permitting kayaking in Yellowstone National Park, the
issuance of a Cold War service medal, a ban on non-therapeutic
routine circumcision, a call for the dissolution of the
Electoral College, a request for the repeal of the Defense of
Marriage Act, the removal of “In God we trust” from U.S.
currency, and the formal acknowledgement of an extraterrestrial
presence.  The petition opposing software patents was created by a
resident of Bloomington,  Indiana , identified only as “Daniel
B.” Those who have signed the petition are listed by first
name, middle initial and city of residence.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Tony Chachere’s Claims Former Licensee Infringed Trade Dress  Tony Chachere’s Creole Foods of Opelousas Inc. , a spice and
speciality-food company founded by a retired pharmacist, sued a
former licensee for trademark infringement.  The target of the suit is  Big Easy Foods of Louisiana LLC 
of  Lake Charles ,  Louisiana . According to the complaint filed
Sept. 2 in federal court in Lafayette, Louisiana, at one time
Big Easy made a variety of food products under license from Tony
Chachere’s, including frozen shrimp, chicken sausage and a
variety of the Cajun Thanksgiving creation known as “ Tur-Duc-
Hen ,” which is a chicken stuffed into a duck stuffed into a
turkey.  The two companies co-branding agreement began in 2004,
enabling Big Easy to produce food products under the Tony
Chachere’s label. In  a September 2007 interview  published on the
Southern Boudin Trail website, Larry Avery, chief executive of
Big Easy predecessor French Market Foods said the licensing
agreement “worked very well for both companies.”  According to court papers, Big Easy notified Tony
Chachere’s in April that it would begin offering products under
its own name. The Opelousas, Louisiana-based company said it
began seeing products offered for sale on websites including one
operated by  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  whose packaging was almost
identical to Chachere’s trade dress.  Chachere’s said it’s also been contacted by customers and
store personnel who were confused by the similarity of Big
Easy’s packaging to Chachere’s.  It asked the court to bar further infringement of its trade
dress, and for an order for the destruction of all infringing
packaging and promotional material. Additionally, Chachere’s
asked for awards of money damages, Big Easy’s profits
attributable to the alleged infringement, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Big Easy didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  Chachere’s is represented by  Richard K. Leefe  of  Leefe
Gibbs Sullivan Dupre & Aldous LLC   of Metairie, Louisiana and
 Thomas W. Brooke  of  New York ’s Holland & Knight LLP.  The case is Tony Chachere’s Creole Foods of Opelousas Inc.,
v. Big Easy Foods of Louisiana LLC, 6:11-cv-01712-RFD-CMH, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Louisiana (Lafayettte).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  NinjaVideo Founder Enters Guilty Plea for Copyright Infringement  One of the founders of a website that enabled unauthorized
downloading of television programs and movies entered a guilty
plea in a criminal copyright-infringement case,  according to a
statement  from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Alexandria,
Virginia.  Mathew David Howard Smith, 23, of Raleigh,  North Carolina ,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and criminal copyright infringement
in federal court Sept. 23.  He and four others associated with NinjaVideo were indicted
Sept. 9. He acknowledged that his company collected more than
$500,000 during its two years of operation. Visitors to the
NinjaVideo website could download some content for free, and
could get access to other material by making donations to the
site.  Smith faces a maximum prison term of five years for each
count for which he pleaded guilty. His sentencing is set for
Dec. 16.  The other four defendants are scheduled for a jury trial
beginning Jan. 20, according to the government statement.  Hard Rock Cafe Asks Court to Declare T-Shirt Doesn’t Infringe  Hard Rock Café International (USA) Inc.  of  Orlando ,
 Florida , asked a federal court to declare it’s not infringing a
trademark claimed by a former employee of the  Seminole Tribe of
Florida . The tribe  acquired the Hard Rock brand  in 2007,
according to the Hard Rock Cafe website.  The suit relates to a T-shirt design created in connection
with the tribe’s  Seminole Star Search  program. The shirt has an
ornamental design based on a tattoo on the arm of  Micki Free , of
Hollywood, Florida.  According to papers filed in federal court in Orlando,
Florida, Free is the former director of Seminole Heritage Events
& Promotions. In 2009 he approached Hard Rock about creating a
line of co-branded clothing to benefit the tribe’s Star Search
program.  Hard Rock arranged a license agreement with its clothing
vendor, Entertainment Outfitters LLC. The vendor was to develop
and manufacture the clothing line, which would be sold to Hard
Rock for resale in its outlets, according to the complaint.
Royalties would be paid by Entertainment Outfitters to the
tribe.  One of the designs included elements from Free’s tattoos,
Hard Rock said in its pleadings, claiming Free and his American
Horse LLC company approved the clothing designs and “did not
object in any fashion to the use” of the tattoo design.  Free’s employment was terminated by the tribe in May,
according to the complaint, and afterward he sent a letter to
Hard Rock claiming copyright, trademark and publicity-rights
infringement based on the T-shirt design.  Hard Rock asked the court to declare that the design was
covered by a written license, that Free had agreed to its use,
and that the tattoo is not a “likeness” under Florida law
related to an individual’s publicity rights.  Free didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment. The case was originally filed in Florida state court
and transferred to federal court Sept. 22.  Hard Rock is represented by  Frank R. Jakes  and Joseph  J.
Weissman  of  Johnson, Pope, Bokor, Ruppel & Burns LLP  of Tampa,
Florida. Free’s American Horse is represented by  Dennis R.
O’Connor  of  Ogden, Sullivan & O’Connor PA  of Orlando, Florida.  The case is Hard Rock Cafe International (USA) Inc. v.
American Horse LLC., 6:11-cv-01554-GAP-DAB, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Florida (Orlando).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 