-- 
Apple to Introduce New IPhone on Oct. 4

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-09-27T20:06:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/apple-plans-an-oct-4-event-in-california-to-discuss-new-version-of-iphone.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will introduce a new
version of the iPhone at an Oct. 4 event, the first upgrade of
its best-selling product since  Steve Jobs  resigned as chief
executive officer.  “Let’s talk iPhone,” Apple said in an invitation to the
gathering at its headquarters in Cupertino,  California .  The new iPhone will include a better camera and faster
processor, people familiar with the matter said earlier this
year. Introduced in 2007, the iPhone accounts for about half of
Apple’s revenue. Demand for the touch-screen gadget has helped
catapult Apple ahead of Exxon Mobil Corp. as the world’s most
valuable company.  Jobs, who resigned as CEO and turned leadership of the
company over to  Tim Cook  on Aug. 24., is now Apple’s chairman.  “The iPhone is the most important product line in the
company,” said Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.
“Cook will be heavily watched,” because he didn’t typically
participate in major product introductions in his former role,
Wu said.  Apple showed off new features of the iPhone’s revamped
operating system during Jobs’s last major Apple event, a
developers conference in June. The new software, called iOS 5,
includes new notification and text messaging systems. The
company also said in June that it will debut iCloud, which lets
users to wirelessly access music, pictures and other files
across different Apple devices.  Biggest Product  The new iPhone could be Apple’s best-selling product yet.
Apple may sell 110 million iPhones in 2012, a faster pace than
this year, when nearly 40 million were sold during the first
half of the calendar year, according to  Mike Abramsky , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.  Pent-up demand may help sales, said Maynard Um, an analyst
at UBS Securities LLC. Apple is unveiling a new model 16 months
after the iPhone 4 debuted, compared with the 12 months between
previous model updates. In addition to the stronger processor
and improved camera, the new iPhone may have faster networking
technology, improved graphics performance and potentially be
thinner and lighter, Um said.  This may be the last time Apple can wait so long between
new iPhones as rivals including Samsung Electronics Co. and HTC
Corp. introduce competing smartphones using Google Inc.’s
Android operating system.  “A year and a half, especially in the smartphone product
cycle, is many lifetimes,” said Ashok Kumar, an analyst at
Rodman & Renshaw LLC in  New York .  IPhone Carriers  Apple is set to expand the number of wireless providers for
the iPhone.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-largest carrier,
will begin offering Apple’s phone in the U.S. with unlimited
data services plan next month, people familiar with the matter
said. AT&T Corp. and  Verizon Wireless  now are the only two U.S.
carriers of the iPhone.  The new iPhone probably won’t be less expensive than the
current model, which is sold to wireless carriers for $600, said
 Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., in a research
report. Service providers generally subsidize the price for
customers. Instead of making the phone cheaper, Apple is likely
to drop the price of the current model iPhone to give consumers
a more affordable alternative, Munster said.  Voice-Recognition  The new model may include voice-recognition software,
Munster said. He speculated that the “Let’s Talk iPhone”
wording of the invite may refer to such speech-based features.
Apple purchased a speech-recognition  software company  called
Siri last year.  In the first full quarter on the market, Apple may sell 25
million iPhones, Munster said, adding that this estimate for the
period ending in December may be “conservative.”  Natalie Harrison , a spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  Apple’s shares fell $3.91 to $399.26 at 4 p.m. New York
time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The stock has climbed 24
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  