-- 
Arab Spring to Dominate Nobel Peace Prize, Institute Says

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-09-27T12:34:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/arab-spring-to-dominate-nobel-peace-prize-institute-says.html
The so-called Arab Spring, which
has displaced regimes in the  Middle East  and North Africa, will
dominate this year’s Nobel Peace Prize, the  Peace Research
Institute Oslo  said.  The top three candidates who may get the prize include two
Egyptians and one Tunisian, Kristian Berg Harpviken, head of the
institute which ranks potential winners, said in an interview
today. The institute doesn’t help choose the winners.  Egyptian Israa Abdel Fattah together with the April 6th
Youth Movement, and Wael Ghonim, also of  Egypt , are the “top
two picks,” Berg Harpviken said. Lina Ben Mhenni, a Tunisian
blogger, is the institute’s third favorite.  Tunisia’s ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in
January began the so-called Arab Spring, as an uprising led to
the end of  Hosni Mubarak ’s 30-year reign in Egypt. Protests have
also threatened the Assad family’s hold on  Syria  and President
Ali Abdullah Saleh’s rule in Yemen, while Libyan opposition
leaders are forming a new government after  Muammar Qaddafi  has
lost control of the country.  “The main direction to look in this year, is the Arab
spring,” Berg Harpviken said by phone from Oslo. “This
committee has been very clear about its intention to be in tune
with current developments and even use the prize to affect
current developments.”  Facebook Group  Fattah, an internet activist and blogger, co-founded the
April 6th Youth Movement group on Facebook in 2008. Ghonim, who
has worked for Google Inc., helped set up a website for Egyptian
opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei . Ghonim’s 11-day detention
turned him into a hero for disaffected Egyptian youth.  The institute’s fourth pick is Memorial, a Russian
organization focused on reconciliation through historical
documentation, alongside founding member Svetlana Gannushkina.
Ghazi bin Muhammad, a professor of philosophy and member of the
Jordanian royal family, is Berg Harpviken’s fifth pick.  A record 241 nominations were put forth for this year’s
Nobel Peace Prize. Of the nominees, 53 were organizations and
the rest individuals, the Oslo-based Nobel Institute said in
March. The tally surpasses last year’s record of 237. The names
of the nominees weren’t disclosed.  Jailed Chinese dissident  Liu Xiaobo  won the prize last year
for his work to promote human rights and democracy, an award
that was denounced by authorities in Beijing. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  won in 2009.  The winner is picked by the five-member Norwegian Nobel
Committee, which keeps its deliberations secret. The decision is
announced on Oct. 7 and the award is handed out in a ceremony in
Oslo on Dec. 10, the anniversary of the death in 1896 of Alfred Nobel, a Swedish industrialist, who in his will set up prizes
for achievements in peace, physics, medicine, chemistry and
literature. The other awards are decided in  Sweden .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  