-- 
ArcelorMittal Needs Broader Empowerment Proposal, Union Says

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-09-27T16:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/arcelormittal-needs-to-improve-on-zuma-stake-sale-deal-say-union-analyst.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. (ACL) 
needs a so-called black empowerment deal that benefits ordinary
citizens after canceling a transaction with one of the sons of
national President  Jacob Zuma , labor unions and investors said.  The steelmaker aimed to sell a 26 percent stake, in a deal
valued at 9.1 billion rand ($1.2 billion), to comply with laws
designed to compensate black  South Africans  for discrimination
during apartheid. The transaction with the Ayigobi Consortium,
in which Duduzane Zuma would get 12.5 percent, was condemned by
unions, the main opposition party and some investors.  “We were totally opposed to this deal,”  Lesiba Seshoka ,
spokesman of the National Union of Mineworkers,  South Africa ’s
largest union, said by phone. “We want a deal that will assist
a wide range of people, not only the politically connected.”  Negotiations on the proposed contract lapsed after the
parties were unable to agree to an extension, the company said
yesterday in a statement to the stock exchange in Johannesburg.
Other Ayigobi shareholders include Jagdish Parekh and the Gupta
family, who are business partners of the younger Zuma.  Concluding a black economic empowerment deal “remains a
priority for us as a company,” Themba Hlengani, a spokesman for
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  South Africa, said yesterday by mobile phone.  The steelmaker needs a transaction that’s “as broad-based
as possible and benefits the communities in which ArcelorMittal
operates,” said David Couldridge, an analyst at Element
Investment Managers, which holds shares in the company.  The producer, a unit of the world’s biggest steel company,
climbed 1.1 percent to 59.01 rand by the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index was 3.5
percent higher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  