-- 
Hartford Said to Halt Efforts to Sell Mutual-Fund Subsidiary

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-09-27T22:03:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/hartford-said-to-halt-efforts-to-sell-mutual-fund-subsidiary.html
Hartford Financial Services Group
Inc. (HIG)  halted an effort to sell its mutual-fund unit after banks
cut back on lending for leveraged buyouts, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  Hartford had been in talks to sell the unit to Clayton
Dubilier & Rice LLC, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the discussions were private. Hartford may
revive the sale process at some point, they said.  Investors are demanding more yield to buy leveraged loans
as the economic recovery falters.  Henry Kravis , co-founder of
KKR & Co., said yesterday at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in
New York that the cost of capital for a leveraged buyout has
risen more than 2 percentage points since April.  Hartford, the 201-year-old insurer, started seeking buyers
for the mutual fund business this year as Chief Executive
Officer  Liam McGee  reorganized the firm, people with knowledge
of the matter said. The talks came to focus on a possible
leveraged buyout by New York-based CD&R, the people said.  David Snowden, a spokesman for Hartford, declined to
comment, as did CD&R’s Tom Franco.  “We like the business very much,” McGee said at a Sept.
12 investor conference, when asked about the mutual funds. “We
have rolled out three primarily fixed-income funds.”  The mutual-fund unit posted second-quarter net income of
$27 million, according to a regulatory filing from Hartford,
which is based in the Connecticut city of the same name. Mutual
fund revenue was $175 million, or about 3 percent of the
company’s total.  Fund Declines  Declining markets pressure management fees for mutual
funds. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 6.5 percent since
Dec. 31. The $13.1 billion  Hartford Capital Appreciation Fund (ITHAX) 
lost 19 percent this year, which is worse than about 95 percent
of its peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Pricing for loans rated B+ or B rose to 577 basis points in
the month ended Sept. 15, according to Standard & Poor’s
Leveraged Commentary & Data. The average all-in spread --which
includes upfront fees amortized over an assumed three-year life
and Libor floors -- was at 455 basis points in June. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  KKR’s purchase of Pfizer Inc.’s Capsugel unit, a deal
announced in April, was done at a total cost of capital of 6.88
percent, Kravis said. The same deal now would cost “just
under” 9 percent, he said.  Business Revival  CD&R, founded in 1978, focuses on buying neglected
divisions of larger companies and improving their performance.
In 1993, it purchased Van Kampen Merritt Cos., an investment
manager, from  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  for about $395 million including debt.
The business was combined with a Travelers Inc. fund unit in
1994 and sold to Morgan Stanley in 1996 for about $1.2 billion
including debt.  McGee has reorganized Hartford’s life insurance and savings
business to conserve capital following losses under his
predecessor,  Ramani Ayer . McGee, 57, sold stock last year to
help repay a $3.4 billion U.S. bailout and divested a Canadian
mutual fund business.  The  Federal Reserve  said Sept. 21 that it saw “significant
downside risks” in the economy. Confidence among U.S. consumers
stagnated in September near a two-year low as the share of
households saying it was difficult to find a job climbed to the
highest level in almost three decades.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  