-- 
U.S. Stocks Hold Gains After Late-Day Selloff

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-27T20:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/asian-stocks-metals-rebound-euro-weakens.html
Global stocks rose the most in six
weeks, with U.S. shares weathering a late-day selloff, as Greece
made progress in meeting requirements for more international aid
and  Germany  vowed continued support for the country. Treasuries
trimmed losses and the euro pared gains.  The MSCI All-Country World Index surged 2.9 percent as of 4
p.m. New York time and benchmark gauges in France and Germany
climbed more than 5 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 1.1 percent to 1,175.38 after surging as much as 2.8
percent. Silver rebounded after a three-day, 26 percent slide.
The 30-year Treasury yield rose nine basis points after surging
as much as 13 points and the euro trimmed a 1 percent gain
versus the dollar in half.  Oil surged the most in four months.  U.S. stocks retreated from their session highs following a
Financial Times report that some euro-area countries are
demanding private creditors take bigger writedowns on their
Greek bond holdings. Stocks rallied earlier as Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  won a vote on a new property tax in
the parliament, bolstering his chances of pushing through
austerity cuts aimed at securing further international financial
aid for the country.  “Think of Europe as a hospital patient,”  David Sowerby , a
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based portfolio manager at Loomis
Sayles & Co., which oversees $150 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “There are lots of doctors in the room, but no
clear-cut remedy.”  Broad Advance  Producers of raw materials and industrial companies led
gains among all 10 groups in the S&P 500, rallying more than 1.6
percent. Hewlett-Packard Co., Walt Disney Co. and United
Technologies Corp. climbed at least 2.2 percent to lead the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  up 146.83 points, or 1.3 percent, to
11,190.69.  U.S. stocks pared their advance as gauges of financial
firms, energy producers and industrial companies retreated more
than 1.5 percent each after 3 p.m. in New York. After touching a
high of 1,195.86 just after 2 p.m., the  S&P 500  lost 20 points
before the close, or about two-thirds of the rally at its
highest level.  The Financial Times reported that as many as seven of the
17 nations using the euro believe private creditors should
absorb bigger losses on their Greek bond holdings, a division
that may threaten an agreement reached with private investors in
July. The paper cited unnamed senior European officials.  The S&P 500 added to yesterday’s 2.3 percent advance and
has climbed about 5 percent since falling as low as 1,114.22 on
Sept. 22, the first time this month it slipped below its 2011
closing low of 1,119.46 on Aug. 8.  Government Funding  The U.S. Senate reached a bipartisan deal on stopgap
spending designed to avoid a government shutdown. Senators
approved legislation yesterday, 79-12, to finance the government
through Nov. 18, a measure including $2.65 billion for federal
disaster assistance.  Stocks remained higher in morning trading after U.S.
consumer confidence rose less than forecast in September, as a
measure of the difficulty of finding jobs rose to the highest in
almost three decades. The Conference Board’s index increased to
45.4, from a revised 45.2 reading in August and below the 46
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Home prices in the U.S. declined less than forecast in July
from a year earlier, with the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities dropping 4.1 percent from July 2010 compared
with the median forecast of economists for a 4.4 percent
decline.  Treasury Auction  Treasuries remained lower after the government’s $35
billion auction of two-year notes drew a yield of 0.249 percent,
compared with the average forecast of 0.251 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s primary
dealers. Yields on existing two-year notes rose one basis point
to 0.24 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index surged 4.4 percent and is up 7
percent after sliding to a two-year low on Sept. 22, capping the
biggest three-day gain since May 2010. Allianz SE and Axa SA,
Europe’s biggest insurers, climbed at least 8 percent. BNP
Paribas SA and Deutsche Bank AG, the largest banks in France and
Germany, rallied more than 12 percent.  The Euribor-OIS spread, which measures banks’ reluctance to
lend to one another in Europe, declined for a second day. The
spread, the difference between three-month Euribor and overnight
index swaps, narrowed to 80.5 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The gap rose to 89 basis points on Sept.
23, the widest since March 2009.  ‘Urgent Requirement’  “There has been no concrete alteration in the structure of
the  euro zone  since the end of last week but the market has been
willing to clutch at the idea that politicians at least
recognize there is an urgent requirement for action,” Jane
Foley, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Rabobank
International in  London , said in a report today.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate credit fell for a third
day from about the highest levels in more than two years. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which typically
falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates, declined 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of 136.5
basis points.  The yield on the 10-year Spanish bond declined 11 basis
points to 5.05 percent even after the government sold 3.22
billion euros ($4.3 billion) of three- and six-month bills at
higher yields than previous auctions. Italy’s 10-year bond yield
slid five basis points to 5.598 percent, according to Bloomberg
generic rates, after an auction in that nation also resulted in
higher borrowing costs.  ‘Time to Move’  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner predicted that
European governments will use more force to resolve the region’s
crisis after they heard the concerns of global finance officials
during meetings in  Washington  last weekend. The crisis is
“starting to hurt growth everywhere, in countries as far away
as  China ,  Brazil  and  India , Korea,” Geithner said on ABC’s
“World News With Diane Sawyer” program. “It’s time to move.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that  Greece  is ready
to meet the terms of international inspectors ruling on its
bailout aid, voicing her government’s support for the debt-laden
nation’s economic success.  “We want a strong Greece in the euro area and Germany is
ready to offer all kinds of help that is needed,” Merkel said
before hosting Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou for dinner
in Berlin today. Greece has a “high responsibility to meet the
conditions and expectations.”  The euro appreciated 1.1 percent against the yen after
yesterday touching the lowest level in 10 years. The New Zealand
dollar advanced 1 percent against the U.S. currency, with the
Australian currency rising 0.7 percent.  Metals Rebound  Gold futures gained the most in seven weeks, climbing 3.6
percent to $1,652.50 an ounce. Silver futures rose 5.2 percent
to $31.536 an ounce and London-traded copper rebounded from a 17
percent slide in seven days. Oil surged the most since May 9,
advancing 5.3 percent to $84.45 a barrel in  New York .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 4.8 percent, the
biggest rally since May 2009, after closing yesterday at a two-
year low. South Korea’s Kospi Index jumped 5 percent, the most
since January 2009. Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite Index added
4.8 percent and benchmark indexes gained more than 3.3 percent
in  Poland ,  Hungary  and the  Czech Republic . The South African
rand appreciated 2.6 percent against the dollar as commodity
prices surged.  Israel’s TA-25 Index rose 1.4 percent after the central
bank unexpectedly cut the benchmark  interest rate  for the first
time in 2 1/2 years yesterday after the market closed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  