-- 
Assured Guaranty Bond Insurer Ratings May Be Lowered by S&P

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-09-27T22:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/assured-guaranty-credit-grades-may-be-cut-by-standard-poor-s.html
Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  rose by the
most in a month after  Standard & Poor’s  said the company’s bond
insurance units may avert a downgrade if it executes plans to
create capital or reinsure debt it’s guaranteed.  Assured rose 91 cents, or 8.8 percent, to $11.25 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after S&P
placed the units on review for a downgrade, saying the company
has “significant concentration risk” in the securities it
guarantees, while saying a rating cut can be avoided.  The Hamilton, Bermuda-based bond insurer has no plans to
raise capital by selling equity, Assured Chief Executive Officer
Dominic Frederico said in a statement. Instead it’s seeking to
satisfy S&P’s demands through reinsurance agreements and other
means, including recoveries from faulty home loans it insured
through mortgage-backed securities, he said.  The efforts “should satisfy the requirements of S&P’s new
criteria to retain our rating in the AA ratings category,”
Frederico said in the statement.  The ratings company last month overhauled the way it grades
bond insurers, including increased scrutiny of how much of a
firm’s guarantees are concentrated in a small group of borrowers
that could default in an otherwise good economy.  S&P said it placed the rankings, including the AA+ long-
term corporate credit and financial strength grades of its
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. and Assured Guaranty Corp.
units, on watch for a downgrade because of “uncertainty
regarding the ultimate outcome of management’s actions.”  “We believe it’s likely that such actions would support
ratings in the ‘AA’ category,” S&P said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pierre Paulden at 
 ppaulden@bloomberg.net  