-- 
Atrium Acquires Palac Flora Shopping Mall in Prague for About $259 Million

-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 
2011-09-27T16:23:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/atrium-purchases-palac-flora-mall-in-prague-for-eu191-million.html
Atrium European Real Estate Ltd. (ATRS) 
bought the Palac Flora shopping center in  Prague  for 191 million
euros ($259 million) to expand its retail holdings in central
 Europe . The shares rose the most since March 2009.  The mall was sold by Africa Israel Group unit AFI Europe
and Irish private equity group Avestus Capital Partners,
previously known as Quinlan Private, Jersey-based Atrium said
today in a statement.  Atrium is focusing on investment in the Czech Republic and
Slovakia because they are the “most economically robust and
most economically stable” countries in Central and Eastern
Europe, spokesman Richard Sunderland said. The Palac Flora
acquisition is the largest real estate transaction in Prague
this year, Atrium said in the statement.  The purchase, financed with equity and debt, will increase
the value of Atrium’s income-producing portfolio to about 2
billion euros, according to the statement. The  Czech Republic 
will become the company’s second-biggest market by assets after
 Poland , accounting for 23 percent of its portfolio by value.  Atrium climbed 12 percent to 3.55 euros in Vienna. The
stock has fallen about 19 percent this year, cutting the
company’s market value to 1.3 billion euros.  The company owned 153 shopping centers at the end of June
and is listed on the Vienna and Euronext Amsterdam exchanges.  Palac Flora has 215,000 square feet (20,000 square meters)
of retail space and 190,000 square feet of offices. Tenants
include Vodafone, Xerox and Exxon Mobil.  Atrium, which owns 98 properties in the Czech Republic, can
improve the mall’s performance through economies of scale and
the company’s asset management experience, Chief Executive
Officer Rachel Lavine said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 