-- 
Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Drop Amid Concern Global Economy Faltering

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-09-28T06:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/aussie-holds-advance-on-prospects-asian-stocks-will-extend-rally.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars weakened against their Japanese and U.S. counterparts
before data that may signal the global economy is struggling to
recover, damping demand for higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie dropped against all of its 16 major
counterparts after a report confirmed gross domestic product
growth stalled in France and before data estimated to show
bookings for U.S. durable goods declined. New Zealand’s currency
fell as Finance Minister  Bill English  said it’s “quite
possible” the nation may earn less from exports in the near
term as commodity prices retreat from unsustainable levels.  “Every day we’re getting new pieces of a puzzle, and it’s
very difficult to trade,” said Kurt Magnus, executive director
of currency sales in Sydney at Nomura Holdings Inc.,  Japan ’s
biggest brokerage. For the Australian currency to go back to
parity with the dollar “we need more positivity,” he said.  The Australian dollar fell to 75.45 yen as of 4 p.m. in
Sydney from 76.15 yen in  New York  yesterday. It weakened to
98.54 U.S. cents from 99.14 cents, after dropping below parity
on Sept. 22. New Zealand’s currency slid to 60.04 yen from 60.57
yen, and declined to 78.41 U.S. cents from 78.85 cents.  Crude oil fell as much as 2.1 percent in afterhours trading
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and copper on the London
Metal Exchange dipped as much as 4.5 percent.  U.S., France Data  France ’s statistics office confirmed today that gross
domestic product was unchanged in the second quarter from the
preceding period, when it increased 0.9 percent. That was in
line with the initial estimate reported last month.  Bookings for U.S. durable goods, which are meant to last at
least three years, probably dropped 0.2 percent last month after
climbing in July, according to the median estimate of economists
in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s report.  “Nerves are raw, patience is low, and room for political
maneuvering is narrow,” Greg Gibbs, a currency strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Sydney, wrote in a note to
clients. “We still see a high risk that the Australian dollar
makes new lows before the year is out.”  The Aussie may slide to 93 U.S. cents by December before
recovering to 95 in the first quarter of 2012 and $1.10 in the
July-to-September period, Gibbs wrote.  Home Sales  Australia ’s currency maintained losses even after sales of
newly built dwellings rebounded 1.1 percent in August following
three consecutive monthly declines, according to data released
today by the Canberra-based Housing Industry Association.  Homeowners are increasingly pessimistic about the housing
market, a National Australia Bank Ltd. survey showed.  Home
prices  are expected to fall 1 percent over the next year,
Australia’s fourth-largest lender said in an e-mailed report.  Demand for New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, was
limited on speculation declining commodity prices will reduce
the South Pacific nation’s earnings from exports.  Lower prices “represent some risk to our export earning
capacity,” Finance Minister English told Radio New Zealand’s
 Morning Report  today. “There are signs that as commodity prices
become a bit less heated the  exchange rate  will come back as
well and that would cushion us to some extent,” he said.  The kiwi has depreciated 1.3 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, a measure
of 10 developed-nation currencies. Its Australian counterpart
lost 1.4 percent.  Australia’s benchmark 10-year yield climbed five basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 4.25 percent. New Zealand’s
two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, was at 3.13 percent from 3.16 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  