-- 
Lawmakers Urge FTC to Probe Consumer Tracking

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T18:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/lawmakers-urge-ftc-to-probe-consumer-tracking.html
The Federal Trade Commission should
investigate the use of so-called “supercookies” to track
consumers online, two U.S. lawmakers wrote in a letter to the
agency.  Cookies are files installed on a computer that collect
personal data on users and can be used to track the websites
people visit. “Supercookies” differ from previous versions of
the technology because they are often hidden on consumers’ web
browsers and cannot be deleted, Representatives  Edward Markey , a
Massachusetts Democrat, and  Joe Barton , a Texas Republican,
wrote in a Sept. 26 letter to FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz.  The agency should investigate such technology under its
mandate to protect consumers from unfair and deceptive trade
practices, the lawmakers wrote.  “I think supercookies should be outlawed because their
existence eats away at consumer choice and privacy,” Barton
said in a news  release .  “Companies should not be behaving like supercookie
monsters, gobbling up personal, sensitive information without
users’ knowledge,” Markey said.  No matter what the technology, “tracking should be
consistent with the principles of transparency and choice,”
Maneesha Mithal, assistant director of the FTC’s privacy and
identity protection division, said in an e-mail. Mithal did not
specifically address “supercookies” or the lawmakers’ concerns
about them.  Markey and Barton, who are co-chairs of the Congressional
Bi-Partisan Privacy Caucus, introduced a bill on May 13 that
requires parental consent to collect online information on
children and prohibits use of such information to target
marketing at children and teens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  