-- 
Tax-Shelter Dispute That May Reshape IRS Powers to Get High Court Hearing

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-09-27T15:15:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/tax-shelter-dispute-that-may-reshape-irs-powers-to-get-high-court-hearing.html
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to
hear an appeal in a federal tax-shelter case that may reshape
the regulatory powers of the  Internal Revenue Service .  The case will let the justices clear up lower court
disagreement over the amount of time the IRS has to challenge a
shelter that was popular in the late 1990s and early 2000s. The
technique, known as “Son-of-BOSS,” was used to cut as much as
$6 billion from tax bills, according to IRS estimates.  The IRS says it should have six years to act against Son-
of-BOSS shelters, rather than the three-year period that applies
in other contexts. The tax agency says the extra three years are
crucial because of the complex, hard-to-detect nature of the
shelters.  “The IRS’s ability to assess additional income tax often
depends on the availability of the six-year assessment period,”
the Obama administration  argued  in court papers.  The  high court ’s ruling may have broader implications as
well, determining how much flexibility the IRS has to adapt to
new tax-avoidance strategies. One issue in the case is the
effect of an IRS regulation that retroactively declared the six-
year period to be the applicable rule for Son-of-BOSS cases.  The disputed shelters were designed to artificially inflate
the cost basis of an asset so that taxpayers claimed little or
no capital gains when they sold it. Taxpayers often used
partnerships and short sales, trades that typically are bets
that the price of an asset will fall.  Company Sold  The question for the high court is whether basis inflation
is covered under a statutory provision that gives the IRS six
years to act against taxpayers who omit “gross income” from a
return.  The case before the justices stems from the sale of a North
Carolina company, Home Oil and Coal Co., by its two
shareholders, Robert Pierce and Steven Chandler. The IRS
concluded the men had improperly used a pass-through company to
increase their cost basis, leaving them with a $69,000 gain on a
sale of more than $10 million.  After the IRS acted, the taxpayers paid an additional $1.4
million and sued for a refund. A federal appeals court said the
three-year period applied, meaning the IRS waited too long to
press its case.  ‘Guarantee a Win’  Pierce, Chandler and the pass-through company, Home
Concrete & Supply LLC, said in court papers that the regulation
was an improper attempt by the IRS to change the law
retroactively.  “The regulation was issued in an attempt to guarantee a
win for the IRS in this case, in which it is a party, and to
revive and overturn various losses suffered in similarly
situated cases in other jurisdictions,” they argued.  The IRS says more than 1,900 taxpayers used son-of-BOSS
shelters. More than 1,200 of those took part in a settlement
program that the IRS said recouped almost $4 billion in 2004 and
2005. BOSS stands for “Bond and Option Sales Strategy.”  The case, which the justices will hear in the nine-month
term that formally starts next week, is  United States  v. Home
Concrete & Supply, 11-139.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 