-- 
BAE Ends Century of Planemaking at Brough in Purge of 3,000 Fighter Jobs

-- B y   S a b i n e   P i r o n e
-- 
2011-09-27T11:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/bae-brough-warton-samlesbury-sites-to-bear-brunt-of-job-losses.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  will cut 3,000 jobs
in the U.K. and end a century of aircraft manufacturing at a
site in northern  England  as it slows fighter-jet production.  About 900 jobs will go at Brough, while talks will start
about ending manufacturing at the site, London-based BAE said in
a statement today. BAE is also cutting more than 1,400 positions
at two other facilities in northwestern England.  “These job losses are the unintended consequence of
government austerity measures,” said  Jason Adams , an analyst at
Nomura International with a “neutral” rating on the stock.
“The defense industry is in a state of excess capacity, and I’d
expect further consolidation and restructuring.”  BAE has cut about 2,500 jobs in each of the last two years
as it scales back production to adapt to shrinking defense
budgets. Customers are under “huge pressure” over spending,
and BAE has had to “significantly” change some programs, Chief
Executive Officer Ian King said in the statement today.  Hawk Manufacturing  There isn’t sufficient work on the Hawk Advanced Jet
Trainer program to maintain manufacturing at Brough, spokeswoman
Leonie Foster said. Deliveries of 28 aircraft for the Royal Air
Force are coming to an end, while new contracts, such as in
 India , require local assembly of the aircraft.  BAE won a 537 million-pound contract to deliver 57 Hawk
jets to India in 2010, and will manufacture the jets locally in
partnership with Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. BAE is also
competing for a Hawk contract in the U.S., with local production
as part of the proposal.  Other planned job cuts include 51 in Christchurch, Dorset,
132 in Yeovil, Somerset, 78 at Farnborough, south of  London . BAE
said a year ago that it would cut about 740 jobs at the division
supplying parts for military aircraft, including Brough in East
Yorkshire. Brough also bore the brunt of 450 job losses in 2008
because of reduced workload on some programs.  Military aircraft production at Brough dates to 1916 and
specialized in the manufacture of seaplanes before becoming part
of Hawker Siddeley Aviation, when it made the Buccaneer fighter,
and later British Aerospace, producing the Hawk trainer and
vertical-takeoff Harrier jump jets. Brough now employs almost
1,300 people, according to BAE.  Eurofighter, F-35  Manufacturing of the Hawk, F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and
Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jets will be maintained across fewer
sites. In Brough, BAE aims retain Hawk engineering for
structural testing on the Hawk trainer jet, F-35 and
Eurofighter, Foster said.  The unite labor union said it will “be doing everything we
can to mitigate the impact of these cuts,” Ian Waddell, Unite’s
national officer for aerospace said in a statement. “We expect
the Ministry of Defense to intervene urgently to protect these
jobs.”  BAE, European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. and
 Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , the makers of the Eurofighter, need an
additional order from partner nations by 2013 to maintain
production. Eurofighter now makes 50 fighter jets a year. The
U.K.,  Italy ,  Germany  and  Spain  agreed to produce fewer combat
jets to stretch production and the expected increase in F-35
production rates will be trimmed following pressure on the U.S.
defense budget.  The Military Air and Information and Shared Services unit
employs about 15,500 people across 28 industrial sites and Royal
Air Force bases. It develops, delivers and supports military air
platforms and technologies for the Typhoon, F-35 Lightning II,
Tornado and Hawk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabine Pirone in London at 
 spirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  