-- 
Bahrain Gets ‘Positive’ Feedback for $1 Billion Islamic Bond

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-09-28T05:27:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/bahrain-has-positive-feedback-for-1-billion-sukuk-maraj-says.html
Bahrain has received “positive”
feedback from investors for its plan to sell $1 billion in
Islamic bonds next month, Central Bank Governor Rasheed al-Maraj
said.  The maturity of the sukuk may be between seven to 10 years,
Maraj said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters
in  New York . The Persian Gulf island-kingdom plans to use the
money to help finance a budget deficit of about 5 percent of
gross domestic product, Maraj in a separate Sept. 25 interview
at the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington .  “The sukuk market has been in general more stable than the
conventional market,” he said yesterday. “That’s why we’ve
opted for sukuk. Our feedback so far has been positive.”  Protests this year in Bahrain, led by the majority Shiite
Muslims who are demanding more political rights from Sunni
rulers, have slowed economic growth and raised questions on the
country’s image as a regional financial center.  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with Islam’s ban on interest, climbed to $17.4 billion in 2011
compared with $10.9 billion in the same period last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Sovereigns in the  Middle East  have
not sold Islamic debt so far this year, Bloomberg data show.  Maraj said Sept. 25 he’ll seek to keep borrowing costs
between 200 basis points and 230 basis points over U.S.
Treasuries. The yield on Bahrain’s 6.247 percent sukuk maturing
June 2014 rose one basis point to 3.12 percent yesterday,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Bahrain’s default risk has jumped 93 basis points, or 0.93
of a percentage point, this month to 386, the highest level
since June 2009 according to data provider CMA. The credit
default swaps of  Egypt , the Arab country where a popular revolt
toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  this year, surged 95 basis
points this month to 486, according to CMA, which is owned by
 CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  