-- 
Banca Popolare di Milano Scales Back Share Sale, Approves New Governance

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-09-28T07:17:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/banca-popolare-di-milano-scales-back-share-sale-approves-new-governance.html
Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI) , the
oldest Italian cooperative bank, scaled back the maximum size of
a planned rights offer to 800 million euros ($1.09 billion) and
approved governance changes requested by the Bank of  Italy .  Pop. Milano, which hired  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  in April to manage
the sale, will complete the offer by the end of the year,
according to a statement distributed through the Italian
exchange. The board approved a share sale of as much as 1.2
billion euros on April 19.  The bank is selling assets and cutting costs after the  Bank
of Italy  urged Pop. Milano to bolster capital. Second-quarter
profit at the Milan-based lender slumped 98 percent as
provisions for bad loans almost doubled.  The Italian bank cut targets on  capital ratios  included in
its business plan. The 2013 forecast for its core Tier 1 ratio,
a key measure of financial strength, was reduced to 8.7 percent
from 9.1 percent. Pop. Milano, which received 500 million euros
of  government aid  last year, said it will repay that by 2012.  New Governance  Pop. Milano also approved the replacement of its single
board with supervisory and management panels after the central
bank requested the lender to limit the influence of unions on
decisions. The changes, which need to be approved by
shareholders, separate management from investor control while
maintaining a cooperative ownership, the bank said.  The five members of the management board, which will be
responsible for bank strategy, will be appointed by the 17-
member supervisory panel. Union representatives on the
supervisory board will be elected by shareholders.  “For the time being it is not clear how the above-
mentioned governance change guarantees the split between
ownership and management, Fidentiis Equities analysts wrote in a
note today. Since the supervisory board appoints the management
committee, “and given that it is in the hands of unions, we
argue that the step back unions had to make looks not that
evident,” Fidentiis said.  The bank’s shares fell as much as 5.6 percent in Milan
trading today and were down 6 cents at 1.55 euros at 9:10 a.m.,
giving it a market value of about 640 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  