-- 
Bank Bonus Caps May Cut Risk, Boost Value, Oxford Economist Says

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-09-27T09:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/bank-bonus-caps-may-cut-risk-boost-value-oxford-economist-says.html
Linking bank bonuses to balance
sheets may limit pay and reduce risk of default while improving
shareholder returns, an Oxford University economist said.  Tying bonus pools to the market value of a bank’s assets
could rein in excessive pay that can threaten the stability of
the bank, according to a  study  by John Thanassoulis, a lecturer
at Oxford University. Thanassoulis, 36, who’s taught at Oxford
since 2004, has advised the U.K. Competition Commission, an
antitrust regulator.  Bank compensation has come under greater scrutiny since the
2008 global bank crash, with the U.K. government applying a one-
time tax on discretionary bonuses and regulators limiting the
proportion of total compensation that can be paid out in cash. A
cap on bonus pools based on balance sheets could give banks
flexibility in bonus pay, and prevent weaker banks from driving
up pay scales, Thanassoulis wrote.  “Bank value goes up because they get the right people,”
Thanassoulis said in a telephone interview. “Bank risk goes
down because you pay out less.”  Stricter caps such as those tied to per-person limits push
banks into paying high fixed wages, Thanassoulis wrote. That
leaves risk intact because bonuses are a better tool for linking
pay to investment returns, Thanassoulis wrote.  Such a proposal would have cut $1 billion to $3 billion
each from the 2007 total payroll of 20 world banks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co (JPM) , or as much as 20 percent, Thanassoulis
said. The exact formula should be set by regulators, he said.  British and French programs for taxing bank bonus pools
didn’t help reduce risk because bankers still could bid for
talent at market rates, Thanassoulis said.  Before the 2008 bank crisis, annual wages and bonuses at
Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch equaled half of stockholder
equity, according to the economist. At about 10 percent of New
York Stock Exchange-traded banks and financial institutions,
total pay was more than 80 percent of equity, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  