-- 
Bank of Ireland Said to Near Sale of $1.6 Billion Secured Bond

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-09-27T12:23:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/bank-of-ireland-said-to-near-sale-of-1-6-billion-secured-bond.html
Bank of Ireland Plc, the nation’s
largest bank by assets, is close to a private sale of bonds
secured on U.K. residential mortgages, according to two people
with knowledge of the matter.  The Dublin-based lender may raise about 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion) of funding in the accord, according to one of the
people, who declined to be identified, as talks are not
complete. A deal may be agreed within weeks, subject to market
conditions, the two people said.  While Irish banks have been locked out of public debt
markets since before the country’s bailout in November, Bank of
Ireland has raised about 2.9 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of
term debt since June, using U.K. residential mortgage assets as
security. The debt, which wasn’t state guaranteed, had an
average duration of 2.2 years and was priced at 265 basis points
over three-month Euribor, the benchmark rate at which European
banks lend to each other in euros for three months.  “We anticipate doing more” unguaranteed, secured term
funding “by the end of the year,” Richie Boucher, the lender’s
chief executive officer, told lawmakers at a parliamentary
committee hearing on Sept. 14. A spokeswoman for the bank
declined to comment on any upcoming debt sales.  Bank of Ireland raised about 4 billion euros of equity
capital this year. Some 3.7 billion euros of this was generated
privately, leaving it alone among the country’s six largest
lenders to avoid majority state ownership.  Irish Life & Permanent Plc said Aug. 31 it had raised  1.4
billion pounds  of funding secured against its U.K. home loans
book, while  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  Executive Chairman David Hodgkinson told lawmakers Sept. 14 that the lender is
“preparing for a possible issue later this year in respect of
some covered debt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  