-- 
Banks Object to CFPB Sharing Data With States

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-09-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/banks-object-to-cfpb-sharing-data-with-states.html
Banks are pushing the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau to limit information-sharing with
states out of concern that  attorneys general  could file lawsuits
based on private data collected by the agency’s examiners.  The dispute, part of the financial industry’s efforts to
limit the reach of the Dodd-Frank overhaul of rules for  Wall
Street , revolves around a regulation on disclosure of records
and information that the agency issued on July 21, its first
official day of work. The rule said sharing some confidential
data with states may “serve the public interest.”  Such cooperation could upend the traditional relationships
between large banks and their federal regulators, notably the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The OCC has used its
authority to prevent state law enforcement officials from
obtaining information from national banks including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   “The bureau is suggesting anything we provide will go
straight to the state attorneys general,” said L. Richard Fischer, a banking lawyer with Morrison Foerster LLC who
represents the American Bankers Association and the Financial
Services Roundtable. Providing data to states “will terrorize
large banks,” Fischer said.  The consumer bureau took public comments on the rule
through Sept. 26, suggesting it may revise the policy.  Fischer said that the banks’ concerns center on the
confidential nature of the examination process. For example, he
said, if the bureau’s bank examiners found potential violations
of federal consumer law, they might write a report directing the
firm’s board to make changes and redress wrongs, all out of the
public eye.  Private Lawsuits  If the bureau alerted attorneys general, however, states
could file lawsuits or subpoena the data, Fischer said.
Potentially, he said, private lawsuits could follow.  Supporters of the bureau’s policy said the regulation is
only fleshing out the mandate of Dodd-Frank for closer ties
between federal and state officials on matters of consumer
finance.  “There is no indication that the CFPB will act
irresponsibly in what they share with attorneys general,” James Tierney, a former Maine attorney general who is director of the
National State Attorneys General Program at  Columbia University .
“Statements to the contrary are no more than saber-rattling in
order to frighten clients and markets.”  Tierney said that now that Dodd-Frank is being implemented,
banks are “trying to reverse the law in practice” under the
guise of preserving the integrity of the supervisory process.  State Restrictions  “The fight over this law simply has not stopped,” Tierney
said.  Roy Cooper, the attorney general of  North Carolina , said
that part of the bureau’s new rule includes requirements that
the states keep whatever data they get confidential.  “So if the bureau chooses to share information with
states, we have to accept those rules,” Cooper said in an
interview.  Cooper, who ended a stint as chairman of the National
Association of Attorneys general in June, said that while the
organization wants to protect consumers it “has never
maintained that state attorneys general have a role in
supervisory issues.” He added that figuring out the exact
information the bureau would share “is still a work in
progress.”  A close relationship with state attorneys general was a
signature effort of  Elizabeth Warren , the adviser to President
 Barack Obama  who set up the consumer bureau. Obama has nominated
 Richard Cordray , a former Ohio attorney general, to be the
agency’s first director.  Cooperation Agreement  In April, the bureau and the states signed a cooperation
agreement that included a commitment to share information “to
inform enforcement policies and priorities.” The bureau in
August began sharing information gleaned from its new consumer
complaint system with some state attorneys general through the
Consumer Sentinel network run by the Federal Trade Commission.
Dodd-Frank allows, but does not require, the bureau to share
that information.  JPMorgan chief executive officer  Jamie Dimon  has said that
greater enforcement by states will limit the bank’s ability to
serve customers.  The new regulation on data has opened the possibility that
attorneys general will have access to the normally “quiet”
supervisory process,  Wayne Abernathy , an executive vice
president at the  American Bankers Association , said in an
interview.  “Bank regulators live and breathe the issue of how
delicate confidence can be in a bank, or in a banking system,”
Abernathy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 