-- 
Basel Committee Keeps 2.5% Surcharges for Biggest Banks

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   J a m e s   S t e r n g o l d
-- 
2011-09-28T16:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/basel-group-said-to-keep-capital-surcharge-plans-for-big-banks.html
Global regulators will stick to
planned capital surcharges of as much as 2.5 percent for the
world’s biggest banks while adjusting how the levies are
calculated.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  decided against
changing the surcharge levels during talks today and yesterday
amid criticisms from banks including  BNP Paribas SA  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  that the measures may stymie the financial
system’s recovery. Regulators at meetings in Basel,
 Switzerland , also agreed to accelerate work on a minimum
liquidity rule to provide “greater market certainty.”  Regulators “agreed to retain the proposed calibration for
the additional loss absorbency requirement, which will range
from 1 percent to 2.5 percent,” the committee said in a
statement on its website. The group proposed making “some
changes to certain indicators to improve the methodology for
identifying” what size of levies individual banks should face.  Bank watchdogs have clashed with some lenders over the
additional capital rules, which were released for  public comment 
in July.  Jamie Dimon , chief executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , 51, are
among bankers who have said that the proposals would constrain
lending and hurt the economy. Dimon, 55, has said that the U.S.
should consider withdrawing from the Basel committee and that
the rules it sets are “anti-American.”  The Basel group said that it was speeding up work on the
minimum liquidity rule in order to “provide greater market
certainty about the final technical details and calibration” of
the measure.  Credit Crunch  Work on “key areas” of the liquidity rule, which will
require banks to hold enough easily sellable assets to survive a
30 day credit crunch, will now be completed “well in advance of
the mid-2013 deadline” for finalizing the standard, the
committee said. The LCR is scheduled to take effect from Jan. 1
2015.  The Basel group brings together bank regulators from 27
countries including the U.S., U.K. and  China , to set
international standards for lenders.  BNP Paribas (BNP) ,  France ’s biggest bank, said in its  response  to
the Basel consultation that the surcharge proposals should be
put on hold indefinitely. The plans could discourage banks
“from facilitating global trade,”  Citigroup  said in its
submission.  The Basel group anticipates phasing in the surcharges
between 2016 and the end of 2018.  Liquidity Problems  “My concern is that banks generally go under because of
liquidity problems, not a shortage of capital,” said Charles Peabody, an analyst with Portales Partners LLC in  New York .
“Capital won’t save you in a crisis, it’s usually liquidity.”  Under the surcharge proposals, lenders whose failure could
send shock waves throughout the financial system would face
stricter minimum capital requirements of 1 to 2.5 percentage
points of core reserves. This would be on top of an already-
announced tripling in the amount of core capital that all
internationally active banks must hold.  The levies would be calculated using a methodology based on
banks’ size, interconnectedness, complexity, global reach, and
the ability of other firms to take over lenders’ functions if
they fail.  The Financial Stability Board, includes regulators, central
bankers and financial-ministry officials from the Group of 20
countries,  has said  that work on the surcharge rules should be
finished in time for them to be approved at a summit of leaders
from the G20 in Cannes, France, on Nov. 3-4.  The FSB last year instructed the  Basel  committee to draw up
the rules. The FSB next meets on Oct. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Basel at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
James Sterngold in NewYork at 
 jsterngold2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 