-- 
BASF Picks EuroChem Over Yara in $947 Million Nitrogen Sale

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 
2011-09-27T10:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/basf-picks-eurochem-over-yara-in-947-million-fertilizer-sale.html
BASF SE (BAS)  agreed to sell the bulk of
its nitrogen-fertilizer assets to OAO EuroChem in a deal valued
at 700 million euros ($947 million), selecting the Russian crop
nutrient supplier over  Norway ’s  Yara International ASA. (YAR)   BASF, based in Ludwigshafen, Germany, expects to close the
deal by the first quarter, it said in a statement today. About
330 workers at a site in Antwerp,  Belgium , will move to
EuroChem, as will 190 employees at a French joint venture. The
transaction marks the third-largest acquisition of an
agricultural chemicals company announced this year.  EuroChem is gaining access to the heart of BASF’s
integrated Verbund chemical complex in Belgium that was built to
concentrate on fertilizer. EuroChem, which defeated rival
interest from Orascom Construction Industries of  Egypt , has
access to cheap natural gas for the production of ammonia, which
can be shipped to the plants for processing.  “BASF is pushing forward with its strategy of exiting more
cyclical businesses,” said Heiko Feber, an analyst at Bankhaus
Lampe, who has a buy recommendation on the stock. “It’s a good
thing for them that they’re selling it.”  EuroChem’s success in the bid was probably caused by a
combination of price and cartel issues, Thor Giaever, Yara’s
head of  investor relations , said in a telephone interview. While
Yara’s bid was “close” to EuroChem’s offer, the possibility of
antitrust issues may have been greater, he said.  ‘Good Price’  The assets, put up for sale in February, can produce as
much as 2.5 million metric tons of product, are profitable and
generate annual sales of about 500 million euros, the company
has said. Christian Faitz, an analyst at Macquarie, said BASF
got “a good price for that amount of production capacity.”  The transaction is the third-largest announced in the
industry so far this year, after Cargill Inc.’s sale of its
majority stake in fertilizer maker Mosaic Co., and  Vale SA (VALE5) 
taking full control of its Vale Fertilizantes SA unit.  Morgan Stanley advised BASF on the transaction and  Barclays
Capital  advised EuroChem.  EuroChem, owned by billionaire Andrey Melnichenko, aims to
invest proceeds from rising soil-nutrient prices to expand
outside its domestic market and increase sales of more expensive
products. Prices for EuroChem’s products rose as much as 75
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to
its website.  K+S Angle  The sale will have a knock-on effect on K+S AG, which has a
marketing agreement with BASF for nitrogen fertilizer  “We take note of the decision of BASF,” said Michael Wudonig, a K+S spokesman. He declined to say if EuroChem had
approached K+S about buying the company’s nitrogen distribution
business based in  Mannheim ,  Germany , across the Rhine river from
BASF’s headquarters, and said K+S was considering “all
options” for the unit.  Supply contracts with BASF are for an indefinite period and
may be terminated at the end of 2014 at the earliest, Wudonig
said. The sale will not initially affect operations, he added.  “EuroChem has a stake in K+S already so it wouldn’t be a
surprise if they were to work with them on the delivery
contracts that go until 2014,” said Bankhaus Lampe’s Feber.  Meritus Trust Company Ltd., a company controlled by
Melnichenko, held a 9.88 percent stake in K+S as of July 12,
according to a stock exchange filing.  Consolidation in the fertilizer industry is accelerating as
rising food prices spur farmers to plant more crops, boosting
demand for soil nutrients. Between 2006 and 2008, there were 148
acquisitions of agricultural companies completed globally for a
total value of $10.45 billion. The average deal size disclosed
was $107.7 million, with the acquirer paying 0.77 times the
revenue of the target company. Since 2009, deal size has almost
tripled to a total of $29.57 billion, with an average size of
$384 million or 1.33 times revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  