-- 
Berlusconi Sees Tremonti for First Time Since Row on Aide Vote

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-27T16:10:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/berlusconi-sees-tremonti-for-first-time-since-row-on-aide-vote.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  held talks today with Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  for the first time since Tremonti skipped a
parliamentary vote to block the arrest of the finance chief’s
former top aide.  Berlusconi and Tremonti met for two hours at
Palazzo Grazioli, the premier’s private residence in central
 Rome . The finance minister, who earlier today met with President
Giorgio Napolitano, declined to answer questions from reporters
after the talks.  Italian newswire Ansa said Tremonti’s meeting with the
premier went well, citing unidentified officials close to the
finance minister.  The minister was criticized by Cabinet members for skipping
the Sept. 22 vote on a request by Naples prosecutors to arrest
Tremonti’s former political adviser, Marco Milanese. A ruling-
party lawmaker accused of corruption, Milanese served at the
ministry until June 26. The 630-seat lower house of parliament
voted 312 to 306 against the arrest. He denies any wrongdoing.  Tremonti’s absence from the vote prompted calls from some
Cabinet ministers for his resignation, and other colleagues
called on Berlusconi to rein in the minister’s powers.  Umberto Bossi , leader of the Northern League party, which
guarantees Berlusconi’s majority in parliament, reiterated his
support for Tremonti yesterday.  Tremonti was forced earlier this summer to publicly explain
his ties with Milanese. In a July 7 statement, the minister said
he was moving out of a Rome apartment provided by Milanese and
in a letter published on July 29 in daily Corriere della Sera
the minister acknowledged he had made “mistakes” while denying
any “unlawful acts” related to use of the apartment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  