-- 
Best Buy Eases Holiday Returns, Boosts Ad Spending, CEO Says

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-09-27T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/best-buy-eases-holiday-returns-boosts-ad-spending-ceo-says.html
Best Buy Co., the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer, will loosen return policies,
increase advertising to smartphone users and expand its Geek
Squad technical support to grab sales from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) 
during the  holiday shopping season  this year.  Tablet computers and smartphones, expected to be top
sellers, as well as headphones and accessories selling for less
than $100 will be the focus of higher marketing spending than
last year, Chief Executive Officer Brian Dunn said today in a
telephone interview. He declined to provide holiday sales
projections or spending plans.  Best Buy, which generates a third of its annual revenue in
the fourth quarter, is intensifying efforts to win back shoppers
after the retailer this month posted its fifth straight
quarterly decline in same-store sales at locations open at least
14 months. Dunn is working to bolster its online presence as
rivals including Amazon and Wal-Mart Store Inc. lure customers.  “We are using everything we have at our disposal,” Dunn,
51, said. “We are using our multi-channel assets and our
technical expertise.”  Best Buy, based in Richfield,  Minnesota , plans to add
15,000 seasonal workers, fewer than last year as full-time
employees with greater knowledge work more hours, Dunn said. It
will also add 200 information technology specialists to back up
an increase in online support for customers, he said.  Amazon’s Kindle  Dunn said Best Buy may eventually sell Amazon’s latest
Kindle e-reader. The device, which doubles as a tablet computer,
may become the biggest threat to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad this holiday
shopping season, according to analysts including Anupam Palit of
GreenCrest Capital Management in New York. Dunn declined to
discuss negotiations with Seattle-based Amazon, which already
sells the Kindle through Best Buy.  If Amazon initially limits itself as the only distributor
of the new device, Best Buy would face “yet another sales
headwind,” Peter Keith, an analyst at Piper Jaffray in  New
York , wrote today in a note. He rates Best Buy as “neutral.”  “You’re going to see robust growth in tablets and mobile
phones, but the problem for Best Buy is they under-index in
those two categories,” Keith said today in an interview. By
contrast, it generates about 40 percent of revenue from the
slower-growing personal computers and televisions, he said.  Digital Advertising  Best Buy said it will continue its policy of waiving
restocking fees except for special orders. Merchandise purchases
from Nov. 13 can be returned through Jan. 24, easing a return
policy that required purchases including computers and cameras
to be returned within 14 days, Chief Marketing Officer Barry Judge said in an interview.  Best Buy will spend more on digital advertising than on
television, Judge said, as more consumers search online, watch
TV on computers and shop with smartphones.  “We’re moving our messaging to where we know our consumers
are,” Dunn said. “The consumer is going to make careful,
thoughtful, measured choices around Christmas and the holidays.
It’s the very challenging environment that we’re all living
in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at  rajello@bloomberg.net  