-- 
Glaeser: Better Government Isn’t Smaller or Bigger

-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 
2011-09-27T00:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/better-government-isn-t-smaller-or-bigger-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html
(Corrects figure for spending beyond defense and veterans’
benefits, Social Security, Medicaid and interest payments to $1
trillion in eighth paragraph.)  The 2012 election is shaping up to
be an ugly battle fought along familiar, uninspiring lines:
Democratic believers in big government against Republicans
determined to cut taxes.  This is the wrong fight. The important challenge today is
to make government smarter and more effective, not slightly
bigger or smaller. Voters don’t need a simplistic choice between
a new  Franklin Roosevelt  and a second  Ronald Reagan , but rather
competing visions of how the federal government can better
fulfill its core missions.  The attached figure shows the time path of federal spending
and revenue relative to gross domestic product over the last 40
years. Until the 2009 explosion, the ratio of spending to GDP
stayed within a narrow range between a low of 18.2 percent (in
2000 and 2001) and 23.5 percent in 1983. Until the recent,
recession-related, ballooning of public expenditures, the Gipper
held the post-1946 record.  Republicans, who often pledge to reduce federal spending,
don’t have a great track record shrinking the share of
government to GDP. Federal outlays as a share of GDP rose under
three of the last four Republican presidents, and it’s easy to
understand why. Cutting taxes, which Republican administrations
did regularly, is fun and popular, but doing so without lowering
spending is just passing the buck to our children.  Defense, Entitlements  Cutting spending is far harder, especially when it comes to
defense, veterans’ benefits and the generally popular
entitlements, such as Medicare and Social Security, which
together consume about 57 percent of the  budget .  Although we do need to slow the growth of entitlements, I
doubt either party has the guts to risk voter ire by
unilaterally limiting Medicare’s generous benefits or increasing
the Social Security eligibility age. Wasn’t it the  Republican
Party  that that raised the specter of “death panels” to
discredit limits on Medicare services?  The past 10 years teach us that either party, when it
controls both the legislative and executive branches, faces
powerful political pressure to expand entitlements as a way to
curry favor in swing states. Reform, if it happens at all, will
surely require both parties to share responsibility for telling
fiscal truth to powerful voting blocs.  Candidates from both parties should be committed to undoing
recent spending increases. But once we get back to 2008 spending
levels, all federal spending beyond defense and veterans’
benefits, Social Security, Medicaid and interest payments, comes
to about $1 trillion, or 7 percent of GDP.  Government’s GDP Share  Cutting even 15 percent of that money will be tough, given
that advocates of liberal spending will argue that our
government is already quite small relative to the size of the
public sector in other  developed countries , and cutting 15
percent would mean reducing government’s share of the economy by
1 percentage point.  Once we get spending back to 2008 levels, there is more to
gain by improving the public sector than by blindly cutting
further. Improved efficiency offers the prospect of making
proposed expenditure reductions far less painful for the nation.  This is particularly obvious in poverty-related spending,
where across-the-board cuts will inevitably and significantly
harm poorer Americans. Better spending offers the prospect of
more care at less cost.  Poverty Programs  The federal government plays an important role in caring
for the disadvantaged, because the migration of companies and
wealthier individuals limits the ability of smaller
jurisdictions to take care of their poorer citizens. If you try
to create a local welfare state, the poor come in and the rich
leave.  Whatever obligation Americans decide they have to the less
fortunate should be fulfilled at the national level.  But the U.S. now follows an anti-poverty strategy cobbled
together since the New Deal. We have four large and essentially
separate programs, handled by three different departments:
Medicaid (Health and Human Services), Temporary Aid for Needy
Families (also HHS), Food Stamps (Agriculture) and Housing
Vouchers (Housing and Urban Development). These programs are
often administered by local agencies, and they often don’t
communicate with one another.  A 21st-century anti-poverty program would ensure that
similar households would get similar levels of total benefits.
It would look holistically at every household receiving public
support, and determine whether a recipient is getting the right
mix of financial support and aid in kind, such as housing
vouchers or medical benefits. Is providing so much aid in the
form of food stamps appropriate given the U.S. obesity epidemic?  Mexican Model  We might even follow the example of  Mexico ’s Progresa
program and tie some support to desirable behavior, like regular
checkups for children or ensuring school attendance.  We should start by pooling our anti-poverty programs under
a single agency chief with a mandate to provide the most
effective aid given a fixed budget. That agency would have
responsibility for providing aid to poorer Americans, and should
have the flexibility to pursue that goal as long as it provides
abundant information about its successes and failures.  When it comes to infrastructure spending, we should move
away from the traditional model of congressional earmarking and
move toward a system like the one adopted by  Chile , where the
government facilitates private investment funded by user fees.  Drivers’ Fees  Once upon a time, it was expensive to pay for roads with
tolls, so we turned to gas taxes. But technology has made it
easy to charge drivers without tollbooth personnel or even
forcing users to slow down. Singapore, the second densest nation
on earth, has free-flowing roads because drivers pay for the
congestion they cause.  Paying for infrastructure with user fees is the best model
for rebuilding America because it eliminates bridges-to-nowhere
and pushes us toward more economically valuable investments. The
public sector still needs to help plan and coordinate
infrastructure, but the actual road construction and maintenance
can be done by properly regulated, privately funded entities.  The future of the U.S. depends on our children’s skills,
and better schooling for all is the best and most sustainable
way to create a more just society. But smart federal education
spending shouldn’t just be a substitute for local spending. Good
federal programs should emulate Race to the Top by prodding for
change in underperforming districts that are held captive by
bureaucrats and unions that want to maintain the status quo.  Because we are far from knowing how to fix U.S. education,
we need more experimentation and innovation and a constant flow
of data.  Defense Transparency  Defense needs a good dose of activity-based accounting,
which will tell Americans what military capabilities are
provided by different forms of spending. There need to be better
metrics that will help evaluate and expand the more efficient
ways of defending U.S. interests, while cutting spending where
it does the least good.  Just like any well-run private-sector organization, the
federal government should rely on constant analysis of costs and
benefits. If you are convinced that the public sector is too big
or too small, you should demand better accounting to help make
your case.  If the Republicans want to really show that they can
improve the country, they need to provide a clearer vision of
how they are going to make the public sector more effective at
educating our children, speeding our commerce and protecting our
nation. If President  Barack Obama  wants to win re-election, he
should spend more time pushing the government into the 21st
century and that doesn’t mean just spending more money.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 