-- 
Blackstone Says Slowdown in High-Yield Debt Market Will Turn

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-09-27T20:38:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/blackstone-says-slowdown-in-high-yield-debt-market-will-reverse.html
A slowdown in the high-yield debt
market likely will end as investors put idle cash to work, said
Timothy Coleman, head of restructuring and reorganization at
 Blackstone Group LP. (BX)   “There is a lot of money out there,” Coleman, 57, said
today at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in  New York .  Companies facing a high-yield debt-sales market that has
plummeted 89 percent are finding it more difficult to refinance
and may be forced to restructure their obligations. Since July,
$6.13 billion of high-yield debt has been sold in the U.S.,
compared with $55 billion in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lull in activity
isn’t the “new normal,” Coleman said.  “It’s just a moment,” said Coleman, a senior managing
director at New York-based Blackstone, the world’s biggest
private-equity firm and this year’s busiest buyout dealmaker.
“The market will come back.”  Investors demanded 8.01 percentage points more than
government debt to own high-yield bonds on Sept. 23, up from
4.52 percentage points on Feb. 21, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. That’s the most since October 2009.
Speculative-grade companies have slowed their debt sales to $5.1
billion in September compared with an average monthly issuance
of $25.1 billion this year, Bloomberg data show.  While debt markets remain slow, private-equity firms are
seeing new areas for distressed investing, said Jeffrey Aronson,
co-founder of Centerbridge Partners LP.  ‘Marked Change’  “We’ve seen a marked change in the opportunity set over
the last two months,” Aronson said at the conference. “There
are lots of things for us to look at from an investment
standpoint in the U.S.”  Europe ’s debt crisis also has created opportunities for
restructuring groups, said William Derrough, co-head of New
York-based Moelis & Co.’s recapitalization and restructuring
unit.  “There’s a huge need for equity capital to go into the
banking system over there,” Derrough said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 