-- 
Blackstone Takes Top Spot Among Busiest Private-Equity Firms

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-09-27T12:28:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/blackstone-takes-top-spot-among-busiest-private-equity-firms.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm by assets, also is this year’s
busiest buyout dealmaker.  Blackstone, based in New York, tops the list of most active
private-equity firms, with transactions valued at $20.3 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm, whose
chairman is  Stephen Schwarzman , announced $15.9 billion of
acquisitions through yesterday, including the purchase of  Centro
Properties Group ’s U.S. shopping malls for $9.4 billion in
March.  Second on the list, at $14.2 billion in transactions, is
Avista Capital Partners LLC, the New York-based firm made up of
the former DLJ Merchant Banking unit. Rounding out the top five
are Nordic Capital AB of Stockholm,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in
Zurich and EQT Partners AB, also of  Stockholm . Nordic Capital
was the biggest seller in private-equity deals at $14.1 billion.  Private-equity transactions increased 51 percent to $287
billion this year over the same period a year earlier, Bloomberg
data show. Economic uncertainty and volatile equity and debt
markets have stunted recent dealmaking. Announced transactions
in September dropped to $8.2 billion from $29 billion in August.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  of New York is the highest-ranked
mergers-and-acquisitions adviser to private-equity firms,
handling 51 deals valued at $66.8 billion this year, Bloomberg
data show. New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is No. 2,
with 46 deals totaling $64.6 billion.  M&A advisers and private-equity executives will gather
today to discuss the outlook for dealmaking at the Bloomberg
Dealmakers Summit in New York.  Facebook, Twitter  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers tops the rankings of
busiest venture capital firms, according to Bloomberg’s data.
The  Menlo Park , California-based firm, whose holdings include
daily deal site Groupon Inc., invested a combined $2.54 billion
in 46 companies. Second is Digital Sky Technologies of  Russia ,
which contributed $2.26 billion to six ventures.  Internet content and e-commerce companies have attracted
the bulk of the $32 billion in venture cash, with this year’s
list populated by companies such as Facebook Inc., Twitter Inc.
and 360Buy.com. Investments through Sept. 26 are almost triple
the same period last year, Bloomberg data show.  Private-equity firms typically use loans secured on the
targets they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase
price and cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms seek
to improve performance at the companies they acquire or expand
them before selling them within about five years.  Venture capital groups generally invest in start-up
businesses to help them grow more rapidly, and early-stage
companies that lack easy access to other capital markets to fuel
expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  