-- 
Black-Swan Investor Universa Said to Seek $1 Billion for New Macro Fund

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-09-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/black-swan-investor-universa-said-to-start-1-billion-macro-options-fund.html
Universa Investments LP, a hedge
fund that aims to protect clients against market cataclysms
known as black swans, is seeking $1 billion for a new macro fund
that will try to capitalize on mispriced options, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  Universa, which has about $6 billion under management, will
market the fund as one that specializes in convexity, the term
for investments that risk little capital yet have the potential
for big payoffs, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the firm is private. The Universa Convex Macro Fund will
make bets primarily by purchasing options on benchmarks such as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as well as individual
commodities, currencies, stocks and other financial instruments,
the person said.  The fund will seek to profit from macroeconomic
developments by combining the best ideas from investment
partnerships that the  Santa Monica , California-based firm has
set up to protect clients against specific types of tail risks,
such as inflation and stock market declines, the person said.
Rising volatility in recent months has spurred demand for macro-
type investments, as well as protection against unforeseen
events.  Mark Spitznagel, 40, Universa’s president and chief
investment officer, declined to comment when asked about the new
fund. He said, in general, “the types of exposures where we
find the greatest edge also work as very good hedges against
extreme risks, such as stock market crashes.”  Gold Puts  “Taken together, they offer an advantageous way to play
many potentially large macro moves,” he said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  The most recent example of Universa’s convexity-based
strategy came earlier this month as  gold prices  tumbled as much
as 20 percent. Universa’s inflation funds are up almost 20
percent in September -- and more than 35 percent for the year --
after purchasing options betting that gold prices would decline,
the person said.  Universa generally uses mathematical formulas to find
options that are bargain priced relative to the potential payout
they would provide should markets shift. In purchasing put
options on gold, the firm paid a fixed fee in return for the
right to receive rising payments as the metal’s price declines
below a specified level.  “The prices of gold puts was ridiculously low,”
Spitznagel said.  Empirica Capital  Before starting Universa, Spitznagel co-managed a black-
swan hedge fund called Empirica Capital LLC with  Nassim Nicholas Taleb , the author and New York University professor. Taleb’s
2007 book, “The  Black Swan : The Impact of the Highly
Improbable,” has sold more than 3 million copies and helped
spur the market for tail-risk funds, or those that protect
investors against results that fall outside normal statistical
distribution.  Universa has typically started individual partnerships for
specific clients, including sovereign-wealth funds, rather than
pooling investor money in a single fund. Universa Convex Macro
will probably gather money from existing clients as well as new
investors, the person familiar with the fund said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  