-- 
Blankfein, Kapito Are Among 22 Members of 2014 Super Bowl Host Committee

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-09-27T17:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/blankfein-kapito-are-among-22-members-of-2014-super-bowl-host-committee.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  President
Robert Kapito are among the 22 new members of the 2014 Super
Bowl Host Committee, which plans to raise a record $50 million
to hold the event in MetLife Stadium, home of the  New York Jets 
and  New York Giants .  Goldman Sachs and BlackRock joined 20 other corporations
who have already committed at least $1 million each to sponsor
the National Football League’s championship game, host committee
CEO Alfred F. Kelly Jr. announced today in midtown Manhattan.
The group is aiming to raise a Super Bowl-record $50 million, up
from original estimates of $40 million, Kelly said.  “We’ve made great progress with these initial 22 sponsors
and right now we’ve raised our goal to $50 million,” Kelly said
in an interview. “I think it’s realistic -- the support from
the region so far has been terrific.”  League owners voted last year to award the championship
game of the most-watched U.S. television sport to MetLife
Stadium in East Rutherford,  New Jersey . Last season’s Super Bowl
between the  Green Bay Packers  and Pittsburgh Steelers was the
most-watched event in U.S. television history.  Each of the 22 sponsors -- which include the  New York Times
Co. (NYT) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , JP Morgan Chase & Co. and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  -- contributed at least $1 million in cash,
Kelly said. They also got a spot on the committee.  Jonathan Tisch, Giants treasurer and co-chairman of the
committee along with Jets owner  Woody Johnson , said the game
will be “a show that the entire world will watch.”  “These 22 host committee sponsors represent the best of
the region -- its finance, its media, its real estate, its
consumer products,” Tisch told reporters. “These are names
that are visibly recognizable.”  Economy a Concern  Kelly said that it helped the committee to be in a city
with a large corporate base. He declined to comment how much had
been raised already.  “The economy has been a concern, I’d be crazy to say it
doesn’t continue to be a concern, but this region has a
tremendous amount of pride and city spirit,” Kelly, 53, said.
“The biggest and best corporations have seen this as a real
potential economic boom for the region.”  The  Super Bowl  will bring in roughly $550 million to the
region, Johnson said. Ralph LaRossa, new host committee member
and CEO of  PSE&G , New Jersey’s oldest and largest publicly owned
utility, said that he got involved because of the financial
impact of the event.  “As the state of New Jersey goes, PSE&G goes,” LaRossa, a
Jersey City native who worked as a vendor at the old  Giants
Stadium  in the late 1970s, said in an interview. “It’s really
important to see something that’s going to bring jobs and
economic development to the area.”  Advertising Included  LaRossa said that the sponsorship didn’t include any
contracts to provide utilities. He said that there was some
advertising incorporated with the agreement.  Kelly said the committee is still looking for more
sponsors, at a lower price than the 22 host sponsors and
possibly including services. A date for the game will most
likely come following the league owners meetings in Houston in
October, he said.  This is the first open-air Super Bowl hosted in the
Northeast. Kelly said a portion of the sponsorship money will be
used to prepare for wintery weather, including field maintenance
and clearing roads and parking lots. The logo for the committee
incorporated a snowflake.  “We have to budget for that, and certainly that adds to
the assumed expenses,” Kelly said. He said the threat of
inclement weather added “millions of dollars” to the
committee’s planned budget.  Favorite Weather  Former Jets running back Curtis Martin, who was named to
the board, said that the weather will add intrigue to the game.  “That’s my favorite weather,” Martin, a five-time Pro
Bowl selection, said in an interview. “One of the things that I
have always liked about playing in the cold is that if you can
be more focused through the cold and not allow it to affect you
the way it’s affecting other people, you can gain an
advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 