-- 
BNP Paribas, SocGen Rise in Paris on Speculation European Crisis Is Ebbing

-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 
2011-09-27T16:20:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/bnp-socgen-rise-in-paris-on-speculation-european-crisis-ebbing.html
BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and Societe Generale
SA surged in Paris trading, leading European banking stocks
higher on speculation the region’s governments will step up
efforts to contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  BNP Paribas jumped 14 percent to 30.05 euros, giving
 France ’s largest bank a market value of 36.3 billion euros
($49.4 billion). Societe Generale, the country’s No. 2 lender,
rose 17 percent to 20.50 euros, its biggest one-day gain since
May 2010. The 46-member Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index climbed 7 percent.  “It’s a rebound on hopes of coordinated European help for
the banks,” said Alex Koagne, a Paris-based analyst at Natixis
SA. “Banking stocks are flying even if there are no effective
discussions of recapitalization.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted in an
ABC interview that European governments will step up their
response to their region’s debt crisis after a chiding from
counterparts around the world.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Sept. 25 that euro-
region leaders must erect a firewall around Greece. She also
said that it was necessary to expand the powers of the region’s
rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, to avoid
contagion.  Reluctant Lending  BNP Paribas and  Societe Generale (GLE) , France’s largest banks,
earlier this month committed to trim their balance sheets after
concerns about their sovereign-debt holdings made U.S. money-
market funds reluctant to lend to them, crimping liquidity
options. Rather than seeking capital increases, BNP Paribas and
Societe Generale are aiming to free up a combined 10 billion
euros through asset cuts and disposals.  A spokeswoman at BNP Paribas in Paris declined to comment
when reached by phone as did a spokeswoman at Societe Generale.  BNP Paribas “can weather a Greek writedown without a
capital increase,” Dusseldorf-based WestLB AG analyst Christoph
Bossmann wrote in a note today. “If necessary, we expect the
French government to support the banking sector via the issuance
of preference shares.” He upgraded the lender to “buy” from
“add.”  BNP Paribas’s holdings in the sovereign debt of  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal  are “manageable,” the bank has said. In
Greece, the company would have a 1.7 billion-euro pretax
writedown on its sovereign holdings if it took a 55 percent
mark-to-market impairment, it said Sept. 14.  Capital Impact  BNP Paribas’s goal to reach 9 percent in common equity Tier
1 under Basel III as of Jan. 1, 2013, includes a 30 basis point
“impact” on the capital level from marking to market the 20.8
billion euros of Italian sovereign debt, the Paris-based bank
said yesterday. The lender calculated the mark-to-market as of
Sept. 20 without giving any provision level for its Italian
government-debt holdings.  Italy  is “on track to fiscal balance
by 2013,” according to a Sept. 26 presentation on the French
company’s website.  Greece “is not an issue” for Societe Generale, Chief
Executive Officer  Frederic Oudea  said Sept. 12. A hypothetical
writedown of as much as 50 percent would result in net losses of
100 million euros to 150 million euros, he said. The bank said
it has “low, declining and manageable sovereign exposure” of
4.3 billion euros to Italy,  Spain , Portugal, Ireland and Greece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 