-- 
Boeing Delay on Warthog Contract Draws Senate Cut

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/boeing-s-other-delay-new-wings-for-the-warthog.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is 10 months behind
schedule on a $2 billion contract to build new wings that would
extend the life of the U.S. Air Force’s ground attack jet, the
A-10 Warthog, according to the service.  The Senate Appropriations Committee cited problems and
unspent prior funding when it entirely cut the Air Force’s $145
million fiscal 2012 request for the program.  The A-10 program has experienced “significant delays and
has not delivered a new wing” since the program began
procurement in fiscal 2010, the committee wrote in a Sept. 16
report accompanying its fiscal 2012 budget.  Boeing spokesman Forrest Gossett said the company has put
in place a “recovery plan” and expects to deliver the first of
four new wings before Oct. 31.The fixed-price contract, which
covers manufacturing of 242 wing sets and engineering services
through 2018, would require Boeing to absorb any cost increases
due to delays.  It’s too early to tell whether the committee’s cut will be
sustained through the entire budget process “and what
ultimately it will mean for Boeing,” Gossett said.  The new wings are needed to extend the life of the A-10
aircraft, some of which have been in use since 1975 after
previous modifications. The new wings will keep the A-10s flying
until about 2030 at a lower cost than buying new aircraft,
according to the  Air Force .  The Senate committee cut the Air Force’s entire $145
million request because the delays meant little of the $351
million in A-10 wing money appropriated since fiscal 2010 has
been spent, according to service figures.  ‘Below Established Standards’  The committee expressed its concerns “with the poor
expenditure performance that is significantly below established
standards.”  The Air Force plans to request $144 million in fiscal 2013
and $134 million million in 2014.  A pre-production wing set was delivered in March, five
months late and led to a 10-month overall delivery delay, Air
Force spokeswoman Jennifer Cassidy said in an e-mail statement.  Boeing deficiencies included “challenges properly mating
outer and center wing panels, incorrect application of internal
fuel tank sealant” and a problem “prohibiting installation”
of the main landing gear, she said.  The program is on schedule with a new program baseline and
“is expected to meet projected delivery dates,” she said.
“Boeing has dedicated considerable resources and made
significant manufacturing changes and improvements,” she said.  ‘Recovery Plan’  “We experienced issues during the initial manufacturing of
the program,” Gossett said in an e-mail. The first wing was
delivered “with no major deficiencies but there were items to
work through as would be expected with any development
program.”  “Boeing has worked with the Air Force to create a recovery
plan and the program is on target to deliver the first of four
new wings” before Oct. 31, Gossett said.  The  A-10 Warthog  introduced in 1975 is known for its tank-
busting capabilities and built for steep dive attacks to fire
30mm depleted uranium shells at a 3,000-per-minute rate from its
GAU-8/A nose-mounted Gatling Gun.  The Warthog gained fame as a tank buster in the 1991
Persian  Gulf War . It has provided consistent ground-attack
support since then for U.S. troops in  Afghanistan , including a
four-hour Oct. 5, 2009, night fight in Herat province where
A-10s made strafing runs on Taliban attackers within 30 feet of
U.S. troops, according to an Air Force narrative.  The Air Force wants Boeing to replace the fleet’s thin
wings with thicker ones that will extend aircraft’s service life
to 16,000 hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  