-- 
Geithner Pressed to Block IRS Bank Reporting Rule

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-09-27T20:19:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/boustany-presses-geithner-to-block-irs-bank-reporting-rule.html
Representative Charles Boustany of
 Louisiana , the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means
oversight subcommittee, called on Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  to “suspend” an Internal Revenue Service proposal
that would require banks to identify overseas depositors.  If enacted, the IRS proposal would require U.S. banks to
report the identities of overseas customers who receive more
than $10 in interest during a calendar year. In a letter sent to
Geithner today, Boustany said the measure “serves no compelling
tax collection purpose.”  “Instead, it is my understanding that the IRS seeks this
new authority to help foreign governments collect their own
taxes abroad,” Boustany  wrote . “While the  United States 
continues to be a leader in efforts to fight international  tax
evasion , imposing unnecessary burdens on U.S. banks is the wrong
way to address the problem.”  Boustany’s letter underscores some of the challenges facing
the IRS and the Obama administration as U.S. officials attempt
to crack down on tax evasion at home and overseas. The Obama
administration is completing the rule for domestic banks as it
addresses criticism from non-U.S. financial institutions,
including  Allianz SE (ALV)  of  Germany , on a separate proposal that
would impose withholding requirements for companies that don’t
identify their U.S. clients to the IRS.  The IRS and the Obama administration haven’t said when the
proposed rule for domestic banks would be completed.  Domestic Banks’ Concerns  Some banks in the U.S., including the $1.1 billion-asset
BAC Florida Bank in  Coral Gables , have said they are concerned
that overseas customers would pull deposits if their identities
were reported to their home governments. The entire Florida
delegation to the  House of Representatives  signed a letter to
President  Barack Obama  in March asking him to block the rule
from taking effect.  “We don’t want to make a police force out of community
banks and the financial sector in general,” said Paul Merski,
the chief economist at the Independent Community Bankers
Association, a Washington group that represents small banks.  Alex Sanchez, president of the Florida Bankers Association,
said the proposal would worsen unemployment in his state and
subject overseas depositors to political pressure at home.  “This will kill jobs, first in the financial services
industry and then through the capital that will be taken off our
shores,” he said.  In his letter, Boustany said Congress had already declined
to impose reporting requirements on depositors’ interest. He
asked Geithner to respond by Oct. 11 to several questions,
including whether the administration has performed a cost-
benefit analysis of the regulation and how the IRS plans to
share the information it would collect under the proposal.  Spokeswomen from the Treasury Department and the IRS didn’t
immediately comment on Boustany’s letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  