-- 
Bovespa Index Advances a Second Day as Metals Jump Lifts Vale

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-09-27T15:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/bovespa-index-advances-a-second-day-as-metals-jump-lifts-vale.html
The Bovespa advanced for a second
day, led by miner Vale SA, as growing optimism European policy
makers will find a solution to the region’s debt crisis lifted
commodity prices, improving the outlook for  Brazil ’s producers.  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, gained as
metals prices advanced and after it proposed a $1 billion
increase in its 2011 dividend. Banco Santander Brasil SA paced a
rally for banks, while Brookfield Incorporacoes SA helped lead
homebuilders higher.  The Bovespa rose 2.1 percent to 54,868.70 at 10:55 a.m. New
York time. Sixty-six stocks gained on the index while two fell.
The real strengthened 1.3 percent to 1.8015 per dollar. Brazil’s
benchmark equity index increased yesterday for the first time in
six days as higher  oil prices  countered concern that quickening
inflation in Brazil and  China  will limit growth.  “Any rescue package for European countries such as  Greece 
will generate relief,” said Augusto Lange, who helps manage
1.25 billion reais ($694.1 million) at Neo Gestao de Recursos in
Sao Paulo. “But it doesn’t solve the problem. We’re going to
keep oscillating between improvements and setbacks.”  Global stocks gained for a third day and commodities
rallied after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
predicted  Europe ’s governments will use more force to resolve
the debt crisis after they heard the concerns of global finance
officials during meetings in Washington last weekend. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials rose 3.4
percent.  Vale, Brookfield  Vale rose 2.5 percent to 41.50 reais. The company aims to
pay a record total of $9 billion in dividends this year, a
threefold increase from 2010, according to an e-mailed
statement.  Santander Brasil, the Brazilian unit of Spain’s biggest
bank, gained 4.4 percent to 14.83 reais. Brookfield advanced 3.6
percent to 5.82 reais while the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index
increased 2.6 percent.  Los Grobo SA plans to revive its initial public offering in
Brazil when financial markets become more stable, O Estado de S.
Paulo newspaper said, citing Gustavo Grobocopatel, president of
the Argentine soybean producer.  The Bovespa entered a bear market in July after plunging 20
percent from its bull-market peak last year on concern
quickening inflation and a slowing global economy will hurt
Brazil’s growth. The measure extended that drop to 26 percent
through yesterday and trades at 9.2 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
matches the ratio for  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s gauge of 21 developing
nations’ equities.  Traders moved 5.1 billion reais in stocks in  Sao Paulo 
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares to a
daily average this year of 6.53 billion reais through Sept. 14,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  