-- 
BP May Quadruple Indonesian Gas Plant as Part of Asian Drive

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-09-27T23:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/bp-may-quadruple-5-billion-indonesian-gas-plant-as-part-of-asian-drive.html
BP Plc (BP/)  is studying a fourfold
expansion of the $5 billion Tangguh liquefied natural-gas plant
in Indonesia as the region’s economic growth surges and  Japan 
raises imports following its nuclear disaster.  The plan is part of a drive by Chief Executive Officer
Robert Dudley to replicate the multibillion-dollar projects made
by Royal Dutch Shell Plc that generate cash and profits for two
decades and beyond, funding growth in other areas. The LNG plant
now has two production lines, called “trains” in the industry.  “The space is being prepared in  Tangguh  for eight
trains,” said Gde Pradnyana, a Jakarta-based spokesman for the
Indonesian energy regulator, known as BPMigas. “You can
speculate there are still a lot more reserves to be
discovered.”  BP will invest $10 billion in  Indonesia  in the next decade
to boost output at Tangguh, as well as expand into coal-bed
methane, Dudley said in May. Indonesia, the world’s second-
largest exporter of LNG after Qatar, needs new supply to replace
shipments from aging plants in Aceh and Kalimantan provinces.  Tangguh, the most recent LNG project in Indonesia, started
shipments in 2009. David Nicholas, a London-based spokesman for
 Europe ’s second-biggest energy company, declined to comment on
the eventual size of the plant.  Gas resources for a third unit at Tangguh are “almost
confirmed,” Pradnyana said. A decision to build the 3.8
million-ton-a-year train may be made this year, he said, without
disclosing how much gas has been discovered for a fourth unit.
The plant has two trains with a combined production capacity of
7.6 million metric tons of LNG a year.  ‘Much Needed’  “Tangguh expansion could be attractive to BP as a much
needed source of LNG growth,”  Frank Harris , head of global LNG
at Wood Mackenzie Ltd., said in an e-mail.  Even so, there will likely be an obligation to sell some of
the LNG on the domestic market at below-market rates, Harris
said. Moreover, Tangguh’s reliability has come into question
because of technical difficulties experienced during the start-
up phase, he said.  Indonesia is competing to satisfy demand for LNG from China
and  India , the world’s fastest-growing major economies. Gas is
the least polluting fossil fuel and China, which has 16 of the
20 most-polluted cities in the world, plans to use more of it
for power generation.  Chinese gas demand, now about 100 billion cubic meters a
year and roughly equal to  Germany , may soar to match that of the
27-nation European Union by 2035, according to the  International
Energy Agency .  Biggest Importer  Japan, the world’s biggest LNG importer, may consume an
additional 12 million tons a year, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., after the earthquake and tsunami in March led
to the closure of almost two-thirds of the nation’s 54 reactors.  Bernstein said in an Aug. 20 report that the LNG market
will “significantly tighten” over the next three years,
boosting gas prices.  North Asia spot LNG prices reached $17 a million British
thermal units earlier this month, World Gas Intelligence
reported Sept. 21. That’s more than four times the equivalent
price for U.S. gas at Henry Hub in  Louisiana .  The Tangguh project, in West Papua in the east of
Indonesia, has multi-year contracts to supply 2.6 million tons a
year to  China , 1.15 million tons a year to  South Korea  and as
much as 3.7 million tons annually to Sempra Energy.  Third Unit  The first two Tangguh trains have 12 trillion cubic feet of
gas allocated to them, with more than 4 trillion assessed for a
third planned unit, Pradnyana said.  The project taps six fields using two unmanned platforms
and pipes to take the gas to shore where it is chilled to a
liquid at minus 161 degrees Celsius (minus 258 Fahrenheit) to
reduce its size and aid transportation.  “We all believe that the resource is there, the potential
is there, we just need to do a bit more work,” Pradnyana said
when asked about plans for a fourth unit.  Gas consumption in Indonesia,  Southeast Asia ’s biggest
economy, increased 7.8 percent last year, according to BP. The
government has passed a law insisting fuel is offered
domestically before it can be exported.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc produces LNG in  Australia , Brunei,
 Malaysia , Nigeria, Oman, Qatar and  Russia . Shell’s Pearl gas-to-
liquids project in Qatar may pay for itself in as little as two
years with crude oil at $100 a barrel, according to independent
consultant Alex Forbes, founder of Brighton, U.K.-based Forbes
Communications Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  