-- 
Brazil Stock Movers: BM&FBovespa, MMX Mineracao, Vale Advance

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-09-27T21:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/brazil-stock-movers-bm-fbovespa-mmx-mineracao-vale-advance.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in Sao Paulo trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of 4:15 p.m. New York time.
Preferred shares are usually the most-traded class of stock.  The Bovespa index rose 0.3 percent to 53,920.36.  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3)  (BVMF3 BS), the operator of  Latin America ’s
biggest securities exchange, fell 1.6 percent to 9.55 reais,
after earlier rising as much as 3.5 percent. Folha de S. Paulo
reported the government may temporarily eliminate a tax on
foreign-exchange derivatives. The publication didn’t say where
it got the information.  Brazil ’s Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the government
has no plans to lower financial transaction taxes after the real
weakened 12 percent this month.  Mantega, speaking to reporters in Brasilia, said he doesn’t
see an imminent risk of  Greece  defaulting on its debt.  Brazil raised the so-called IOF tax on capital inflows in
October and later levied a tax on currency derivatives in a bid
to stem a 47 percent rally in the real since the end of 2008
through August.  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3 BS), the iron-ore miner
controlled by Brazilian billionaire Eike Batista, rose 1.5
percent to 7.49 reais as commodity prices advanced on
speculation European leaders will move to avoid a worsening of
the region’s debt crisis and a  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  forecast
for an acceleration of Chinese iron-ore demand in the fourth
quarter.  Vale SA (VALE3)  (VALE5 BS), the world’s biggest iron-ore producer,
increased 0.8 percent to 40.82 reais, as the company proposed
boosting its dividend for 2011 by $1 billion. Vale aims to pay a
total of $9 billion in dividends this year, its most ever and
three times last year’s $3 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  