-- 
Brazil Cuts Tax on Petrobras as Real Drop Lifts Import Cost

-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-09-27T22:01:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/brazil-s-government-cuts-tax-on-gasoline-official-gazette-says.html
Brazil  cut a tax on fuel sold by
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  by 16 percent, helping prevent surging
import costs from squeezing profit margins at the state-run
company and reducing the need for price increases as inflation
quickens.  The so-called Cide tax, charged on gasoline sold by
Petrobras to distributors at regulated prices, was reduced to
192.60 reais ($106.90) per cubic meter from 230 reais, according
to a  presidential decree  published in the official gazette
today.  The Brazilian real tumbled 12 percent against the dollar
this month, the biggest drop among the 16 most traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, increasing the cost of fuel imports. The
tax break reduces pressure to raise fuel prices to ensure
margins after inflation quickened to a six-year high of 7.33
percent in the 12 months through mid-September.  “It’s a tax announcement that favors Petrobras so that
their  cash flow  improves,”  Adriano Pires , head of the Brazilian
Center for Infrastructure, said in a telephone interview from
 Rio de Janeiro . “It’s importing 30,000 barrels a day on average
in 2011 and selling it for less than they pay abroad.”  The tax cut will reduce Petrobras’s costs by 4 centavos for
each liter of gasoline, Pires said.  Regulated Prices  Petrobras, which is controlled by the government through a
majority voting stake, hasn’t raised wholesale fuel prices to
distributors since May 2008 even after oil jumped 61 percent in
the past two years.  Brazil’s decision to cut the tax was aimed at preventing a
rise of gasoline prices and didn’t take into consideration
imports by Petrobras, Antonio Henrique Silveira, head of the
 Finance Ministry ’s antitrust arm, told reporters today in
Brasilia.  Petrobras Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli
said the tax cut won’t have an impact on the company’s cash flow
because distributors pay the tax.  “It will make no difference for Petrobras, gasoline will
be cheaper for the distributors,” Gabrielli said.  Petrobras fell 23 centavos, or 1.2 percent, to 19.55 reais
in  Sao Paulo . It’s down 28 percent this year, more than the 22
percent drop for the benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  