-- 
Brazil Sees Faster Credit Growth as Lending in August Jumps Most This Year

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-27T20:07:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/brazil-sees-faster-credit-growth-as-lending-jumps-most-in-2011.html
Brazil ’s central bank said credit
in  Latin America ’s biggest economy will expand this year at a
faster pace than it previously expected after lending in August
jumped the most this year.  Total outstanding bank lending rose 1.7 percent in August
to 1.89 trillion reais ($1.05 trillion) from 1.86 trillion reais
in July, the biggest monthly gain since November, the central
bank said in a report today in Brasilia. Total credit rose 19
percent from a year ago, above the central bank’s preferred 15
percent pace, led by mortgage lending and loans to businesses
and industrial companies.  “We’re seeing the economy still going strong and that the
impact from the crisis may be less than we thought,” said
Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank in  Sao Paulo . “Demand for credit is being sustained by a
strong jobs market.”  Brazil has been adopting measures to slow consumer
borrowing since December, as wage growth and record-low
unemployment allow consumers to take on more debt. Central bank
President Alexandre Tombini raised Brazil’s benchmark interest
rate five times before cutting it a half point to 12 percent on
Aug. 31, citing a “substantial deterioration” in the global
economy. The pace of credit growth has moderated, Tombini said
today in testimony before the Senate.  Tulio Maciel, head of the central bank’s economic research
department, told reporters today that bank lending will grow 17
percent this year. Tombini had been seeking 15 percent credit
growth this year.  Default Rates  The average interest rate charged on consumer loans rose to
46.2 percent in August, from 45.7 percent in July, the central
bank said. The average consumer default rate, considered loans
with late payments exceeding 90 years, rose to 6.7 percent from
6.6 percent. Company loan defaults rose to 3.9 percent from 3.8
percent, the report said. The loan default rate rose to 5.3
percent, the highest since February 2010.  The increase in default rates is “manageable” and “not
extraordinary,” Tombini said today. Steps taken earlier in the
year to reduce the leverage of local banks are helping to
mitigate risks to the financial system, he said.  In December, Brazil raised reserve and capital requirements
on some loans, and in April it doubled to 3 percent a tax on
 consumer credit .  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 10.43 percent at 3:36 p.m.
New York time. The real strengthened 1 percent to 1.8063 per
dollar from 1.8242 yesterday.  Mortgage lending rose 3.7 percent in August and 49.3
percent from a year ago.  Interest Rates   Roberto Setubal, chief executive officer of Itau Unibanco
Holding SA, Latin America’s largest bank, said Sept. 25 that
falling borrowing costs will help clients service debts and that
default rates are already starting to drop.  Economists covering Brazil expect the benchmark Selic rate
to fall to 11 percent for the end of this year and 10.75 percent
for year-end 2012, a Sept. 23 central bank survey of 100
analysts shows.  The central bank said lower borrowing costs won’t
compromise its inflation target next year. The bank targets
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.
Annual inflation in mid-September was 7.33 percent, the fastest
rate in six years.  Brazil’s economic growth slowed last quarter to 3.2 percent
from a year earlier, down from 4.2 percent in the first quarter
and 7.5 percent last year, the fastest pace in two decades.  Even as the global slowdown hit Brazil’s industrial sector,
which shrank in July from a year earlier, Brazil’s job’s markets
hasn’t weakened. Brazil’s unemployment rate was unchanged in
August at 6 percent, a record low for the month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  