-- 
Brazilian Real Rises on Derivative Tax Bets, Greek Debt Optimism

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-09-27T21:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/brazilian-real-rises-on-derivative-tax-bets-greek-debt-optimism.html
Brazil ’s real gained for a third
day as optimism grew that European leaders will tame the
region’s debt crisis and investors speculated the government may
remove a tax on foreign-exchange derivatives.  The real advanced 1 percent to 1.8059 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time, from 1.8242 yesterday. The currency has advanced
5.5 percent since Sept. 22, the biggest three-day rally since
January 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks and commodities rose as U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that European governments will use
more force to resolve the region’s crisis following meetings in
 Washington  last weekend. Brazil’s government may reduce to zero
the rate of a tax on foreign-exchange derivatives, Folha de S.
Paulo reported, without saying where it got the information.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters in Brasilia that
the government has no plans to lower financial transaction
taxes.  “The whole world is saying there’s not going to be a
default, this is the tone today,” Deives Ribeiro, head of
 currency trading  at Fair Corretora de Cambio e Valores in Sao
Paulo, said in a telephone interview. Speculation about the
tax’s removal also is driving gains, he said.  The real has lost 12 percent this month as the European
debt crisis fueled concern that the global economy is sinking
into recession, prompting the central bank to enter the
derivatives markets for the first time in two years to prop up
the currency. It’s the worst performer among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The government on July 27 levied a 1 percent tax on some
net short dollar positions in the country’s futures market. The
government may increase the tax by up to 25 percent if needed,
according to the decree signed by President  Dilma Rousseff .  Speculation the tax may be suspended is bolstering the real
today, said Italo Abucater, head of currency trading at ICAP
Brasil in Sao Paulo.  Market ‘Bloodshed’  “The government knows the external scenario is bad and any
surprise from  Greece  could provoke bloodshed in the market,” he
said. “They will need inflows.”  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts rose as
commodities advanced for a second day, spurring bets the central
bank may have less room to lower borrowing costs, said  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos.  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in January
2013 rose 19 basis points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 10.43
percent.  Commodities Increase  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of commodities gained
3.3 percent today. Brazil exports  iron ore , sugar, soybeans and
coffee, among other commodities.  Inflation accelerated to a six-year high of 7.3 percent in
the year through mid-September and has been above 6.5 percent
for five months. The central bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  Brazil’s policy makers are seeking to bring inflation back
to the midpoint of their target by December 2012, central bank
President Alexandre Tombini told senators today in Brasilia.
Tombini said there are clear signs demand is slowing and that
current inflation is in line with the government’s target.  Total outstanding bank lending rose 1.7 percent in August
to 1.89 trillion reais ($1.05 trillion), the biggest monthly
gain since November, the central bank said in a report today.
Total credit rose 19 percent from a year ago, above the central
bank’s preferred 15 percent pace, led by mortgage lending and
loans to businesses and industrial companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  