-- 
Brazil ‘Defensives’ Raised at Santander on Recession Risks

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-09-27T16:03:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/brazil-utilities-transport-stocks-raised-at-banco-santander.html
Brazil’s phone, transportation and
utilities stocks were raised in Banco Santander SA’s recommended
portfolio on the potential for a recession in the domestic and
global economies.  Investors should add to “defensives” such as phone
company  Telecomunicacoes de Sao Paulo SA (TLPP3) , highway and port
operator EcoRodovias Infraestrutura & Logistica SA and utilities
Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo and  Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3) , analysts
led by Marcelo Audi wrote in a note to clients today. The
brokerage cut its weightings in mining, steelmakers, financial
institutions and homebuilders.  “The risk of additional deterioration in the global
economic and financial landscape remains a clear and present
danger,” Audi wrote. “We decided to hedge our recommended
portfolio to the above-mentioned risk until more convincing
policy responses occur in developed countries that could ease
the negative pressure on investor confidence.”  Telecom and utilities stocks have outperformed the
benchmark Bovespa index this year as investors sought companies
with more-stable revenues and higher dividends amid concern
quickening domestic inflation and a slowing global economy will
hinder growth in  Brazil . MSCI Inc.’s gauge of Brazilian phone
shares has rallied 10 percent this year in local-currency terms,
while its measure of utilities has lost 5.7 percent, beating the
21 percent slump in the Bovespa.  Santander recommended cutting iron-ore miner MMX Mineracao
& Metalicos SA, steelmaker  Gerdau SA (GGBR4)  and Duratex SA, a maker of
wood panels and bathroom fixtures, from its recommended
portfolio. Investors should pare holdings of financial companies
Itau Unibanco Holding SA and Sul America SA and homebuilders
 Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes (CYRE3) , MRV
Engenharia & Participacoes SA and  EZ Tec Empreendimentos e
Participacoes SA (EZTC3) , according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  