-- 
Budget Constraints Drive Buying, JPMorgan’s Woolery Says

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-27T21:29:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/budget-constraints-drive-health-care-acquisitions-jpmorgan-s-woolery-says.html
The U.S. health-care law and budget
cuts will drive consolidation in the industry as companies
compete for fewer dollars and to protect profits, said  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Jim Woolery.  “Budgetary constraints around health care, say over the
next five years -- that’s a headwind on profitability,”
Woolery, JPMorgan’s co-head of North American mergers and
acquisitions, said today at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in
New York. “It’s a major catalyst for consolidation.”  Companies in the health-care industry will need to get
larger to combat those challenges, Woolery said. JPMorgan
advised  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  on the $29.1 billion deal
announced in July in which St. Louis-based  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) 
would take over  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco. The
acquisition requires approval from U.S. antitrust regulators and
would create the biggest U.S. pharmacy benefits manager.  The deal will face sharp scrutiny from regulators, said
Frederick Frank, vice chairman of Peter J. Solomon Co.  “In pure antitrust rules, this is an endangered deal,” he
said at the summit.  Woolery disagreed.  “It hasn’t been challenged by the government yet,” he
said. “I do think that the deal is going to go through.”  Deal Data  There have been 1,088 acquisitions in the past year of U.S.
health-care companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The announced and completed purchases had an average disclosed
price of $318.5 million with a typical premium of 39 percent.
Express Scripts’ pending Medco purchase would be the biggest.  Large drugmakers also need to look to deals to gain new
products, Frank said.  “The big pharma companies, if you look at history, are not
good at R,” Frank said today at the summit, referring to the
research half of research and development. He cited Paris-based
drugmaker Sanofi’s $20 billion purchase of Genzyme Corp. this
year.  Small drugmakers and biotechnology companies “are good at
R, but not very good at D,” Frank said. “They can’t afford it.
So, there’s a natural relationship here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  