-- 
Buffett Buyback Shows S&P 500 Passes Berkshire Value Test

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-09-27T20:48:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/buffett-buyback-shows-s-p-500-passes-berkshire-book-value-test.html
Warren Buffett ’s determination that
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  shares are cheap enough to buy back may
mean the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is also a bargain.  The company is authorized to repurchase stock for the first
time in four decades as long as its price is less than 1.1 times
book value, or assets minus liabilities, according to a
statement yesterday. The level is 29 percent below Berkshire’s
average of 1.55 since 2000, almost the same discount investors
are getting in the S&P 500, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Shares of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire fell to
$100,000 for the first time in almost two years on Sept. 22.  Declines that have erased about $2.8 trillion from the
value of American equities in the last two months are luring
Buffett, who said his company spent more to buy stocks on Aug. 8
than any other time this year. The  S&P 500  tumbled 6.7 percent
that day and has lost 15 percent from its 2011 high on April 29,
driven down by concerns Europe’s debt crisis will spread and
shrink the global economy. The benchmark index rose 1.1 percent
to 1,175.38 today.  “If he thought the possibilities of a recession were on
the horizon, then he’d wait to do this,” James Dunigan, who
helps oversee $109 billion as chief investment officer in
Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management, said in a telephone
interview. “You can make a number of arguments that on some
traditional measures, the market is undervalued.”  Buffett didn’t respond to an interview request e-mailed to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer .  Market Valuations  Repurchasing Berkshire stock is a bet that market
valuations are too low partly because so many of its investments
are public, Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at
Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages
$54 billion, said in a telephone interview. Berkshire owns
stakes in 27 companies whose trading is overseen by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, an August filing showed.  “This announcement is a bit out of character and for that
reason is seen as very constructive both in terms what he sees
as an opportunity to buy a great asset, namely Berkshire stock,
trading at a discount to historical book value as well as the
portfolio of companies within Berkshire that he thinks is
undervalued,” Luschini said.  The plan may signal that Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and
chief executive officer, is finding fewer opportunities in the
stock market, said  Michael Shaoul , who helps oversee more than
$1 billion as chairman of Marketfield Asset Management in New
York. While the S&P 500 is priced close to the same discount to
its historical book value as Berkshire, fewer than 20 percent of
its companies are trading below the 1.1 ratio Buffett requires
for his own repurchases, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Not a Dime’  Buffett previously preferred to use profits to buy
companies and securities issued by others. “Not a dime of
cash” has been spent on buybacks or dividends in four decades,
the billionaire told investors in his annual letter, published
on Feb. 26. Buffett invested $5 billion in  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and $3 billion in General Electric Co. in 2008 when the
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. failure cut companies off from
traditional sources of funding.  Goldman, CME  Decatur, Illinois-based  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the
biggest U.S. grain processor, Goldman Sachs, the New York-based
securities firm, Chicago-based  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the largest
futures exchange operator, and 89 other companies have price-to-
book multiples below 1.1, the data show. Excluding intangible
assets, such as goodwill, 47 of the 500 companies in the
benchmark U.S. equity gauge meet the criteria.  “It could be argued that if the market is cheap in his
view, he could find something else to buy instead of his own
stock, since making timely acquisitions was the way he built up
his company in the first place,” Shaoul wrote in an e-mail. “I
am sure that is the question most people are asking.”  Comparing a stock’s price to book value may not be the most
reliable valuation technique because assets reflect estimates
that may not prove accurate,  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1
billion as chief investment officer at Stewart Capital in
 Indiana ,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview.  “Analyzing book value is a difficult way to determine the
relative worth of a company,” he said. “It’s because of a lot
of intangibles that you really don’t know what the value is.
It’ll give you an idea about the trend.”  The S&P 500’s book value fell from about $533 a share in
May 2008 to $442 a share in March 2009, monthly data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The decline occurred as banks and financial
companies were in the process of writing off more than $2
trillion in loans tied to subprime mortgages, the data show.  Matching Berkshire  Lowering the S&P 500’s price-to-book ratio to match
Berkshire’s would cut the index’s price by 42 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The benchmark gauge for American
equity has combined book value of $611.38 a share, based on the
most recent filings of its companies. Cutting the multiple from
1.9 to 1.1 would send the S&P 500 to about 673 from 1,162.95,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Berkshire’s Class A shares dropped 17 percent to $100,320
apiece in 2011 prior to the buyback announcement. They were
trading at 16.3 times earnings as of Sept. 22, the lowest price-
earnings ratio of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The underlying businesses of Berkshire are worth
considerably more than this amount,” the company said yesterday
in a statement. “If we are correct in our opinion, repurchases
will enhance the per-share intrinsic value of Berkshire
shares.”  Railroad Acquisition  Buffett bought railroad Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  last
year for $26.5 billion in what he described as an “all-in
wager” on the  U.S. economy . In July, Buffett told Bloomberg
Television he expected economic growth to continue and would
“bet very heavily” against a second recession in three years.  Buffett said his company spent more on stocks on Aug. 8
than any day this year, when the S&P 500 tumbled 6.7 percent,
the most since December 2008. “I like buying on sale,” he said
in an Aug. 15 interview with  Charlie Rose  broadcast on PBS.  Last week’s rout erased $1 trillion from U.S. equities amid
concern Greek insolvency is inevitable and  Europe  can’t contain
the damage. The S&P 500 last week was trading at 12.4 times
earnings in the past 12 months, 4.6 percent below its average
valuation at the lowest point during the last nine bear markets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “He has a lot of investments in the largest companies in
the market, so putting his money in Berkshire is another way of
being bullish on the market,” said  Eric Green , a Philadelphia-
based  fund manager  at Penn Capital Management which oversees
about $6 billion, said in a telephone interview. “If the stock
market is going down, then his stock will go down, and he’s
certainly smart enough to know that and he thinks the market is
undervalued.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  