-- 
Bulgarian Police Arrest 105 People as Roma Clashes Cause Unrest

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-27T14:08:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/bulgarian-police-arrest-105-people-as-roma-clashes-cause-unrest.html
Bulgarian police detained 105
protesters after hundreds of people took to the streets last
night in eight cities including Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna in the
country’s worst outbreak of unrest in more than a decade.  The violence was triggered after Roma clan leader Kiril
Rashkov in the Katunitsa village, near the second city of
Plovdiv, was blamed for the death of 19-year-old Angel Petrov
during the weekend, Vesselin Vuchkov, deputy interior minister,
told reporters in the capital Sofia today. Villagers set on fire
several of Rashkov’s cars and houses in retaliation, he said.  Petrov was run over by a minibus driven by a relative of
Rashkov while he was walking his dog, Atanas Petrov, his father,
said in an interview with BTV television station.  The protesters, including mostly soccer fans and teenagers
organized through social media networks, tried to march into the
Roma quarters of several cities throwing stones and bottles,
according to Vuchkov. They were deterred by riot police, he
said.  “The situation is under control,” Vuchkov said. “There
were no casualties or serious material damages. Some people were
injured, including two policemen in Sofia and in Varna. The
police presence throughout the country has been increased to
prevent further outbreaks of violence.”  The protests in the  European Union ’s poorest country in
terms of economic output per capita, coincide with the start of
an election campaign before presidential and city council
elections on Oct. 23. Roma account for 4.9 percent of the
country’s population of 7.4 million people, according to the
statistics office. They are among the poorest and least
educated, according to this year’s census.  Crime, Corruption Criticisms  Bulgaria joined the EU in 2007 and has since been
criticized for failing to fight crime and corruption. The state
is not doing enough to provide equal access to education and
employment for the Roma and ethnic Turks, which forces them to
resort to crime as source of income, according to Antonina
Zheliazkova, director of the  International Centre Minority
Studies  in Sofia.  Rashkov, 69, is known throughout the Balkan country as Tzar
Kiro, and has been under investigation for large-scale  tax
evasion  for several years and for illegal production of
alcoholic beverages, Krassimir Stefanov, chief of the National
Revenue Service in Sofia said at a news conference yesterday.  Rashkov’s fellow villagers accuse him of racketeering and
harassment and blame the authorities for failing to take
measures against him because of high-level political protection.  “It’s not surprising that the people of Katunitsa are
taking justice in their own hands after decades of institutional
inaction,” Zheliazkova said in a phone interview today. “This
is not an incident, but a trend. The solution is to deliver
justice, to take away all the privileges from the local feudal
lords and put the criminals in jail. Somehow this is isn’t
happening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  