-- 
California School Officials Plan Suit to Restore Education Funds in Budget

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-09-27T20:57:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/california-school-officials-plan-suit-to-restore-education-funds-in-budget.html
A California coalition of education
officials said it will sue over the budget Governor  Jerry Brown 
and lawmakers passed in June, which they say shortchanges
schools $2 billion.  The  California School Boards Association  and the
Association of California School Administrators said in a
 statement  they intend to file a lawsuit alleging that the budget
improperly calculates how much schools should get this year
under a constitutional amendment approved by voters in 1988 that
requires a minimum percentage be spent on education. They didn’t
specify the defendants of the suit.  The legal challenge may pose a new threat to the spending
plan Brown and lawmakers enacted, which includes a series of
spending cuts required in January if revenue falls below
expectations. The California Supreme Court in August temporarily
blocked another provision that took $1.7 billion from
redevelopment agencies.  Brown, 73, signed the financial plan after failing to get
Republican support for a referendum that would have extended
expiring taxes and fees to erase what was a $26 billion
projected deficit.  To balance the budget, lawmakers cut spending by $12
billion. They also counted on an equal amount of increased
revenue, including $4 billion Brown and fellow Democrats said
would be delivered by the recovering economy.  Series of Triggers  The $86 billion general-fund spending plan includes a
series of triggers in case the extra revenue doesn’t materialize
by mid-December. The first would cut spending if revenue falls
$1 billion short. A $2 billion gap could mean a seven-day
reduction in the school year and an end to busing subsidies.  The League of California Cities, the cities of  San Jose  and
Union City, and the California Redevelopment Association sued
California Controller John Chiang and the Finance Department
July 18 to overturn a portion of the budget.  The cities and the associations said the statutes violate a
ballot initiative approved by voters last year that prevents the
state from seizing revenue dedicated to local government.  A final decision on that lawsuit will be made before Jan.
15, when the funds diversion was scheduled to begin, the court
said in an order.  Brown’s press secretary,  Gil Duran , wasn’t immediately
available to comment on the new lawsuit. Susan Aronson, a
spokeswoman for the school groups, said she couldn’t comment
before a news conference planned for tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  