-- 
California Urged to Suspend Waiver Program That Gave Solyndra a Tax Break

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-27T19:46:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/california-urged-to-suspend-program-that-gave-solyndra-tax-break.html
California  should freeze awards
from a program that gave a $25.1 million tax break to Solyndra
LLC, the now-bankrupt solar-panel maker backed by federal loans,
said overseers of the state authority in charge.  “We have to pause to make sure we do have safeguards in
place,” Robert Weisenmiller, the California Energy Commission
chairman and a board member of the state Alternative Energy and
Advanced Transportation Financing Authority, said today at a
meeting in Sacramento. The agency handles the waiver bids.  A formal vote on suspending the program will be held Oct.
25, the board decided. There are no pending applications set for
consideration next month, according to Christine Solich, the
authority’s executive director.  Under a 2010  law , the authority can exempt from sales and
use taxes equipment engaged in “the design, manufacture,
production, or assembly of advanced transportation technologies
or alternative energy source products, components or system.”
About $31.4 million in taxes have been waived under the program,
according to data on Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s website.  “Ultimately, we do need to compete with other states for
these emerging technologies,” Weisenmiller said.  Three-year exemptions already granted may save recipients
about $104 million, according to a projection from Lockyer’s
office. The breaks have gone to manufacturers, utilities, a
public-transit district and a nongovernment research institute,
helping to create an estimated 653 jobs, the documents show.  Biggest Grant  Solyndra received the largest exemption. The Fremont,
California-based solar-panel manufacturer sought bankruptcy
court protection Sept. 6, potentially leaving taxpayers on the
hook for $528 million in federal loans.  The state won’t be able to seek the money Solyndra saved
through the tax break unless it can prove “material
misrepresentations” in its application for the waiver, Solich
said at the meeting. No such evidence has turned up, she said.  The FBI and agents from the Energy Department raided
Solyndra’s offices two days after the bankruptcy filing, while
Congress has held hearings into how the company obtained a $535
million federal loan guarantee in 2009. The manufacturer
dismissed about 1,100 workers Aug. 31, when it closed its
Fremont factory.  While California hasn’t begun its own probe, Solich said
the state is monitoring the bankruptcy proceedings and the
federal and congressional investigations for evidence of
Solyndra misrepresentations in its bid for tax waivers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Sacramento  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 