-- 
Canacol Surges Most in 14 Months After Oil Reserves Increase

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-09-27T20:37:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/canacol-surges-most-in-14-months-after-oil-reserves-increase-1-.html
Canacol Energy Ltd. (CNE) , the Calgary-
based  oil company  that operates fields in  South America , jumped
the most since the shares began trading in Bogota after the
company said its oil reserves rose 73 percent from a year ago at
its Rancho Hermoso and Entrerrios fields.  Canacol shares advanced 15 percent, the most since July
2010, to 1,265 pesos as of 4 p.m. New York time. The company
said today that proved reserves in the fiscal year that ended
June 30 were 4.5 million barrels, compared with 2.6 million
barrels the year before.  The company had $115 million in cash at the end of the
fiscal year and remains “fully funded through 2012,” Chief
Executive Officer Charle Gamba said in a statement on the
company’s website.  “After the company’s reserves increased, investors started
seeing that the share’s correction may have been excessive,”
said Mauricio Restrepo del Toro, an analyst at brokerage Bolsa y
Renta in Medellin. “Now people are a little more calm.”  The stock fell for 10 consecutive days through yesterday,
dropping 31 percent amid delays in the company’s report on
exploration in the Caguan-Putumayo basin, said Juan David Pineros, an analyst at Interbolsa SA.  Canacol fell 8.3 percent yesterday after the company said
it plans to begin drilling on the first of three wells in
Caguan-Putumayo basin within three weeks. The company said it
delayed drilling, originally planned for July, after it decided
to focus on conventional wells, which it can drill
“significantly faster,” instead of stratigraphic wells, aimed
at evaluating subsurface rock formation, according to a
regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  