-- 
Carney, Flaherty Will Brief Harper Tomorrow on Europe Crisis After G-20

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-09-27T14:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/carney-flaherty-will-brief-canada-s-harper-on-european-crisis.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  will meet Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  and central bank
Governor  Mark Carney  this afternoon, giving a rare public
glimpse into their closed-door meetings as they review Europe’s
debt crisis and the progress made by Group of 20 policy makers.  Carney and Flaherty left last weekend’s G-20 meeting in
Washington saying European authorities had made some progress in
dealing with indebted governments and banks, and that more needs
to be done soon to create a lasting solution. The Prime
Minister’s office said the three would have a photo opportunity
at 4:15 p.m. New York time.  Flaherty and Carney hold regular private meetings to
discuss the economy, and publicizing today’s event aims to
assure Canadians the government is focused on the recovery,
analysts said. Harper said in an interview with Bloomberg last
week that policy makers can offer more stimulus if the global
recovery stumbles.  The meeting is likely “to give a sense that the government
is on top of the situation,” said  David Watt , senior currency
strategist with Royal Bank of Canada’s capital markets unit in
Toronto, in an e-mail. “The downside risks are massive right
now, so it is appropriate to give every indication of concern
and to be clearly attempting to keep in front of issues.”  Canada’s dollar touched the weakest versus the  U.S. dollar 
in a year yesterday before rebounding on speculation Europe’s
debt crisis is easing. The currency appreciated 0.4 percent to
C$1.0206 per U.S. dollar at 10:12 a.m. in Toronto, compared with
C$1.0251 yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index
gained 309.16 points, or 2.6 percent, to 12,016.35.  The meeting doesn’t mean anything is “imminent for Canada
policy but does speak to the government’s unease about the
situation,” said Sheryl King, head of  Canada  economics at Bank
of America Corp. in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 