-- 
Number of U.S. Same-Sex Households Jumped 80 Percent Since 2000

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/census-revises-same-sex-household-count-down.html
The number of same-sex households
in the U.S. surged by about 80 percent during the past decade, a
period that saw the introduction of legalized gay marriage at
the state level.  The U.S. Census Bureau yesterday said the number of same-
sex households grew to 646,464 in 2010 from 358,390 in 2000 --an
announcement that was marred by the agency’s acknowledgment that
it had over-counted the number in an initial survey this
summer. The bureau revised down last year’s figure by more than
one-fourth, citing  flaws  in the earlier count. The original
count had found an increase to 901,997 from 594,391.  The revised figure, a decrease of 28.3 percent, includes
131,729 same-sex married couples and 514,735 same-sex unmarried
couples. The release of same-sex married couples was a first for
the census because gay marriages weren’t legal in 2000.  “Regardless of the issue that they’ve dealt with in their
revised estimates, we’re seeing a huge increase in the last 10
years, and it really helps highlight the fact that same-sex
couples are out there,” said  Brian Moulton , chief legislative
counsel for Human Rights Campaign, a Washington-based advocacy
group for gay rights. “Many of them are married now and they’re
still experiencing unequal treatment.”  The revision, which dropped the number of same-sex
households by more than 255,000, means that same-sex couples
represent 0.55 percent of all U.S. households, or 1 in 182, down
from 0.77 percent, or 1 in 130, in the initial count.  Political Implications  Some opponents of gay marriage said the figures may have
political implications.  “The low numbers should indicate to politicians that they
need not fear alienating this population by opposing same-sex
marriage because it’s such a small portion of the overall
population,” said Peter Sprigg, a senior fellow for policy
studies at the Washington-based Family Research Council, a group
that presses for religious values in public policy.  Both Moulton and Sprigg said the new figures won’t affect
government funding because the federal Defense of Marriage Act
already prohibits extending benefits such as medical care and
housing allowances to same-sex couples.  The rate of married couples among same-sex households was
highest in  Massachusetts , the first U.S. state to allow gay
couples to marry, in 2004. Slightly fewer than 44 percent of
Massachusetts same-sex households consisted of married couples.  Other states that have legalized gay marriage include
 Vermont ,  California ,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,  New Hampshire  and  New
York , as well as the  District of Columbia .  Maine  the Lowest  The rate was the lowest in Maine, where only 407 of 3,958,
or 10.3 percent of same-sex households, consisted of couples who
were legally married.  The revision in the overall same-sex household count was
largest in  North Dakota , whose number of same-sex households
dropped 49.8 percent, to 559, from 1,113 in the earlier count.
The District of Columbia had the smallest decline, 6.3 percent,
to 4,822 from 5,146 same-sex households.  The revised numbers stemmed from a problem that appeared to
have been caused by follow-up surveys of people who didn’t
respond to the first census form, according to Martin O’Connell,
chief of the fertility and family statistics branch of the
bureau’s Social, Economic and Housing Statistics Division.  “What we want to try to do is basically correct the census
numbers,” he said yesterday in a telephone call with reporters
that was devoted almost entirely to explaining the mistake.  ‘No Dispute’  “There’s no dispute that the same-sex couples population
increased between 2000 and 2010,” O’Connell said. “We’re
trying to get a better grip on the actual numbers and the actual
increase.”  William Frey , a demographer at the  Brookings Institution  in
 Washington  who has been studying the census for more than 30
years, said it’s not uncommon for these kinds of errors to
happen.  “It’s a gargantuan task to count everybody in the
country,” Frey said. “There are bound to be some
inaccuracies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan in Washington 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 