-- 
CFTC Delays Speculative Trading Curb Vote to Oct. 18 Meeting

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-09-27T19:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/cftc-delays-speculative-trading-limit-vote-to-oct-18-meeting.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  has delayed consideration of Dodd-Frank Act rules
seeking to limit speculation in oil, natural gas and other
commodities until an Oct. 18 Washington meeting, said Steve Adamske, CFTC spokesman.  The so-called position-limits rule, which already was
delayed once, had been on the schedule for consideration at a
meeting Oct. 4. The rule has been among the most contentious
aspects of Dodd-Frank, the financial-overhaul enacted in July
2010, and has spurred more than 13,000 letters to the CFTC from
supporters such as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and opponents including
 Barclays Capital .  “I continue to be troubled by the pace of implementing
position limits as Congress has directed. These limits were
supposed to be in place earlier this year,”  Bart Chilton , a
Democrat on the five-member commission, said in a statement. “I
suggested in January that we move forward with spot month limits
and limits for on-exchange trading on other and aggregate
months. There is no reason we can’t do those now.”  The CFTC has canceled the Oct. 4 meeting and also delayed
consideration of rules governing clearinghouses that stand
between buyers and sellers of derivatives, Adamske said.  Missed Deadlines  The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission are leading
U.S. efforts to write new derivatives regulations after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The
agency has proposed more than 40 rules and has begun to hold
final votes on regulations. The agency has missed Dodd-Frank’s
mid-July deadline to complete most rules, and  Gary Gensler , CFTC
chairman, said some rules will be finished in the first quarter
of 2012.  The rules will govern trades conducted by  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Cargill Inc.  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
the world’s largest futures exchange, has criticized the
agency’s proposal on position limits and said the agency doesn’t
have the data necessary to impose the trading curbs.  The agency’s proposals on position limits and derivatives
exchanges “often represent an overstepping of the commission’s
authority” under Dodd-Frank, Terrence Duffy, executive chairman
of CME, said in  testimony  prepared for an April 12 Senate
Banking Committee hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  