-- 
Chile Growth, Copper Will Fund 5% Public Spending Increase

-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 
2011-09-27T16:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/chile-budget-proposal-calls-for-5-spending-increase-longueira.html
Chile’s economic growth and higher
revenue from copper mines will allow the government to finance a
5 percent increase in spending next year without raising taxes,
Economy Minister Pablo Longueira said.  “ Tax reform  isn’t taboo, but I think it’s important for
Chileans to known that all the programs in the budget
legislation are already financed,” Longueira said in an
interview today in Santiago.  The government is raising the copper price estimate that is
used to forecast public revenue to $3.02 a pound in 2012 from
this year’s $2.59 a pound. Economic growth of about 6.5 percent
this year will provide the government with $3 billion in
additional revenue, of which $1.5 billion will go to public
spending, he said in a speech before the interview.  After four months of student protests in support of
improved education, the government will stick to its policy of
raising expenditure in line with economic growth of 5 percent
next year, Longueira said. The increase in spending will be
focused on education and social programs, he said.  Tax changes are “something we have to discuss parallel to
the budget,” Longueira said. “We need to discuss whether tax
reform would be aimed at redistribution, investment promotion or
expanding on ways to strengthen economic growth.”  The government, which receives about one-third of its
revenue from copper, doesn’t need to raise taxes to meet its
fiscal goals even as it increases spending on education in the
$200 billion economy, he said.  Fiscal Surplus  President Sebastian Pinera in July promised to create a $4
billion fund for education to increase scholarships and grants.
Student leaders want more and will stage marches in Santiago on
Sept. 29.  Chile’s government will post a fiscal surplus of 1.3
percent of gross domestic product this year and will narrow the
structural deficit to 1 percent by 2014 when it leaves office
from a 3 percent deficit in 2009, according to the minister.
Longueira told Santiago-based newspaper El Mercurio this month
that he supports raising corporate taxes from 17 percent to 20
percent to fund social programs.  “The increase in the long-term copper price makes it
easier for us to reach our goals,” Longueira said today. “The
government will act very responsibly, especially given what’s
happening in the global economy, which means we will sustain
macroeconomic balance and fiscal responsibility. Chileans must
learn to value how responsibly the country’s economy is being
managed.”  The government will submit its budget proposal to Congress
on Sept. 29, Longueira told reporters today.  The peso strengthened for a second day, gaining 1.3 percent
to 505.54 per dollar at 12:26 p.m. New York time from 512.25
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 