-- 
Chilean Peso Surges on European Debt Outlook, Copper Rebound

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-09-27T13:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/chilean-peso-surges-on-european-debt-outlook-copper-rebound.html
Chile’s peso headed for the biggest
three-day advance in two years as copper, the country’s biggest
export, rose and foreign investors slowed sales of the currency.  The peso appreciated 1.8 percent to 503.41 per  U.S. dollar 
as of 9:22 a.m. New York time, stretching an increase in the
past three days to 3.5 percent, the steepest since June 2009.
Regional currencies gained 1.4 percent today, according to the
Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin American Currency Index.  Copper for December delivery jumped as much as 5.7 percent
in New York and stocks rose on optimism European leaders
“finally get it”, as Pacific Investment Management Co. Chief
Executive Officer  Mohamed A. El-Erian  said today. German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who hosted Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  for talks in Berlin, has stepped up her defense of
the euro and toned down calls to punish  Greece .  “There’s been a correction in the peso but the situation
remains delicate,” said Sebastian Momberg, a trader in the
brokerage unit of Banco de Credito & Inversiones in Santiago.
“Foreign investors selling dollars heavily in a flight to
quality pushed us to 530, which was more or less transitory.
We’re still taking positions based on the idea of a Greek
default though.”  The peso tumbled 7.2 percent last week as copper slumped to
a one-year low on signs of slowing demand.  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
increased their long dollar position by $4.5 billion this month
to $4.9 billion on Sept. 23, according to data published today
by the central bank. That’s the biggest bet against the peso
since July 2010 and helped drive the peso to its weakest since
July 2010.  The yield on a basket of 10-year inflation-linked central
bank bonds rose 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage point, to
2.34 percent as of 9:04 a.m.  New York  time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  