-- 
China Stock Index Advances From 14-Month Low Amid Easing European Concerns

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-27T07:44:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/china-s-stock-index-futures-advance-amid-easing-european-concern.html
China ’s benchmark stock index rose,
climbing from its lowest close in 14 months, on speculation
European policy makers will act to prevent the region’s debt
crisis from worsening.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. advanced 1.8 percent after
the nation’s second-biggest insurer said its main shareholders
haven’t reduced their stakes. China Shenhua Energy Co. and
Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s biggest producers of coal and
copper, gained as raw-material prices rebounded. Property
developer  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  dropped to the lowest level in more than
two years after  Standard & Poor’s  said Chinese developers face
an “increasingly severe” credit outlook.  “The support measures from the European Central Bank are
quite crucial and ensure that there won’t be any debt default in
the near term,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China
Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose 21.87 points, or 0.9 percent, to
2,415.05 at the 3 p.m. close, halting a three-day, 4.8 percent
decline. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 1 percent to 2,637.88.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 14 percent this year,
the same as the last year’s drop, as the government raised
 interest rates  and reserve-requirement ratios for banks to cool
inflation that’s at the highest level in almost three years. The
measure is valued at 11 times estimated profit, the lowest level
on record, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg.  Policy makers from the  European Central Bank  are likely to
debate next week restarting their covered-bond purchases along
with further measures to ease monetary conditions, a euro-region
central bank official said.  Interest Rates  The reintroduction of 12-month loans to banks will also be
discussed at the ECB’s Oct. 6 policy meeting, said the person,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the information is
confidential. Interest-rate cuts are likely to be discussed,
though they are not on the current agenda, the official said. A
spokesman for the Frankfurt-based ECB declined to comment.  The European Union is China’s biggest export market,
accounting for about 20 percent of the Asian nation’s overseas
shipments.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits rose 28.2 percent in
the first eight months of 2011 from a year earlier to 3.2
trillion yuan ($500 billion), the National Bureau of Statistics
said on its website today. That compared with a 28.3 percent
increase from January through July.  Ping An Rebounds  Ping An, China’s second-biggest insurance company, added
1.8 percent to 35 yuan. Ping An said its main shareholders
haven’t reduced their stakes and have no plans to do so,
according to the company’s Shenzhen-based spokesman Sheng Ruisheng. The stock tumbled 9.6 percent yesterday, the most
since November 2008, on speculation that shareholder HSBC
Holdings Plc sold its shares.  A measure of 24 energy stocks on the CSI 300 climbed 1.8
percent. Shenhua gained 2.2 percent to 26.08 yuan. Yanzhou Coal
Mining Co., China’s fourth-biggest coal miner, rose 2.9 percent
to 29.34 yuan. Jiangxi Copper added 0.9 percent to 27.02 yuan.  Commodities rebounded today as concerns about the European
sovereign debt crisis eased. Crude oil for November delivery
gained as much as 2.8 percent to $82.5 a barrel in electronic
trading in  New York  today. Copper rose as much as 2.8 percent in
 London .  Liquidity Squeeze  Gemdale, a Shenzhen-based developer, fell 1 percent to 5.05
yuan, the lowest close since April 2009. Gemdale cut prices for
an apartment project in Shanghai by 15 percent, the Shanghai
Securities News reports, without saying where it got the
information.  A 30 percent decline in sales may leave many developers
facing a liquidity squeeze, S&P said after conducting stress
tests of the nation’s real estate companies. Most developers
would be able to “absorb” a 10 percent sales drop next year,
the credit rating company said.  “The worst isn’t over for China’s real estate
developers,” S&P analysts led by Frank Lu wrote in a report
today. “Developers are bracing themselves for slower sales and
lower property prices ahead.”  Conditions aren’t appropriate for the government to cancel
limits on home purchases,  Securities Times  reported today,
citing Wang Juelin, a researcher at the Ministry of Housing and
Urban-Rural Development. Speculative demand for homes will
return once purchase restrictions are lifted, it said.  China stocks are the world’s “most-crowded short” and are
on the verge of a “massive short squeeze,”  Societe Generale  SA
said. Foreign investors have “lost their sense of reality,”
 Todd Martin  and Anthony Lee, analysts at Societe Generale, wrote
in a report dated today.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost,  Matthew Oakley   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  