-- 
China Swaps Snap Five-Day Decline as Share Sales Drain Cash

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-27T08:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/china-swaps-snap-five-day-decline-as-share-sales-drain-cash.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps snapped
a five-day losing streak as subscriptions to upcoming initial
public offerings drained cash from the system.  Sinohydro Group Ltd. plans to raise as much as 14.4 billion
yuan ($2.3 billion) in a Shanghai IPO, China Securities Journal
reported yesterday. China Securities Regulatory Commission
approved the listing of Zhejiang Aokang Shoes Co. on Sept. 23.
China Communications Construction Co. also won approval
yesterday for a 20 billion yuan share sale in Shanghai.  “Subscriptions of share sales drained some of the
liquidity,” said Pin Ru Tan, a strategist at HSBC Securities
Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong .  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, climbed eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 3.86 percent as of 4:12 p.m. in  Shanghai .  The People’s Bank of China sold 2 billion yuan of one-year
bills at a yield of 3.584 percent today, unchanged from the
previous sale, according to a statement on the central bank’s
website.  The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, rose 90 basis points to
4.69 percent, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the biggest jump since
July 14 and the highest level since Sept. 5.  China’s inflation should fall to less than 4.5 percent by
the end of this year, barring another wave of food-price
increases, the 21st Century Business Herald reported today,
citing Murtaza Syed, resident representative in China for the
 International Monetary Fund .  -- Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  