-- 
Evergrande Shares Surge as Sales Jump in China Counters Concerns on Audit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-13T04:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/china-developers-may-not-survive-30-sales-slump-s-p-says.html
Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) ,
 China ’s second-biggest developer by sales, surged the most in
two years after a 79 percent jump in sales countered concerns
about accounting regularities at a unit.  The stock climbed 20 percent to HK$3.50 at the midday
break in Hong Kong trading, set for its biggest gain since
Nov. 5, 2009. Contracted sales jumped to 9.16 billion yuan
($1.4 billion) in September, the company said yesterday,
prompting the developer to consider raising prices to slow
sales when it attains its full-year target of 70 billion yuan.  “We believe the company has already reached its annual
sales target and be the first among the large national
developers,” Haitong International Research analysts Hugo Hou and  Katie Chan , who rate the stock a “buy,” said in a
report today. The nine-month data is equivalent to 99 percent
of the company’s 2011 sales target, they said.  Evergrande said sales surged as it focused on so-called
third-tier, or less affluent cities, which weren’t affected
by the government’s property curbs on home purchases and
mortgages aimed at speculators in larger markets including
Shanghai and Beijing.  Evergrande is “confident” contracted sales will exceed
100 billion yuan in 2012 as it continues to focus on less
affluent cities, Chief Executive Officer Xia Haijun said at a
press conference in Hong Kong yesterday.  Affecting Credibility  Evergrande’s Guangzhou unit was one of 114 companies the
government inspected after it provided inaccurate information
on 6.4 billion yuan of assets in its 2009 financial report,
overstated costs and underpaid taxes, the ministry of finance
said in a  statement  yesterday. The developer said the
irregularities have been rectified in the 2010 statement.  “It’s affecting the credibility or corporate governance
image of the company,” said  Kenny Tang , Hong Kong-based
general manager at AMTD Financial Planning Ltd. “Because
investors are focusing on the earnings growth of the company
for valuation, the most important thing is whether the
earnings are true.”  Excluding today’s gain, Evergrande shares have slumped
more than 50 percent from their July peak to a 16-month low
this month on concern developers face a funding squeeze amid
the government’s property curbs. Almost 70 percent of
developers said their cash-flow conditions in August worsened
from July, independent investment-advisory firm CEBM Group
Ltd. said in an Aug. 5 report, citing a monthly survey of
real-estate companies in 12 Chinese cities.  Accounting Problems  “Some property developers have the problem of reporting
inaccurate revenue figures, overstating costs and delaying or
underpaying taxes,” according to the ministry’s statement.  The Guangzhou unit was ordered by the government to
amend the accounting and pay back the taxes, according to the
ministry.  “The accounting reporting at our listed  Hong Kong 
company completely reflects the accurate assets and
revenue,” CEO Xia said yesterday. “The problem at our
Guangzhou unit was only because we didn’t combine the
reporting of all its subsidiaries in 2009.”  Severe Credit Outlook  Chinese developers face an “increasingly severe”
credit outlook, which may force them to cut prices and turn
to costlier funding sources as sales weaken,  Standard &
Poor’s  said on Sept. 27. A 30 percent decline in sales may
leave many developers facing a liquidity squeeze, S&P said
after conducting stress tests of the nation’s real estate
companies, adding that “the worst isn’t over for China’s
real estate developers.”  Fewer than half of the 70 cities monitored by the
government in August posted month-on-month gains in  home
prices  for the first time, according to Samsung Securities Co.
SouFun Holdings Ltd. said residential values last month
dropped for the first time in a year.  China’s central bank has raised  interest rates  five
times over the past year, curbed lending to property
developers and raised down payments on home loans to tackle
asset risks in the  property market . The government has also
limited purchases of housing in cities where gains have been
deemed excessive.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  