-- 
China Banks Shunned as Investors Eye 2003 Low in Credit Bust

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-09-27T10:07:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/china-banks-shunned-by-investors-anticipating-2003-low-as-credit-goes-bust.html
The cheapest Chinese bank stocks
since 2004 may drop further as the three-year credit boom that
created the world’s most profitable lenders shows signs of
turning into a bust.  The MSCI China Financials Index sank 24 percent this month,
falling more than benchmark bank gauges for Europe, the U.S.,
Japan and emerging markets. Valuations in China dropped below
levels reached during the global financial crisis for the first
time last week, even after  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398) 
Ltd. and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  said first-half profits hit a record
and analysts raised forecasts for next year.  While banks in the MSCI index reported $104 billion of
earnings in the past 12 months, bad loans to local governments,
a fading real estate boom and slower economic growth are making
some of the most successful investors bearish.  Jim Chanos , the
short seller who predicted Enron Corp.’s collapse, says Chinese
banks will fall below the value of their net assets for the
first time since December 2003, from an average premium of about
20 percent. Fund managers at Vontobel Asset Management Inc. and
International Value Advisers LLC who beat 99 percent of peers
this year are avoiding the stocks.  Five Times Faster  “ China ’s economy is very distorted, and the banks, as
ever, are at the epicenter of the distortions,” Edward Chancellor, who helps oversee about $106 billion as a strategist
at Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co. in  Boston  and warned of a
“sucker’s rally” in Chinese stocks three days before the
benchmark index peaked in August 2009, said in an interview.
“If China runs into problems with the banking system, which I
think it will, I cannot see a situation in which foreign
investors are the main priority of Beijing.”  The tumble in Chinese bank shares has surprised equity
analysts, who have more positive recommendations on the Asian
country’s financial stocks than in any of the world’s other 10
biggest markets. It contrasts with a Chinese economy that’s
expanding more than five times as fast as  Europe  and the U.S.  Bad debts may cut China’s growth rate to near zero from 9.5
percent, hurting a global economy that’s already weighed down by
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis and a stagnant U.S. job market,
according to Chanos, founder of New York-based hedge fund
Kynikos Associates LP.  ‘Not Touching’ Banks  China has led the recovery from the worst recession since
the 1940s, contributing more than 30 percent to global growth
last year, after the central government ordered state-owned
banks to increase lending and encouraged local governments to
boost spending on infrastructure and housing. New loans in China
since September 2008 totaled $3.8 trillion, while fixed-asset
investment surged at an average pace of 28 percent during the
period. Property prices have climbed about 60 percent since the
end of 2006, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  “The main concern we have, and the reason we’re not
touching the banks, is we’re not sure that the Chinese economy
is sustainable as it is,” said Charles de Lardemelle, whose
$2.3 billion IVA International Fund slipped 5 percent this year
through Sept. 23, compared with an 18 percent average drop for
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Similar surges
in credit and investment in  Japan ,  Thailand  and  South Korea  all
ended with a collapse in economic growth, he said in a phone
interview from  New York .  Severe Outlook  Evidence is building that Chinese property developers and
local government financing vehicles, used to get around laws
prohibiting direct borrowing, are struggling to repay their
obligations as the economy slows. About 85 percent of the
government financing vehicles in China’s Liaoning province, on
the border with  North Korea , had insufficient income last year
to cover debt-servicing payments, according to a July speech by
the provincial auditor.  Chinese developers face an “increasingly severe” credit
outlook, which may force them to cut prices and turn to costlier
funding sources as sales weaken,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a
report today after conducting stress tests of the nation’s real
estate companies.  Developers are paying as much as 25 percent interest to
borrow from private  trust companies  as banks withdraw credit,
said an official at Beijing-based National Trust in May who
asked not to be identified because he isn’t authorized to speak
to the media.  Bonds of Guangzhou-based  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) ,
China’s second-biggest developer by sales, fell to 76 cents on
the dollar last week from 109 cents at the start of the year,
sending yields to a record 24 percent, according to Bloomberg
data.  ‘Worst Isn’t Over’  A 30 percent decline in sales may leave many developers
facing a liquidity squeeze, S&P said. Most developers would be
able to “absorb” a 10 percent sales drop next year, the credit
rating company said.  “The worst isn’t over for China’s real estate
developers,” S&P analysts led by Frank Lu wrote in the report.
“Developers are bracing themselves for slower sales and lower
property prices ahead.”  A gauge of Chinese manufacturing compiled last week by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed the industry may shrink
for a third month in September, the longest contraction since
2009. China’s nonperforming loans may rise as high as 30 percent
of total debt,  Fitch Ratings  said in April.  Falling Valuations  Tumbling valuations for Chinese bank stocks signal
increasing concern that bad debt will erode earnings. ICBC, the
world’s most-profitable lender and the biggest bank by market
value, dropped 17 percent in  Hong Kong  trading last week to 6
times reported profits, the lowest level on record. The stock
trades for 1.3 times book value, or assets minus liabilities, an
all-time low, according to Bloomberg data.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , the nation’s third-biggest
lender by market value, and  Bank of China , the fourth-largest,
have record low price-to-earnings ratios, the data show.  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the No. 2 lender by market value, and
China Merchants Bank Co., the sixth-biggest, trade at the lowest
valuations since the global financial crisis. All five banks are
state-controlled.  Regulators have taken steps to curb risks from the nation’s
record lending boom, and a repeat of the bad debts that led to a
$650 billion bailout last decade is “impossible,” China
Merchants Bank President Ma Weihua said in a Sept. 14 interview.
Press officers for ICBC, China Construction Bank,  Agricultural
Bank of China  and Bank of China declined to comment, as did an
official from the China Banking Regulatory Commission.  Price-to-Book  The MSCI China Financials Index, which has a 63 percent
weighting in bank shares and includes insurers and property
companies, dropped to 1.2 times book value last week, the lowest
since January 2004, according to Bloomberg data. The index is
trading at a discount to the MSCI Emerging Markets Financials
Index for the first time since January 2006.  The China gauge’s price-to-book ratio has fallen 47 percent
this year, more than the 36 percent decline for Europe’s Stoxx
600 Banks Index, which trades at 0.6 times book value. European
banks may face a 400 billion-euro ($540 billion) capital
shortfall because of losses tied to indebted governments
including  Greece , according to Nomura International Plc.  The Stoxx banks index and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index both dropped 11 percent this month, while the
MSCI Japan Financials Index lost 6.3 percent and the MSCI
Emerging Markets Financials Index declined 20 percent.  ‘Lot of Headwinds’  Shares of Chinese banks “can still go a lot lower,” said
Chanos, who bet on a decline in Enron shares before the company
filed for bankruptcy in 2001. Kynikos is selling short
“virtually all of the large banks in China,” he said, without
naming specific companies. In a short sale, an investor borrows
a security and sells it, expecting to profit from a decline by
repurchasing it later at a lower price.  For Chinese banks, “we don’t think valuations are clear-
cut, even though they trade on cheap price-to-earnings and
price-to-book ratios,” said Amit Mehta, a London-based senior
vice president on the emerging-markets equities team at Pacific
Investment Management Co., which is “underweight” Chinese bank
stocks and oversees about $1.3 trillion worldwide. “There are a
lot of headwinds for the earnings outlook,” he said.  The MSCI China financials index jumped 6.5 percent today
amid a rally in global equities as European policy makers
increased efforts to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Buying Chinese bank shares near current valuations proved
profitable in 2008 after Premier Wen Jiabao’s government
unveiled a stimulus package and increased lending to spur
economic growth. The MSCI China Financials Index jumped 96
percent in the 12 months after the plan was announced on Nov. 9
of that year, with shares of Bank of China climbing more than
120 percent.  Nonperforming Loans  China’s stimulus in any world economic slump is unlikely to
be more than half the nation’s estimated 9.3 trillion yuan ($1.5
trillion) fiscal and monetary expansion from November 2008
through 2010, according to  Ma Jun , a Hong Kong-based economist
at Deutsche Bank AG. China has $3.2 trillion of foreign-exchange
holdings, the world’s biggest hoard, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  A growing Chinese economy will help limit the rise in
nonperforming loans to between 3 percent and 4 percent of total
debt by the end of 2013, up from the current level of 1 percent,
said  Mike Werner , a bank analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in Hong Kong who has “outperform” ratings on ICBC and China
Construction Bank. Profits in the MSCI China Financials Index
will probably climb 12 percent in the next 12 months, according
to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Soft-Landing Scenario’  China maintained economic growth of at least 7.6 percent in
the late 1990s, even after nonperforming loans jumped to more
than 40 percent of the total, according to Bloomberg data and
“Red Capitalism” authors Carl E. Walter and Fraser J.T. Howie.  “The chance of having a banking crisis in China is rather
low,” Stanley Li, an analyst at Mirae Asset Securities (HK)
Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in an interview. “If nonperforming
loans shoot up, profit will fall, but we are likely to see a
soft-landing scenario. The government will step in and won’t let
the system collapse.”  Some Chinese lenders still have bad loans on their balance
sheets from previous banking crises, and the debt the central
government is “implicitly” backing through state-owned
companies and local government entities has climbed to about 200
percent of China’s gross domestic product, on a par with some
European nations, Chanos said in an interview.  The surge in Chinese debt exceeded credit expansions in the
U.S. before its financial crisis, in Japan before its stock and
property bubbles collapsed in 1990 and in South Korea before the
Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s, according to Fitch.  Loans to Developers  Chinese lenders are exposed to a potential drop in real
estate prices after the government cracked down on speculative
purchases and restricted new credit to developers, according to
Rajiv Jain, who oversees about $15 billion at New York-based
Vontobel Asset Management Inc.  The CBRC told lenders in July not to extend the maturity of
loans to developers and not to grant new credit to help
developers repay maturing debt. The regulator is also looking
into financing of developers through trust companies as part of
a broader evaluation of real estate lending, a person familiar
with the matter said last week.  China’s home prices were “basically unchanged” in August
from a month earlier, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s biggest property website.  “There’s already a very frothy asset market with real
estate,” Jain, whose $1.9 billion Virtus Emerging Markets
Opportunities Fund outperformed the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
by 15 percentage points this year, said in an interview. “They
don’t have a lot of maneuvering room on the policy side.”  More Capital  Chinese banks may have to raise more capital to support
their expansion of lending and increase their cushion against
bad loans, according to Nicholas Yeo, the Hong Kong-based head
of China and Hong Kong equities at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc, which oversees about $298 billion. That will add to the
supply of shares and may weigh on prices, he said.  ICBC’s Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial
strength, was 9.82 percent as of June, down from 10.8 percent in
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bank of China’s
ratio fell to 10 percent from 10.8 percent.  Banks’ funding costs are rising in the short-term lending
markets, with China’s seven-day repurchase rate climbing to 3.8
percent yesterday from about 2 percent a year ago. The rate
surged to 9 percent in June, the highest level since October
2007, according to Bloomberg data.  “We’d rather stay away from the big four banks,” said
Yeo. “There’s still a lot of overhang in the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  