-- 
Pesek: China as J.P. Morgan Might Have to Save World

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-09-27T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/china-as-j-p-morgan-might-have-to-save-world-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
China  and the U.S. finally found
something to agree on: Europe is doomed and might take the
world’s two biggest economies down with it.  Neither officials in Beijing nor Washington are actually
using the “D word.” They don’t need to, not with  Zhou Xiaochuan , China’s central bank governor, talking matter-of-
factly about emerging nations bailing out the euro region and
U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner warning of “cascading
default, bank runs and catastrophic risk” there.  The price tag for keeping the Greek-led turmoil from
killing the euro is rising fast. Asians are so anxious about it
that they’re querying Americans -- like me. In my travels around
the region this month, I’ve faced a harrowing question: Would
U.S. President Barack Obama chip in for a giant European
bailout?  It’s hard to decide what’s more disturbing: the obvious
answer -- over Republicans’ dead bodies -- or the fact it’s
being asked at all, and by whom. Among those posing it were the
finance minister of one  Asia ’s biggest economies, the central
bank governor of another and a number of major executives.  Amid all the doubt and despair, here is one thing we do
know: Keeping Europe together, if it’s even possible, will be
monumentally expensive.  Christine Lagarde ’s International
Monetary Fund is supremely out of its league. Its $384 billion
 lending  chest would barely be enough to save  Greece , never mind
Spain or  Italy . The IMF needs a bailout.  Reprising Morgan  And so it’s come to this: Asia, flush with trillions of
dollars of cash, is being cast as the potential savior of global
capitalism. Being thrust into the role of a modern-day J.P. Morgan, the New York financier who restored order amid the Panic
of 1907, is what Asia gets for saving so obsessively for a rainy
day. Little did the region know that the storm its currency
reserves would be called upon to address would be on another
continent.  Asia should be wary. There are at least two ways in which
Asia’s potential largess could end badly. One, developing
nations saving the irresponsible lifestyles of rich Westerners
elevates the idea of moral hazard to a whole new level. Two,
Asia needs its money more than it may realize.  The thing is,  Europe  should have encouraged Greece to
restructure its debt years ago. Instead, denial and paralysis
got the best of politicians considering one bad option after
another. They tossed hundreds of billions of euros down a
sinkhole with nothing to show for it.  Asia’s Money  Now that German taxpayers are having fits about coughing up
more to bail out their single currency’s weakest links, Europe
is looking East. People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou finds
himself saying it’s “too early” to determine how emerging
economies can help the euro area overcome its sovereign-debt
crisis. Yet he knows this is a matter of “when,” not “if.”
The BRIC nations --  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China -- have $4.3
trillion of reserves, and Europe, a major trade partner, needs
money.  That might calm markets, but it won’t reduce the need for
major reforms. Why begin the messy process of creating a fiscal
union among 17 members and generating a euro-wide  bond issue  if
Asia’s money can buy time? Giving Europe the scope to again
delay economic upgrades won’t do anyone any good.  Asia, meanwhile, shouldn’t let its reserve bulwark lull it
into complacency. The region did a remarkable job of steering
around the 2008 financial crisis. Doing it again if a second
meltdown hits will be more difficult. Additional fiscal stimulus
may run afoul of the credit raters. Looser monetary policy may
well touch off unacceptable rates of inflation.  Risks Abound  What’s more, Asia needs its savings to fund priorities such
as  job creation , education and infrastructure. And then there’s
poverty. China’s $3 trillion-plus of reserves creates the
illusion that the most populous nation has plenty of money. Yes,
it’s a colossal sum, but it doesn’t take into consideration how
a reprise of 2008 would affect  China’s economy .  Maintaining growth in the vicinity of 10 percent will
require even more stimulus than last time. Efforts to stabilize
things a few years back necessitated hundreds of billions of
dollars of public spending. Those debts could go bad if world
growth goes into reverse again. China proved it can live for
three years with reduced demand from U.S. and European
consumers. Staying on a Spartan diet for five years or more
might be another story.  There’s a view nowadays that emerging-market bonds are
reliable havens. A senior Colombian official made that argument
to me in Tokyo recently. That’s fine for now, but the longer the
world goes without expansion from the major economies, the
riskier that premise becomes. Without growth in the core of the
global system, the periphery will suffer.  As Europe crashes, China and Asia may be called upon to
back a rescue in the manner of Morgan a century ago. Of course,
it’s not nearly as simple as that. Nor is it in the best
interests of the global financial system in the long run.
There’s something obscene about poor and thrifty countries
bailing out richer, profligate ones. And that’s something we can
all agree on.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 