-- 
China Is World’s ‘Most Crowded’ Short, Societe Generale Says

-- B y   R i c h a r d   F r o s t
-- 
2011-09-27T09:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/china-stocks-on-verge-of-massive-short-squeeze-socgen-says.html
China stocks are on the verge of a
“massive short squeeze,”  Societe Generale  SA said, citing
recent equity declines, rising short volumes and European
restrictions on short sales.  Bets on declining share prices “have been building up over
the past six months as  hedge funds  went short financials,”  Todd Martin  and Anthony Lee, analysts at Societe Generale, wrote in a
report dated today. China is “the world’s most crowded short,”
they wrote.  Stocks may rebound as the Shanghai Composite Index is near
the “technically important” low of 2,319 reached in July 2010.
Shares may also rally as the level of shorts as a percentage of
total volume has climbed to 9 percent, while hedge funds have
been restricted from shorting stocks in much of Europe, the
analysts wrote.  The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of Chinese stocks
available to overseas investors sank 12 percent last week and
traded at the lowest level since April 2009 yesterday amid
concern Europe’s debt crisis and faltering growth in the U.S.
will hurt earnings. The gauge climbed 6.4 percent to 9,294.22 at
the 4 p.m. local-time close. The Shanghai Composite has plunged
14 percent this year as the government took steps including
raising  interest rates  to cool inflation.  Dividend Yields  Foreign investors have “lost their sense of reality,” the
Societe Generale analysts wrote. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index trades at 6.28 times 2012 consensus earnings estimates and
at a 4.4 percent 2011 dividend yield, compared with U.S. 10-year
yields of only 1.88 percent, they wrote.  The MSCI China Financials Index sank 24 percent this month
through yesterday, falling more than benchmark bank gauges for
 Europe , the U.S.,  Japan  and emerging markets. Valuations in
China dropped below levels reached during the 2008 global
financial crisis for the first time last week, even after
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of China
Ltd. said first-half profits hit a record and analysts raised
forecasts for next year.  Ping An Insurance Group Co., China’s second-biggest
insurance company, is also a “potential short-squeeze
candidate” after it denied that major shareholders were pulling
out, they wrote. The stock surged 10 percent to HK$46.80 today
after plunging 14 percent yesterday amid speculation shareholder
HSBC Holdings Plc sold shares.  Short sellers borrow stocks and sell them in the hope of
profiting by repurchasing the securities later at a lower price
and returning them to the holder. Short-covering occurs when an
investor buys a security to close a short position or to return
a borrowed security.  In a short squeeze, a lack of supply forces prices upward
and traders with short positions are forced to buy securities to
cover their positions and limit losses. The surge of buying
results in even higher prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Frost in  Hong Kong  at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  