-- 
Christopher Flowers Says Europe Could Be Worse Than U.S. Post-Lehman Bros.

-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 
2011-09-27T16:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/christopher-flowers-says-europe-could-be-worse-than-u-s-post-lehman-bros-.html
Christopher Flowers, founder of
private-equity firm JC Flowers & Co., said European economies
are “very troubling” and face larger problems than the U.S.
after the 2008 bankruptcy of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Flowers, speaking today at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit
in New York, said he is keeping “plenty of cash and capital”
in the event of a potential crisis.  “In  Europe , you have sovereign states that don’t control
their own currency,” said Flowers, 53, who is chairman and
chief executive officer of the New York-based firm. “It’s going
to be an interesting situation.”  Flowers, who has been investing in the U.K. and Europe in
the past year, said interbank lending in the region is dead.
While Europe is the “most dangerous it’s been,” the European
Union will likely succeed at holding the regional economies
together, he said.  “The problem is for an investor like me, it’s impossible
to know how it’s going to turn out,” Flowers said. “The more
likely scenario is we muddle through. Doing nothing is not going
to lead to muddling through.”  If Europe goes into a deep crisis, there will be a
“proliferation of government-assisted bank sales,” Flowers
said.  Irish Life Bidder  There is a 15 percent to 20 percent chance of a “complete
breakdown” in Europe, with banks failing, multiple countries
defaulting and living standards dropping across the continent,
said  Guy Hands , chairman and chief investment officer at London-
based private-equity firm Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd, who
also spoke at the conference.  “There’s less incentive for a bank to provide financing
now,” Hands said at the conference. “The bankers are not
coming out, and they will not come out until they have the
liquidity.”  “The economy is likely to grow, but less quickly than we
did before,” at half to two-thirds of the rates, said Glenn Hutchins, co-founder of  Silver Lake , the  Menlo Park , California
private-equity firm that specializes in technology takeovers.  Hutchins, who also spoke today at the conference, said
economies are more vulnerable to “exogenous shocks,” such as
the tsunami in  Japan  and  Washington ’s “debt debacle.”  Insurance, Consumer Finance  The U.S. is more appealing than Europe at the moment, said
Flowers, adding that he has looked at insurance and consumer
finance firms and continues to explore bank recapitalization
deals. He said financial institutions are “as cheap as they’ve
ever been.”  JC Flowers was among five bidders vying to purchase Irish
Life & Permanent Plc’s life assurance unit, the biggest insurer
of its kind in the country, three people with knowledge of the
discussions, said in August. Earlier this month, Flowers met
with executives of NCG Banco, a Spanish lender seeking private
investors to boost capital, according to a spokesman for the
lender.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Schatzker in New York at 
 eschatzker@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  