-- 
Citic Share Sale Draws Demand From Fund Managers as Individuals Hold Back

-- B y   F o x   H u ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-09-27T09:51:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/citic-share-sale-lures-fund-managers-as-individuals-hold-back.html
Citic Securities Co., aiming to
raise as much as $1.9 billion in a  Hong Kong  stock offering,
drew orders for more than three times the shares available to
fund managers, according to people involved with the
transaction.  Individuals placed orders for less than half of one percent
of the offering, the people said, asking not to be identified as
the information is private. The biggest Chinese brokerage by
market value, raised the bottom of its offering range to
HK$13.30 from HK$12.84 apiece, two people said. The top of the
range remains the same at HK$15.20 a share.  Citic Securities, listed in Shanghai, braved a market slump
to proceed with the biggest Hong Kong share sale since Italian
fashion retailer Prada SpA raised $2.5 billion in June. The  Hang
Seng Index  is down 17 percent since Prada’s initial public
offering was priced, and stock offerings have dwindled amid
 Europe ’s escalating sovereign debt crisis.  “Retail investors are really concerned about the recent
volatility and what’s going on in Europe and the U.S,” Victoria Mio, a  fund manager  at the Hong Kong division of Robeco, which
oversees $200 billion, “Institutional investors take a longer-
term view, thinking that Citic Securities would offer them a way
to gain exposure to the A-share market when valuation is at
historical low.”  Temasek Holdings  Citic Securities offered 995.3 million shares at HK$12.84
to HK$15.20 apiece, according to a prospectus released on Sept.
21. The bottom of the range has been raised to reflect moves in
Citic Securities’ share price in  Shanghai , the people said.  The Beijing-based offered 49.8 million shares, or 5 percent
of the total, to individuals while the rest was allocated for
fund managers. Banks managing the offering may reallocate the
shares that were held aside for individuals because of the lack
of demand, according to the prospectus.  Citic Securities plans to set the final price for the
offering tomorrow, the prospectus shows. A Beijing-based
spokesman for Citic Securities declined to comment on the
response it has received from potential investors.  Institutional investors buying the shares include
 Singapore ’s  Temasek Holdings Pte  and  Kuwait Investment
Authority . They are among so-called cornerstone investors who
agreed to buy $850 million of shares, according to the term
sheet. Cornerstone investors are guaranteed shares in the
offering in return for a pledge not to sell their stock
immediately.  ’Strong Balance Sheet’  The offering range values Citic Securities at up to 1.39
times estimated 2011 book value and 15.9 times forecast 2011
earnings, according to a term sheet sent to investors on Sept.
16. Citic Securities rose 1.2 percent to 11.81 yuan in Shanghai
today.  The sale comes as other issuers have canceled or delayed
Hong Kong stock offerings amid the stock market volatility in
recent days. XCMG Construction Machinery Co. scrapped plans for
a $1.1 billion share sale over the weekend, while Sany Heavy
Industry Co., another construction equipment maker, delayed its
$3.3 billion sale last week.  “Citic Securities has a very strong balance sheet,” Mio
said, “Its leverage level is among the lowest in brokerage
industry globally.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  