-- 
Cities Across U.S. Grapple With Tax Revenue Drop as Costs Rise, Aid Falls

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-09-27T20:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/cities-across-u-s-grapple-with-tax-revenue-drop-as-costs-rise-aid-falls.html
For U.S. cities, the effects of the
real-estate collapse and the recession it helped spark in 2007
are showing few signs of ending.  More than half, 57 percent, of municipal officials said
finances were worse in fiscal 2011 than in 2010, the  National
League of Cities  said today, citing a survey of municipal
officials. Inflation-adjusted revenue is headed for a fifth-
straight annual drop, while worker health-care and pension costs
rose for more than 80 percent. Half said state aid has declined.  The good news was that the number of city officials saying
their communities are worse off was lower compared with the 87
percent who said that last year. The number who indicated things
had improved rose to 43 percent from 13 percent.  “We’re in a situation where they don’t see it getting
worse, but it’s not getting any better,” Christopher W. Hoene,
research director for the advocacy organization in  Washington ,
said by telephone yesterday.  The plight of cities has exerted a drag on the economy as
local officials move to cut spending to cope with diminished tax
collections and reduced assistance from states dealing with
their own budget deficits, government data show. More than a
half-million jobs have been cut from municipal payrolls in the
past three years, according to U.S. Labor Department figures.
States have slashed 130,000 positions since August 2008.  Property Markets Slump  The real-estate rout that’s pushed down  home prices  in
major metropolitan markets by almost a third from a July 2006
peak has cut into property levies, while ebbing  consumer
confidence  has curbed retail sales-tax collections by
municipalities.  State and local property-tax receipts dropped 1.2 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, the U.S. Census
Bureau said today. That marked the third-straight decline.  Municipal governments are also shouldering rising medical-
care expenses for workers and face widening unfunded pension
liabilities after tumbling markets led to losses in 2009.  Local governments have only recently begun to feel the full
brunt of the housing market’s drop because values used for taxes
typically lag behind markets by 18 months or more, according to
the League. Receipts likely will decline in fiscal 2012 and 2013
for the same reason, the group said.  Default Speculation  The financial strains on cities have fostered investor
speculation that municipal-bond defaults would rise after
banking analyst  Meredith Whitney ’s firm in September 2010
forecast that more issuers would renege on their debts.  While communities such as  Pennsylvania ’s capital of
Harrisburg have staved off default, Central Falls,  Rhode Island ,
began bankruptcy proceedings last month because of costs tied to
pensions and employee health care.  “Those choices are very, very rare,” Hoene said.  Through Sept. 22, about $1.18 billion of municipal debt
entered default this year, compared with almost $3.61 billion
for 2010, according to the Distressed Debt Securities Newsletter
in  Miami Lakes ,  Florida . On the whole, cities are paying their
bills and balancing their budgets by eliminating jobs, canceling
projects and charging more for services, Hoene said.  Local governments have slashed 550,000 jobs from their
payrolls since September 2008, the month that the Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. sought bankruptcy court protection,
accelerating the financial crisis. Half of cities cut or froze
employee pay, 31 percent fired workers and 30 percent cut
health-care benefits, the League said.  Delayed Projects  Three out of five municipalities delayed or canceled
“capital infrastructure projects,” according to the survey.
Mayors and city councils also took steps to increase revenue.
Fees charged to residents were raised in 41 percent of cities,
while 23 percent imposed new charges and 20 percent raised
property-tax rates, the League said.  The survey of 1,055 municipal finance officers, including
those in all U.S. communities with more than 50,000 residents,
was conducted by mail and e-mail from April to June. The results
are based on 272 responding cities.  Since the end of June, there has been growing investor
concern that the  U.S. economy  may stall and slip into recession.
National nonfarm payroll growth halted a 10-month climb in
August, Labor Department figures show. Manufacturing output
slowed last month while consumer confidence plunged.  Given the direction of the economy, it may be two to five
years before local revenue grows enough to let cities fully
emerge from the slump spurred by the recession that ended in
June 2009, Hoene said. A housing market recovery will be key to
any rebound, given the dependence on real-estate taxes.  “There’s a big question mark about where we are headed
economically,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  