-- 
Coffee Falls in Rout as Starbucks Cup Costs $1.50: Commodities

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-09-28T18:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/coffee-falls-in-rout-as-starbucks-cup-costs-1-50-commodities.html
Farmers from  Vietnam  to  Brazil  will
supply a record robusta crop in the marketing year that begins
next month, extending a slump in coffee futures that spurred
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and J.M. Smucker Co. to cut prices.  Production will rise 5.4 percent to 3.29 million metric
tons (54.9 million 60-kilogram bags) in the 2011-12 season, the
U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Vietnam and Brazil,
the biggest producers, will reap the most beans ever. Robusta
traded on the NYSE Liffe exchange in London fell 26 percent
since March, and will drop another 5 percent to $1,884 a metric
ton by Dec. 31, according to the mean in a Bloomberg survey of
16 brokers, traders and analysts.  Robusta, the second most-consumed coffee after arabica, is
reversing a rally that more than doubled prices in the 12 months
ended in March as shortages emerged. That was part of a global
surge in food prices that the  United Nations  estimates reached a
record in February. U.S. food-price inflation will be as much as
3.5 percent next year, compared with as much as 4 percent this
year, the USDA estimates.  “Vietnam will have a record crop next season and supply
will be readily available for roasters, which had to rely on
stocks after the country ran out of beans earlier this year,”
said Keith Flury, a commodities analyst at Rabobank
International in London. “Increased availability will pressure
prices, helping ease costs for roasters and consumers.”  Robusta futures reached a three-year high of $2,672 in
March as an unusually long rainy season in  Indonesia  cut output
by 12 percent to 7.95 million bags. While production in the
world’s third-largest grower probably dropped another 16 percent
to 6.66 million bags in the harvest that began in April, the
decline will be more than offset by the biggest suppliers.  Vietnam Harvest  Output in Brazil, which started its 2011-12 harvest in
July, will rise 14 percent to 14.5 million bags, the USDA
estimates. Vietnam’s harvest, which begins next month, will
yield 9.8 percent more at 19.9 million bags, the data show.
Futures traders are already anticipating the surge in supply of
the beans used mostly in instant coffee, with robusta for
November delivery trading at $1,932 on Sept. 26.  Prices for arabica, favored by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , dropped 19
percent to $2.335 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York since
Sept. 1, also reacting to traders’ expectations of increasing
supply. Brazil will harvest a record crop next year, according
to Volcafe, a unit of ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. The USDA is
forecasting the biggest Central American supply in a decade.  Green Coffee  The flood of beans will add to European coffee stockpiles
that already rose 35 percent to 13.66 million bags this year as
Vietnamese farmers accelerated exports to take advantage of a
three-year high in prices, data from the European Coffee
Federation show. The figure includes robusta and arabica.
Stockpiles of green, or unroasted, coffee in U.S. warehouses
monitored by the Green Coffee Association of  New York  jumped 19
percent to almost 4.74 million bags this year.  The anticipated price slump may be curbed if the Vietnam
Coffee and Cocoa Association implements a plan to stockpile
beans to avoid domestic shortages, said  Kona Haque , an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. Vietnam exporters agreed
this month to stockpile 420,000 tons of beans for 2011-12,
 Luong Van Tu , chairman of the association, said yesterday.  Macquarie predicts robusta will average $1,919 in 2012,
about 2 percent more than estimated in the Bloomberg survey.
Robusta averaged $1,836 since NYSE Liffe started trading the 10-
ton contract in 2008.  Marketing Year  Global robusta production will exceed demand by almost 4.1
million bags in the coming season, according to ABN Amro Bank NV
and VM Group. Macquarie anticipates a surplus of 2.5 million
bags, the most in four years, compared with a shortfall of about
700,000 bags in the current marketing year.  Robusta output in  Ivory Coast , the fifth-biggest grower,
will rise almost 10 percent to 2.3 million bags, according to
the USDA. Production will also expand in  Guinea , Madagascar,
 Laos ,  Malaysia , Tanzania and Togo, according to the Washington-
based government department.  While stockpiles are rising and futures slumping, consumer
prices may take longer to react because roasters and retailers
need to work through inventories accumulated at higher costs.  Starbucks, the world’s largest coffee-shop operator, bought
most of the coffee it needs for the year ending in September
2012, Troy Alstead, the Seattle-based company’s chief financial
officer, said in a conference call in July. A 12-ounce brewed
coffee from Starbucks in the U.S. ranges from $1.50 to $1.75,
according to Alan Hilowitz, a spokesman for the company.  Retail Prices  Kraft, which owns the Maxwell House brand, reduced prices
for some products by 6 percent last month after raising them
three times in 2010, the Northfield, Illinois-based company said
Aug. 23. Smucker, which owns the Folgers brand, reduced costs
for the majority of its coffee products sold in U.S. by an
average 6 percent in August, the Orrville, Ohio-based company
said in a statement on Aug. 16.  U.S. retail prices for roasted coffee averaged almost $3.91
a pound last year, the most since 1997, according to data
compiled by the  International Coffee Organization  in  London .  “A fall in prices won’t feed through to us immediately
because we already have stocks,” said Bryan Stockley, the
managing director of Coburg Coffee Co., a London-based roasting
company founded almost a half century ago. “It may take six
months or more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 