-- 
Commodities Rise Most in Four Months as Concerns Ebb on Europe Debt Crisis

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-09-27T21:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/commodities-advance-for-second-day-as-copper-climbs-oil-gains.html
Commodities rose the most in four
months, led by metals and energy, on signs that European policy
makers will intensify efforts to contain the region’s debt
crisis.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw materials rose
3.3 percent to 620.02 at 3:45 p.m.  New York  time, the biggest
gain since May 9. Last week, the gauge plunged 8.2 percent.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won parliamentary
backing for a property tax to meet deficit-reduction targets
required to avoid default. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  had predicted that European governments will step up
their response to the crisis.  “Some people put some risk trade back on after last
week,”  Matthew Zeman , a strategist at Kingsview Financial in
Chicago, said in a telephone interview. “People are hoping for
a solution to the euro zone debt crisis.”  All of the GSCI components posted gains. In London, lead
prices jumped the most since August 2009, and nickel rose more
than 5 percent. In New York, crude oil posted the biggest
increase in four months, and silver climbed the most since July.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of equities advanced for the third
straight session, and the dollar declined for the second day in
a row against a basket of six major currencies, enhancing the
investment allure of commodities.  “Hopes of a bailout solution for European banks are
prompting a change in sentiment across financial markets,
helping energy and base metals to rebound from steep losses,”
said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“But the situation is still fragile, given persisting economic
concerns, so a renewed price fall cannot be ruled out.”  The GSCI index has dropped 1.9 percent this year. In April,
the measure reached a 32-month high.  “The selloff is probably not over,”  Tobias Merath , the
head of global commodity research at Credit Suisse AG in Zurich,
said in a report. “Indicators of funding stress are still
showing growing and not easing pressures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 