-- 
Consumer Confidence Stagnates at Two-Year Low

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T20:42:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/consumer-sentiment-in-u-s-rises-less-than-forecast-on-pessimism-over-jobs.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
stagnated in September near a two-year low as the share of
households saying it was difficult to find a job climbed to the
highest level in almost three decades.  The Conference Board’s sentiment index increased to 45.4
from a revised 45.2 reading in August that was the lowest since
April 2009, when the economy was in a recession, figures from
the New York-based private research group showed today. A report
on  home prices  showed values dropped less than forecast in the
year ended July.  The confidence reading signals hiring hasn’t improved after
the world’s largest economy failed to create jobs in August and
the  unemployment rate  held at 9.1 percent. Plunging stock prices
and concern the crisis in  Europe  will undermine the global
recovery may also be shaking Americans’ resolve, raising the
risk that spending will cool during the  holiday shopping season .  “Consumers remain very concerned about income, employment
and the state of the economy,” said  John Herrmann , a senior
fixed-income strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in
 Boston . “All of these factors point to even weaker labor market
conditions as we get closer to the end of the year.”  Stocks advanced for a second day amid speculation that
policy makers will be able to prevent the European debt crises
from worsening. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 1.1
percent to 1,175.38 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . Shares
weathered a late-day selloff following a report in the Financial
Times, citing European officials, that some euro-area countries
are demanding private creditors take bigger writedowns on their
Greek bond holdings.  Treasuries Drop  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 1.98 percent from 1.90 percent late
yesterday.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4.1 percent in July from the same month in 2010, after a
revised 4.4 percent drop in the 12 months to June, the group
said. The median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected a 4.4 percent decline. Values were little changed
in July from the prior month after adjusting for seasonal
changes, the same as in June.  Investigations into bank foreclosure practices caused lags
in processing that may have helped stabilize prices in recent
months, economists like Celia Chen said. Values may soon resume
their slide as the holdups dissipate, putting more houses onto
the market and pushing back any recovery in the industry that
precipitated the last recession.  More Depreciation  “Due to foreclosure processing delays, fewer distressed
sales are occurring relative to normal sales,” said Chen, a
housing economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “With more distressed homes likely to be sold in
coming months,  house prices  will depreciate further before they
stabilize.”  Economists projected the Conference Board’s September
confidence gauge would climb to 46, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from 40 to 49
in the survey of 74 economists. The index averaged 98 during the
economic expansion that ended in December 2007.  Today’s confidence report is in line with other figures.
The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index dropped in mid September to
the weakest point since the recession ended in June 2009. The
Thomson Reuters/University of preliminary index of consumer
sentiment rose this month from a two-year low.  Data Breakdown  The Conference Board’s data showed a measure of present
conditions declined to 32.5, the lowest since January, from 34.3
in August. The measure of expectations for the next six months
rose to 54 from 52.4.  The share of consumers who said jobs are currently hard to
get increased to 50, the highest level since May 1983, from 48.5
in August. That may signal a worsening of the September
employment data.  Confidence dropped in six of nine U.S. regions, according
to today’s report.  The percent of respondents in the Conference Board survey
expecting more jobs to become available in the next six months
rose to 12 from 11.8 the previous month.  The proportion expecting their incomes to rise over the
next six months decreased to 13.3, the lowest since October,
from 14.3 in August.  “We all know that the economic uncertainty that we’re
seeing in the world today is putting pressure on consumers,”
Mark Parker, chief executive officer of  Nike Inc. (NKE) , the world’s
largest sporting-goods company, said on a Sept. 22 conference
call with analysts. “Some consumers have returned to higher-end
goods while others are trading down or cutting back.”  A stagnant labor market is weighing on Americans’ outlooks.
Payrolls were unchanged in August, compared with 85,000 jobs
added in July. The jobless rate has been around 9 percent or
higher since May 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  