-- 
Copper Gains in New York as Investors Close Bets on Lower Prices

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-27T12:48:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/copper-rebounds-as-investors-close-out-bets-on-lower-prices.html
Copper rebounded in  New York  on
speculation investors were buying the metal, used in tubing and
wiring, to close out bets on lower prices.  Copper rose after tumbling to a 14-month low of $3.0715 a
pound yesterday. Speculators were the most bearish on copper
since July 2009, as managed-money funds held net-short positions
in copper futures and options, data from the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed last week.  “Traders are building short positions and will need to
cover in the event of a rally, which could lead to sharp
jumps,” Angus Staines, an analyst at UBS AG in London, wrote in
an e-mail today. The so-called short-covering denotes purchases
to close out bets on lower prices.  Copper for December delivery rose 14.45 cents, or 4.4
percent, to $3.4275 a pound at 8:41 a.m. on the Comex in New
York. Copper for delivery in three months gained 4.1 percent to
$7,565 a metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange.  Speculators’ wagers on falling Comex copper prices totaled
6,672 futures and options contracts as of Sept. 20, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed. The measure showed net-long
positions a week earlier of 300 futures and options contracts,
betting on higher prices.  “Small automaker and Chinese consumer buying are adding to
macro short covering,” said  David Thurtell , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore . Chinese buyers should “start re-
stocking when the price is right, not a minute before and not a
minute after.”  ‘Excessive’ Fall  “It would seem that the fall in prices over the past few
days is now regarded as excessive,”  Daniel Briesemann , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in a report today.
“The low  price levels  are viewed as attractive buying
opportunities.”  In  Chile , Codelco, the world’s largest copper producer,
lost 1,413 tons of production after a Sept. 24 power disruption
on Chile’s central grid, the company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Tin for delivery in three months gained 6.3 percent to
$21,600 a ton on the LME. The metal, used in electronics
production, climbed as much as 6.8 percent to $21,700 a ton
after Indonesia, the biggest exporter, said it plans to halt
overseas shipments from Oct. 1 to support prices.  Overseas shipments will be resumed if the price goes to
$25,000 per ton, said Johan Murod, director at PT Bangka
Belitung Timah Sejahtera, a group of smelters. PT Timah,
 Indonesia ’s largest tin producer said it supported the plan.  Aluminum rose 1.2 percent to $2,230.25 a ton. Open interest
in LME aluminum futures, or the number of contracts outstanding,
climbed to almost 1.3 million lots as of Sept. 23, the most
since at least 2005, exchange data on Bloomberg showed.  Zinc, lead, and nickel also advanced in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  