-- 
Allon, PetroAmerica, Rare Element, TMX: Canadian Equity Preview

-- B y   K a i t l y n   K i e r n a n
-- 
2011-09-28T13:19:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/corby-distilleries-loncor-resources-canadian-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Canadian trading.  Allon Therapeutics Inc. (NPC)  : The Vancouver-based drug
developer received a U.S. patent for its preclinical compound
AL-408 for the treatment of fetal alcohol syndrome.  Corby Distilleries Ltd. (CDL/A)  (CDL/A CN): The alcoholic-beverages
maker sold 17 brands and a Montreal factory to Sazerac Co. for
C$32.9 million ($32.3 million), according to a press release
distributed by CNW Group Ltd.  Loncor Resources Inc. (LN)  : The gold explorer with
operations in Africa received a “buy” rating in new coverage
from Brock Salier, an analyst at GMP Capital Inc.  PetroAmerica Oil Corp. (PTA)  : The oil and gas developer
with operations in Colombia said it entered an agreement to
increase its interest in the El Eden block in  Colombia  to 40
percent from 25 percent while withdrawing from the El Sancy
block.  Rare Element Resources Ltd. (RES)  : The owner of a rare-
earth metals project in Wyoming reported a fourth-quarter loss
of 13 cents a share, compared with the 8-cent-loss estimate of
one analyst surveyed by Bloomberg.  TMX Group Inc. (X)  : The owner of the Toronto Stock
Exchange said a takeover offer from Maple Group Acquisition
Corp., which is a group of 13 Canadian financial-services
companies including Toronto-Dominion Bank and Manulife Financial
Corp., is a legitimate bid. Maple offered to buy TMX for C$3.73
billion ($3.65 billion).  Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. (VRX)  : The
drugmaker received approval for colesevelam hydrochloride, a
treatment to help lower LDL cholesterol levels, from the
Canadian regulatory authority  Health Canada .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kaitlyn Kiernan in New York at 
 kkiernan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  