-- 
Banks May Hold Onto Credit-Default Swap Risks for Weeks, Fed Report Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-09-27T18:26:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/credit-swap-dealers-may-hold-onto-risk-for-weeks-fed-study-says.html
Credit-default swap dealers often
hold onto risk from big trades for longer than many investors
thought, which may complicate efforts by regulators to impose
new reporting rules in the $28.4 trillion market, according to a
Federal Reserve report.  The world’s biggest 14 banks didn’t offset large corporate
or sovereign CDS trades with customers on the same day 45
percent of the time, three months of actual trading data from
May through July 2010 from the banks revealed, according to a
study released today by the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  “This is also consistent with anecdotal evidence that
dealers may hold on to positions for days or weeks before
hedging,” the report said.  The banks, through industry groups, have argued that a
proposal to report large swap trades within 15 minutes is not
enough time to protect them from competitors taking advantage of
their need to hedge. Banks use hedging, which involves
offsetting one trade with an opposite transaction, to protect
themselves from losses. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission
proposed the time limit last year in a bid to bring increased
price transparency to the $601 trillion swaps market.  May Raise Costs  “The existing CFTC and SEC proposals for block trade
reporting would likely increase (rather than decrease) costs for
end users, including institutional investors and corporations
seeking to manage risk or raise capital,” the  International
Swaps and Derivatives Association  and Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association said in January. The groups
represent banks such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  in the swaps market.  “Our analysis seems to suggest that requiring same day
reporting of CDS trading activity may not significantly disrupt
same day hedging activity, since little such activity occurs,”
the Fed report said. “It will be important for policy makers to
gauge what impact greater post-trade transparency would have on
dealers’ existing approach of holding onto risk and trading out
of positions gradually” because “this behavior is important in
facilitating trading in the CDS market.”  Transparency Efforts  The CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  are
leading efforts to write rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act to
reduce risk and boost transparency in trades by firms including
Deutsche Bank AG,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Cargill Inc. Dodd-Frank was
enacted by President  Barack Obama  in July 2010 after trades in
the unregulated swaps market helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  The Fed report, written by Kathryn Chen, Michael Fleming,
John Jackson, Ada Li and Asani Sarkar, identified large trades
as those bigger than 95 percent of other transactions on a
notional value. It stressed that other hedging methods could
have been employed by the banks, such as using CDS contracts of
a different maturity. It also noted that credit swaps often
hedge cash bond positions held by banks.  Customer Trades  Banks hold on to customer trades without hedging them for
two reasons, said  Darrell Duffie , a finance professor at
 Stanford University . The first is if they’ve received a good
price in return for immediately filling the customer order.
“The other is you happen to be on the side of the speculative
market that’s good, so you hold on to it” to profit from the
trade as it increases in value, Duffie said.  He agreed with the banks’ position that 15 minutes is too
short to have to report big trades. That said, “the dealers
have a conflict of interest” because “it’s to their advantage
to have less transparency” in the market, he said.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt.
They are used to protect against losses or speculate on
creditworthiness.  Smaller Blocks  Duffie said that once the reporting delay rules are in
place the market will change, with dealers trading in smaller
sizes to avoid triggering the block trade requirement. The
hedging of smaller trades will be easier and occur more quickly
after transactions are completed, he said.  On an average day during the study, 3,000 CDS trades based
on corporate debt or sovereign debt were done, so-called single-
name trades, equaling $25 billion in notional value, the study
found. For CDS indexes such as the Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index and the Markit iTraxx Europe Index, 1,450
trades occurred on an average day, representing $74 billion in
notional value.  The 48 most-active single-name CDS based on corporate debt
traded on average 10 times a day. For CDS based on sovereign
debt the most active changed hands 30 times per day, the study
found. About 280 trades a day occurred on average for the most
popular index, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net .
 Z FP <Equity> CN
ICE US <Equity> CN
CME US <Equity> CN
 Z US <Equity> CN
UBS AG <Equity> CN
JPM US <Equity> CN
C US <Equity> CN
BARC LN <Equity> CN
 Z LN <Equity> CN
BLK US <Equity> CN
21429Z US <Equity> CN
AB US <Equity> CN
 Z US <Equity> CN
GS US <Equity> CN
MS US <Equity> CN
BAC US <Equity> CN
NI US
NI COS
NI COR
NI FIN
NI BNK
NI BON
NI DRV
NI CDRV
NI GOV
NI POL
NI RULES
NI EXE
NI CFT
NI SWAP
NI CMD
NI FINFUT 