-- 
Croatian Premier Rejects Tax Increases, Promises Budget Cuts

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 
2011-09-27T13:04:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/croatian-premier-rejects-tax-increases-promises-budget-cuts.html
Croatian Premier  Jadranka Kosor 
rejected tax increases as part of her plan to slash the  budget
deficit , keep family benefits intact and create new jobs should
her Croatian Democratic Union party win December elections.  Kosor, who’s led the party since July 2009, reiterated that
she would cut the budget shortfall to 2.6 percent of gross
domestic product by the end of 2013. She also said she won’t
fire any state employees even as she imposes “fiscal
discipline.”  “All this we can achieve with hard work,” she told a
gathering of party members and journalists in Zagreb today,
without elaborating.  Croatia  is preparing to become the European Union’s 28th
member in July 2013. The winner of the December elections,
pitting the  Croatian Democratic Union  and an opposition
coalition called the Alliance for Change, would inherit an
economy emerging from the longest recession since the breakup of
Yugoslavia.  Foreign direct investment declined to $583 million in 2010
from $6 billion in 2008. The economy grew 0.8 percent in the
second quarter from a year ago, after declining 0.8 percent in
the first quarter and 1.2 percent in 2010.  Kosor also said her party will continue to fight
corruption.  Anti-Corruption Campaign  The Balkan country is struggling with a corruption scandal
that led to the arrest of dozens of ruling-party officials
including former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who resigned in
2009 and handed the reins of government to Kosor, his former
second-in-command.  A lack of foreign investment and deteriorating global
conditions will limit economic growth to about 0.6 percent,
Hrvoje Stojic, chief analyst at Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank d.d, a
local unit of  Austria ’s Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.,
said on Sept. 5. The government forecast 1.5 percent.  The opposition Alliance for Change had 37 percent support
in a Sept. 26 IPSOS-Puls survey of 1,000 people. The ruling
 Croatian Democratic Union , that led Croatia for 16 of the last
20 years, had 20 percent. No margin of error was given.  The Alliance for Chance, led by the  Social Democrats , said
it will offer tax incentives to companies and investors to
create jobs, lower taxes on reinvested profit, keep the kuna
stable and seek lower  interest rates , according to the bloc’s
first policy statement on Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  