-- 
Crude Oil Surges Most Since May on European Efforts to Solve Fiscal Crisis

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-27T20:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/crude-oil-rises-a-second-day-amid-european-efforts-to-solve-debt-crisis.html
Crude oil rose the most in more
than four months on speculation European leaders will bolster
efforts to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, lessening
its impact on the global economy and commodities demand.  Futures climbed 5.3 percent after U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  predicted  Europe  will intensify efforts to
contain its debt problems after a chiding from counterparts
around the world. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won a
vote on a property tax that’s key to the release of European
Union and International Monetary Fund aid and averting default.  “Suddenly everyone is looking at Europe with rose-tinted
glasses,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There are a lot
of structural issues that have to be worked out. If they fail at
just one of them, we could easily come in tomorrow morning with
oil below $80.”  Crude oil for November delivery advanced $4.21 to settle at
$84.45 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest gain since May 9. Oil has dropped 11 percent since the
end of June, the biggest quarterly loss since 2008. Prices are
down 4.9 percent this month and 7.6 percent this year.  Prices retreated from the settlement as the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles rose 568,000 barrels to 347.3 million. November oil
was up $3.50, or 4.4 percent, to $83.74 a barrel in electronic
trading at 4:33 p.m.  Brent oil for November settlement increased $3.20, or 3.1
percent, to end the session at $107.14 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract is down 4.7
percent this quarter. It traded at a premium of $22.69 to crude
in New York, down from a record $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Containing the Crisis  Geithner said in a television interview on ABC that
comments by European leaders at the IMF meetings in  Washington 
last week foreshadowed an “escalation” in measures to contain
the crisis. President  Barack Obama  said yesterday that European
governments are “trying to take responsible actions, but those
actions haven’t been quite as quick as they need to be.”  Papandreou’s Socialist Pasok party won the vote in
parliament by 155 to 142 after Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told Greeks they face economic collapse if they don’t
plug a budget gap that is exceeding the target set in a bailout,
putting an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion) aid payment due next
month at risk.  The Greek prime minister traveled to Berlin two days before
German lawmakers ratify an overhaul of the euro rescue fund,
pledging success in a struggle to restore budget balance.
Papandreou will dine with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who
has stepped up her defense of the euro and toned down calls to
punish  Greece  for its fiscal management.  ‘Irrational Exuberance’  “We’re seeing some irrational exuberance due to optimism
that the Europeans will come to an agreement about the Greek
debt crisis,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “A resolution
of the Greek crisis wouldn’t have that big an impact on growth
or demand. The market move is much greater than it should be.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  rose at least 2.8 percent in intraday trading
before paring gains after Nymex floor trading closed. The S&P
GSCI Index of 24 raw materials rose 3.3 percent to 620.02.  The dollar fell 0.4 percent to $1.3587 against the euro.
The Dollar Index, which tracks the dollar against currencies
including the yen, pound and Swedish krona, declined 0.7 percent
to 77.781.  ‘Risk-On’ Day  “It’s a ‘risk-on’ day for oil,” said Thorbjorn Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,
 Denmark , who predicts Brent will average $107 in the fourth
quarter. “Investors are hoping the  European Central Bank  will
pull a rabbit out of the hat in the form of an increase in the
strength of the bond-buying program.”  U.S. crude supplies probably rose 2.05 million barrels in
the week to Sept. 23 as demand weakened in the world’s largest
oil-consuming country, according to the median estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. Gasoline stockpiles are expected to have
climbed 1 million barrels to the highest level since July.  Gasoline for October delivery rose 12.61 cents, or 4.9
percent, to settle at $2.6955 a gallon in  New York . It was the
biggest gain since May 9.  “The market can be up or down $2 depending on what
direction the wind is blowing,” said Stephen Schork, president
of the Villanova, Pennsylvania-based Schork Group Inc. “Nothing
fundamental has changed.”  Iraqi Output  Iraq , pumping oil at the highest rate in 11 years as
international energy companies develop its fields, expects to
remain exempt from Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
output restrictions, Adnan Al Janabi, the chairman of the
parliament’s oil and energy committee said today.  The Middle East nation can increase production to 5 million
barrels a day, from about 2.81 million currently, without the
approval from OPEC, Janabi said at the Iraq 2011: Future Energy
conference organized by The Energy Exchange in Istanbul.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 500,941
contracts as of 4:32 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 558,421
contracts yesterday, 15 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.38 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 