-- 
CyberAgent Plans to Boost Development of IPhone Apps if KDDI Sells Handset

-- B y   K a z u y o   S a w a   a n d   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 
2011-09-27T05:21:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/cyberagent-may-boost-iphone-apps-amid-reports-of-wider-offering.html
CyberAgent Inc. (4751) , maker of  Japan ’s
most popular blogging service, plans to step up software
development for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone should KDDI Corp. or other
carriers offer the handset in the country.  The Tokyo-based company had planned to shift to making more
apps for  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system because they are
easier to design and sales of devices that run Android were
expected to rise, CyberAgent President Susumu Fujita said in an
interview in Tokyo Sept. 22.  “We will put more effort to develop our applications for
iPhone if KDDI starts selling the smartphone,” Fujita said in
the interview. “I believed Android-based handset sales would
increase, but things may change.”  CyberAgent, operator of the  Ameba blogging service  and the
social game Pigg Life, offers 62 apps for the iPhone, about 70
percent of its offerings for smartphones as of September, while
apps for Android make up almost all the rest, according to the
company. KDDI is likely to make the iPhone 5 available as early
as November, meaning that  Softbank Corp. (9984)  would no longer be the
only mobile operator to offer the iPhone in Japan, Nikkei
Business magazine reported Sept. 22.  Applications for Android are easier to make than for
Apple’s iOS because iPhone apps “require much longer processes
to complete,” Fujita said.  The iPhone accounted for 50 percent of smartphones used in
Japan as of March 31, according to  MM Research Institute . The
researcher estimates Android-based handsets will account more
than 70 percent after the 2011 fiscal year if Softbank remains
the sole iPhone seller in Japan.  CyberAgent generated 1.7 billion yen ($22 million) in
revenue from social applications in the three months ended June
30. The blog service operator has 17 million users in Japan and
4 million users overseas, and plans to have 10 million
smartphone user accounts next year, according to the company.  Shares of CyberAgent gained 1.7 percent to 198,500 yen at
2:15 p.m. in  Tokyo  trading. The stock has gained 2 percent this
year, compared with a 16 percent decline in Japan’s benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kazuyo Sawa in Tokyo at 
 ksawa3@bloomberg.net 
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  