-- 
Washington Gets Cheapest Rates Even as Federal Job Cuts Loom: Muni Credit

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 
2011-09-27T14:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/d-c-gets-lowest-rate-even-as-federal-job-cuts-loom-muni-credit.html
The  District of Columbia  may borrow
the most in its history at a record-low cost today even as
federal budget cuts threaten to erode the employment base of the
nation’s capital.  The city of about 600,000 joins states from coast to coast
rushing to take advantage of the lowest short-term rates since
at least 1989. California slashed borrowing costs by 88 percent
on a $5.4 billion note sale this month.  Washington  Treasurer
Lasana Mack said the city expects to sell $820 million in top-
rated one-year notes at 0.30 percent or less, at least 21
percent cheaper than a similar sale 11 months ago.  “They’re going to benefit from having a high rating given
the economic environment,” said Daniel Solender, who manages
$14 billion as head of municipal bonds at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  Washington, Maryland and Virginia stand to lose the most
jobs and funding as legislators chart how to cut U.S. government
spending. Last week Moody’s Investors Service slapped a negative
outlook on the city’s long-term debt. Efforts to trim the
deficit of the federal government, which employs 29 percent of
the city’s workforce, may have an “outsize impact” on
Washington’s finances, according to Moody’s.  Washington plans to sell the tax-and-revenue anticipation
notes, which are top-rated by Moody’s at MIG 1, at a yield of
about 0.30 percent, or “maybe even lower,” said Mack, 48, who
also serves as deputy chief financial officer. A rate of 0.30
percent was nine basis points more than a top-rated, one-year
benchmark bond on Sept. 23, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lowest Since 1989  The city sold $700 million in tax-and-revenue anticipation
notes in October 2010 at a yield of 0.38, or 11 basis points
more than a top-rated, one-year benchmark bond, Bloomberg data
show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Two weeks ago, yields on top-rated municipal securities
maturing in one year touched the lowest since the Bond Buyer’s
weekly index of the debt began in 1989. They have fallen more
than 5 percentage points in that span.  In August, after the partisan showdown in Congress over
raising the debt ceiling, Moody’s downgraded to negative the
long-term outlooks for Maryland and  Virginia  because they’re
“indirectly linked” to the U.S. government.  ‘Eagerly Awaiting’  “We are sitting in the lap of the federal government here
and we are eagerly waiting to see how the deficit issue is going
to be resolved,” the city’s chief financial officer, Natwar Gandhi, 71, said in a telephone interview.  Gandhi’s concern, like that of Moody’s, is with what the
congressional supercommittee will do when it releases its
budget-cutting plan in mid-November. The panel is charged with
slicing $1.2 trillion from the deficit in addition to almost $1
trillion in cuts made in an August deal that prevented a U.S.
default.  If the supercommittee slashes Medicaid, state budgets could
be imperiled,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report issued last week.
However, states won’t likely feel an immediate impact from the
August reductions, Fitch said.  Any cuts to the government’s insurance program for the poor
could also slam the district’s budget, Gandhi said. Unlike other
cities, Washington provides many of the same services as a
state, including Medicaid. About $1.8 billion, or about 20
percent of its annual operating budget, is spent on the
insurance program, he said.  Medicaid Risk  The city’s ownership of a hospital that “relies heavily”
on Medicaid payments adds to its vulnerability to any reduction
of the program, Moody’s said.  Potential cuts to Medicaid “magnifies the enterprise risk
that the hospital acquisition already poses to the district’s
finances,” Moody’s said. The city purchased United Medical
Center in 2010 and is looking for a private buyer.  Moody’s lowered outlook applies to long-term debt, such as
general-obligation bonds. Washington sold $138.5 million in
income-tax-secured revenue bonds yesterday. Those securities
have a top AAA rating from  Standard & Poor’s  and are rated one
level lower by Moody’s with a stable outlook.  The city’s reserve fund has fallen to $700 million from
$1.5 billion in 2005, and dollars that remain are dedicated and
can’t be touched, Gandhi said. The city’s  revenue  peaked in
fiscal year 2008 at $6.2 billion, and fell to $5.8 billion in
fiscal year 2010.  Depleted Funds  “We don’t have the kind of working capital we used to
have,” Gandhi said. “The recession demanded that we use the
fund balance to take care of city needs.”  From 2008 through fiscal 2010 the total budget, which
includes  capital expenditures , grew by about $600 million to
$10.8 billion, documents show.  Washington is expected to end the current fiscal year on
Sept. 30 with an $89 million surplus, which both the mayor and
the City Council agree should be put toward rebuilding the fund
balance, Gandhi said. The city’s revenue is also expected to
rebound back to its peak 2008 level in the next fiscal year,
city budget documents said.  U.S. state tax revenue grew at its fastest pace in six
years in the second quarter, led by personal and corporate
levies, the Nelson A.  Rockefeller Institute  of Government
reported Sept. 1. Revenue rose 11.4 percent from the same three
months a year earlier, according to the report, which included
data from 46 states.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in New York at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  