-- 
Death Toll in U.S. From Bacteria-Contaminated Cantaloupe Rises

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-09-28T00:04:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/death-toll-in-u-s-from-bacteria-contaminated-cantaloupe-rises.html
At least 13 people have died in the
U.S. from  listeria infections  linked to cantaloupes grown in
 Colorado , making it the most deadly U.S. outbreak of food-borne
infection since 1998, authorities said.  Seventy-two people in 18 states have become ill with
listeriosis traced to contaminated cantaloupe, the Atlanta-based
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  said today in a
statement  posted  on its website.  The  Food and Drug Administration  on Sept. 14 warned
consumers not to eat cantaloupes from Colorado’s Rocky Ford
region shipped by Jensen Farms. The cantaloupes with the brand
name Rocky Ford were distributed from July 29 to Sept. 10 in at
least 17 states.  In 1998, 21 people died from listeria linked to tainted hot
dogs, according to a CDC online database.  The CDC last week said eight people had died in connection
with the recent outbreak in Colorado,  Maryland ,  New Mexico  and
 Oklahoma . Since then, Texas reported two deaths from the
infections, Carrie Williams, a spokeswoman for the Texas
Department of State Health Services, said today in a telephone
interview. Nebraska reported a death from the listeria outbreak
on Sept. 23.  Kansas  had one death linked to the tainted fruit
and is investigating a second death for a possible connection,
said Barbara Hersh, spokeswoman for the Kansas Department of
Health and Environment.  One death attributed to the contaminated cantaloupes also
was reported in  Missouri , the CDC said today.  Laboratory Tests  Most affected people have been older than 60 or have weak
immune systems, the CDC said in its statement. Lab tests have
found Listeria monocytogenes bacteria in equipment and
cantaloupes at a packing facility in Granada, Colorado, as well
as cantaloupe in an ill patient’s home, the agency said last
week. Infections with the bacteria can cause diarrhea, muscle
aches and fever.  The death total from the listeria-tainted cantaloupes has
now surpassed the nine people killed in a salmonella outbreak
involving peanuts that sickened more than 700 in 2008 and 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 