-- 
Debt Crisis Pushes Danish Euro Opposition to Record, Poll Shows

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-27T08:13:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/debt-crisis-pushes-danish-euro-opposition-to-record-poll-shows.html
Danish opposition to joining the
euro rose to a record high as the single currency bloc’s debt
crisis made voters favor the krone, according to a poll
published by Danske Bank A/S.  The lead of the “no” bloc widened to 23.3 percentage
points in September, compared with a 16.5 point lead in June,
according to the poll released today by  Denmark ’s biggest bank
and conducted by Copenhagen-based Statistics Denmark. The poll
puts opposition to the euro at the highest since the currency
was introduced in 1999.  Danes, who rejected a currency switch in a 2000 referendum,
have grown more skeptical toward the euro as  Greece ’s debt
plight puts  Europe ’s single currency through its toughest test
since its inception. The euro yesterday slumped to a decade low
against the yen as policy makers are discussing beefing up the
440 billion-euro ($591 billion) European Financial Stability
Facility, seeking a way to prevent the 18-month crisis from
spreading.  “Sovereign debt problems have probably increased
opposition to Denmark joining” the euro area, Steen Bocian,
chief economist at Danske Bank, said in the statement.  Denmark’s central bank uses monetary policy to maintain the
krone’s peg to the euro in a 2.25 percent band. The bank on July
7 raised its benchmark lending rate to 1.55 percent from 1.3
percent, matching a quarter-point increase by the  European
Central Bank  and keeping the spread between the rates at 5 basis
points.  Rate Spread  In October 2008, Denmark raised its rate to an eight-year
high of 5.5 percent to protect the krone as the credit crisis
spread. That increase brought the difference between Danish and
euro area benchmark rates to 175 basis points. Since the crisis
flared up again in August, the central bank has cut rates twice
as investors in search of low-debt markets buy kroner.  “The ‘no’ camp surge is probably also due to the Danish
central bank having narrowed the policy interest rate spread to
the eurozone,” Bocian said. “Hence the costs of not being part
of the eurozone appear significantly less now.”  The krone’s strength may force Denmark’s central bank this
week to cut two of its non-benchmark  interest rates , the current
account rate and the rate for certificates of deposits,
according to economists at Sydbank A/S and Nykredit A/S.  Social-Democrat leader Helle Thorning-Schmidt, whose
opposition bloc is still in talks to form a new government after
winning this month’s national elections, has said she won’t hold
a euro referendum in the next four years, even though her party
targets euro adoption in the longer term.  Next Referendum  “When the Danes will again vote on joining the euro
remains uncertain,” Bocian said. “However, the Danes will most
likely not be asked to decide on Denmark’s euro opt-out in the
foreseeable future.”  According to the poll, 60.6 percent of respondents would
reject or would be inclined to reject the euro, while 37.3
percent said they would support or be inclined to back the
currency switch, Danske Bank said.  Statistics Denmark interviewed 974 people in the first two
weeks of September for the poll. The lender didn’t provide a
margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  