-- 
Manhattan Developer Sturner Teams With Crown to Acquire Fifth Avenue Tower

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/developer-sturner-teams-with-crown-to-acquire-fifth-avenue-tower.html
New York  developer Norman Sturner
and Crown Acquisitions agreed to buy a 26-story  office tower  on
Fifth Avenue in midtown  Manhattan  from a partnership that
includes Joseph Moinian and Joseph Chetrit.  The Sturner-Crown joint venture plans to raise rents at 530
Fifth Ave., which is located at West 44th Street and has 500,000
square feet (46,000 square meters) of space, Sturner said in a
phone interview. He declined to disclose the price.  “Fifty percent of the building is up for renewal in the
next four to five years at sub-$45 rents,” Sturner said.
Midtown rents averaged $63.35 a foot at the end of the second
quarter, according to Cushman & Wakefield Inc. “This offers us
a great opportunity,” Sturner said.  The property, built in the 1950s, also may benefit from a
jump in retail rents on Fifth Avenue between 42nd and 49th
streets, north of the  New York Public Library , said Peter Hauspurg, president of Eastern Consolidated Properties Inc., a
New York-based investment sales brokerage. Asking rents for
ground-floor spaces in the corridor were $515 a square foot, up
21 percent from a year earlier, according to a May 19 report by
the Real Estate Board of New York.  North of 49th Street, on the stretch of Fifth Avenue
between Rockefeller Center and Central Park, retail rents
average $2,250 a square foot, the highest in the world,
according to New York-based Cushman.  Sturner said he brought in Crown Acquisitions, whose
principals include Haim Chera, for its retail expertise. Crown
partnered with  Carlyle Group  in 2008 to acquire an interest the
retail portion of 666 Fifth Ave. from Kushner Cos. Since then,
Japanese clothier Uniqlo signed a record lease there, and the
parent of Spanish apparel merchant Zara bought a portion of the
space for its own flagship store.  ‘Better at Retail’  “Crown is better at retail than we are, and there’s a big
retail component here,” Sturner said.  The building has about 50,000 square feet of retail space,
including a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  bank branch. The area below
Rockefeller Center, once home to low-cost electronics stores and
gift shops, has been attracting higher-priced tenants in the
past five years, including such clothiers as H&M, Urban
Outfitters and Tommy Bahama, said Joanne Podell, a senior
director for retail brokerage at Cushman.  “You used to have people with placards outside,” she
said. “There was no control. Now you’re looking at the same
foot traffic or better, and better opportunities to be among
good tenants.”  Moinian and Chetrit  Two of the sellers, Moinian and Chetrit, both have sold
buildings, invested additional equity or brought in partners to
avoid default on loans. The Fifth Avenue tower was on a loan
servicer’s watch list until this month, with its  cash flow  17
percent above its debt service as of June 30, according to
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Chetrit was unavailable for comment yesterday, said
Kathleen Cudahy, his spokeswoman. Roxanne Donovan, a spokeswoman
for the Moinian Group, said Moinian had no comment.  The two men are co-owners of  Chicago ’s Willis Tower, the
tallest U.S. building and formerly known as  Sears Tower . They
are trying to sell the skyscraper.  The deal for the Manhattan building is scheduled to be
completed by the end of the year, Sturner said. The building has
a $175 million senior securitized mortgage, according to
Morningstar.  The buyers are seeking an investment bank to take over the
mortgage, Sturner said. They are in talks with three firms, he
said.  Purchased in 2004  The Chetrit-Moinian partnership paid $210 million for 530
Fifth in 2004, then refinanced it in 2006 in a deal that valued
it at $315 million, or $631 a square foot, according to data
from Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based company which
tracks commercial real estate sales.  Office tenants include JPMorgan Chase, whose 83,500-square-
foot lease expires in 2013, according to  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) , a
property-data service. The tower’s vacancy rate is 76 percent.  Moinian last year brought in  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  as a
partner on 3 Columbus Circle, an office tower near Central Park,
rescuing it from a potential foreclosure. The building was among
several whose debt he has restructured, often with new partners,
in the past two years.  Chetrit was among the partners who last month agreed to
sell 620 Avenue of the Americas, an office and retail building
in Manhattan’s Chelsea neighborhood. In January, the partners
put additional equity into the property as part of a
restructuring. He was also part of a joint venture that lost
1107 Broadway, a building next to Madison Square Park, to debt
holders, according to Real Capital.  Chetrit also led a group of investors that acquired New
York’s landmark Hotel Chelsea in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  