-- 
Dexia Has Viability Rating Cut Two Steps on Access to Funding

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-09-27T12:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/dexia-has-viability-rating-cut-two-steps-on-access-to-funding.html
Dexia SA (DEXB) , the municipal lender that
was rescued by France and  Belgium  in 2008, had its viability
rating cut two steps at  Fitch Ratings , which cited a
deterioration of the bank’s access to funding.  Fitch lowered Dexia’s viability rating to b+, or “highly
speculative,” from bb, or “speculative,” the Paris-based
rating company said today in a statement. At the same time,
Fitch affirmed its A+ credit ratings on Dexia and the lender’s
three main operating subsidiaries, with a stable outlook.  “If financial markets remain dysfunctional for a prolonged
period, both balance sheet reduction and access to funding will
become more difficult,” Fitch said in the statement. Brussels-
and Paris-based Dexia may also need to take additional
writedowns on its Greek bond holdings, Fitch said.  Dexia, which took a 21 percent writedown on 1.8 billion
euros ($2.4 billion) of Greek bonds maturing by the end of 2020,
said on Aug. 4 that concern among U.S. investors about the
European sovereign debt crisis affected its ability to borrow
dollars in the money market. Dexia’s reliance on central-bank
funding doubled to about 34 billion euros in the second quarter,
covering about 35 percent of its short-term funding needs and
leaving the lender with about 20 billion euros of securities it
could use as collateral to obtain additional ECB loans.  Fitch’s A+ rating on the debt of Dexia Credit Local SA,
Dexia Bank Belgium SA and Dexia Banque Internationale a
Luxembourg SA is the fifth-highest investment grade. The banks
are rated one step lower at A with a negative outlook by
 Standard & Poor’s  and two steps lower at A3 by Moody’s.  The ratings reflect an “extremely high probability” that
government support from France, Belgium and Luxembourg would be
available if needed, Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  