-- 
Dong Weakens as Falling Local-Currency Deposit Rates Sap Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-27T09:40:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/dong-weakens-as-falling-local-currency-deposit-rates-sap-demand.html
Vietnam ’s dong weakened on
speculation a decline in dong deposit rates at banks boosted
demand for gold and dollars.  Government bonds  fell.  Interest rates  have dropped, with deposit rates currently
at 14 percent to 15 percent, the central bank said in a
statement on its website today. Earlier this month, the  State
Bank  of Vietnam requested that banks scrap bonus rates in order
to enforce its 14 percent interest-rate cap on dong deposits.
Rates were as high as 19 percent for deposits of about 500
million dong ($24,000), Dau Tu newspaper reported on July 29.  “Falling dong deposit rates have encouraged people to
shift from holding the local currency to holding dollars and
gold,” said Doan Thi Thu Hoai, a senior economist at  Viet
Capital Securities Joint-Stock Co.  in  Ho Chi Minh City .
“Recently, Vietnamese citizens have been willing to buy gold
even when domestic prices are 3 million to 4 million dong per
tael higher than international prices.” A tael is about 1.2
ounces.  The dong fell 0.1 percent to 20,832 per dollar as of 4 p.m.
in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central
bank set the currency’s reference rate at 20,628 today,
unchanged since Aug. 24, according to its website. The local
currency is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of
the fixing.  The gap between domestic and international gold prices is
“at a high level,” the central bank said a statement yesterday.
“Citizens should be cautious to avoid” price manipulation by
gold speculators, it said.  The yield on Vietnam’s five-year bonds climbed two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 12.44 percent, according to
a daily fixing price from banks compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  