-- 
Dubai Stocks Rise Led by Emaar as Europe Seeks Crisis Resolution

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-27T12:45:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/dubai-stocks-rise-led-by-emaar-as-europe-seeks-crisis-resolution.html
Dubai’s shares rose the most in
almost a week after  Standard & Poor’s  raised the outlook for
 Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  and on optimism European leaders are
nearing a resolution for the region’s debt crisis.  Emaar, developer of the world’s tallest skyscraper,
advanced for the first time in four days. Emirates NBD PJSC
gained 1 percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  added 0.1 percent, the
most since Sept. 21, to 1,448.46 at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai.
The measure is down 4.5 percent this quarter.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  gained 0.5 percent after closing at the lowest in
almost seven months yesterday. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rallied 4.6 percent at 4:32 p.m. in Dubai and Standard & Poor’s
500 Index futures rose 1.7 percent.  “The S&P revision of Emaar boosted the outlook for its
operating income,” said Waleed Al Khateeb, senior finance
manager at Dubai-based Daman Securities LLC. “The company would
be the first to benefit from a recovery in the real-estate
sector.”  Emaar gained 0.4 percent to 2.77 dirhams. The company with
the heaviest weighting on Dubai’s index had its outlook revised
to stable from negative at S&P, which affirmed the rating at BB.
“The outlook is stable because we see recurring cash flow
generation from leasing activities and improving performance of
Emaar’s hospitality assets, which offsets uncertainties in
international development activities,” S&P said.  Greek Aid  Dubai villa and apartment prices may soon bottom out as
political turmoil elsewhere in the  Middle East  and North Africa
prompts buyers to look for safe investments, Jones Lang LaSalle
said yesterday.  Home prices  in the emirate have dropped 64
percent from their peak in mid-2008 after the global credit
crisis caused mortgage lending to dry up and drove speculators
from the market, Deutsche Bank AG said in June.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will test the
strength of his parliamentary majority today as lawmakers vote
on a property tax that is key to persuading the European Union
and  International Monetary Fund  to release an aid installment
and avert default.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has slumped 22 percent this
quarter on fears  Greece  could default on its debt, while the
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  retreated 6.3 percent.  “United Arab Emirates markets are becoming less correlated
to international volatility,” said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of
asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital. “We will not
see full decoupling, however we will be less affected.”  Trading Volumes  About 57 million shares traded in Dubai today, compared
with this year’s daily average of 113 million shares.  Emirates NBD, the U.A.E.’s biggest bank, advanced the most
since Sept. 21 as one trade was made. The shares closed at 4.03
dirhams.  Oil for November delivery jumped as much as 3.6 percent to
$83.14 a barrel on speculation the debt crisis will be tamed,
tempering a slowdown in demand for the fuel. Gulf Arab oil
exporters, including the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia , supply about a
fifth of the world’s oil.  Kuwait’s SE Price Index fell 0.3 percent. Kuwait Stock
Exchange is holding talks with employees to avert a strike
planned for tomorrow, said Hamed al-Saif, the director and head
of the exchange. Stock exchange employees are planning to strike
for two hours in the morning to protest against a decision by
Commerce Minister Amani Boresli affecting wages, Al-Rai reported
today.  Oman’s MSM 30 Index rose 0.1 percent, while Saudi Arabia’s
 Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  increased 0.4
percent. The Bloomberg GCC 200 Index added 0.3 percent, while
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index lost 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  