-- 
The Humble Origins of Marxism’s Founding Document: Mary Gabriel

-- B y   M a r y   G a b r i e l
-- 
2011-09-27T00:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/the-humble-origins-of-marxism-s-founding-act-commentary-by-mary-gabriel.html
The League of the Just had been
based in Paris, but by the fall of 1846 police harassment had
intensified and most of its strongest members fled France. The
organization moved its central committee to London, coalescing
around the German communists and English  Chartists  with whom
 Karl Marx  and  Friedrich Engels  had met the year before.  Marx had approached these men early in 1846, but the league
rebuffed him. By the fall, however, Marx’s letters had convinced
them that the times demanded the abandonment of the vague,
utopian goal of a future ideal society in favor of
“scientific” communism, which sought to understand and
materially support the modern oppressed class, the proletariat,
who were already engaged in a revolutionary struggle even if
they did not recognize it as such.  Evidence to support Marx’s argument could be found in the
economic and agricultural crisis then raging across the
continent, which had triggered widespread unrest. The bad
harvests that began in 1845 had continued, and this, coupled
with new trade policies that had forced small growers out of
business while allowing large producers to ship food to
lucrative foreign markets, caused the price of many staple items
to double from 1845 to 1847. The number of bankruptcies during
this period was unprecedented. Businesses closed; starvation
began appearing in the cities.  Food Riots  Across  Europe , food riots erupted, followed by workers’
strikes. Some provincial governments tried to tame restless
cities by directing grain away from villages and towns, but that
only exacerbated dire conditions in the countryside.  During the week of June 2, 1847, dozens of league members
gathered at a London pub and agreed to major changes that
sharpened the group’s focus, beginning with its name: the League
of the Just became the  Communist League , and its slogan changed
from “All Men Are Brothers” to the more muscular “Working Men
of All Countries, Unite!” It became the first international
communist organization in history.  But its numbers were tiny. A former Berlin police official
sent to  London  to check on the group estimated its membership
that summer at a mere 84 agitated souls. When Marx formed his
branch of the league in Brussels, it had 18 members, including
his wife, Jenny, her brother Edgar von Westphalen and Engels.  Family Affair  The Brussels league was very much a close-knit, almost
family affair, which was probably the source of its strength.
There was little if any dissent, and everyone took directions
from Marx, who was not surprisingly elected branch president.  The German typesetter Stephan Born recalled Karl and
Jenny’s home in Ixelles as extremely modest and poorly
furnished, but it nevertheless served as the “spiritual center
of communism.”  In November 1847, league members, including Marx and
Engels, met for 10 days in a London pub. Marx, Engels and their
followers tried to steer the group away from utopian ideas and
hoped to erase such flights of fancy from the league’s program.
The league had to be made relevant to workers if it was to grow,
and that meant it had to aggressively address the workingman’s
needs and desires.  By the end of the meeting the group agreed to a revised aim
that was pure Marx: “The overthrow of the bourgeoisie, the rule
of the proletariat, the abolition of the old bourgeois society
which rests on the antagonism of classes, and the foundation of
a new society without classes and without private property.”  Founding Document  The league needed a document that explained its program,
and asked Marx and Engels to write it. Engels proposed the
title, “ The Communist Manifesto .”  In January 1848, using a draft by Engels, Marx began work
on the document. Jenny worked as his secretary to help speed the
project. Their handwriting intertwined on the page as he
scribbled his thoughts and she followed in an elegant, feminine
hand, patiently copying out and making legible her husband’s
blistering indictment of the bourgeoisie and his belief that
revolution was right, inevitable and imminent.  At the end of January he mailed the 23-page document to
London. It was printed with a dark green cover on the pamphlet,
and titled “Manifesto of the Communist Party,” even though no
such party existed. No author’s name appeared on the 800 copies
that came off the press at the end of February 1848. The English
Chartist  George Julian Harney  called the pamphlet, written by
Marx at his small suburban home and copied out by his wife at
their dining table, the most revolutionary document the world
had ever seen.  Melodramatic Opening  The manifesto read like an opening statement in a legal
case. Marx began with the melodramatic “A specter is haunting
Europe -- the specter of Communism,” then set out to describe
communism and the corrupt system it hoped to replace.  Synthesizing ideas from other intellectuals and economists
until they became his own, Marx described crimes committed by
the bourgeoisie, who, he said, “left remaining no other nexus
between man and man than naked self-interest, than callous ‘cash
payment.’” He said the system had reduced traditional
occupations of respect -- doctors, lawyers, priests, poets,
scientists -- into paid wage laborers, and turned “the family
relation to a mere money relation.”  Marx described a state of turmoil unlike anything in
history in a world dominated by capital, because of its need to
constantly revolutionize production and raise profits, which in
turn required new markets around the globe: “It must nestle
everywhere, settle everywhere, establish connections
everywhere.”  ‘Creates a World’  Its system of trade brought raw materials from far-flung
places to producers across oceans so products could be sold to
consumers a steamship or rail line away. Old national industries
were destroyed; old civilizations were, too. Of this system Marx
said, “In one word, it creates a world after its own image.”  But, he explained, this society also created the seeds of
its own destruction, and “is like the sorcerer, who is no
longer able to control the powers of the netherworld who he has
called up by his spells.”  Commercial crises would accelerate with overproduction, and
the army of workers required to run industrial society’s
machines would turn into a force for its demise. “What the
bourgeoisie, therefore, produces, above all, is its own grave-
diggers. Its fall and the victory of the proletariat are equally
inevitable.”  Private Property  Marx declared that at the core of communism was the
abolition of private property. He answered possibly alarmed
critics by noting that nine-tenths of the population at that
time did not possess property, so the only people standing to
lose would be the minority who had made their gains through
exploitation: “Communism deprives no man of the power to
appropriate the products of society; all that it does is to
deprive him of the power to subjugate the labor of others by
means of such appropriation.”  Why should an industry whose operation depends upon the
work of 100 people, perhaps even 1,000, enrich only a handful?
Why should the earth’s bounty -- its minerals, land and seas --
come under the exclusive control of any man for his own gain?  Marx answered critics who charged that communism threatened
the fabric of the family by accusing them of hypocrisy. “In
place of the old bourgeois society, with its classes and class
antagonism, we shall have an association, in which the free
development of each is the condition for the free development of
all.”  ‘Forcible Overthrow’  But he said that could only be achieved by the “forcible
overthrow of all existing social conditions. Let the ruling
classes tremble at a Communistic revolution. The proletarians
have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to
win.”  “Working men of all countries, Unite!”  “The Communist Manifesto” would eventually be translated
into as many 200 languages, but when it was published it went
virtually unnoticed. Europe was already on fire. In the third
week of February 1848, rumors circulated in Brussels of a
political earthquake in Paris, rumors too fantastic to believe:
Louis-Philippe abdicated the throne and fled into exile. A
republic had been declared in  France .  Within weeks, in capitals across Europe, leaders who had
once seemed invincible fell. More remarkable still, they did not
fall before armies; they fell before common men whose only real
weapon was their plentiful number.  Springtime of Peoples  The grievances that exploded that year could be traced
directly to the  1815 Congress of Vienna , which redrew the
borders of European states after the defeat of Napoleon. Those
boundaries, however, had never quite fit the populations they
were meant to contain. And the monarchs who emerged from the
meetings believing themselves cloaked in new strength were
actually weakened. Their people had made blood sacrifices in
battle, but in peace received nothing in return. Taxes did not
fund improvements; they filled treasuries that financed a lavish
court life. Rights that had been dangled as a reward for driving
out the French did not materialize. Crops failed, but
governments provided no relief; unemployment soared, but there
was no attempt to create jobs.  In 1848, the discontented had finally risen up. That year’s
revolt became known as the Springtime of the Peoples. It was the
first -- and is still the only -- Europe-wide rebellion of the
people against their rulers.  (Mary Gabriel is the author of the biographies “Notorious
Victoria” and “The Art of Acquiring.” This is the last in a
five-part series excerpted from her new book, “Love and
Capital: Karl and Jenny Marx and the Birth of a Revolution,”
published in September by Little, Brown & Co. Read  Part 1 ,  Part
2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mary Gabriel at  mgabriel1883@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 