-- 
Medical Technology Deals Double in Value as Cash Meets Demand

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/medical-technology-deals-double-in-value-as-cash-meets-demand.html
Mergers and acquisitions by medical
technology companies in the U.S. and  Europe  doubled in value to
$30.6 billion last year from 2009, led by the industry’s biggest
firms, according to an Ernst & Young LLP report.  More than $47.3 billion in transactions have been announced
so far in 2011, led by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s $21.3 billion
proposed purchase of Synthes Inc., the report said. The number
of acquisitions increased to 201 last year, from 171 in 2009,
according to Ernst & Young.  The trend will continue as companies use acquisitions to
bolster sales and diversify their operations internationally,
said John Babitt, head of Ernst & Young’s medical technology
practice. Traditional routes to growth through innovation have
been curtailed as investment in early stage technology waned
amid concerns that regulatory approvals and reimbursement by
health insurers may be more difficult to obtain, he said.  “There is right now an air pocket of innovation that is
not making it to the market to fuel growth,” Babitt said in a
telephone interview. “While the dollars in  venture capital  are
stable and increasing in the first half of 2011, the amount of
capital that is going to early stage companies has declined
pretty dramatically.”  Industry leaders such as Johnson & Johnson,  General
Electric Co. (GE) ’s GE Healthcare and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  are driving the
consolidation because they have strong balance sheets, healthy
 cash flow  and access to low  interest rates , Babitt said. Smaller
rivals are returning to the market after waiting out the turmoil
of the past two years, he said.  ‘Meaningful Consolidation’  “We expect there to be fairly meaningful consolidation
over the next 12 months,” he said. “There are a number of
assets between $1 billion and $10 billion in the public arena
that are trading at a 20 percent discount to where they were a
few months ago,” he said. “J&J’s acquisition of Synthes set
the stage -- the large med-tech companies need to do
acquisitions that are going to move the needle to be
important.”  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , in April agreed to
buy Synthes for $21.3 billion, the biggest purchase in its 125-
year history. The deal would be the third-largest acquisition in
the industry for the past decade, according to the Ernst & Young
report. Synthes, based in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , dominates
the trauma market, sells devices for bone fractures and has an
operating margin of 35 percent. J&J is the world’s second-
largest health-care products company after New York-based Pfizer
Inc.  The J&J-Synthes deal marks a return to large takeovers,
Babitt said.  Bigger Deals  In the first six months of 2011, there were 135 deals
announced with an average size of $351 million, according to the
report. There were 201 acquisitions in 2010, worth an average of
$243 million, in 2010.  Thus far in 2011,  Danaher Corp. (DHR) , the maker of microscopes
and water-treatment systems, agreed to purchase Beckman Coulter
Inc. for $6.8 billion, while  Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) , the
largest maker of laboratory instruments, agreed to acquire
Phadia AB for $3.5 billion.  Private equity firms are again eyeing medical technology
companies, Babitt said. While private equity firms actively
pursued and ultimately lost targets including Synthes, Beckman
Coulter and AstraZeneca Plc’s dental unit, they are undeterred,
according to the report.  “As accessing substantial amounts of capital has become
easier, private equity firms are expected to continue their push
into medtech, attracted by the sector’s sound fundamentals,
perceived low public valuations and international expansion
opportunities,” according to the report.  Executive Changes  Recent executive changes at the biggest medical technology
companies, including Medtronic,  Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and GE
Healthcare, also suggest additional changes ahead, Babitt said.
They will devise and execute their own initiatives, including
the pruning of some assets and continued consolidation in
certain areas, he said.  “With interest rates at basically zero, there is the
desire to do better,” Babitt said. “That has fueled M&A
activity. The big guys have quite a bit of cash at their
disposal to fund M&A, and private equity has a lot of cash they
need to put to work over the next couple of years. That makes
for a robust M&A environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  