-- 
Medvedev Moves to Stamp Out Dissent Before Stepping Aside for Putin Return

-- B y   A l e n a   C h e c h e l   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 
2011-09-27T16:49:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/medvedev-moves-to-stamp-out-dissent-before-stepping-aside-for-putin-return.html
President  Dmitry Medvedev  stepped
up efforts to stamp out dissent before  Vladimir Putin ’s planned
return to the Kremlin, warning officials against challenging his
policies a day after firing Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin.  Anyone in government who questions the president’s plan to
boost defense spending must quit or “work elsewhere,” Medvedev
said after overseeing a counter-terrorism exercise in the
Chelyabinsk region of the  Ural Mountains  today. “Russia isn’t a
 banana republic ” and must maintain an army that reflects its
status, he said.  Medvedev, who agreed last week to swap places with Prime
Minister Putin after presidential elections in March, yesterday
ousted Kudrin for publicly criticizing his military budget.
Putin today named Anton Siluanov, Kudrin’s deputy for overseeing
arms spending, acting finance minister, an appointment that he
said was approved by Medvedev.  Kudrin, 50, told reporters in  Washington  on Sept. 24 that
he couldn’t work in a future Cabinet led by Medvedev because his
plan to spend an additional 2.1 trillion rubles ($65 billion) on
defense through 2014 would create too much “additional risk”
to the economy. Kudrin had been in office since 2000, crafting
the nation’s recovery from its 1998 default by reining in public
spending and creating rainy-day funds that cushioned the impact
of the global credit squeeze.  Polarization  Kudrin’s removal signals the polarization of the Russian
elite, which is on the verge of a “tectonic” shift in
ideology, billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  said in a blog post.
“We stand on the verge of very important changes,” Prokhorov
said. “There’s no doubt” more Cabinet members will resign.  Prokhorov,  Russia ’s third-richest man with a fortune Forbes
magazine put at $18 billion, quit as leader of the Pravoye Delo
party on Sept. 15, saying Medvedev’s administration had blocked
the group’s preparations for December’s parliamentary elections.
The Kremlin on Sept. 25 removed Prokhorov from a presidential
commission on modernizing the economy.  Putin, who engineered Medvedev’s succession in 2008 after
serving the legal limit of two consecutive terms, told the
dominant United Russia party on Sept. 24 that he will run for
president and may make Medvedev premier if he wins. The
announcement ended years of speculation over how the so-called
tandem, by far the two most popular politicians in the country,
planned to rule Russia after Medvedev’s term ends in May.  ‘Painful’ Policies  “Medvedev made a show of firing Kudrin yesterday in a bid
to restore discipline until Putin takes over,” said  Nikolai Petrov , a political analyst at the Carnegie Center in Moscow.
“Putin sacrificed Kudrin for the sake of the tandem, even
though the tandem doesn’t really exist anymore.”  Kudrin said in a statement today that he approached Putin
in February to express “his desire to resign” but agreed to
stay because leaving before a new budget was formed in an
election year was deemed “undesirable.”  Medvedev, as premier, will have to take responsibility for
a number of “painful” initiatives the government must
undertake to avoid social discontent, including growing budget
deficits and the economy’s continued dependence on natural
resources, Petrov said. “Putin may make Medvedev the scapegoat
for unpopular reforms and bring back Kudrin to replace him in a
couple of years,” he said.  Ratings Unaffected  Russia’s credit profile is unaffected by the government
reshuffle, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings said. The rating
companies have in the past month both affirmed the country’s
long-term rating at BBB, the second-lowest investment grade,
citing vulnerability to sudden changes in the oil price.  The nation’s sovereign credit rating was last raised by New
York-based Moody’s Investors Service in 2008 to Baa1, the third-
lowest investment grade.  “We will see what will happen and whether this signifies a
change of policy or a rearrangement in portfolios,”  Ed Parker ,
Fitch’s head of European emerging-market ratings, said by phone.  Even so, Kudrin’s exit may complicate efforts to
“consoldiate public finances,” S&P analysts led by Kai Stukenbrock in  Frankfurt  wrote in a statement released today.  The personnel changes “could make it more difficult for
Russia to deal with such challenges as strengthening the
country’s long-term growth potential by improving the business
environment, competition,” S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  