-- 
Russian Finance Minister Siluanov Sees Picking Up Where Kudrin Left Off

-- B y   A l e n a   C h e c h e l   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-28T15:27:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/medvedev-s-finance-minister-siluanov-says-goal-is-to-pass-russian-budget.html
Anton Siluanov, named  Russia ’s
acting finance minister yesterday after Alexei Kudrin was forced
out, said his main goal is to win parliamentary approval for the
government’s 2012-2014 federal budget.  Kudrin, who had led the ministry since 2000, was dismissed
by President  Dmitry Medvedev  on Sept. 26 after publicly
criticizing 2.1 trillion rubles ($66 billion) in additional
defense spending through 2014. The outlays have already been
approved and the ministry will continue studying military
expenditure, Siluanov said in a phone interview.  “The main goal for me personally and for the Finance
Ministry is to continue the work that was already started,”
Siluanov said late yesterday by telephone in Moscow.  Concern over growth in the global economy and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis has roiled markets in Russia, which saw
its economy contract 7.8 percent in 2009, its worst recession on
record. Even as growth returned in 2010, with economic output
rising 4 percent, the government’s macroeconomic policies would
“benefit from more stable, predictable” frameworks in monetary
and the government’s fiscal policy, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report published yesterday.  Joined in 1985  Siluanov, 48, joined the ministry in 1985, the year  Mikhail
Gorbachev  became general secretary of the Soviet Communist
Party, before leaving to serve a two-year stint in the army,
according to his official  biography .  He returned to the ministry in 1989 as an economist and
later led the macroeconomics and inter-budgetary relations and
departments. He was a deputy finance minister from July 2003 to
May 2004 and then again from December 2005 until his appointment
yesterday.  Siluanov “is likely to be a very temporary figure” and
was selected over stronger figures such as Sergei Shatalov, a
deputy finance minister in charge of  tax policy , until a new
government is formed after the March presidential vote,  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas in Moscow, said in
an e-mailed report.  ‘Good, Solid’  Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who announced the
appointment at a government meeting yesterday after it was
approved by Medvedev, said Siluanov was a “good, solid
specialist.” First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  will
take over the responsibilities Kudrin had as the deputy prime
minister in charge of the economy, Putin said.  Medvedev held a meeting with Siluanov today in the
presidential residence in Gorki, outside Moscow, the Kremlin
said in a statement on its website. They discussed work on the
budget and how the global economic situation is affecting
Russia, according to the statement.  “The current head of the ministry will have a more
technical rather than political decision-making role, increasing
the risk of additional growth in expenditures and the
deterioration of the budget breakeven to  oil prices ,” Alfa Bank
economists Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin said today in an e-
mailed research note.  Unlike possible political appointees, “Siluanov is a
career financial expert, who grew up in the  Finance Ministry ,”
Kudrin told the Vedomosti newspaper in  comments  published today.
Kudrin, named finance minister of the year by Euromoney magazine
in 2010, said his former deputy was prepared to head the
ministry.  ’Additional Risk’  Medvedev agreed last week to swap places with Putin after
presidential elections in March. Kudrin, 50, told reporters in
 Washington  after the announcement that he couldn’t work in a
future Cabinet if it were led by Medvedev because his military
spending plan through 2014 would create too much “additional
risk” to the economy.  Kudrin had been in office since 2000, crafting the nation’s
recovery from its 1998 default by reining in public spending and
creating national funds that cushioned the impact of the global
credit squeeze.  “Alexei Kudrin was a person to whose level I’d like to
rise,” Siluanov said. “I understand that replacing him is
impossible, but honestly, I’d like to be like him. It will be
hard for us without him.”  Russia’s leaders didn’t hold preliminary talks with him
about the appointment and no time frame was set for how long he
will serve as acting finance minister, Siluanov said.  “Everything will depend on the results I deliver,” he
said. “A decision will be made by the country’s top leadership
and I hope I justify their faith.”  A draft of the budget has already been approved by the
government and must now be submitted to the State Duma, the
lower house of parliament.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  