-- 
Medvedev Hardens Stance to Sideline Rivals for Premier Post

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   A l e n a   C h e c h e l
-- 
2011-09-28T15:38:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/medvedev-hardens-stance-to-sideline-rivals-for-premier-s-post.html
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev 
hardened his stance on military spending, the issue that
triggered Alexei Kudrin’s exit as finance minister, as he seeks
to bolster his chances of becoming prime minister next year.  Government officials who question the president’s plan to
boost defense spending must quit or “work elsewhere,” Medvedev
said yesterday. Russia “isn’t a  banana republic ” and must
maintain a military that reflects its status, he said.  Medvedev agreed last week to swap roles with Prime Minister
Vladimir Putin after presidential elections in March. He is
trying to fight off possible challenges for the premier’s post
in order to push on with his plans to diversify the economy and
fight corruption, according to Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based
analyst at IHS Global Insight.  “What has changed is his political intention to ensure a
secure grip on the post of the prime minister, unchallenged by
people like Kudrin,” Gevorgyan said yesterday by phone. “He
wants to become that reformer, to take a leadership position
along with Putin.”  The president fired Kudrin yesterday after the minister,
50, told reporters in  Washington  on Sept. 24 that he couldn’t
work in a future Cabinet led by Medvedev because his plan to
spend an additional 2.1 trillion rubles ($66 billion) on defense
through 2014 would create too much “additional risk” to the
economy.  Desire to Leave  Kudrin, in office since 2000, steered the nation’s recovery
from its 1998 default by reining in public spending and creating
sovereign wealth funds that cushioned the impact of the global
credit squeeze. In a statement yesterday, the former finance
minister said his comments were “considered and balanced,” and
that he told Putin he wanted to resign in February.  Ruble bonds were the only local-currency debt among the
BRICs to deliver a loss as Kudrin departed Sept. 26, sliding 0.7
percent. The Russian currency weakened against the dollar today,
depreciating 0.5 percent and extending declines in its worst
quarter since 2009.  Putin, who engineered Medvedev’s succession in 2008 after
serving the legal limit of two consecutive terms, told the
dominant United  Russia  party Sept. 24 that he would run for
president after Medvedev suggested the party support him. The
announcement ended years of speculation over how the so-called
tandem of Russia’s two most popular politicians planned to rule
after Medvedev’s term ends in May.  ‘Extremely Unpopular’  Medvedev would take over from Putin as prime minister just
as a global slowdown threatens to damp demand for oil, the
lifeblood of the economy. Russia is vulnerable to swings in  oil
prices  and will have to cut spending, including pensions, to
bring its budget into line and lower its dependency on commodity
exports, the  International Monetary Fund  said Sept. 21.  The next Cabinet will become “extremely unpopular” after
taking painful decisions to overhaul the economy and will be
replaced within one or two years,  Nikolai Petrov , a political
analyst at the Carnegie Center in Moscow, said yesterday.  “The next government, including the prime minister and the
finance minister, will be kamikazes,” he said by phone. “Putin
may make Medvedev the scapegoat for unpopular reforms and bring
back Kudrin to replace him in a couple of years.”  Acting Minister  Putin yesterday named Anton Siluanov, Kudrin’s deputy for
overseeing military spending, as acting finance minister, an
appointment he said was approved by Medvedev. The decision was
made jointly with the president and Siluanov is a “good, solid
specialist,” Putin told a government meeting.  Medvedev met Siluanov today at the presidential residence
in Gorki, outside Moscow, the Kremlin said in a statement on its
website. The two discussed work on the 2012-14 budget as well as
global economic matters, according to the statement.  “The main goal for me personally and for the  Finance
Ministry  is to continue the work that was already started,”
Siluanov said late yesterday by telephone in Moscow.  The Finance Ministry will have a more difficult time
without Kudrin, he said. “I understand that replacing him is
impossible, but honestly, I’d like to be like him. It will be
hard for us without him.”  ‘Surprising’ Choice  Siluanov was a “surprising” choice whose “political
weight is unclear,” Natalia Orlova and Dmitry Dolgin, analysts
 Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said today in a research note. “The
ministry will have a more technical rather than political
decision-making role, increasing the risk of additional growth
in expenditures”  Kudrin was “the best finance minister in the world” and
his departure is a “serious loss” as the government seeks to
shield Russia from global financial instability, billionaire
 Vladimir Potanin , a former first deputy prime minister, said
today in an interview in Moscow.  The ouster signals the polarization of the Russian elite,
which is on the verge of a “tectonic” shift in ideology,
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  said in a blog post. “We stand on
the verge of very important changes,” Prokhorov said. “There’s
no doubt” more Cabinet members will resign.  Prokhorov, Russia’s third-richest man with a fortune Forbes
magazine put at $18 billion, quit as leader of the Pravoye Delo
party on Sept. 15, saying Medvedev’s administration had blocked
the group’s preparations for December’s parliamentary elections.
The Kremlin removed Prokhorov from a presidential commission,
made up of government ministers and top Businessmen, on
diversifying the economy on Sept. 25.  ‘Artificial Project’  Pravoye Delo is an “artificial project” that is
“discrediting the liberal-democratic idea,” Kudrin said
yesterday, denying he had ever considered leading the pro-
business party.  “The new government will still have these questions to
decide, including creating a balanced budget system and reducing
risks to the economy as a whole,” Kudrin said Sept. 24. “In
this case, it will be up to Medvedev’s future new team to solve
them.”  Medvedev said in January that Russia needed to grow at
least 8 percent a year within five years to keep up with other
emerging economies like China and  India . Expenditure on arms
procurement and military wages will remain a “priority,” he
said yesterday after overseeing the counter-terrorism exercises
with fighter planes and tanks in the Chelyabinsk region of the
 Ural Mountains .  Russia’s credit profile is unaffected by the government
reshuffle, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings said. The rating
companies have in the past month both affirmed the country’s
long-term rating at BBB, the second-lowest investment grade,
citing vulnerability to sudden changes in the oil price.  The cost of protecting Russian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps dropped 29 basis points to
295 yesterday, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Alena Chechel in Moscow at 
 achechel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  