-- 
Lehman Judge Refuses to Dismiss Brokerage’s $346 Million Claim Against RBS

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-27T17:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/lehman-judge-refuses-to-dismiss-brokerage-s-346-million-claim-against-rbs.html
A bankruptcy judge refused to
dismiss a $346 million claim by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
brokerage against  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , saying he
would “retain jurisdiction to hear and determine all matters”
arising from his order.  Royal Bank asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in
Manhattan to dismiss the claim. Alternatively, it asked him to
put on hold the brokerage’s move to gather information to pursue
its demand while Royal Bank waits for a district judge to decide
whether to shift the case out of bankruptcy court. Peck rejected
all of the bank’s requests, according to an order filed in court
yesterday.  ABN Amro, now owned by Royal Bank, owes the money, plus
interest, to Lehman Brothers Inc. for early termination of a
1998 swap agreement, the brokerage said in a June filing in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan. Royal Bank argued it has a right
to set off the funds against amounts it’s owed by the brokerage
and its affiliates.  Pholida Phengsomphone, a spokeswoman in Connecticut for
Edinburgh-based Royal Bank, declined to comment on the judge’s
order.  Lehman Brothers Inc., the remnants of the brokerage not
bought by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , is being separately liquidated from its
parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. It is seeking money from
banks it did business with to pay its remaining customers.  The Lehman parent filed the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history on Sept. 15, 2008. The brokerage went into liquidation
four days later.  The brokerage bankruptcy case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v.  Lehman Brothers Inc ., 08-01420, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 