-- 
Elbit Rises to Month High as Israel Exporters Gain on Rates

-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-09-27T14:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/elbit-gains-to-month-high-as-israeli-exporters-rise-on-rate-cut.html
Israeli exporters from  Elbit
Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  to  Israel Chemicals Ltd. (ICL)  led the benchmark  stock
index  higher after the central bank lowered  interest rates  for
the first time in more than two years.  Israel’s TA-25 advanced 1.4 percent after yesterday’s
surprise decision pushed the shekel down to the lowest level in
eight months, helping make overseas sales more competitive. The
currency rebounded today on speculation lower borrowing costs
will help keep the economy buoyant amid a global slowdown.  Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said today they
expect central bank Governor Stanley Fischer to lower interest
rates further by year-end, adding to pressure on the currency,
which is down 4.9 percent against the dollar this year. Elbit
Systems,  Israel ’s largest non-government defense contractor,
jumped to the highest level since Aug. 24 while Israel
Chemicals, which harvests minerals from the Dead Sea to make
fertilizers advanced as much as five percent during the day.  “The sectors that tend to benefit most from the rate cut
are exports and technology,” Gilad Alper, an analyst at
Excellence Nessuah Investment House Ltd., said by telephone from
Ramat Gan, Israel.  Rate Swaps  Israel joined countries including Turkey and  Brazil  in
reducing borrowing costs as the global economy slumps. Two-year
interest rate swaps, an indicator of investor expectations for
the benchmark in that period, plunged 18 basis points yesterday
to 2.75 percent, the lowest in a year. The swaps rose two basis
points today.  The benchmark  Tel Aviv  index rose 1.4 percent at the 4:30
p.m. close, to 1,077.79, the highest level since Sept. 21.  Elbit Systems, which gets most of its orders from the U.S.,
climbed 4 percent to 149.5 shekels, or the equivalent of $40.44.  The company received 32 percent of its income from the U.S.
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Elbit
Systems said yesterday its board authorized the repurchase of as
many as 1 million shares over the next year.  Israel Chemicals, which extracts minerals from the Dead Sea
to make fertilizer, rose the most in two days, climbing 2.6
percent to 44.50 shekels. Sales to Europe,  Asia  and  North
America  accounted for more than half of the company’s 2010
revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nice Systems Ltd. (NICE) , a maker of digital surveillance and
monitoring systems rose to its highest level in almost a week,
climbing 4.4 percent to 117.60 shekels, or $31.81.  Lower Rate  Fischer lowered the rate by 25 basis points to 3 percent,
the Jerusalem-based central bank said on its website yesterday.
Only two of the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
decision, while the remainder predicted no change. Investor bets
on a rate cut helped push yields on the government’s benchmark
shekel bond to the lowest level in two weeks.  More than $3.5 trillion was wiped from equity values
globally last week amid concern policy makers are struggling to
contain a debt crisis that has  Greece  teetering on the edge of
default, and threatens to spill into other economies.  The  International Monetary Fund  reduced its forecast for
global growth on Sept. 20 and predicted “severe” repercussions
if  Europe  fails to contain its debt crisis or U.S. policy makers
deadlock over a fiscal plan.  Israeli annual inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in August
from a high this year of 4.3 percent in March. The government’s
annual target range is 1 percent to 3 percent. Economists’ 12-
month inflation expectations declined to 2.3 percent in
September, the lowest since February 2010.  The rate cut could signal that the Bank of Israel is
expecting a slowdown in the economy with lower company profits,
said Terence Klingman, the head of research at Meitav Brokerage
in Tel Aviv.  “The Bank of Israel is expecting a weakness in
the economy which will hurt company profits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon21@bloomberg.net  