-- 
Telecom Carriers Must Combine to Compete, Providence Equity Says

-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 
2011-09-27T22:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/telecom-carriers-must-combine-to-compete-providence-equity-says.html
Telecommunications companies need
to combine to compete in a market that requires advanced
technology to support mobile devices, Julie Richardson, managing
director at Providence Equity Partners Inc., said today.  “It’s pretty clear what the end game is in wireless,”
Richardson said at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York.
“LTE, 4G -- you have to have those services to compete. One of
the most interesting things to watch in telecom will be these
players coming together.”  Carriers have sought deals and called on the government to
open up more airwaves as the use of smartphones increases. More
Americans will surf the Web from mobile phones and other
wireless devices than from desktop computers and other fixed-
line devices by 2015, market researcher IDC said this month.  AT&T Inc. (T) , which is working to rescue a $39 billion bid
for Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit from
antitrust regulation, has said it struck the deal in part to
gain the capacity it needs to ease network congestion and
accelerate the introduction of faster, next-generation network
technology.  Only AT&T and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  have the
resources to support a national 4G Long Term Evolution network,
Richardson said.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-biggest U.S.
wireless operator, is struggling to compete against larger
rivals and has lost money for 15 consecutive quarters.  Sprint Seeks Cable  Sprint, based in  Overland Park , Kansas, is in discussions
with cable companies, including  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner
Cable Inc. (TWC) , about an investment in the company, three people
familiar with the situation said last month.  Dish Network Corp., the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV
provider, may consider forming a partnership with or buying a
wireless carrier such as Sprint or  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) , Chief
Executive Officer Joseph Clayton said this week.  There are no stable wireless operators available for cable
companies to purchase, Richardson said.  “There is the perpetual question, will Comcast or one of
the other cable companies step up?” she asked. “They won’t.
It’s not really a priority at this point.”  Richardson spoke on a panel with Laurence Grafstein, the
managing director and co-head of mergers and acquisitions at
Rothschild North America Inc.; Scott Sperling, co-president of
private-equity firm  Thomas H. Lee Partners ; and Joseph Simons, a
partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP and a
former chief antitrust enforcer at the Federal Trade Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  