-- 
Dana, Emaar, Saudi Arabian Mining: Persian Gulf Equity Preview

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-09-27T05:23:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/emaar-properties-and-oman-cement-persian-gulf-equity-preview.html
Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell
0.2 percent, while Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  was little changed.
Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  increased 0.3 percent.  Alujain Corp. (ALCO)  : The Saudi Arabian industrial
investment company said a failure at a dehydrogenation unit at
its National Petrochemical Industrial Co. subsidiary would
result in an output loss amounting to 90 million riyals ($24
million). The shares rose 0.3 percent to 19.1 riyals.  Banque Saudi Fransi (BSFR)  : The Saudi lender part-owned
by  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  said it appointed Patrice Couvegnes as
managing director, replacing Jean Marie Marion. The shares
decreased 0.3 percent to 38.9 riyals.  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  : The fuel producer is owed $200
million for sales of natural gas to  Egypt  and is optimistic the
money will be repaid, Reuters reported, citing the company’s
Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Al-Arbeed. The shares were
unchanged at 55 fils.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  : The developer of the
world’s tallest tower in Dubai had its outlook revised to stable
from negative at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. The rating
was affirmed at BB. The shares retreated 0.4 percent to 2.76
dirhams.  Oman Cement Co. (OCOI)  : The sultanate’s second-largest
maker of the building material plans to obtain a U.S. dollar
term-loan from BankMuscat SAOG (BKMB OM) to finance the upgrade
of its kiln and repayment of a term-loan in rials. The shares
fell 2.1 percent to 0.46 rial. Bank Muscat shares dropped 1.2
percent to 0.676 rial.  Saudi Arabian Mining Co. (MAADEN AB): The company known as
Maaden said commercial production of the 1.1 million-ton-a-year
ammonia plant at the Maaden Phosphate Co. will start on Oct. 1
after reaching full capacity. The shares retreated 0.4 percent
to 25.7 riyals.  Saudi Steel Pipe Co. (SSP)  : The manufacturer of welded
pipes said its board approved first-half dividends of 0.75
riyals and agreed to a 200 million riyals expansion in its
Dammam plant. The shares advanced 0.2 percent to 23.05 riyals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  