-- 
Emerging Stocks Rise Most Since 2009 on Bets Europe Will Resolve Crisis

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-09-27T22:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/emerging-market-stocks-set-for-biggest-gain-in-16-months-on-europe-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced,
sending the benchmark index to its biggest gain in more than two
years, amid speculation European leaders are closer to agreeing
on ways to tame the region’s debt crisis.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index jumped 4.9 percent to
893.47 at 4:30 p.m. in New York, the steepest rise since May
2009. The gauge yesterday closed at a two-year low.  South
Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  jumped 5 percent, the most since January
2009, while Indonesia’s Jakarta Composite index added 4.8
percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index gained 0.3 percent and  Mexico ’s
IPC Index rose 1.2 percent. Benchmark gauges advanced more than
3 percent in  Poland , Hungary and the  Czech Republic .  Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou won parliamentary
backing for a property tax, to meet deficit-reduction targets
required to avoid default, which is key to obtaining an aid
installment. European leaders “finally get it,” Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said in a radio
interview with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt on “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  “Investors appear to be betting that  Europe  will see some
progress in agreeing to contain the region’s troubles,” said
Lim Chang Gue, a  fund manager  in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion. “Markets that
had been hit hardest during recent selloffs are responding in a
big way.”  The indexes of discretionary consumer stocks and financial
shares were the biggest contributors to the emerging-markets
gauge’s gains.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the
world’s largest lender by market value, rallied 9.1 percent in
 Hong Kong , rebounding from the lowest level since March 2009.  Itau, OHL Mexico  Itau Unibanco Holding SA, Latin America’s biggest lender by
market value, leaped 4.1 percent, leading gains on the Bovespa
index after the central bank said total credit in Brazil in
August rose the most this year.  OHL Mexico SAB, the local unit of Spanish construction
company Obrascon Huarte Lain SA, soared a record 7.4 percent in
Mexico city, after joining the benchmark IPC index at the start
of this month.  All but one of the 25 emerging-market currencies
strengthened against the  U.S. dollar .  South Africa ’s rand
appreciated 2.4 percent, the best performer. The Russian ruble
rose 2.2 percent. The Brazilian real gained 1 percent and the
 Mexican peso  climbed 1.3 percent against the greenback.  OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s biggest lender, surged 15
percent, its biggest rally since May 2010.  Erste Group Bank AG (RBAG) 
advanced 11 percent in Prague.  The Czech Republic’s benchmark PX Index added 3.6 percent
and the BUX Index leaped 4.5 percent in Budapest. Poland’s WIG20
Index gained 4.2 percent.  Yield Spread  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries plunged 22 basis points, or 0.22
percentage point, to 446, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps tumbled to 331 basis
points from 378.  Russia’s Micex Index gained 2.5 percent, as OAO Sberbank,
the nation’s biggest lender, jumped 4.8 percent and OAO Lukoil,
the country’s second-biggest crude producer, advanced 1.5
percent. Oil rose 5.3 percent, the most in more than four months
in  New York  and copper prices jumped the most since 2009.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index gained 3.5 percent in
Johannesburg as gold and industrial metals rallied.  Taiwan’s Taiex Index gained 3.1 percent, the Sensitive
Index, or Sensex, rallied 3 percent in Mumbai, and the Shanghai
Composite Index advanced 0.9 percent. Philippine financial
markets were shut as Typhoon Nesat made landfall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen in Singapore at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net ; 