-- 
Men Should Be Tested for Colon Cancer at Younger Age Than Women

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-09-27T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/men-should-be-tested-for-colon-cancer-at-younger-age-than-women.html
Men carry a higher risk of  colon
cancer  than women and should get their first colonoscopy to
screen for the disease at age 45, five years earlier than the
current recommendation, according to a study.  Researchers found that men were 1.8 times more likely than
women to have advanced adenomas, which are polyps or lesions
most susceptible to turning malignant, and twice as likely to
have colon cancer. The findings also showed that men got
precancerous polyps and colon cancers 10 years earlier than
women, according to the study published today in the  Journal of
the American Medical Association .  More than  141,000 people  in the U.S. will be diagnosed with
colorectal cancer this year and almost 50,000 will die from the
disease, according to the  American Cancer Society . The numbers
of men who get colon cancer and die from the disease are about
35 percent to 40 percent higher than women, according to the
cancer society.  “We have to create awareness for the sex-specific
differences and have to underline the value of early screening
colonoscopy,” said Monika Ferlitsch, lead author of the study
and associate professor of medicine at the Medical University of
Vienna, in a Sept. 26 e-mail.  Ferlitsch said men have higher rates of colon cancer and
precursor lesions, or  polyps , than women because of a
combination of lifestyle causes and genetics.  Women should still get their first colonoscopy at age 50,
the current recommendation, she said.  Half Get Tested  Only about half of people at least 50 years old who are
recommended to have screenings actually get tested for colon
cancer, according to the cancer society.  Joel Brill , a gastroenterologist in Phoenix,  Arizona , and
chief medical officer of the  American Gastroenterological
Association’s  Digestive Health Outcomes Registry, said in a
telephone interview that there may be a benefit for starting
colon cancer screenings earlier, though today’s study alone
shouldn’t change at what age screening begins based on sex.  “Whether we recommend starting screening at age 45 or at
age 50, it’s important for physicians to educate their
patients,” said Brill, who wasn’t an author of today’s paper.
“If it comes down to one takeaway lesson it is screening is
effective. The best test for colorectal cancer is the test that
gets done. If we can get them screened, we can detect lesions,
and if we can detect them and remove them before they become
cancerous, we’ve won the battle.”  Researchers in the study looked at 44,350 people who were
part of a national screening colonoscopy program in  Austria  from
2007 to 2010. They were looking for the most appropriate age for
the first colonoscopy to occur in both men and women.  More studies are needed to look at the effectiveness of
implementing sex-specific screening guidelines based on the
development of colorectal cancer and deaths from the disease in
the general population, said Ferlitsch, who heads the Quality
Assurance Working Group for the Austrian Society for
Gastroenterology and Hepatology.  The findings suggest “that male sex constitutes an
independent risk factor for colorectal carcinoma and their
precursor lesions, and indicating new sex-specific age
recommendations for screening colonoscopy,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  