-- 
Energy Department Finds It’s Too Focused on Far-Off Technology

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-09-27T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/energy-department-finds-it-s-too-focused-on-far-off-technology.html
The Energy Department places too
much emphasis on technologies that are “multiple generations
away from practical use,” the agency said in a study of its
technology research and development projects.  The department instead needs to focus on electric vehicles,
building and industrial efficiency and technologies that can
provide a more immediate payoff for the  U.S. economy , according
to the 168-page Quadrennial Technology Review report released
today.  “During this time of hard budget choices and fiscal
challenge, we must ensure that our work is impactful and
efficient,” Energy Secretary Steven Chu said in a message
included in the report.  Half of the department’s $3 billion energy-technology
budget for fiscal year 2011 is devoted to clean-energy
production, not including loan guarantees or funding for the
agency’s advanced research projects office. The Energy
Department will put more resources into transportation, which
this year accounted for about 26 percent of the budget, the
report said.  The Energy Department will focus on expanding the fleet of
hybrid vehicles as well as plug-in hybrid electric vehicles,
which are already served by a fueling network that includes
2,449 public stations, according to the report. There are only
about 58 hydrogen fueling stations to support fuel-cell electric
vehicles, creating an “extremely limited” network for those
autos, the department said.  Modernizing the Grid  Modernizing the U.S. electric grid, increasing alternatives
to petroleum and producing more “clean” electricity would also
improve U.S. energy security and competitiveness, according to
the report.  While the Energy Department will de-emphasize activities
that overlap with the private sector, “the absence of private-
sector funding should not be taken as evidence of the need for
public funding,” the report said.  Republicans in Congress have criticized the department’s
$535 million in loan guarantees to Solyndra LLC, a California
maker of solar panels that filed for  bankruptcy protection  on
Sept. 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  