-- 
German Stocks Fluctuate After Three-Day Rally; SAP, Merck Climb

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-28T12:42:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/eon-rwe-sap-suedzucker-may-be-active-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks fluctuated after a
three-day rally pushed the benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  to a four-week
high, as investors awaited signs that policy makers are moving
closer to a solution for Europe’s debt crisis.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  and Henkel AG climbed more than 2 percent.  SAP
AG (SAP)  rose after a Finanz und Wirtschaft report said that the
software maker has a “very well-filled contract pipeline.”
 Dialog Semiconductor Plc (DLG)  surged 6 percent after increasing its
third-quarter sales forecast.  The DAX decreased 0.2 percent to 5,619.61 at 2:41 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , having earlier risen 1.3 percent. The gauge rallied
the most since May 2010 yesterday and has climbed 11 percent
from this year’s lowest level on Sept. 12 as investors
speculated a 29 percent slump since June 30 wasn’t commensurate
with the outlook for earnings.  “Policy makers around the world have urged their European
counterparts to tackle the growing problems more decisively,”
Kate Moore, a New York-based global equity strategist at Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit, wrote in a report. “ Germany 
may be overconfident in the belief that the consequences of a
Greek default can be contained.”  Merrill Lynch raised its tactical asset allocation stance
on European stocks to “neutral” from “underweight,” saying
valuations are supportive while there is continued “event
risk” related to the European debt crisis.  Europe  Bail-Out  The tumble in stocks had left the DAX trading at 8.8 times
estimated profits, below the average price-earnings ratio of
12.3 during the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble yesterday
declined to rule out further changes to the euro rescue fund
known as the European Financial Stability Facility, saying that
if we “have to enhance the EFSF” it will be done in the “most
efficient way.” At the same time, he said that increasing the
size of the fund would damage the AAA rating of some euro-area
members.  The Financial Times reported late yesterday that some euro-
area countries are demanding private creditors take bigger
writedowns on their Greek bond holdings.  Henkel, Merck, SAP  Preferred shares of Henkel, the maker of Loctite glues and
Persil detergent, gained 2.1 percent to 41.16 euros. Drugmaker
Merck rose 2.2 percent to 62.06 euros.  SAP advanced 2.1 percent to 38.64 euros, the highest price
in seven weeks. The software maker has a “very well-filled
contract pipeline” and “good results” will continue even as
global economic growth is slowing, Finanz und Wirtschaft
reported, citing an interview with Robert Enslin, head of global
sales.  Dialog Semiconductor jumped 6.1 percent to 14.43 euros. The
supplier of analog and digital circuits now predicts third-
quarter sales of $137 million to $140 million, the company said
in a statement. The previous forecast was for revenue of $131
million to $136 million.  Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG (HDD)  climbed 2.4 percent to 1.61
euros as HSBC Holdings Plc upgraded the maker of printing
presses to “neutral” from “underweight.”  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the operator of the Frankfurt exchange,
declined 4.3 percent to 39.53 euros as European Commission
President  Jose Barroso  said the commission adopted a proposal
for introducing a financial-transaction tax.  Q-Cells SE (QCE) , a solar-cell and module maker, slid 3.7 percent
to 54.2 euro cents, while competitor  Solarworld AG (SWV)  retreated 4.8
percent to 3.37 euros. Germany, the world’s biggest solar
market, added 664 megawatts of panels in June, a 69 percent drop
from the same period last year, according to preliminary figures
released by the German power grid regulator Bundesnetzagentur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  