-- 
Tepco May Face Insolvency Without Nuclear Reactors, Nikkei Says

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-09-27T06:52:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/tepco-needs-reactor-restarts-or-faces-insolvency-nikkei-says.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. needs to
restart nuclear reactors or raise electricity prices to avoid
insolvency from Fukushima compensation costs of more than 4
trillion yen ($52 billion), Japanese media reported.  Shares in the utility known as Tepco fell 6.2 percent to
close at 243 yen in Tokyo, the lowest since June 13. The stock,
which dropped as much as 17 percent, was the biggest decliner
among members of the  Nikkei-225 (NKY)  Stock Average.  A government panel investigating the utility’s finances
made the estimate after examining nine scenarios in the next
decade based on when reactors at the company’s Kashiwazaki
Kariwa plant in Niigata prefecture come back online and how much
electricity prices are increased, the Nikkei newspaper  reported ,
without citing anyone.  The same panel estimated the cost of compensation to those
affected by the Fukushima nuclear disaster will exceed 4
trillion yen,  Kyodo News  reported, without saying how it got the
information.  No Japanese nuclear reactors have restarted since the March
11 earthquake and tsunami caused three reactor meltdowns at
Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station. Tepco won’t be
allowed to raise electricity rates without cost cuts acceptable
to the investigation panel,  Yukio Edano , the head of the trade
and industrial ministry, which regulates the electricity
industry, said Sept. 16.  The compensation cost may be bigger than the estimate after
a separate panel under the science and technology ministry
decides on the costs Tepco should bear from decontamination and
voluntary evacuation, Kyodo reported.  Tepco withdrew a plan to raise electricity rates by as much
as 15 percents after receiving criticism from the panel members,
Kyodo reported. The utility overestimated costs used to
calculate tariffs for its customers for the decade since 1998,
Kazuhiko Shimokobe, a lawyer and the chairman of the committee
overseeing the company’s finances, said.  The Shimokobe committee will release its report in early
October, the Nikkei reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in  Tokyo  at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  