-- 
Terra Firma’s Hands Sees Private Equity Targeting Lower Returns on Deals

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   I y a n   A d e w u y a
-- 
2011-09-27T16:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/terra-firma-s-hands-sees-private-equity-targeting-lower-returns-on-deals.html
Guy Hands , chairman and chief
investment officer of Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., said
private-equity firms may lower return targets as banks shun
financing leveraged buyouts at past levels.  With less debt, buyout firms may target returns of “20-
plus percent” from 25 percent to 30 percent previously, Hands
said today at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York. He
sees a “rocky” 18 months ahead, with “attractive” returns
beyond 2013.  “The bankers are not coming out, and they will not come
out until they have the liquidity,” said Hands, 52. “There’s
less incentive for a bank to provide financing now. The reality
is, pre-January 2008, it was very profitable to do private-
equity financing” because of the multiple opportunities to
generate fees, he said.  Economic uncertainty,  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and
volatile equity and debt markets have stunted recent dealmaking.
Announced transactions in September dropped to $8.2 billion from
$29 billion in August. Buyout firms typically use loans secured
on the targets they acquire to finance more than half of the
purchase price and cash from their own funds for the rest. The
firms seek to improve performance at the companies they acquire
or expand them before selling them within about five years.  “The relationship today between private equity and banking
is fundamentally different than it was back in 2007,” Hands
said. “It’s probably actually healthier.”  Hands sees a 15 percent to 20 percent chance of a
“complete breakdown” in Europe. The worst-case scenario may
involve banks failing, multiple countries defaulting and living
standards dropping across the continent, Hands said.  Private-equity firms get money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to invest it within
five to six years and return it with a profit after about 10
years. Private-equity firms typically charge an annual
management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of the fund,
and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  