-- 
Erste Won’t Repay State This Month, Still Plans Early Refund

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-09-27T15:26:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/erste-won-t-repay-state-this-month-still-plans-early-refund-1-.html
Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  still aims to
pay back 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) of state capital as
soon as talks with supervisors about the refund are concluded
and will update on the status at the end of next month.  Erste, eastern  Europe ’s second-biggest lender, had said
July 29 it expected to get approval for the redemption in the
third quarter, a target that is “unlikely” to be met now,
spokesman Michael Mauritz said by telephone today. Talks with
the central bank about the viability of the repayment continue,
he added.  “We’re in talks with the central bank, they’ve asked
questions and we have to answer them -- it’s a back-and-forth,”
Mauritz said, adding the group planned to update on the status
when it reports third-quarter results, due Oct. 28. The talks’
goal still is “that we can repay early,” he added.  Erste was the first bank in the Alpine republic to get non-
voting state capital in 2009, along with 540 million euros from
private investors. Chief Executive Officer Andreas Treichl said
July 29 he had achieved consensus with the  Finance Ministry  on
repaying the state portion of the capital and was waiting for
approval from the financial regulator and the central bank,
which he expected as soon as this quarter.  UBS AG cut its target price for Erste by 44 percent to 20
euros today after it reduced its estimate for next year’s
earnings per share by a third, partly because it now expects the
state aid to be repaid only by the end of next year, analyst
Daniele Brupbacher wrote in a note to clients today. The
estimate cut is mainly due to “lower growth and margins” as
well as “higher risk costs,” he said.  Erste’s core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
stood at 8 percent at the end of June excluding so-called
participation capital, which includes the funds injected by the
state in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  