-- 
Mesoblast to Mass-Produce Stem-Cell Drugs in Pact With Lonza

-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 
2011-09-27T07:21:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/mesoblast-to-mass-produce-stem-cell-drugs-in-pact-with-lonza-2-.html
Mesoblast Ltd. (MSB) , the world’s largest
developer of stem-cell treatments, will form a manufacturing
alliance with  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  as it prepares to mass-produce its
regenerative therapies.  Under the agreement, Mesoblast can instruct Basel,
Switzerland-based Lonza to build a dedicated manufacturing plant
for its products in exchange for buying “agreed quantities” of
those items, the companies said in a joint statement today.  Mesoblast’s experimental spinal and heart failure treatments
are in the final of three stages of patient studies usually
required by regulators. The Melbourne-based company has more
than tripled over the past 12 months, making it the best
performing stock on  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index. Lonza is the
world’s biggest maker of drug ingredients and also offers
contract manufacturing for pharmaceutical companies.  The agreement with Lonza “increases our confidence that
Mesoblast can successfully scale up to commercial-scale stem
cell manufacture as it moves to bring products to the market,”
said  Stuart Roberts , a health-care analyst with Bell Potter
Securities Ltd. in Sydney, in a note to clients today. It also
“increases the likelihood that higher effective royalties will
be achieved over time as the two companies move down the
experience curve and thereby improve manufacturing margins.”  Mesoblast gained 2.6 percent to A$7.80 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of tradingn in Sydney.  The alliance will guarantee long-term supply of Mesoblast’s
products, according to the statement.  “It means that we as a company have taken out the entire
risk of the manufacturing by shifting it” to Lonza, Mesoblast
Chief Executive Officer Silviu Itescu said in an interview.  Lonza is planning a secondary listing on the Singapore
Stock Exchange in the fourth quarter of 2011, the Swiss company
said on Sept. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in  Hong Kong  
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at   j.gale@bloomberg.net  