-- 
Estonian Parliament Backs EU Rescue Plan Bill in 1st Reading

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-09-27T12:16:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/estonian-parliament-backs-eu-rescue-plan-bill-in-first-reading.html
Estonian lawmakers passed a
resolution ratifying the euro-region’s rescue fund in the first
of two readings, setting up final approval later this week.  Lawmakers are due to vote on the amendments to the European
Financial Stability Facility in a final ballot on Sept. 29 after
they voted 61-21 today against a proposal by the opposition
Center Party to reject the bill.  Parliaments of the 17 euro-area nations must approve the
July rescue plan to expand the scope of the 440 billion-euro
($593 billion) EFSF to allow it to buy the debt of stressed
euro-region governments, aid troubled banks and offer credit
lines. Slovenia is expected to approve the measures today.
Slovakia, the third post-communist euro member, has yet to set a
date.  “Neither  Estonia  nor our partners are making this decision
to distribute non-refundable help,” Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said when presenting the resolution to lawmakers. “We need
a firewall now to prevent the crisis from spreading.”  Fund’s Scope  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  and European Union
Commissioner Olli Rehn said last week EFSF resources need to be
leveraged to increase the fund’s firepower to prevent contagion
from  Greece . Ligi said today 440 billion euros “should be
enough for quite a while and we should not be talking about the
fund’s expansion.”  The legislation must still be amended in Estonia before the
final vote to increase the required backing to 51 lawmakers
instead of the simple majority as planned earlier, and to
authorize parliament to sign off on expanding the plan’s aid to
other countries or boosting its size, Sven Sester, the head of
parliament’s finance committee, said yesterday.  The parliament today cut short discussions on a draft bill
amending Estonia’s budget law to recognize that the rescue fund
is governed by private law, a move demanded by opposition  Social
Democrats  and Justice Chancellor Indrek Teder to bring the
EFSF’s ratification in line with Estonia’s laws. It will resume
the first reading of that bill tomorrow.  The opposition Center Party of Tallinn Mayor Edgar Savisaar, which commands 26 seats in parliament, will oppose the
bill because the guarantee of as much as 1.995 billion euros
exceeds Estonia’s financial resources, lawmaker Juri Ratas
reiterated in parliament today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  