-- 
Mets Ruling Reduces Madoff Trustee’s Lawsuit to Foremost Fraud Allegation

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-28T04:19:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/mets-ruling-pares-madoff-trustee-s-lawsuit-leaving-main-1-billion-claim.html
The  New York Mets ’ owners may still
have to pay hundreds of millions of dollars to the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s investment firm after a judge
dismissed nine of the 11 counts in his lawsuit.  The trustee,  Irving Picard , sought $300 million in profit
and $700 million in principal from Sterling Equities Inc.
partners  Fred Wilpon , Saul Katz and other defendants in the
complaint filed in Manhattan federal court.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said yesterday he wouldn’t 
decide right now if Picard could try to seize almost $300 million 
in profits received over the course of the Sterling investment 
with Madoff, or about $83 million, representing the last two years 
of Sterling’s profits before Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  Sterling Partners said in an e-mail that the opinion limits
Picard to an attempt to recover only two years of “payments.”
The decision wasn’t specific about what the recovery of
principal would be.  It’s “not a big win for Picard but not a total loss,”
said  Harvey Miller , a bankruptcy lawyer at  Weil Gotshal  and
Manges LLP. “He still has significant viable claims. By the
same token Wilpon and Katz have achieved a reduced exposure at
least at this stage.”  Thorough Evaluation  Picard is reviewing Rakoff’s decision and declined to
comment “prior to a thorough evaluation,” said Amanda Remus, a
Picard spokeswoman.  Rakoff left open the question of what time period might
apply to the recovery of profits.  “The court does not resolve on this motion whether the
Trustee can avoid as profits only what defendants received in
excess of their investment during the two year look back period
specified by section 548 or instead the excess they received
over the course of their investment with Madoff,” said a note
in Rakoff’s decision.  The judge let stand Picard’s claim that Katz and Wilpon
turned a blind eye to Madoff’s  Ponzi scheme .  Bankruptcy Court   Picard sued the Mets owners in bankruptcy court in December,
demanding the return of what he called “fictitious” profit and
$700 million in principal taken out of the Madoff firm by
Sterling Equities Inc. and its partners. He alleged they had
“concerns” that Madoff was conducting a fraud, even shopping
for fraud insurance, and failed in their duty to probe the fraud.  Asking Rakoff to dismiss the suit, the Mets owners said
they “never suspected Madoff was running a Ponzi scheme or any
other fraudulent enterprise, never shopped for fraud insurance,
never thought they needed fraud insurance, and never purchased
fraud insurance” for their Madoff investments. No federal law
forces a brokerage customer to investigate his  money manager ,
they said.  To prove willful blindness, Picard must show Wilpon and
Katz were aware of a “high probability” of fraud and
“consciously avoided confirming that fact,” Rakoff said. The
trustee can’t say it’s a lack of good faith just because a
brokerage customer “fails to launch an investigation of his
broker’s internal practices -- and how could he do so anyway?”  Duty of Inquiry  Judges have struggled with the duty of inquiry for more
than half a century, Rakoff said at a July hearing in  Manhattan 
when he agreed to decide the issue.  Yesterday, he said, “A securities investor has no inherent
duty to inquire about his stockbroker. If an investor,
nonetheless, intentionally chooses to blind himself to the ‘red
flags’ that suggest a high probability of fraud, his ‘willful
blindness’ to the truth is tantamount to a lack of good faith,”
he said. “But if simply confronted with suspicious
circumstances, he fails to launch an investigation of his
broker’s internal practices, his lack of due diligence cannot be
equated with a lack of good faith.”  1,000 Suits  Rakoff’s ruling is another challenge to Picard, who with
his firm has filed more than 1,000 suits seeking $100 billion
for Madoff investors and charged more than $224 million for work
since Madoff’s 2008 arrest.  Court documents for the Mets’ owners case show more than 60
related lawsuits awaiting Rakoff’s attention. His decision on
whether Picard can recover profit from just the two years before
the bankruptcy or a longer period, when it comes, may affect the
related lawsuits.  Separately, Rakoff in July threw out almost $9 billion in
damages Picard demanded from  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds,
saying the trustee wasn’t entitled to make common-law claims
based on an alleged failure of duty to detect Madoff’s fraud.  U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon  in Manhattan has said
she will decide if the trustee can sue  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for
$19 billion in damages, equal to the trustee’s estimate of all
principal lost by all Madoff investors.  Rakoff also is reviewing whether Picard has the right to
use U.S. racketeering law against Sonja Kohn and  Italy ’s
UniCredit SpA in a $59 billion suit.  Quarter Century  Wilpon and Katz contend Picard was seeking to recover money
that Sterling took out from Madoff’s firm as many as 25 years
ago, wrongly deeming the withdrawals to be fraudulent. Under
federal regulations, brokerages must issue customer statements
and trade confirmations that are “legally enforceable
evidence” of a broker’s obligation to customers, entitling
customers to take out money, they said.  “By definition,” Madoff’s transfers of money to customers
can’t be reversed as fraudulent, the Mets owners said.  They said Picard’s position on their so-called duty to
investigate the con man was “unprecedented.”  The bankruptcy court case is Picard v. Katz, 1:10-ap-05287,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).
The district court case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  