-- 
EU Curbs Export of Surveillance Systems

-- B y   V e r n o n   S i l v e r
-- 
2011-09-27T17:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/eu-curbs-export-of-surveillance-systems.html
The European Union will curb the
export of telephone- and data-interception technology to nations
that use the tools to violate human rights, following reports
that Western surveillance gear was used to track dissidents in
Middle East crackdowns.  The European Parliament voted today in Strasbourg,  France ,
to bar overseas sales of systems that monitor phone calls and
 text messages , or provide targeted Internet surveillance, if
they are used to violate democratic principles, human rights or
freedom of speech.  The legislation leaves enforcement to each of the EU’s 27
member nations. It also lets companies declare exports of the
software and hardware 30 days after the gear has left the EU,
rather than require prior approval from national authorities,
reflecting a compromise reached to get the measure passed.  “The EU should absolutely make no business out of dealing
with regimes that do things to repress people,” Joerg
Leichtfried, an Austrian member of the EU assembly who sponsored
the legislation, said in an interview.  European technology was used to suppress activists during
the Arab Spring uprisings this year, said Leichtfried, a member
of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and
Democrats. “Software was used to tap phone conversations, to
check their Internet activity and to trace their location,” he
said.  EU national governments have already signaled their support
for the legislation, making their final approval a formality,
Leichtfried said.  Probe Request  Bloomberg News reported in August that a monitoring system
sold and maintained by European companies had generated text-
message transcripts used in the interrogation of a human-rights
activist tortured in Bahrain.  The Bloomberg report led a group of six EU legislators to
request a probe by the European Commission, the EU’s executive
body in Brussels, to determine whether any European security and
communications companies contributed to rights violations. That
request is pending.  Marietje Schaake, a Dutch member of the Parliament who
sponsored the probe request, said today’s vote is a first step
that lacks independent verification by the EU.  “It depends on the goodwill of companies to be
transparent, and the goodwill of countries to monitor them,”
she said. “But the good news is it’s on the agenda.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vernon Silver in Rome at 
 vtsilver@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at   mpozsgay@bloomberg.net  