-- 
EU Seeks to Resolve U.K. Clash With ECB on Derivatives Clearing

-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 0 4 1 2 1 6 ]   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   [ ]
-- 
2011-09-27T08:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/eu-seeks-to-resolve-u-k-clash-with-ecb-on-derivatives-clearing.html
Derivatives clearinghouses such as
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. may face less pressure to move parts of
their business from the U.K. to the euro area as European Union
negotiators seek to resolve a clash between Britain and the
 European Central Bank .  Poland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, proposed
changing a draft law on over-the-counter derivatives so that
“no member state or a group of member states should be
discriminated, directly or indirectly, as a venue for clearing
services,” according to the  document  posted on an EU website.
The U.K. said “there are a number of issues” requiring
discussion before Britain can sign off on the law.  The new wording was added to negotiating texts after the
U.K. said on Sept. 15 that it would sue the ECB over its plans
to prevent some euro-denominated securities from being cleared
outside the 17 countries that share the currency. The text was
added to ease U.K concerns that the ECB may push for
clearinghouses to relocate, according to an EU official familiar
with the talks who couldn’t be identified because negotiations
on the measures are private.  EU governments have discussed giving clearinghouses
access to central-bank liquidity as a way to prevent them from
collapsing and causing a financial crisis. The ECB has  said 
clearing activities should take place in the euro region if it
is expected to provide such financial support. The U.K. has
argued that the ECB’s position violates EU principles that
guarantee companies freedom to choose where they do business
within the bloc’s borders.  ‘Avoid Bad Regulation’  “We’re working hard ahead of next week’s finance
ministers’ meeting to ensure the EU gets this right,” a U.K.
government official said in an e-mailed statement concerning the
derivatives law. “But it’s crucial to avoid bad regulation in
the rush to get a deal.”  Discussions are still needed on “ensuring the regulation
is internationally consistent and workable, upholds the single
market and leads to open access and fair competition,” the U.K.
official said.  The new wording “makes it harder politically for the ECB
to maintain an approach that is contrary to what’s
contemplated” in the draft EU law, Darren Fox, a financial
services lawyer at Simmons & Simmons LLP, said in a telephone
interview from London. “Maybe the U.K. will feel that this is
enough.”  Central Bank Liquidity  The latest draft of the legislation, prepared by  Poland  and
dated Sept. 23, says that access to “adequate liquidity
resources is essential” for clearinghouses and that this could
come from “access to central bank liquidity or to” a
“creditworthy and reliable commercial bank.”  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, should
assess the need for measures to “facilitate” clearinghouses’
access to such central bank support, the document says.  William Lelieveldt, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based
ECB, and Kacper Chmielewski, a Brussels-based spokesman for the
Polish government, declined to comment.  The ECB  said  in July that clearinghouses processing more
than 5 percent of the market for a euro-denominated security
should be “legally incorporated in the euro area with full
managerial and operational control and responsibility over all
core functions exercised from within” the 17 nations that use
the currency.  ‘Highly Unclear’  “It is highly unclear whether the ECB has the power to
make policy like it did in the July paper,” Damian Carolan, a
lawyer at Allen & Overy LLP, said in a phone interview from
 London . “People were quite surprised how far it felt its
jurisdiction to extend.”  The Polish proposal would put the U.K. “in a far stronger
position in saying that the ECB has gone outside its remit,”
Carolan said. “I don’t think it brings you legal certainty but
it brings this policy decision clearly into the legal
framework.”  The U.K. lawsuit hasn’t been officially registered with the
EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg.  Clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet and Deutsche Boerse
AG’s  Eurex Clearing  operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  The derivatives rules are scheduled to be discussed at a
meeting of EU diplomats on Sept. 29, according to the EU
official. Draft EU laws need approval from the European
Parliament and national governments before they can take effect. 