-- 
European Loan Growth Quickened in August, Defying Debt Crisis

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-09-27T08:04:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/european-loan-growth-quickened-in-august-defying-debt-crisis.html
Growth in loans to households and
companies in the 17-nation euro area accelerated in August,
defying the region’s sovereign debt crisis that’s threatening
to undermine growth.  Loans to the private sector grew 2.6 percent from a year
earlier after advancing an annual 2.4 percent in July, the
 European Central Bank  said today. The rate of growth in M3 money
supply, which the Frankfurt-based ECB uses as a gauge of future
inflation, stood at 2.8 percent compared with 2.1 percent in the
previous month.  Euro-area services and manufacturing output shrank for the
first time in more than two years in September and business
confidence in  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, plunged to the
lowest in 15 months as governments struggled to rein in a debt
crisis that’s fueling recession fears. The Stoxx 600 Banks Index
has shed 27 percent since mid July, exceeding an 18 percent drop
of the broader Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  “We’re in an environment with an enormous amount of
pressure on banks to deleverage, which should be reflected in
lending data pretty soon,” said  James Nixon , chief European
economist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “There’s definitely
the risk of a credit crunch in southern Europe.”  ECB policy makers, who raised the benchmark rate twice this
year to 1.5 percent, are likely to next week debate restarting
covered-bond purchases to ease monetary conditions, a euro-
region central bank official said. ECB policy makers next meet
on Oct. 6.  The ECB purchased 60 billion euros ($81 billion) of covered
bonds in a one-year program that expired in June last year to
encourage lending during the region’s worst recession since
World War II.  M3 grew 2.3 percent in the three months through August from
the same period a year earlier, the ECB said. M3 is the broadest
gauge of  money supply  and includes cash in circulation, some
forms of savings and money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  