-- 
Euro States Need Bank Backstops, German Minister Schaeuble Says

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-09-27T13:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/euro-states-need-bank-backstops-german-minister-schaeuble-says.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that every euro-area country must prepare its own
plan to protect banks in the event that the crisis worsens, the
first confirmation of government efforts to shield banks.  Schaeuble said that he has asked for reports from all 17
euro governments before the Oct. 3 meeting of European finance
ministers addressing the issue of “what are your backstop
plans” for banks, he said during a panel discussion in Berlin
today. States must consider potential help in their backup
plans, because it “could come to a serious situation.”  Schaeuble’s comments are the first public acknowledgement
of a “Plan B” to shore up banks in the event that  Greece  fails
to meet the terms of its aid package and defaults.  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  will hold talks with Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  in Berlin later today. They are due to give public
statements at about 8 p.m.  European stocks climbed the most this month amid
speculation policy makers will step up their crisis-fighting
efforts. BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale SA led a rally in
banks, soaring more than 8 percent.  Speaking at an event organized by Brussels-based policy
group Bruegel, Schaeuble declined to rule out further changes to
the euro rescue fund known as the European Financial Stability
Facility, saying that if we “have to enhance the EFSF” it will
be done in the “most efficient way.” At the same time, he said
that increasing the size of the fund would damage the AAA rating
of some euro-area members.  Asked to respond to U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s calls on European policy makers to increase their
crisis-fighting efforts, Schaeuble said that it is easier to
give advice than to take it.  `Not the Way'  We “need to restrict ourselves to fiscal consolidation,”
Schaeuble said.  Monetary policy  is “not the way” to solve the
euro-region problems. “That’s not the European way,” he said.  While there is “no comfortable way out” of the debt crisis
for  Europe , “sustainable economic growth is possible in the
euro zone” and compatible with sound fiscal policy, he said.  Schaeuble said that “solidarity has limits” and must be
accompanied by efforts by euro-area members to reform their
economies. “Successful” euro countries “cannot limit their
competitiveness for weaker states,” he said.  Even so, Schaeuble warned investors to “make no mistake”
that the aim of all euro-area states is to defend the common
currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  