-- 
Europe’s Slow Economic Growth to Linger, Former Ikea Chief Says

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-27T12:09:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/europe-s-slow-economic-growth-to-linger-former-ikea-chief-says.html
Anders Dahlvig, a former chief
executive officer of  Ikea , said he’s “pessimistic” about
economic growth in Europe, which he expects to remain slow for
the next five years.  “Usually I’m optimistic but this time I have never seen
anything like this,” Dahlvig, who ran the world’s largest home-
furnishings retailer for 10 years until September 2009, said in
an interview in Berlin. “We’re in for a long time of slow
growth if any growth at all.”  Companies that want to grow by 5 percent to 6 percent a
year need to have a bigger presence in emerging economies
because Europe is also suffering from an aging consumer
population and is a saturated market, said Dahlvig, who is now
chairman of Ytterby, Sweden-based promotional-item maker  New
Wave Group AB. (NEWAB)   Euro countries’ governments should focus more on driving
growth instead of seeking to resolve member states’ sovereign
debt crisis, the executive said in the interview at the World
Retail Congress.  “My feeling as a spectator is, they are all over the
place, they have to focus on growth, they have to focus on
employment and some fiscal measures to get things going again,”
Dahlvig said. “If that could be a common agenda, that would be
better than more austere measures for Greece or Italy.”  Under Dahlvig’s tenure, Leiden, Netherlands-based Ikea
expanded in Europe,  North America  and Asia, adding such markets
as Russia, Japan and Portugal. In addition to the CEO role at
New Wave, Dahlvig holds non-executive posts at  Hennes & Mauritz
AB (HMB)  and  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Europe’s largest home-improvement
retailer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in Berlin via 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 