-- 
European Stocks Rally Most in 16 Months Amid Debt-Crisis Efforts

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-27T16:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/european-stock-index-futures-advance-amid-efforts-to-contain-debt-crisis.html
European stocks climbed the most in
16 months amid speculation policy makers will increase efforts
to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Rio Tinto  Group led a rally in raw-material shares, surging
7.8 percent, as metal prices rose.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s biggest banks, soared more than 14
percent.  MAN SE (MAN)  rose the most in two years as European Union
regulators cleared  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s takeover of the truckmaker.  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index climbed 4.4 percent to
229.91 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London. That’s the biggest gain
since May 10, 2010, when it jumped 7.2 percent after the EU
unveiled a 750 billion-euro ($1 trillion) loan package aimed at
controlling the debt crisis. The gauge has surged 7 percent over
the past three trading days after falling to a two-year low on
Sept. 22.  “The markets are hoping that the international leaders and
politicians will act together and do what is needed to avoid a
disaster,” said  Lars Knudsen , who manages about $110 million at
LGT Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon, Switzerland.
“Politicians are starting to feel pressure to act on the
crisis. It is important that the European leaders act now.”  The Stoxx 600 fell 26 percent from this year’s peak in
February through Sept. 22 as European and U.S. economic reports
trailed forecasts, adding to concern that the global recovery is
at risk. The decline left the measure trading at 9 times
estimated earnings, the cheapest since March 2009, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  DAX Jumps  National benchmark indexes rallied in all 18 western
European markets today. Germany’s DAX Index soared 5.3 percent,
 France ’s CAC 40 rose 5.7 percent and the U.K.’s FTSE 100
advanced 4 percent.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that
European governments will step up their response to their
region’s debt crisis after a chiding from counterparts around
the world.  “They heard from everybody around the world” in
Washington meetings last week, Geithner said on ABC’s “World
News With Diane Sawyer” program. Europe’s crisis is “starting
to hurt growth everywhere, in countries as far away as China,
Brazil and India, Korea. And they heard the same message from us
they heard from everybody else, which is it’s time to move.”  Policy makers in Europe now understand the severity of the
debt crisis and the actions that need to be taken, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  ‘Deep Problems’  “Europeans finally get it,” El-Erian, chief executive and
co-chief investment officer at the world’s biggest manager of
bond funds, said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “They recognize
they have deep problems and they recognize they need to do
something about it.”  Financial markets are looking for stronger leadership from
policy makers to help Greece overcome the current debt crisis,
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said in a speech to a
German industry federation event in Berlin.Papandreou is
testing the strength of his parliamentary majority today as
lawmakers vote on a property tax that is key to persuading the
EU and International Monetary Fund to release an aid installment
and avert default.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters
in Athens that he expects euro-area authorities to approve an
aid payment this month and that it will be received “in time.”  ‘Increasingly Confident’  Traders are “suddenly becoming increasingly confident that
European leaders can now reach an agreement to successfully
contain the debt crisis,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional
trader at IG Markets in Melbourne. “Investors must hold their
nerve and at the same time central banks and finance ministers
need to remain ‘on message’ as any suggestions that the rescue
plans may go away will likely be enough to see markets take
fright once again.”  In the U.S., a report showed  home prices  declined less than
forecast in July from a year earlier. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values in 20 cities fell 4.1 percent from July 2010,
after a revised 4.4 percent drop in the 12 months to June. The
median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 4.4 percent decline.  Rio Tinto, the world’s second-largest mining company, rose
7.8 percent to 3,196.5 pence as copper gained for the first day
in eight in London trading.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO) , the copper producer
controlled by Chile’s Luksic family, climbed 11 percent to 1,052
pence and  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  jumped 9.6 percent to 857 pence.  Vedanta
Resources Plc (VED)  rallied 12 percent to 1,196 pence, the biggest
gain since April 2009.  Banks Rally  BNP Paribas and Societe Generale pushed a gauge of European
lenders higher, soaring 14 percent to 30.05 euros and 17 percent
to 20.50 euros, respectively.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  jumped 13
percent to 5.19 euros.  Austria’s  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  surged 8.3 percent to 20.54
euros while  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest lender,
increased 13 percent to 28.29 euros.  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s biggest insurers, climbed 8
percent to 70.18 euros and 9.3 percent to 9.81 euros,
respectively.  Delta Lloyd NV (DL)  climbed 11 percent to 11.40 euros.
A gauge of insurance companies in the Stoxx 600 recorded the
biggest two-day gain since October 2008.  MAN, VW  MAN rose 7.2 percent to 63.29 euros, the biggest increase
since June 2009. Volkswagen’s takeover obtained antitrust
approval without the need for asset sales or other remedies, the
European Commission said late yesterday. The Wolfsburg, Germany-
based carmaker will own 55.9 percent of MAN’s voting rights
after the deal closes. Volkswagen preferred shares gained 6.7
percent to 108.30 euros.  A gauge of European carmakers was the second-best performer
of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600, climbing 7.1
percent.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-biggest car-parts
maker, gained 11 percent to 46.48 euros. Porsche SE preferred
shares rose 9.2 percent to 35.40 euros.  Logica Plc (LOG) , the Anglo-Dutch computer services provider,
gained 8.3 percent to 80.3 pence as  Les Echos  reported that
Thales SA, Europe’s largest defense-electronics producer, plans
to sell its Business Solutions unit, citing unidentified people.
The newspaper named Logica as one of the possible buyers.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the third-largest maker of power equipment,
increased 11 percent to 26.51 euros as Morgan Stanley analyst
Ben Uglow, who has an “overweight” rating for the shares, said
the stock is “very attractive.”  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s biggest wind-turbine
maker, gained 7.2 percent to 92 kroner. The company’s shares
were raised to “market perform” from “underperform” at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  