-- 
Europe Finally ‘Gets It’ on Sovereign Debt Woes, El-Erian Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-27T13:30:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/europe-finally-gets-it-on-sovereign-debt-woes-el-erian-says-tom-keene.html
Policy makers in  Europe  “finally”
understand the severity of the region’s sovereign-debt crisis
and the actions that need to be taken, according to Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  “What I learned in  Washington  is that Europeans finally
get it,” El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer of the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a
radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “They recognize they have deep problems,
and they recognize they need to do something about it. And now
they are going back and will try to do something about it. This
was a very important wake-up call for Europe.”  Euro-region finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations,
meeting in Washington on Sept. 22, committed to boost the
flexibility of their rescue fund and “maximize its impact” by
the time of the next G-20 meeting Oct. 3. European Central Bank
policy makers have indicated they’ll consider expanding
liquidity provisions when they meet Oct. 6.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  set the tone at
the annual meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and  World
Bank  on Sept. 24 by saying failure to combat the Greek-led
turmoil threatened “cascading default, bank runs and
catastrophic risk.” That gathering followed the G-20 session.  Don’t Underestimate Challenges  “But let’s not underestimate both the political challenges
and the engineering challenges,” El-Erian said. “There is a
lot that has to happen just today.”  European stocks climbed today the most this month amid
speculation policy makers will increase efforts to contain the
debt crisis. Asian shares and U.S. index futures advanced. The
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained by as much as 3.4
percent, the biggest intraday increase since Aug. 12.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is hosting Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  for talks in Berlin today as credit-
default swaps show a more than 90 percent chance that Greece
won’t meet its debt commitments.  Papandreou tests the strength
of his parliamentary majority today as lawmakers vote on a
property tax that’s key to persuading the European Union and
International Monetary Fund to release an aid installment and
avert default.  “Greece is like the toe that got infected,” El-Erian said
in separate interview today on Bloomberg Television’s “In the
Loop” with Betty Liu.  “It was not dealt with, and it just
spread throughout the entire body and is now threatening vital
organs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  