-- 
Teutonic Knights Meet Shipyard Heroes in Berlin’s Poland Show

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-09-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/teutonic-knights-meet-shipyard-heroes-in-berlin-s-poland-show.html
The German capital is an hour’s
drive from Poland, yet Berliners’ weekend jaunts are more likely
to feature Paris, London or Vienna.  You occasionally hear of people dashing over the border at
 Frankfurt  an der Oder for cheap cigarettes. An excursion to
explore the countryside of Eastern Pomerania is rare.  So Poland had to come to Berlin, in an exhibition at the
 Martin Gropius Bau  called “Side by Side: Poland- Germany , 1,000
Years of Art and History.” It encompasses 19 rooms and about
800 exhibits, and shows how entwined the two nations are.  Funded to the tune of 1 million euros ($1.36 million) by
the German government and curated by Polish art historian Anda
Rotteburg, the show is chiefly a diplomatic exercise. This
hasn’t been the easiest of relationships.  It aims to highlight that for all their past differences,
these neighbors are now getting on O.K., barring spats over gas
pipelines and how to remember the expulsion of 12 million people
from formerly German territories after World War II.  Still, any exhibition with such diplomatic significance is
fraught with hazard.  Poland ’s moments of glory have tended to be
German defeats, and vice versa.  Yet there’s no denying the German cultural influence on
Poland -- from the imposing Gothic castle built by Knights of
the Teutonic Order at Marienburg, now Malbork, to the sculptures
of Nuremberg artist Veit Stoss (who takes up a whole room) -- in
Cracow’s St. Mary’s Basilica.  Rotteburg makes no apologies for focusing on the Polish
version of events. For a Berliner used to the German cultural
narrative, it’s refreshing.  Mass Slaughter  Who, for example, remembers the 1410 Battle of Tannenberg,
also called the Battle of Grunwald? It is a date every Pole
knows. The battle witnessed the mass slaughter and defeat of the
crusading Knights of the Teutonic Order at the hands of the
Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of  Lithuania .  Jan Matejko’s vast 1878 painting of it is the most famous
national artwork, and pieces it has inspired are on show here.
There’s also a model of the Cracow Tannenberg monument,
depicting the victorious king at the top and the order’s fallen
grandmaster at his feet. The monument was destroyed by the Nazis
in 1939 and reconstructed in 1976.  Both Poland and Germany have claimed Nicolaus Copernicus.
The astronomer was born in 1473 into a German-speaking family in
Torun, now Poland, and is believed by historians to have spoken
German, Latin and Polish with equal fluency. He also spoke Greek
and Italian -- a Renaissance man and true European.  Watching Copernicus  Torun lent the best-known portrait of Copernicus for the
show. The anonymous artist depicted him with gaunt cheeks, alert
eyes following the viewer.  The last century of relations is illustrated mainly through
art, with some historical documents. The German Foreign Office
loaned its copy of the German-Polish non-aggression pact of
1934, under which the two countries pledged to eschew conflict
for 10 years and to resolve their differences in negotiations.  Artists including Andrzej Wroblewski testify eloquently to
the failure of that pact and the ensuing war, in which 6 million
Poles died. His 1949 series of paintings, “Executions,”
depicts Poles being shot by faceless Nazis.  Andrzej Wajda’s 1956 film “Kanal,” about the Warsaw
Uprising, tells the story of resistance fighters escaping
through the city’s sewers. Its images of the burned-out
streetscapes above are unforgettable.  Ghetto Uprising  Since World War II the story has, thankfully, largely been
one of reconciliation. Willy Brandt’s 1970 gesture, when he
kneeled at the monument to the victims of the Warsaw Ghetto
Uprising, put down by Nazi troops, is the most famous example. A
Spiegel magazine cover asks whether he should have done it.  Culture Minister Bernd Neumann reminded guests at the
opening that Germany has the heroes of the Gdansk shipyards to
thank for reunification and the fall of the  Berlin Wall .  Klaus Staeck’s 1982 poster proclaims “Poland Is Not Yet
Lost,” the first words of the national anthem. It shows the
black waves of an ocean with a red ship, created from the word
“Solidarnosc,” visible just above the horizon.  Poland is not lost, it has just temporarily relocated to
Berlin.  “Side by Side: Poland -- Germany: 1,000 Years of Art and
History” is on at Berlin’s Martin Gropius Bau through Jan. 9,
2012. For more information, go to  http://www.gropiusbau.de .  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 