-- 
Tevez Refuses to Join Match as Bayern Munich Defeats Manchester City 2-0

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-28T08:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/tevez-refuses-to-join-game-as-bayern-munich-defeats-manchester-city-2-0.html
Carlos Tevez  refused to come on as
a second-half substitute as  Manchester City  lost 2-0 at Bayern
Munich, while Manchester United scored in the final minute to
salvage a 3-3 home draw with Basel in soccer’s Champions League.  City manager  Roberto Mancini  told reporters that Tevez
would be finished at the club if it was up to him, saying the 
player refused to warm up or enter the game. The Argentina
international sought to leave in the summer to return to South
America and be closer to his family.   “I cannot accept this behavior,” Mancini said last night.
“I helped Carlos for two years.”  Today, Tevez said he didn’t refuse to play in the game. He
apologized to City supporters for a “misunderstanding” that
left him on the bench.  “I had warmed up and was ready to play,” according to a
statement cited by the Daily Mirror. “This is not the right
time to get into specific details as to why this did not happen.
But I wish to state that I never refused to play.”  Former champions Real Madrid,  Inter Milan  and Benfica won
as the second round of group games in  Europe ’s elite club
competition got under way.  Mario Gomez  got both goals at the  Allianz Arena  in Munich
for four-time champion Bayern.  The German international scored in the 38th minute after
Manchester City goalkeeper Joe Hart stopped a shot from Franck Ribery and Thomas Mueller’s rebound attempt. Gomez was on the
spot again to tuck in the ball at the near post in stoppage time
after Hart blocked Daniel van Buyten’s header.  First Comments  Tevez said nothing about his refusal to play in an
interview with Sky Sports.  “I’ve been a professional during all my time here,” the
striker said through an interpreter. “Last season I was the top
scorer. I put my opinion through that I wanted to leave because
of family reasons but I keep trying to do my best.”  Bayern leads Group A after two games with six points, two
more than Napoli, which beat Villarreal 2-0 on goals from Marek
Hamsik and Edinson Cavani. City has one point and Villarreal
none.  United Blows Lead  Manchester United  blew a 2-0 halftime lead at Old Trafford
and trailed 3-2 until Ashley Young’s headed goal in the 90th
minute.  Danny Welbeck , who got the start because of injuries to
Wayne Rooney and  Javier Hernandez , scored in the 16th and 17th
minutes for last season’s runner-up.  Fabian Frei began Basel’s fight back with a goal in the
58th minute. Alexander Frei tied it two minutes later and put
the Swiss club ahead in the 76th minute with a penalty kick.  United got the draw as Nani sent a cross in for Young to
head the ball past goalkeeper Yann Sommer.  “Though we pulled it back we’re very disappointed,”
Welbeck, 20, told  Sky Sports . “We should’ve put the game away.
It feels like a defeat.”  The result leaves United third in Group C with two points,
two fewer than Basel and Benfica, which beat pointless Otelul
Galati 1-0 on Bruno Cesar’s goal.  “We were careless,” United manager Alex Ferguson told Sky
Sports. “A lack of concentration saw us give the game away
really, but we rescued it.”  Mauro Zarate’s goal in the 79th minute gave Inter a 3-2 win
over CSKA Moscow in Group B. The score came two minutes after
Vagner Love tied the game for CSKA.  Trabzonspor rallied for a 1-1 home draw with Lille on
Gustavo Colman’s 75th-minute penalty kick. Trabzonspor leads the
group with four points, Inter has three, Lille two and CSKA one.  Cristiano Ronaldo, Kaka and Karim Benzema scored as Real
 Madrid  beat Ajax 3-0 in a Group D matchup of former champions.  “I had a great game like all the team, I’m starting to
show my game,” Kaka, who missed most of last season with
injuries, told reporters at the Bernabeu stadium. “This puts us
in a good position in the group.”  Real has six points to lead Lyon, which beat Dinamo Zagreb
2-0, by two points in the group. Ajax has one point and Dinamo
has none.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 