-- 
Ex-Facebook Official Starts Venture Career With Yammer, SecondMarket Deals

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-09-27T20:48:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ex-facebook-official-starts-venture-career-with-yammer-secondmarket-deals.html
Chamath Palihapitiya, a former
executive at Facebook Inc., made the first two investments for
his new venture fund, buying stakes in business-software maker
Yammer Inc. and private-stock exchange SecondMarket Inc.  Palihapitiya’s fund, called the Social+Capital Partnership,
led a $17 million investment in Yammer, a  San Francisco  company
that makes social-networking programs for businesses. The fund,
which announced both deals today in separate statements, bought
its  SecondMarket  stake from existing investors. SecondMarket
lets investors trade shares of closely held companies before
they hold an initial public offering.  After a four-year career at Facebook, where he worked on
mobile products and expanded the company internationally,
Palihapitiya left this year to form Social+Capital. The  Palo
Alto , California-based fund is raising about $300 million, with
an eye to investing in Internet technology, health care,
education and financial services. Prior to joining Facebook, he
spent a year at venture-capital firm Mayfield Fund.  “The things I like tend to have very disruptive elements
to an existing established infrastructure,” Palihapitiya, 35,
said in an interview. “SecondMarket disrupts the IPO process by
giving you completely different alternatives. Yammer is highly
disruptive to established enterprise software companies.”  Big-Name Customers  With today’s investment, Yammer has now raised $57 million.
The company, started by PayPal Inc. co-founder David Sacks,
provides software to more than 100,000 businesses in 160
countries, serving clients such as Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  Existing investors include Charles River
Ventures, Emergence Capital and U.S. Venture Partners.  “Social networking is destined to have as significant an
impact on the enterprise as it has already had in our personal
lives,” Palihapitiya said in the statement.  The SecondMarket deal, meanwhile, involving buying stock
from employees and early investors, Chief Executive Officer
Barry Silbert said in a  blog posting . Shareholders of the New
York-based company sold about $13 million of stock at a
valuation of about $160 million, in what the company expects to
be an “annual liquidity event,” Silbert said.  SecondMarket helps investors in privately held companies
buy and sell their stock. The company has handled transactions
totaling almost $1 billion, Silbert said today. Shareholders of
Facebook, Twitter Inc. and LinkedIn Corp. have sold stock on the
exchange.  Palihapitiya was joined by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner
and actor  Ashton Kutcher  in buying the SecondMarket shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  