-- 
Exxon Confident of Right to Book Russian Arctic Oil Reserves

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T11:18:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/exxon-confident-it-can-book-oil-reserves-in-russian-arctic.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  says it will be
able to book oil and gas reserves it finds in an Arctic and
 Black Sea  venture with OAO Rosneft even though its Russian
state-run partner owns the licenses.  “We see this as one of the most prospective areas for
exploration in the whole world,” Glenn Waller, Exxon’s head of
 Russia , told reporters today at the Sakhalin Oil and Gas 2011
conference in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk. “That is what is driving us.
Access to new resources.”  Exxon agreed to form a venture with Rosneft on Aug. 30,
pledging to spend $3.2 billion exploring for oil and gas in
Russia’s Arctic Kara Sea and deep-water Black Sea. Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin  is encouraging partnerships with
international explorers to maintain output at a world-leading 10
million barrels a day for the next decade. Putin said the Exxon-
Rosneft alliance may lead to $500 billion in investment.  The west Siberian basin that’s the source of more than half
Russia’s oil output extends north under the Kara Sea, according
to Waller. Rosneft selected Exxon for the Arctic blocks after a
planned venture and share swap with BP Plc collapsed in May.  Exxon Confident  “We are confident that we will be able to book those
reserves that belong to us” under stock exchange rules,
following the exploration period, Waller said. Rosneft holds the
license, and almost 67 percent of the exploration venture, while
Exxon has 33 percent.  Exxon and Rosneft aim to drill the first exploration well
in 2015, according to a Rosneft presentation.  The partners will hold “step-by-step” talks with the
state as they seek tax incentives to make the challenging
project profitable, Waller said. The Kara Sea is icebound for
much of the year, and projects in its Arctic waters will need to
contend with nuclear waste from former test sites and dumps,
according to Waller’s presentation at the conference.  The government understands it needs to change some taxes to
make the projects effective, Waller said.  Rosneft, Russia’s largest oil producer, will decide in the
first half on an offer from Exxon to join projects in areas
including  Texas ,  Canada  and the  Gulf of Mexico , he said. Rosneft
and Exxon don’t plan to bring in other partners for now, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  