-- 
Family Dollar Investors Raise Bets on Sale as Short Sellers Flee: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 
2011-09-27T20:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/family-dollar-investors-raise-bets-on-sale-as-short-sellers-flee-real-m-a.html
Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) 
shareholders aren’t writing off an acquisition of the second-
largest U.S. dollar chain just yet.  Family Dollar has gained 21 percent in the past seven weeks
to $54.84 yesterday as  Bill Ackman ’s hedge fund disclosed it
doubled its stake in the Matthews, North Carolina-based company
and the deteriorating economic recovery drove investors to
discount retailers. The shares were just 16 cents below a
rejected February takeover bid of at least $55 a share from
billionaire investor  Nelson Peltz  for the narrowest spread since
July 7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Traders who sell borrowed shares of Family Dollar on the
assumption they can be purchased later at a lower price are also
cutting those bearish bets to the lowest level since at least
2006. While the retailer rejected Peltz’s offer and adopted a
poison pill capping shareholders at 10 percent ownership, Family
Dollar may still draw interest from  Dollar General Corp. (DG) , or
Ackman and Peltz may team up to convince Chief Executive Officer
Howard Levine to sell, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  “There’s a high probability that something gets done,”
 Sachin Shah , a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based special situations
and merger arbitrage strategist for Tullett Prebon, said in a
telephone interview. “Dollar General is the most logical buyer,
but there could also be some dialogue among Peltz, Ackman and
Levine and the board to take it private. You have all these
interested parties out there.”  Josh Braverman, a spokesman for Family Dollar, didn’t
respond to a phone call or e-mail requesting comment. Tawn Earnest, a spokeswoman for Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based
Dollar General, said the company doesn’t comment on rumors or
speculation.  Peltz’s Bid  Carrie Bloom, a spokeswoman for Peltz’s Trian Fund
Management LP, said Peltz declined to comment regarding Family
Dollar. Ackman didn’t respond to a phone call or e-mail
requesting comment.  Peltz’s Trian hedge fund  offered  on Feb. 15 to buy Family
Dollar for $55 to $60 a share, or as much as $7.7 billion
including net debt. The proposal represented a premium of as
high as 39 percent to the company’s 20-day trading average of
$43.08 prior to the bid. Peltz, 69, invited Chairman and CEO
Levine, 52, to join him in the acquisition.  Family Dollar’s board rejected the bid in March, saying it
“substantially” undervalued the business. The board also said
pursuing a sale wasn’t in the best interest of shareholders.  Takeover Interest  Family Dollar then fell to a six-month low of $45.14 on
Aug. 8 as the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted the biggest
drop since 2008. Since then, the shares rebounded 21 percent
through yesterday, outpacing a 3.9 percent gain for the  S&P 500 .
The closing price of $54.84 yesterday was less than 1 percent
below the low end of Peltz’s all-cash offer, as traders pushed
the gap to the narrowest since July 7, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “The stock seems to be pricing in continued interest or
speculation of a takeout,” Patrick McKeever, a Grosse Pointe,
Michigan-based analyst at MKM Partners, said in a phone
interview. “There’s still plenty of big-money, activist-
investor interest in the dollar store space.”  Family Dollar dropped 66 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $54.18
today. The company said today that it named Michael K. Bloom
president and chief operating officer to replace R. James Kelly,
who’s retiring after 15 years with the retailer.  Abandoned Bearish Bets  Short interest in Family Dollar fell to 581,000 shares as
of Sept. 22, or 0.5 percent of shares available for trading, the
lowest level since at least 2006, according to London-based
research firm  Data Explorers . The amount of short selling has
plunged 86 percent since Sept. 16, the data show.  Traders have abandoned bearish beats against Family Dollar
amid signs that the recovery from the longest recession since
the Great Depression is deteriorating. The  Federal Reserve  said
last week that there are “significant downside risks” to the
economy, while a government report this month showed U.S.
payrolls were unchanged in August, the weakest reading since
September 2010.  Discount stores such as Family Dollar are “the venue of
choice in down times for large parts of the country where
jobless rates are high and the desire to stretch a buck is
intense,”  Thomas Russo , who manages about $4 billion as a
partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania ,
said in a phone interview. “The environment feels relatively
frugal.”  Family Dollar was also one of more than 40 companies
Bloomberg identified in March that met the acquisition criteria
 Warren Buffett  listed in his annual  letter  to shareholders.  Warren Buffett  Buffett typically prefers “simple” businesses with pretax
profit exceeding $75 million, “consistent” earning power, and
“good” returns on equity while employing little or no debt,
according to his report.  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP hedge fund
disclosed in a regulatory filing Aug. 15 that it boosted its
holdings of Family Dollar by 5.33 million shares to 11.1 million
in the quarter ended June 30. Ackman, founder of New York-based
Pershing, said in May that he bought a “passive” stake in
Family Dollar because it was “very reasonably priced” and
“attractive” for a leveraged buyout.  Ackman, 45, and Peltz may collaborate to take the company
private rather than push independently for a sale,  Tullett
Prebon ’s Shah said. Ackman is known for investing in companies
he deems undervalued and urging changes he says will improve
shareholder returns, while Peltz often buys stakes and agitates
for changes to increase the valuation, rarely buying entire
companies.  Ackman Activism  “History shows that that tends to be part of their approach
to have constructive conversations with management on what can
be done to improve the stock over time,”  Matt Arnold , an
analyst for St. Louis-based  Edward Jones  & Co., said in a phone
interview. When Ackman’s involved “in an investment, there’s
always a strong possibility of some type of influence, whether
it’s fundamental or something more,” he said.  Peltz’s offer for as much as $60 a share may not be enough
to complete a deal, Shah said. That leaves the door open for
Dollar General, the biggest U.S. dollar discount retailer, to
potentially bid about $70 a share in cash and stock, he said.
Private equity firm KKR & Co. took Dollar General private in
July 2007 for $7.3 billion and the company sold shares in an
initial public offering in November 2009.  While a takeover of Family Dollar may result in cost
savings for Dollar General, the combination would likely face
regulatory scrutiny, Edward Jones’s Arnold said.  ‘Clamoring for Change’  In addition to takeover speculation, Family Dollar shares
have been boosted by improvements in earnings and operations.
The company increased its quarterly dividend by 16 percent in
January.  Family Dollar, which plans to report earnings results
tomorrow, may say revenue rose 8.5 percent to $8.54 billion in
the year ended Aug. 31, based on analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Operating margins have increased in each of the last
13 quarters from the prior year period. The company made 7.4
cents for each dollar of sales in the most recently reported 12
months, trailing Dollar General’s 9.9 percent margin.  “Their relative underperformance versus Dollar General
originally made them an attractive takeover target,” Mark Montagna, a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale
Partners LLC, said in a phone interview. “Everybody’s going to
want to see, are they closing the gap on margin? If they’re not,
you certainly could have these activist investors clamoring for
change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 