-- 
Fed’s Fisher Says Operation Twist May Be Ineffective, Hurt Jobs

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-27T18:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/fed-s-fisher-says-operation-twist-may-be-ineffective-hurt-jobs.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said the central bank’s decision last
week to push down longer-term  interest rates  risks proving
ineffective and may hurt job creation.  The plan dubbed Operation Twist by economists and announced
after the Fed’s Sept. 20-21 meeting in Washington was “a
strategic decision where I did not feel the benefits outweighed
what I perceived to be the costs,” Fisher said in a speech
today in Dallas.  Fisher’s remarks are his first since he joined presidents
 Charles Plosser  of Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota from
 Minneapolis  in dissenting for a second straight month, posing
the most opposition within the  Federal Open Market Committee  in
almost 19 years. The  Dallas  Fed chief repeated concerns today
about the Fed’s second round of bond purchases, which ended in
June, and its pledge to keep the target for the benchmark U.S.
interest rate low through at least mid-2013.  “My fundamental concern is about the efficacy of these
initiatives,” Fisher said at a luncheon for community leaders.
He questioned whether the central bank’s accommodative policies
are encouraging excessive risk-taking, and if they will do
“nothing more than pushing on a string” unless accompanied by
appropriate fiscal and regulatory policies.  Lockhart Speech  Separately today, Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said Operation Twist will probably give no more than a
slight boost to the  U.S. economy .  “The transmission mechanism for monetary policy remains
somewhat impaired, and for this reason I am not expecting large
gains from the Fed’s most recent action,” Lockhart said in a
speech in Jacksonville,  Florida . “It’s realistic to expect
modest positive impact from this program.”  Under Operation Twist, the central bank plans to replace
$400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with longer-
term Treasuries maturing in six to 30 years, as part of an
effort to reduce borrowing costs and help the world’s largest
economy recover. The plan gets its name from a similar action in
1961.  Yields on 30-year Treasuries tumbled after the Fed’s Sept.
21-22 meeting in  Washington , and have since gained. The yield
increased 12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 3.11
percent at 2:22 p.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices.  Consumer Confidence  Data released today show confidence among U.S. consumers
stagnating near a two-year low this month, and property values
in 20 U.S. cities falling 4.1 percent in July from a year
earlier.  The U.S. economy has “some forward momentum,” Fisher told
reporters after his speech. Even so, “it’s weak. Businesses are
on pause. Customers and consumers are on pause. Uncertainty
about the future is rampant and uncertainty undermines
confidence.”  “There’s lots of liquidity,” he said. “You cannot rely
on the Federal Reserve to do it all.”  Fisher cited recent conversations with business operators,
who told him that a plan like Operation Twist would signal the
FOMC’s concerns about a worsening economy and give people
incentives to hoard savings, complicate the Fed’s future
decisions, and suppress bank earnings.  “There is a significant risk that the policies recently
undertaken by the FOMC are likely to prove ineffective and might
well work against  job creation ,” he said.  Fisher said he doesn’t take issue with the Fed’s decision,
also announced last week, to reinvest proceeds from maturing
housing debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of
Treasuries.  “This decision, while not expected by the markets, was
acceptable for me as a tactical way to provide limited
assistance to the mortgage market at little cost,” he said.  The 62-year-old policy maker has been president of the
Dallas Fed since 2005. As a voting member of the FOMC in 2008,
he dissented five times in favor of tighter policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  