-- 
Fed’s Lockhart Says Operation Twist Will Have ‘Modest’ Impact on Economy

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-09-27T20:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/fed-s-lockhart-twist-to-have-modest-impact.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the Fed program announced last
week to buy more long-term securities will probably give no more
than a slight boost to the  U.S. economy .  “The transmission mechanism for monetary policy remains
somewhat impaired, and for this reason I am not expecting large
gains from the Fed’s most recent action,” Lockhart said today
in a speech in Jacksonville,  Florida . “It’s realistic to expect
modest positive impact from this program.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  voted Sept. 21 to extend
the average maturities of the Treasuries in the central bank’s
portfolio by purchasing $400 billion of long-term debt while
selling an equal amount of shorter-term securities. The so-
called Operation Twist is an attempt to push down mortgage and
other loan rates to spur growth.  Stocks fell for two days last week as investors weren’t
persuaded the “maturity extension program,” similar to an
action in 1961, would lift growth. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
his policy-making colleagues also cited “significant downside
risks” to the outlook.  Dallas  Fed President  Richard Fisher  said today the program
to push down longer-term interest rates risks proving
ineffective and may hurt  job creation . It was “a strategic
decision where I did not feel the benefits outweighed what I
perceived to be the costs,” Fisher said in a speech in Dallas.  Stocks Rise  U.S. stocks rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increasing 1 percent to 1,175.38 at 4:10 p.m. in New York
trading. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 1.9 percent.  The maturity extension program is “a measured, incremental
attempt to add more support to the recovery,” Lockhart said in
a speech to the World Affairs Council of Jacksonville. “It’s
not a fix for everything that ails the economy, but it should
help.”  During a question period with reporters, Lockhart said he
would have voted last week for the program. The plan is more
appealing than purchasing additional bonds because it doesn’t
increase the challenge of eventually scaling back the Fed’s
portfolio, he said.  Still, Lockhart said he wouldn’t rule out more policy
accommodation, including buying more bonds or the use of
“communications tools.” He didn’t describe such tools.  ‘High Bar’  “I continue to view quantitative easing or a large-scale
asset purchase program as requiring a pretty high bar to justify
because it carries with it the risk of growing the balance sheet
substantially,” he said to reporters.  “Depending on
circumstances, that too cannot be ruled out.”  Outright asset purchases are more difficult to unwind and
“can influence inflation expectations, which are central to
managing good monetary policy,” Lockhart said.  Lockhart agreed with two Fed officials who yesterday said
they continue to be on guard against inflation. The recent pace
of the  consumer price index  would be “unacceptable” if it
continues at that pace, though price gains will likely moderate,
Lockhart said.  “Prices of most commodities, including oil, have eased
from their recent highs,” he said. “Further, the painfully
high  unemployment rate  is consistent with considerable slack or
excess capacity in the economy, which tends to constrain wage
growth.” Finally, “longer-term inflation expectations remain
well anchored.”  ‘Quite Leery’  Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the central bank’s use
of tools has been “completely appropriate” and that she would
be “quite leery” of allowing higher inflation or price
expectations in an attempt to lower real interest rates. St.
Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said faster inflation won’t
reduce the housing glut. He also said “monetary policy is
ultra-loose right now, and appropriately so.”  The Atlanta Fed official said while he has lowered his
forecast for growth this year, he still expects an expansion in
gross domestic product of 1 percent to 2 percent in 2011 and 2
percent to 3 percent next year.  “I expect the pace of the recovery to build, albeit
modestly, and this will bring a gradual reduction in
unemployment,” Lockhart said. “Disinflationary pressures will
cause inflation to moderate to more acceptable levels.”  Economists have cut their forecasts for growth, according
to a Bloomberg News survey taken from Sept. 2 to Sept. 7. The
median forecast calls for a 1.8 percent annual pace of expansion
in the third quarter, down from 2.1 percent in the previous
month’s survey. Growth next year is forecast to average 2.2
percent, down from 2.4 percent.  Stagnant Payrolls  Stagnant payrolls in August have added to data over the
past month showing the economy is faltering, including slowing
manufacturing, plunging  consumer confidence , falling home values
and lower bond yields and stock prices.  The Fed maintained its pledge made in August to hold its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero through the middle of 2013 so
long as unemployment stays high and the inflation outlook is
“subdued.” The target rate has been in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  