-- 
Fisher Says Central Bank Is Under Attack From Ron Paul, Barney Frank

-- B y   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n   a n d   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-09-27T21:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/fisher-says-central-bank-is-under-attack-from-ron-paul-barney-frank.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said the central bank’s independence is
under attack from both ends of the political spectrum in
Congress, and he singled out two of the critics by name.  “We are being attacked from the right and from the left,
and I don’t see much difference between a certain congressman
from  Texas  named  Ron Paul  and a certain congressman from
Massachusetts named  Barney Frank ,” Fisher said in response to
audience questions after a speech in Dallas. Paul is a
Republican and Frank is a Democrat.  Fisher’s remarks are uncommon among central bank officials,
who tend to defer to Congress and its members, said Sung Won Sohn, former chief economist at Wells Fargo & Co. The  Dallas  Fed
chief is the only member of the  Federal Open Market Committee  to
have run for Congress, losing as a Democrat to Republican
Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison  twice, in 1993 and 1994.  His comments are “true as a factual matter,” said Sohn,
who served as a White House staff economist under  Richard Nixon 
from 1973 to 1974 and is now a professor at California State
University-Channel Islands. “But a person in the position of
president of a Federal Reserve bank should be careful about what
he says and how he says it because the Fed actually reports to
Congress and Congress can do anything it wants to the Fed.”  ‘End the Fed’  Paul, now a Republican presidential candidate, advocates
limited government and has written a book titled “End the
Fed.” In 2010, the House passed his legislation requiring
audits of central bank interest-rate decisions. The Senate
rejected the measure, and Congress ended up approving a
compromise that requires disclosure of details of the Fed’s
emergency lending and monetary-policy actions during the
financial crisis.  Frank, who has served in Congress since 1981, says regional
Federal Reserve bank presidents shouldn’t be allowed to vote on
 interest rates  because they aren’t appointed by elected
officials. He said this month he will submit a new version of
legislation to cut the voting rights of five rotating regional
representatives from the 12-member Federal Open Market
Committee.  “I don’t see any difference between them,” Fisher said,
referring to Frank and Paul. “They believe we have too much
independence. They believe that Congress should be in charge of
monetary policy.”  Fed bank presidents are chosen by the bank’s boards, unlike
members of the central bank’s Washington-based Board of
Governors, who are nominated by the U.S. president and confirmed
by the Senate.  Substance Versus Structure  Fisher ``gets the fundamental thing wrong because my point
wasn’t about the substance of policy, it’s about the
structure,” Frank said in a telephone interview today. “I
would like to see more independence. In fact, I’d like to see
more independence from the business community and from the
financial community.”  Rachel Mills, a spokeswoman for Paul, said the congressman
“prides himself on his ability to build coalitions with people
across the aisle on issues they agree on.” She said Paul and
Frank have a “respectful” and “cordial” relationship even
when they disagree on how they would change the Fed.  Fisher served under two administrations. He was an
assistant to Treasury Secretary W. Michael Blumenthal in the
Carter administration, during the dollar crash of 1978, and
deputy U.S. trade representative under President  Bill Clinton 
with the rank of ambassador from 1997 to 2001. Today, he
described himself as “apolitical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;
Margot Habiby in Dallas at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  