-- 
Forget Taxes, Focus on Medicare to Cut Deficits: View

-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 
2011-09-27T00:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/forget-taxes-fix-medicare-to-cut-deficits-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
It may be called a
“supercommittee,” but nobody expects any heroics. The deal
reached over the summer to raise the debt ceiling created a
bipartisan committee to identify ways to reduce budget deficits
by $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years. Few people expect
anything to come of it, assuming that it will deadlock over
taxes.  But there may be a way for the committee members to avoid
that fate: They should skip the paralyzing arguments over taxes
and focus on paring back Medicare spending.  Senator  Pat Toomey , a Republican from  Pennsylvania  who is
on the committee,  says  they can generate bipartisan reform that
reduces both tax rates and deductions. But if that plan results
in a net tax increase, it is unlikely to get enough Republican
support to pass Congress. If it doesn’t, it won’t be scored as
yielding any deficit reduction.  Democrats, meanwhile, are unlikely to support cuts to
entitlements unless taxes are raised. President  Barack Obama 
recently said he would veto reductions to Medicare benefits
unless matched by tax increases, with aides  going on the record 
to say that the White House had entered “a new phase” in which
there would be no “legislative compromise.”  No wonder at least one member of the supercommittee is
telling colleagues that he isn’t holding out much hope for
progress.  Creating Conflict  Some Democrats say a standoff will work to their political
advantage. If the committee doesn’t issue recommendations that
get enacted, $1.2 trillion in automatic cuts to discretionary
spending -- half in defense, half in domestic programs -- take
effect starting in 2013. (The automatic reductions shrink dollar
for dollar for every bit of deficit reduction the committee
achieves.) Thus, many Democrats hope these alternatives create a
conflict between the Republicans’ pro-defense and anti-tax
factions.  They may get their wish. Representative Buck McKeon, the
chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, has said that,
if necessary, Republicans should make concessions on taxes
rather than defense.  Grover Norquist , the president of Americans
for  Tax Reform , advocates trimming the Pentagon’s budget
instead. Some conservative defense analysts concede that
significant savings could be made without compromising military
strength -- but they worry that the easiest way to find savings,
politically, will be to reduce training and procurement rather
than, say, reform military benefits.  The Democrats who savor this conflict may be
underestimating how painful they would find the automatic cuts
in domestic spending. The  Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities , a liberal research organization in  Washington ,
 estimates  that domestic programs under the knife -- from
education to infrastructure spending -- would lose 9 percent of
their funding in the first year of cuts alone.  Entitlements Key  But neither defense spending nor domestic discretionary
spending is primarily, or even significantly, responsible for
our alarming debt projections. Entitlements are the major reason
spending is predicted to rise sharply -- and that’s something
the committee can and should address.  Senators  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, and  Joe Lieberman , an independent from  Connecticut , have  suggested  some
reforms to Medicare that would generate about $600 billion in
savings within the next 10 years. They would gradually raise the
eligibility age for Medicare to 67 by 2025 while increasing
premiums and co-pays in a progressive manner, with higher-income
seniors paying more for their coverage. They would also limit
the ability of “Medigap” plans to drive Medicare spending higher
by covering the federal program’s deductibles. (No private
insurer would tolerate such parasitic activity.)  A Sensible Plan  The plan isn’t perfect. Its means-testing provisions should
be modified: Premiums should be tied to lifetime earnings, not
income, so that seniors aren’t discouraged from working. But
it’s a more sensible way to reduce the deficit than across-the-
board cuts in defense and domestic discretionary programs. And
it doesn’t really cross any of the Democrats’ ideological red
lines. It doesn’t voucherize the program or otherwise transform
it, as Representative  Paul Ryan ’s plan would. And if the health-
care law that Democrats enacted -- which scaled back Medicare
Advantage and cut payments to providers -- didn’t amount to
fewer benefits in liberals’ eyes, they ought to be able to
accept these reductions, too.  The plan leaves the campaign chessboard largely untouched.
If both parties agree to these reforms, neither will take a
political hit for enacting it, while both will accomplish some
of their policy objectives: sparing defense for the Republicans,
and sparing domestic programs for the Democrats.  Surely some liberals would prefer to see wealthy senior
citizens get a little bit less help from the federal government
than see education and infrastructure spending cut. But if the
Democrats on the committee nonetheless balk, the Republicans
should make the proposal anyway. It beats tearing each other up
over taxes and defense -- when the real budget choice we face is
between entitlements and everything else.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 