-- 
Former IRA Convict Exposes Divide With Bid for Irish Presidency

-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-09-27T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/former-ira-convict-mcguinness-exposes-divide-in-bid-for-irish-presidency.html
The Irish jailed Martin McGuinness
for terrorism-related activities almost 40 years ago, and now
he’s bidding to become their president.  Former  Irish Republican Army  member McGuinness, 61, is
challenging Michael D. Higgins, a politician and poet who
started his career when McGuinness was fighting against British
rule in Northern Ireland in the early 1970s, and David Norris, a
senator and James Joyce scholar known for his gay rights
activism. The election takes place on Oct. 27.  “People in the south don’t know a lot about McGuinness and
they’d be a little scared of him,” said Dublin student David
Doyle, 20. “I’m not old enough to remember the trouble in the
north, but from what my parents say, I’d be wary of him.”  McGuinness’s arrival into the political fray south of the
border follows  Sinn Fein  leader  Gerry Adams ’s election to the
Irish parliament in February. While they are aiming to build
support for their party during the economic turmoil across
Ireland, they are exposing the divisions in the country over the
three-decade-long “ Troubles’ ’ that left 3,500 people dead.  Justice Minister Alan Shatter said McGuinness may be an
inappropriate choice as president, while the candidate on Sept.
20 labeled his critics “West Brits,” a pejorative term for an
Irish person viewed as sympathetic to the U.K. Northern Ireland
remained part of the U.K. when Ireland won independence in 1922.  “With Sinn Fein contesting the election, the issue of
dealing with the legacy of the Troubles provides a challenge,”
 Diarmaid Ferriter , author of “The Transformation of Ireland:
1900-2000,” said in an interview. “It has the potential to
reopen a lot of old wounds and resentments, north and south.”  Tight Race  The seven-year Irish presidency’s political role is mostly
limited to signing legislation and referring proposals that may
be in conflict with the constitution to the  Supreme Court .
President Mary McAleese, also from  Northern Ireland , is stepping
down after completing her second term.  McGuinness lies third in the race, according to a survey
for the Sunday Business Post, published on Sept. 25. He drew 16
percent support in the telephone poll of 1,010 voters taken
between Sept. 19 and 21. Norris is favorite to win, on 21
percent support, followed by Higgins at 18 percent.  Sinn Fein nominated McGuinness, Northern Ireland’s deputy
first minister since 2007, to build on its performance in
February’s general election, when the party tripled its
representation in the Dublin parliament.  ‘Big Guns’  “They are sending the big guns down,” said Jonathan Tonge, a politics professor at the University of Liverpool, who
has studied Sinn Fein. “If people are looking for a protest
candidate, on that basis it is winnable. There is never going to
be a better time for McGuinness to stand.”  Since the parliamentary election, Sinn Fein has led
opposition to the government’s commitment to repay bank
bondholders. The state is injecting about 62 billion euros
($84.5 billion) into the financial system and the government is
preparing another round of spending cuts and tax increases.  Support for Sinn Fein now stands at 15 percent, the Sunday
Business Post poll showed. That puts it level with Fianna Fail,
which lost power in February after presiding over the worst
recession in Ireland’s modern history. The self-styled party of
Irish nationalism, Fianna Fail isn’t running a candidate after
losing 58 of its 78 seats in the general election.  ‘Peacemaker’  McGuinness took his current position in  Belfast  when
Northern Ireland’s power-sharing assembly was revived following
the IRA’s decision to disarm in 2005. He previously led Sinn
Fein’s peace negotiations.  “I am obviously seen as someone who was a member of the
IRA but more importantly I am seen by the vast majority of
people as a peacemaker,” McGuinness said in an interview at
Google Inc.’s offices in Dublin yesterday as he campaigned.
“That includes people like President Obama,  George Bush ,
President Clinton and successive British Prime Ministers.”  In 2001, McGuinness told the  Bloody Sunday Tribunal , a U.K.
government investigation into the killing of 13 Catholic
civilians in his hometown of Derry in 1972, that he was second
in command of the IRA in the city on that day.  He was jailed in the  Republic of Ireland  in 1973 after
police found ammunition and explosives in a car in which he was
traveling, according to a 2001 book by Liam Clarke and Kathryn
Johnston, “Martin McGuinness, from Guns to Government.”  McGuinness says he left the IRA in 1974, the Irish Times
 reported  on Sept. 20. He has also said he hadn’t killed anyone.  Outside the General Post Office in Dublin, the epicenter of
the Irish uprising against British rule in 1916, some voters say
McGuinness has put his past behind him.  “His past doesn’t bother me,” said  John Green , 52, from
Galway. “War is war and there is no good and bad in war.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  