-- 
Freddie May Have Spared Banks, Cost Taxpayers, Watchdog Says

-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-09-27T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/freddie-mac-mishandled-loan-reviews-may-have-spared-banks-watchdog-says.html
Freddie Mac  is reviewing its
procedures for examining mortgages after auditors faulted its
handling of lapsed loans issued before the 2008 credit crisis, a
government watchdog said in a report on the finance firm.  The mortgage-finance firm, which is operating under U.S.
conservatorship, didn’t do enough to find flaws that could’ve
increased recovery of money from banks that sold defective
loans, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ’s inspector general
said in the report released today.  FHFA, the regulator that oversees Freddie Mac and larger
rival Fannie Mae, suspended loan-repurchase agreements while the
agency and the McLean, Virginia-based company explore ways to
uncover more defective loans, according to the report.  “It is critical that this issue be resolved, as it
involves potentially considerable recoveries for Freddie Mac and
ultimately taxpayers,” the inspector general’s office said in
the report.  FHFA examiners and Freddie Mac’s own auditors flagged
problems with the loan-review process early last year. They told
executives and board members that reviewing a larger sample of
loans could increase recovery under agreements banks signed with
Freddie Mac, which has been under U.S. control since it was
seized along with Washington-based Fannie Mae in 2008.  Freddie Mac signed a $1.35 billion settlement with  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  in December, with the FHFA’s consent. The
agreement, which resolved past, present and future repurchase
demands on 787,000 loans, was based on the company’s flawed
review process, the report found. Fannie Mae reached its own
$1.52 billion settlement with Bank of America.  Conservatorship  Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, firms created by Congress to
boost homeownership, were placed under conservatorship in
September 2008 after defaults stemming from the collapse of the
subprime mortgage market pushed them to the brink of collapse.
Since then, they have drawn more than $170 billion in taxpayer
aid to remain solvent.  The two firms provide liquidity to the mortgage market by
buying bundled loans from banks under terms that require
repurchase of those that prove defective. At the end of June,
Freddie Mac had $3.1 billion in repurchase demands outstanding.  The FHFA sued 17 lenders this month on behalf of  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac, citing possible defects in $196 billion worth
of mortgage securities owned by the companies.  Surface Quickly  When long-term, fixed-rate loans dominated the market,
mortgage defaults tended to occur within three years of a loan
being issued. Based on that experience, Freddie Mac expected
defective mortgages to surface quickly and spent little time
reviewing older loans.  “Rather than foreclosures declining over time, Freddie
Mac-supplied housing data revealed foreclosures increasing,
three, four and five years after purchase,” the inspector
general found.  An FHFA examiner raised concerns about the changing pattern
in March 2010, noting that Freddie Mac had reviewed less than 10
percent of failed 2005 and 2006 loans, thus  “eliminating any
chance to put ineligible loans back to the lenders from those
years” and potentially costing the company billions of dollars,
the report found.  Freddie Mac resisted calls to conduct more testing of older
loans. At a July 2010 meeting, a Freddie Mac manager told
regulators that loan reviews were “resource constrained” and
sampling older loans was “not the highest and best use” of the
company’s limited resources.  ‘Business Relationships’  Freddie Mac managers also worried that aggressive loan
reviews and increased repurchase demands “would adversely
affect Freddie Mac’s business relationships with Bank of America
and other large loan sellers” and cost the company business,
the inspector general reported.  In a September 2010 e-mail to agency officials, an FHFA
examiner said “Freddie Mac could be passively absorbing
billions of dollars of losses.”  Freddie Mac’s board approved the Bank of America settlement
on Dec. 14. Two weeks later, FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco signed off on the deal.  “By relying on Freddie Mac’s analysis of the settlement
without testing the assumptions underlying Freddie Mac’s
existing loan review process, FHFA senior managers may have
inaccurately estimated the risk of loss to Freddie Mac,” the
inspector general reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  