-- 
Gasoline Gains as Europe Debt Fears Ease, Conoco to Idle Plant

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-09-27T17:11:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/gasoline-gains-as-europe-debt-fears-ease-conoco-to-idle-plant.html
Gasoline rose the most in four
months on speculation that European leaders will contain the
region’s debt crisis and as  ConocoPhillips (COP)  said it will shut an
East Coast refinery while seeking a buyer for the plant.  Futures gained as U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  predicted that European governments will accelerate
their response to their region’s debt crisis. Conoco will idle
its 185,000-barrel-a-day Trainer, Pennsylvania, refinery and
shut it in six months if there is no deal.  “The market has been moving up on the hope that the
European governments have some sort of plan in the works to
solve the sovereign debt crisis over there,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “When Trainer
shuts down, there will be a supply issue.”  Gasoline for October delivery rose 10.55 cents, or 4.1
percent, to $2.6749 a gallon at 12:58 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures jumped as much as 4.8 percent, the
biggest gain since May 9. Prices have fallen 12 percent in
September and in the third quarter.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  traveled to Berlin
today, two days before German lawmakers ratify an overhaul of
the euro rescue fund, pledging success in a struggle to restore
budget balance. Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos promised
“superhuman” efforts hours before a vote in Athens on an
unpopular property tax needed to avoid default.  “There’s more optimism that the Europeans seem to be
making progress, but the Europeans still have not presented a
long-lasting solution,” said Dominick Chirichella, senior
partner at the Energy Management Institute in New York.  Trainer Refinery  The  Trainer  refinery can produce 105,000 barrels a day of
gasoline and 65,000 barrels a day of diesel, heating oil and  jet
fuel , according to the company’s website. U.S. East Coast plants
processed 1.28 million barrels a day of fuel in the week ended
Sept. 16, Energy Department data show.  Conoco said it will also sell pipelines and terminals
associated with the Trainer refinery. The company cited weak
demand, pressure from imports and the cost of meeting regulatory
requirements for its decision to immediately idle the plant.  “Demand is going down, there is tremendous
underutilization and excess capacity inside and outside the
United States,” Chirichella said. “There won’t be a gasoline
shortage but I would expect more stuff from Europe, from the
Caribbean, the Midwest and the  Gulf Coast .”  October Premium  October gasoline’s premium to the November-delivery
contract increased 1.15 cents to 5.25 cents a gallon on the
Nymex. The spread widened as Conoco’s announcement it will stop
production at Trainer followed LyondellBasell Industries NV’s
statement that it will shut a 105,000 barrel-a-day refinery in
Berre, Southern  France , after finding no buyers.  “What’s driving the RBOB spread is the refinery
shutdowns,” said Mark Anderle, a trader at Truman Arnold Cos.
in Dallas.  The  New York  Mercantile Exchange futures contract reflects
reformulated gasoline blendstock, or RBOB, delivered in New York
Harbor.  The closure of the Berre refinery is the third announced in
France in the past 18 months as refiners seek to reduce plant
capacity because of a drop in profits and lower fuel demand.
Total SA said it would dismantle its Flanders plant near Dunkirk
and Petroplus Holdings AG unveiled a plan to close the
Reichstett refinery.  Broad Rally  Futures’ advance was also part of a broad rally in
commodities and equities. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials
surged 2.9 percent as of 1:03 p.m. in New York. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index increased 2.2 percent and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  gained 2.4 percent.  A weaker dollar increased the investment appeal of
commodities. The U.S. currency declined 0.5 percent against the
euro at 1:04 p.m. in New York.  “It’s speculation that somebody is going to do something
about  Europe  and the  U.S. dollar  is weaker and equities are
stronger.” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York.  U.S. gasoline inventories probably increased 950,000
barrels last week, according to the median estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. Distillate stockpiles fell
250,000 barrels. The Energy Department is scheduled to report
last week’s inventories at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  October-delivery heating oil gained 7.31 cents, or 2.6
percent, to $2.8646 a gallon on the exchange. Futures have lost
6.9 percent this month and are down 2.3 percent for the quarter.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
1.4 cents to $3.479 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.
It was the 17th straight decline and the lowest price since
March 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  