-- 
Germany Cuts Fourth-Quarter Debt Plan to $70 Billion as Tax Receipts Surge

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-09-27T09:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/germany-cuts-fourth-quarter-debt-plan-on-tax-receipt-surge.html
Germany  cut its fourth-quarter
debt-sale plan, the second quarterly reduction this year, after
tax receipts boosted government coffers and reduced Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s net new borrowing needs.  The government will cut gross borrowing in the last three
months of this year by 16 billion euros ($21.6 billion), a 24
percent reduction from the initial amount, to 52 billion euros,
the Federal Finance Agency said in an e-mailed statement today.
The cuts mean that Merkel’s government trimmed 27 billion euros
in debt sales this year from its original plan to 275 billion
euros.  “The very low yields on the market present favorable
refinancing conditions at the moment,” Finance Agency chief
Carl Heinz Daube said in an interview. “ Interest rates  would,
however, have to remain permanently low to achieve a lasting
relief in interest expenses.”  German bonds stayed lower after the announcement. The yield
on 10-year securities rose six basis points to 1.89 percent as
of 9:51 a.m. in  London . That’s below the average of 3.78 percent
in the past decade. German bund yields fell to a record low of
1.64 percent on Sept. 23 as investors sought a haven amid signs
the euro-region debt crisis, which started in  Greece , in 2009 is
worsening.  Tax Receipts  Export-fueled economic growth of about 3.6 percent this
year and 26 straight months of falling unemployment have boosted
corporate and income tax receipts, aiding Merkel’s efforts to
rein in net new government borrowing. Merkel is committed, by a
debt “brake,” to cut the federal deficit by half a percentage
point each year until 2015.  Merkel may be able to push down this year’s compound
national deficit to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product after
it reached 3.3 percent last year, above the 3 percent threshold
set by the European Union for all nations using the euro. Next
year, the government aims to sell about 270 billion euros of
debt, the draft budget shows. Net new federal borrowing will
fall to 27.2 billion euros compared with about 30 billion euros
this year.  In the fourth quarter, the agency will sell 39 billion
euros in bonds, also called capital-market instruments, and 13
billion euros in bills, or money-market instruments. The agency
also said it intends to issue about 2 billion to 3 billion euros
of inflation-protected bonds in the last quarter of 2011.  German bonds are the best performer among sovereign debt
issued by euro-region nations this year as investors sought the
safest assets as the debt crisis deteriorated.  German  government bonds  handed investors an 8.3 percent
return this year, compared with 6.3 percent from debt issued by
 France , 6.1 percent from  Finland , and a 41 percent loss from
Greek bonds, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analyst Societies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  