-- 
German Life Insurer Profit Hurt by Low Interest Rates, S&P Says

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-09-27T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/german-life-insurer-profit-hurt-by-low-interest-rates-s-p-says.html
German life insurers including
units of  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Munich Re  are likely to be able to pay
customers guaranteed returns even as their earnings are eroded
by low  interest rates , according to  Standard & Poor’s .  “While the low interest rate environment is the dominant
driver for life insurers’ earnings, we consider the probability
that they will face difficulties to meet customer guarantees as
very low,” S&P analyst Christian Badorff said at a press
briefing in  Frankfurt  today.  German insurers including Munich-based Allianz,  Europe ’s
biggest insurer, Munich Re’s Ergo Versicherungsgruppe AG and
Talanx AG, are under pressure from reduced prices for products
such as motor insurance and by low interest rates, which weigh
on investment profits. S&P estimates an average investment
return of 3.5 percent to 4 percent for German primary insurers
this year. That compares to an average interest rate guarantee
for life insurance customers of about 3.1 percent, the ratings
firm said.  “German insurers are particularly affected by the low
level of German government bond yields,” Badorff said. “Last
year, about 89 percent of German insurers’ investments were held
in bonds, loans and  bank deposits  and thus directly linked to
interest rates.”  Capital Markets  Allianz Deutschland AG, the German unit of Allianz, last
month cut its full-year profit forecast, citing the “situation
on capital markets” as well as claims for damaged buildings and
vehicles from hailstorms in June. Dusseldorf-based Ergo,
Germany’s second-biggest insurer, aims to increase net income to
between 450 million euros ($608 million) and 550 million euros
this year as the sale of a real estate company in  Singapore 
helped cushion a 113 million-euro writedown on Greek  government
bonds .  “German insurers’ exposure to Greece, Ireland and Portugal
is limited and manageable with existing capital positions,”
Badorff said. “Should the crisis increasingly spill over to
Spain and Italy, ratings could come under pressure.”  Germany  is Europe’s third-biggest insurance market behind
the U.K. and France by premium income, according to  statistics 
by Brussels-based  CEA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  