-- 
Germany’s DAX Jumps Most in 16 Months; Daimler, Allianz, Siemens Advance

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-09-27T15:59:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/germany-s-dax-index-advances-daimler-allianz-siemens-lead-gains.html
German stocks climbed the most in
16 months amid speculation policy makers are stepping up efforts
to control the European debt crisis.  MAN SE (MAN)  rose the most in more than two years as European
Union regulators cleared  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s takeover of the
truckmaker.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  rallied with metal
prices.  Allianz SE (ALV)  surged 8 percent as insurance companies
climbed across Europe.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 282.88, or 5.3 percent, to
5,628.44 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, the most since May
2010. The gauge has climbed 11 percent from this year’s lowest
level on Sept. 12 as investors speculated a 29 percent slump
since June 30 wasn’t commensurate with the outlook for earnings.
The tumble in stocks had left the DAX trading at 8.8 times
estimated profits, below the average price-earnings ratio of
12.3 during the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that
European governments will step up their response to their
region’s debt crisis after a chiding from counterparts around
the world.  “They heard from everybody around the world” in
Washington meetings last week, Geithner said on ABC’s “World
News With Diane Sawyer” program. Europe’s crisis is “starting
to hurt growth everywhere, in countries as far away as China,
Brazil and India, Korea. And they heard the same message from us
they heard from everybody else, which is it’s time to move.”  Geithner’s remarks maintain pressure on Europe ahead of
finance minister and central bank gatherings next week and a
decision on whether to disburse a loan Greece may need to avoid
default.  Papandreou’s Challenge  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hosted Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  for talks in Berlin today as credit-default
swaps show a more than 90 percent chance that Greece won’t meet
its debt commitments. By contrast, German swaps signal a less
than 10 percent chance that Europe’s biggest economy will fail
to adhere to its obligations.  Papandreou tests the strength of his parliamentary majority
today as lawmakers vote on a property tax that is key to
persuading the EU and International Monetary Fund to release an
aid installment and avert default.  Policy makers in Europe now understand the severity of the
debt crisis and the actions that need to be taken, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-Erian.  ‘Finally Get It’  “What I learned in  Washington  is that Europeans finally
get it,” El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer at the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a
radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom
Keene and Ken Prewitt. “They recognize they have deep problems
and they recognize they need to do something about it.”  GfK SE said today that German  consumer confidence  will hold
steady in October. The Nuremberg-based market research company
forecast that its consumer-sentiment index, based on a survey of
about 2,000 people, will remain at 5.2. Economists predicted a
drop to 5, according to the median of 25 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  MAN soared 7.2 percent to 63.29 euros, the biggest increase
since June 2009. Volkswagen’s takeover obtained antitrust
approval without the need for asset sales or other remedies, the
European Commission said late yesterday. The Wolfsburg, Germany-
based carmaker will own 55.9 percent of MAN’s voting rights
after the deal closes. Volkswagen preferred shares gained 6.7
percent to 108.30 euros.  ThyssenKrupp, Germany’s biggest steelmaker, jumped 5.9
percent to 19.66 euros, while Salzgitter, the second-largest,
surged 6.3 percent to 36.81 euros. Copper, lead, nickel, tin and
zinc all advanced on the London Metal Exchange today.  Allianz,  Europe ’s largest insurer, soared 8 percent to
70.18 euros, while  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer,
gained 6.1 percent to 90.84 euros. A gauge of European insurance
companies surged 6.1 percent today for the biggest two-day gain
since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  