-- 
German Bunds Decline on Bets Europe to Resolve Crisis; Italian Bonds Gain

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-09-27T15:33:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/german-bonds-fall-on-view-europe-will-step-up-crisis-response.html
German 10-year bonds fell, pushing
yields up the most in seven weeks, as stocks gained around the
world on optimism European policy makers are stepping up efforts
to tackle the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  Two-year notes, perceived to be among  Europe ’s safest
securities, dropped for a second day after  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said Germany will provide all the assistance it can to
help stabilize  Greece . U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted European governments will use more force to
resolve the crisis after they heard the concerns of global
finance officials. Italian and Spanish bonds advanced after the
nations sold debt today.  “There’s a relief rally pushing bund yields higher,” said
 Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in London. Potential agreements to
boost the European rescue fund and possible central bank
measures “are facilitating a risk-on environment,” he said.  The 10-year bund yield jumped 12 basis points to 1.95
percent at 4:25 p.m. in  London , after rising by 15 basis points,
the biggest intraday increase since Aug. 8. The yield has
climbed from a record low 1.636 percent on Sept. 23. The 2.25
percent security due September 2021 slid 1.130, or 11.30 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,361) face amount, to 102.600. Two-year yields
gained nine basis points to 0.54 percent.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index of shares rallied 4.2 percent
and the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index rose 2.3 percent.  German Commitment  “Whatever Germany can offer in terms of help, we will
offer,” Merkel said at a German industry federation event in
Berlin. She urged lawmakers to back an enhancement of the euro
rescue fund in a vote in two days. Greece can overcome the
crisis with the help of stronger leadership from policy makers,
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said at the same event.  Euro-region finance chiefs committed at a gathering of the
Group of 20 in  Washington  on Sept. 22 to boost the flexibility
of their rescue fund and “maximize its impact” by the time of
the next G-20 meeting. Euro-area finance ministers will gather
again on Oct. 3.  “What I learned in Washington is that Europeans finally
get it,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief executive and co-chief
investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview
on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  German bunds also declined after GfK SE said German
 consumer confidence  will be unchanged in October, defying
concern the economy may be heading for a recession. GfK’s
confidence-sentiment index for Europe’s largest economy will
remain at 5.2, compared with a drop to 5 predicted by the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Italian Bonds  Italy’s bonds advanced after the nation sold 11 billion
euros of Treasury bills and 3.5 billion euros of zero-coupon
bonds maturing in 2013.  The 10-year yield declined six basis points to 5.59
percent, reducing the spread that investors demand to hold the
securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds by 18 basis
points to 363 basis points.  Spanish notes rose after the country auctioned 3.2 billion
euros of 77- and 175-day bills. The 10-year yield fell 12 basis
points to 5.05 percent, shrinking the spread with benchmark
bunds by 24 basis points to 309 basis points.  Spreads Shrink  “Spreads have compressed across the board with  market
sentiment  having benefited from the latest announcements from
policy makers seriously considering additional help for the euro
zone,” said  Matteo Regesta , a senior interest-rate strategist
in London at BNP Paribas SA. “The dynamic of prices today is an
indication that it’s still possible, with a strong effort, to
normalize capital markets.”  Dutch and Finnish bonds declined as gains in stocks damped
demand for AAA rated securities. Dutch 10-year yield rose 11
basis points to 2.35 percent. Similar-maturity Finland rates
climbed 11 basis points to 2.41 percent.  Germany  lowered its fourth-quarter debt-sale plan after tax
receipts boosted the Federal budget. The government will reduce
its debt sales in the last three months by 16 billion euros to
52 billion euros, the Federal Finance Agency said today. The
cuts mean the government trimmed 27 billion euros in debt sales
this year from its original plan to sell 275 billion euros.  Bunds and securities of other so-called core countries
gained this quarter as reports signaled the region’s economy is
slipping back into a recession and the sovereign-debt crisis
worsened. Bunds have risen 8.4 percent since June 30, compared
with a 6.4 percent return on U.S. Treasuries and 8.7 percent for
U.K. gilts, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  Highest Volatility  Volatility on  Austria ’s sovereign debt was the highest
among euro-area markets today, according to measures of 10-year
bonds, two-10-year spreads and credit-default swaps, according
to a Bloomberg gauge.  The yield change in  Sweden ’s 10-year bonds was 3.5 times
the 90-day average, the most in Europe, the gauge showed. The
government said today producer prices rose 0.3 percent in
August, compared with a forecast for an 0.1 decline in a
Bloomberg survey. Sweden’s 10-year yield rose 15 basis points to
1.87 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  