-- 
Glam Media Names Former Apple Executive Seeley as Finance Chief

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-09-27T18:32:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/glam-media-names-former-apple-executive-seeley-as-finance-chief.html
Glam Media Inc., a provider of
Internet-advertising services targeting women, named Jeanne Seeley as chief financial officer, adding an executive with
experience at publicly traded companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Seeley comes to closely held Glam from  Occam Networks Inc. (OCNW) ,
which Calix Inc. acquired this year. Earlier in her career, she
oversaw the filing for an initial public offering at Snap
Appliance Inc., which shelved the sale when market conditions
worsened in 2001, Seeley said in an interview today.  Glam has been taking steps to hold its own IPO, including
preliminary talks with bankers, people with knowledge of the
discussions said earlier this year. The Brisbane, California-
based company is evaluating the timing because the market for
initial share sales has weakened, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Seeley replaces Bruce Jaffe, who will focus on acquisitions
and corporate development as the company continues to look at
larger deals, Chief Executive Officer  Samir Arora  said. Glam
last week said it will acquire social-networking site Ning Inc.
and have co-founder  Marc Andreessen  join its board.  Glam bought Ning for about $150 million, two people
familiar with the matter said when the purchase was announced.
The company is boosting the size of the deals it considers, and
acquisitions “will be as much a part of our growth as organic”
growth, Arora said in an interview yesterday.  Finance Experience  Seeley, who will start today, also served as CFO at
Japanese Internet-software firm Access Co. and at Quantum Corp.
She spent 16 years at Apple in roles including controller and
chief accounting officer.  Seeley’s experience in finance at publicly traded companies
was an important consideration in her selection, Arora said. He
declined to comment on whether Glam is planning an IPO.  Because of the time needed to integrate Ning and the
stalled IPO market, Glam’s plans for a share sale may be held up
longer than the company expected several months ago, according
to the person familiar with the company, who didn’t want to be
named because the process is private. Still, the company is
planning for an offering and Seeley’s hiring is part of that
process, the person said.  U.S. listings have slowed because of investors’ concerns
about economic growth, the European debt crisis and a downgrade
of the U.S. credit rating. IPOs have been shelved or scrapped at
a faster rate in the past three months than the comparable
period in any year since 2004, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The volatile market should lead companies to consider
whether an IPO is right for them now, Seeley said, while
declining to comment on Glam specifically.  “I think it is prudent for companies that have intended an
entrance into the public markets to really take a pause and
consider that kind of volatility in regards to their
situation,” she said. “Entering an issue into this kind of
market is not for the weak of knees.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, is an
investor in Andreessen’s venture capital firm,  Andreessen
Horowitz .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  