-- 
Takeover Rebound Falters as European Woes Overshadow U.S.

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-27T18:45:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/global-takeover-rebound-falters-as-europe-woes-overshadow-u-s-.html
The global rebound in mergers and
acquisitions stumbled in the third quarter as takeovers by U.S.
and Asian acquirers failed to compensate for a 42 percent
decline in purchases by European companies.  Dealmaking dropped 21 percent to $510 billion from the
prior three-month period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as European suitors retreated. St. Louis-based
Express Scripts Inc.’s $29.1 billion bid for Medco Health
Solutions Inc. and Tokyo-based Nippon Steel Corp.’s $9.5 billion
offer for Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. blunted the drop.  U.S. and Asian companies are putting stockpiles of cash to
work as a dimming economic outlook makes it more difficult for
them to expand on their own. While their counterparts in  Europe 
are also seeking growth, the deepening debt crisis there
discouraged some from pursuing deals.  “The broader economic climate in Europe is bringing
uncertainty to decision-making,” said Hernan Cristerna, head of
M&A for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , the top adviser on deals this year. “New mandates have
been coming through, but we are realistic that it might be
difficult to execute some of them in the current environment.”  The rout in Europe imperils what is on track to be the
second year of a global recovery in dealmaking. Companies have
struck $1.79 trillion of deals this year, 18 percent more than
the $1.52 trillion they put together at the same point in 2010.  U.S. Versus Europe  For every $2 U.S. companies spent on acquisitions in the
third quarter, European ones spent less than $1. For most of the
past decade, U.S. and Europe disbursed about the same amount.  U.S. deals included two big bets by technology giants:
Google Inc.’s $12.5 billion offer for Motorola Mobility Holdings
Inc. and Hewlett-Packard Co.’s proposed $10.3 billion
acquisition of U.K. software maker Autonomy Corp.  Melbourne ’s
BHP Billiton Ltd. bought Houston-based Petrohawk Energy Corp.
for about $12 billion, its largest acquisition.  “We are continuing to see healthy activity in both the
tech and in natural resources sectors, but the macro environment
is such that CEOs are being prudent,” said Yoel Zaoui, global
co-head of M&A at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   Goldman Sachs is second to JPMorgan in advising on
transactions this year. Morgan Stanley and  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  round out the top four.  Developing Countries  Asian and Latin American companies are providing much of
the buying power in M&A, speakers at the  Bloomberg Dealmakers
Summit  said today in  New York . Emerging markets are “the only
place to go for growth,” said  Alan Schwartz , executive chairman
of Guggenheim Partners LLC. He spoke on a panel about the global
outlook for dealmaking alongside Centerview Partners’ Blair Effron and Gary Parr, vice chairman at Lazard Ltd.  Stabilizing the European banking system will be key to
continued growth in global M&A, Parr said. A number of European
banks need capital injections, and liquidity guarantees from
governments will be required, he said.  Deal volume in the third quarter sank alongside the outlook
for the global economy. Spanish and Italian government bond
yields increased to euro-era records during the quarter as
 Greece  attempted to avoid default. In the U.S., credit concerns
increased as  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the nation’s rating,
saying lawmakers haven’t done enough to curb record budget
deficits.  Financial Services  Deals in financial services, particularly exposed to the
crisis in Europe, will be rare as long as valuations remain low,
said Jonathan Pruzan, co-head of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s financial-
institutions investment-banking group.  “One of the impediments right now from the sellers’
perspective is valuation,” Pruzan said today at the conference.
“Until there’s a two-way market, activity is going to be very,
very slow.”  Bank executives are hesitating before agreeing to deals
until regulations defining systemically important financial
institutions are set, said banking lawyer H. Rodgin Cohen,
senior chairman at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  “If you make any acquisition of size, that alone could
bring you into the next higher bucket,” Cohen said, referring
to capital ratio requirements. “Who could afford a deal of any
size if the consequence was to give you even a 0.5 percent
increase on your capital ratio for your entire operations?
Returns would need to be astronomical to justify that.”  Stretched Timelines  Financial services is not the only industry hit by the
slowdown, according to Giuseppe Monarchi, head of M&A for
Europe, the Middle East and Africa at Credit Suisse in  London .  “Timelines are being stretched, and whether these deals
ultimately get done remains an open question,” Monarchi said.  PPR, the French owner of luxury brands such as Gucci,
shelved plans this month to sell its Redcats online retail unit,
partly because of the financing squeeze. The Paris-based company
initially attracted buyout firms such as TPG Capital and CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., people with knowledge of the matter said
in July.  Some companies are opting for spinoffs or breakups rather
than takeovers. Kraft Foods Inc., whose brands include Oreo
cookies and Cadbury chocolate, last month revealed plans to spin
off its North American grocery business. Tyco International
Ltd., the security-system maker that fielded advances from
Schneider Electric SA this year, announced plans for its own
breakup this month.  Spinoff Option  “For now, we’ll continue to see strategic reorganizations,
such as spinoffs and divestitures, and some sizable acquisitions
by companies with substantial cash reserves,” said Henrik Aslaksen, global head of M&A for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in London. The
top 1,000 non-financial companies worldwide are sitting on about
$3.3 trillion in cash and equivalents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Siemens AG Chief Executive Officer  Peter Loescher  said
Sept. 24 that the German maker of trains, scanners and power
plants is seeking acquisitions and that prices are becoming
“more attractive by the day.” Nestle SA, which had more than
$3 billion in cash and equivalents at the end of June, said in
August that it opted not to buy back more shares, prompting
speculation it’s saving for takeovers.  Asian Deals  Acquirers in the Asia-Pacific region kept spending in the
third quarter, with volume climbing about 5 percent to $160
billion from the previous period, including Nippon Steel’s deal
to create the world’s second-largest steelmaker.  “Given the undiminished appetite of Asian corporates for
M&A opportunities globally, combined with their strong overall
financial positioning, we don’t expect any slowdown in M&A
activity to be long drawn out,” said Colin Banfield, Asia-
Pacific head of M&A at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Still, much like in Europe, market turmoil has put off or
quashed some large transactions clients had contemplated, said
Stephen Gore, head of M&A for  Asia  at  UBS AG. (UBSN)   “Trying to take a decision to execute a large,
transformational transaction when there is a high level of
global uncertainty about macro-economic conditions is
difficult,” he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  reduced its forecast for
global growth Sept. 20 and said Europe and the U.S. risk re-
entering recession if they fail to solve their financial
problems. The world economy probably will expand 4 percent this
year and next, the IMF said, compared with previous projections
of 4.3 percent and 4.5 percent.  Slowing economic growth may actually push some companies to
seek acquisitions, to realize cost savings or enter new markets,
said Patrick Ramsey, co-head of Americas mergers at  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)   “The challenge of organic growth has only gotten harder as
the slope of economic recovery has become shallower,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  