-- 
GM Profitable in All Regional Units: CEO

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-09-27T20:55:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/gm-profitable-in-all-regional-units-ceo.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  is now
profitable in all of its regional units, Chief Executive Officer
Dan Akerson said. That’s a sign of a turnaround for a company
whose European Opel unit is still in fix-it mode.  Akerson, speaking at Bloomberg’s Dealmakers Summit in  New
York  today, said GM’s global presence was one of the selling
points during the company’s initial public offering last year.
In July, Akerson squelched rumors that GM planned to sell Opel.
GM was correct to have reversed an agreement to sell its
European Opel unit in 2009, he said.  “It was a bad deal,” Akerson said. “We were giving
 Europe  away.”  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, predicts that its European
business will be profitable this year, excluding some costs.
Losses at the unit were a question mark for investors when the
company went public in November 2010.  GM has been cutting capacity in Europe and has hired
 Detroit  consulting firm Alix Partners to help the company find
efficiencies in engineering and revenue opportunities in its
sales and marketing operations.  Opel earned $102 million in the second quarter before taxes
and interest. The German business unit lost $390 million in the
first quarter because of $395 million in goodwill impairment
costs.  $14.5 Billion in Losses  GM, based in Detroit, has lost $14.5 billion in Europe
since 1999. The automaker in 2009 agreed to sell 55 percent of
Ruesselsheim, Germany-based Adam Opel GmbH to  Magna
International Inc. (MG)  and partner OAO Sberbank, before reversing
course in November 2009.  Akerson appeared at the gathering with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
Vice Chairman James B. “Jimmy” Lee. JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley,
Bank of America Corp. and Citigroup Inc. led the GM IPO.  “Investors liked the story,” Lee said of the GM offering,
which was originally priced at $26 to $29 a share before being
sold at $33. “Another piece of the puzzle was new management.
Investors said, ‘This was a new bunch of guys running this
company.’”  GM’s goal for Europe is to be “profitable by just better
than break-even before restructuring charges,”  Nick Reilly ,
president of  GM Europe , told reporters Sept. 13 at the Frankfurt
auto show.  “In 2012, we won’t have those restructuring charges,”
Reilly said at the time. “They’re mostly done. We’ll get the
full 12-month benefit of the restructuring that we’ve done.”  GM rose 11 cents to $21.19 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have slid 36 percent from
their IPO price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  