-- 
GM’s OnStar Reverses Privacy Shift

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T17:55:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/gm-s-onstar-reverses-privacy-shift.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s OnStar vehicle
navigation service said it won’t collect data on the driving
habits of customers who cancel their subscriptions, reversing a
policy shift that drew protests from three U.S. senators.  OnStar told customers in an e-mail last week that it would
continue collecting information from vehicles of subscribers who
drop the service. Customers would have been required to contact
OnStar to halt data collection under the policy change, which
had been due to go into effect Dec. 1.  “We realize that our proposed amendments did not satisfy
our subscribers,” OnStar President Linda Marshall said in a
news release. “We listened, we responded and we hope to
maintain the trust of our more than 6 million customers.”  Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, yesterday
called on the Federal Trade Commission to investigate OnStar
over its data-collection policy, calling it  “one of the most
brazen invasions of privacy in recent memory.” Senators  Al Franken  of  Minnesota  and Christopher Coons of  Delaware  also
objected to OnStar’s revised privacy policy in a letter to the
company last week.  “OnStar’s decision is the right one and sets a good
precedent for the future,” Schumer said in an e-mail today.
“This announcement puts decisions about personal privacy back
where they belong, in the hands of individuals.”  6 Million Subscribers  “I’m glad that OnStar heard our concerns and has decided
to reverse course,” Coons said in a news release. “OnStar’s
announcement today is an important step toward restoring the
trust consumers had placed in it, and I hope that other
companies learn from this experience.”  OnStar delivers navigation and security features such as
emergency assistance to GM cars and other vehicles using the
global-positioning system. The service has more than 6 million
subscribers in the U.S.,  Canada  and  China , according to the
company’s website.  The company, under its existing privacy policy, may still
sell or share “anonymized” data on current customers’ vehicle
location, speed and seat-belt use with third parties.  Claudia Bourne Farrell, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to
comment. Marshall said OnStar had not been contacted by the
agency over its privacy policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  