-- 
Google to Set Up London Base for Technology Startups in Silicon Roundabout

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-28T09:50:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/google-to-open-tech-startup-base-in-london-s-silicon-roundabout.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  will lease a seven-
floor building to provide space for developers and startups near
 London ’s “Silicon Roundabout,” boosting U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s plans to create a global technology hub in the
east of the British capital.  Google will take on more than 25,000 square feet (2,323
square meters) of  office space  near Old Street until at least
2022. The company will pay about 5 million pounds ($7.8 million)
over 10 years in rent, which excludes costs for refurbishment,
according to an online  brochure  for the site.  Google, the owner of the world’s most popular search
engine, will work alongside technology and media companies as
the U.K. government tries to turn London into a technology
center to rival Silicon Valley and make the city less dependent
on financial services. The  Mountain View , California-based
company will retain its existing offices in central London.  “Finding a suitable building is the first major step,”
David Singleton, an engineering director for Google U.K., said
in a statement. “East London is already home to hundreds of
innovative British startups, and has huge potential for economic
growth and new jobs over the coming years.”  The U.K. government is encouraging ventures to move to
“Tech City,” a four-mile-long zone stretching from Shoreditch
to Stratford, the neighborhood at the heart of the 2012  Olympic
Games . Part of a media center that was built for the event may
be turned into a home for startups afterwards.  Tweetdeck, Wonga  By moving into the area, Google will stay close to
technology entrepreneurs and their inventions. Among high-
profile deals this year involving startups in the area, Twitter
Inc. bought micro-blogging service Tweetdeck, while online loan
provider Wonga raised 73 million pounds in funding led by  Oak
Investment Partners .  Google may get an early look at some of the other startups
in the area, said Keith Arundale, a venture-capital consultant
and former director in PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP’s global
technology group. “If Google’s eyeing up some acquisition
targets, they’re going to bring much-needed exit opportunities.
Those are a weakness in Europe compared to the U.S.”  Google, which has sponsored  TechHub , a flexible work-space
for startups located close to the roundabout, has seen the value
of “being very physically engaged” with some of the companies
in the area, said Elizabeth Varley, chief executive officer of
TechHub.  Android Applications  For Google, “it’s a really good way to be approachable for
people,” she said. “It’s less of a here’s a big company with
their big headquarter office that you can’t go into unless you
have an invitation.”  Google is seeking to increase the number of online
applications built for its Android operating system for mobile
phones and tablet computers. Android, the most popular operating
software, accounted for 43.3 percent of the smartphone market in
the second quarter, according to research firm Gartner Inc.
Apple Inc. had an 18.2 percent share.  “People who may be interested in Google technologies or
developing for Google platforms will have easier access to
knowledge and resources about how to do that,” Varley said.  Rental for the building on Bonhill Street is 19.50 pounds
per square foot per year, according to real-estate consulting
firm Allsop. That’s well below prime rents in the City of London
financial district, which are about 55 pounds a square foot.
Offices in the best locations in the  West End  cost as much as 95
pounds, Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. estimated last month.  Technology and media companies in central London employ
almost 400,000 people and accounted for 11 percent of all
commercial leasing in the past five years, according to Cushman
& Wakefield LLP, a real-estate broker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  