-- 
Google Asks for Right in AT&T Case to Protect Confidential Company Data

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/google-asks-for-right-in-at-t-case-to-protect-confidential-data.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked a U.S. judge
overseeing the government’s lawsuit seeking to stop  AT&T Inc. (T) 
from buying T-Mobile USA Inc. for a chance to contest the
disclosure of its confidential data in the case.  Google, which provided the information to the Justice
Department in its investigation of the proposed T-Mobile deal,
made its request yesterday in federal court in  Washington .
Google, describing the data as “competitively sensitive” and
related to internal products and launch plans, urged U.S.
District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle to have the parties give the
company advance notice of possible disclosures in court or to
experts.  “Without such additional protection, Google and other non-
parties could find their confidential information -- such as
Google’s business plans related to Android -- in the hands of
competitors (or their competitors’ consultants), or even in
newspapers, without having had prior notice of its disclosure,”
Google said its request to intervene in the lawsuit.  The Justice Department sued Dallas-based AT&T and Bonn-
based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit on Aug. 31, saying a
combination of the two companies would “substantially” reduce
competition. Seven states joined the government’s effort to
block the deal, which would make AT&T the biggest U.S. wireless
carrier.  Michael Balmoris, an AT&T spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond yesterday to an e-mail message seeking comment on
Google’s request.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-cv-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  