-- 
Google Creates Fund to Help Companies Expand Solar Installations

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-09-27T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/google-creates-fund-to-help-companies-expand-solar-installations.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , which  says  it has
invested at least $850 million in renewable energy, created a
fund for Clean Power Finance Inc. to help its customers install
residential solar systems.  The $75 million investment is expected to finance as many
as 3,000 rooftop photovoltaic systems on homes in Colorado and
 California , according to Rick Needham, Google’s director of
green business operations. The deal is the second by the largest
Internet search engine in residential solar since Google created
a $280 million fund for SolarCity Corp. in June.  SolarCity and companies including SunRun Inc. finance
installations for homeowners through leases or long-term power
purchase agreements that allow them to install the systems at
little to no upfront cost. The companies pick the installers or
do the work themselves.  Clean Power Finance, a San Francisco-based company, has
developed software that connects investors including Google,
banks and others with solar installers that may lack resources
to provide financing for their customers.  That approach is different because it’s “an open platform
that allows multiple installers to have this type of
financing,” Needham said in a telephone interview.  It may “significantly accelerate their sales” because
“a lot of installers in the past haven’t had the ability to
have a no-money-down financing option,” Needham said.  ‘Opened the Market’  Clean Power Finance has about 1,400 installer customers in
50 states, and last year they used the company’s software to
sell 40 percent of the small commercial and residential systems
in the U.S., Chief Executive Officer Robert Kreamer said.  “We have really opened the market for residential solar
financing,” Kreamer said in a phone interview. Typically
“fewer than 5 percent of the number of companies that are in
the business of selling solar had access to good residential
financing products.”  The Google fund is Clean Power Finance’s second; the other
investor declined to be named, Kreamer said.  Google’s investment may attract “attention from other
institutional investors who have been looking at the residential
asset class,” Kreamer said.  The investment is an example of “owning the entire
asset,” while companies such as SolarCity and SunRun “own a
piece of those assets in conjunction with an investor,” he
said.  “We’re actually the owners of these systems that will go
on rooftops,” Needham said. The deal is a way of “diversifying
our cash and putting it into projects that we think have good
returns given the risks.”  Clean Power Finance said Sept. 2 that Google’s Google
Ventures unit and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers led a $25
million investment in the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  