-- 
Grain, Coal Shippers Would Pay New Tax Under Obama Debt Plan

-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 
2011-09-27T17:12:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/grain-coal-shippers-would-pay-new-tax-under-obama-debt-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  proposed new
fees on U.S. inland-waterways users such as Cargill Inc. and
American Electric Power Co. that would raise $1.1 billion over
10 years to build and repair locks and dams.  The administration is seeking a two-tier fee that would
augment diesel-fuel taxes paid by vessel operators, according to
details of its deficit-reduction proposal sent to members of
Congress. The fuel tax brings in about $80 million to $100
million a year.  Many locks and dams on U.S. inland waterways are more than
50 years old and in disrepair. A lock near Brookport,  Illinois ,
that’s the busiest in the U.S. by shipping tonnage is 82 years
old, and water levels are adjusted by lifting wooden barriers
off the river floor with a steam-powered crane.  “There is no doubt that the inland waterways need
additional funding,” said Mike Steenhoek, executive director of
the Soy Transportation Coalition, an Ankeny, Iowa-based industry
group. “But shifting more of the costs to the users defeats the
overall goal of making U.S. products more affordable,
particularly in overseas markets.”  The U.S. government would continue to match the amount of
taxes and fees paid by commercial users, which would bring the
amount available for inland-waterways projects to $400 million a
year, up from the current $180 million. About $7 billion will be
needed over 20 years to keep the inland waterways navigable,
according to Waterways Council Inc., an industry group based in
Arlington, Virginia.  Fee Structure  The first tier of Obama’s proposed fee would be levied on
all commercial users of inland waterways. The second tier would
be paid only by vessels using locks. The Secretary of the Army
would set the fees annually, according to the plan.  Inland waterways projects are financed now by a 20-cent-a-
gallon fuel tax on barge and tow operators. The tax covers about
8 percent of what the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers spends on
behalf of inland-waterways users, according to Margaret Reilly,
spokeswoman for the Office of Management and Budget. Users in
other Corps of Engineers programs pay 35 percent or more of the
costs, she said in an e-mail.  “To address these concerns, the administration supports
enactment of a new user financing structure for the inland
waterways to supplement the existing diesel-fuel tax,” she
said.  Shippers have pushed for an increase in the fuel tax to as
much as 29 cents a gallon, Steenhoek said. A fuel tax spreads
costs among all waterways users and doesn’t place an additional
burden on some segments, Steenhoek said.  About 12,000 miles of rivers weave through the U.S.
heartland, carrying almost $70 billion in goods annually,
according to the Waterways Council. About 20,500 barges operate
on the  Mississippi River  and connecting waterways including the
Ohio, Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee and Cumberland rivers,
according to a 2010 report by Informa Economics Inc., a Memphis,
Tennessee-based research firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  