-- 
Guinea Opposition Says Police Halt Protest With Tear Gas

-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 
2011-09-27T16:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/guinea-opposition-says-police-halt-protest-with-tear-gas-1-.html
Police in  Guinea  fired tear gas to
disperse a protest by opposition parties against the electoral
commission, according to the demonstrators.  The protest in the capital, Conakry, was peaceful and the
parties will continue to attempt to hold gatherings, former
Prime Minister Sidya Toure, whose Union des Forces Republicaines
was among the groups taking part, said by phone.  The West African nation’s 19 opposition parties announced
plans to hold the protest last week as it called for the
dismissal of the commission. In August, it said the body lost
credibility amid delays during the 2010 presidential election,
whose candidates included Toure. A parliamentary vote is planned
for Dec. 29.  The demonstrators today used weapons including firearms in
the Conakry neighborhoods of Bambeto and Hamdallaye and injured
several officers, police Captain Joseph Guilavogui told
reporters.  “We don’t understand if it is a political demonstration of
a rebellion,” he said. Toure denied that the protesters used
weapons, calling the police statement “a manipulation.”  The demonstrations may damage investor confidence in the
world’s biggest bauxite exporter, Prime Minister Mohamed Said Fofana told reporters yesterday, asking the opposition groups to
“abandon their protests.”  Guinea  holds as much as half of the world’s reserves of
bauxite, which is used in aluminum, according to the U.S. State
Department. Companies including Rio Tinto Group, Vale SA and
 South Africa ’s AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. operate in the country.  Arrest  Alpha Conde was elected president, defeating Cellou Dalein
Diallo in a runoff vote in November that was marred by violence
following the declaration of Conde’s win. A state of emergency
was declared by the then army-led administration. Guinea was
ruled by a military junta from December 2008 until last year’s
election.  Etienne Soropogui, vice president of the Nouvelles Forces
Democratiques party, was arrested when he attempted to start a
demonstration with Diallo today, Soropogui said in an interview
at a police station in Conakry.  The protest took place a day before the second anniversary
of a massacre in Conakry in which government forces killed more
than 150 opposition supporters and injured 1,000 people calling
for free and fair elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Emily Bowers  at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net . 