-- 
IBM, Intel Start $4.4 Billion in Chip Venture in New York

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   X u   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-27T20:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ibm-intel-to-invest-4-4-billion-in-new-york-state-nanotechnology.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  will invest $4.4 billion over five years
to create a hub for next-generation computer chip technology in
 New York , the state’s Governor  Andrew Cuomo , said.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider, will
spend $3.6 billion to develop computer chips using 22-nanometer
and 14-nanometer process technology, said Michael Loughran, a
company spokesman. A nanometer is one billionth of a meter and
measures the size of transistors in a chip. Lower numbers
indicate more advanced technology.  Intel Corp., IBM, Globalfoundries Inc., Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and Samsung Electronics Co. will
focus on transforming 300-millimeter wafer technology into 450-
millimeter technology, which will produce twice the number of
chips, according to a statement from Cuomo’s office.  “This is really all about the computing systems IBM and
others will construct using advanced technologies,”  John Kelly ,
senior vice president and director of research at Armonk, New
York-based IBM, said at a press conference in Albany. “This
will create computers that will help doctors diagnose advanced
diseases.”  The investment will retain and create 6,900 jobs in the
state, including 2,500 new technology roles, according to the
statement.  To support the project, the state will make a $400 million
investment in the State University of New York College of
Nanoscale Science and Engineering in Albany, the statement said.  ‘Unprecedented Investment’  Research and development facilities located in Canandaigua,
Utica, East Fishkill and Yorktown Heights also will receive
cash, according to the statement.  “This unprecedented investment in New York’s economy will
create thousands of jobs and make the state the epicenter for
the next generation of computer chip technology,” Cuomo said in
the statement.  IBM rose $3.20, or 1.8 percent, to $177.71 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares are up 21
percent this year. Intel, based in  Santa Clara ,  California ,
gained 30 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $22.54 in trading on the
Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Xu Wang in New York at 
 xwang206@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stacie Servetah at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net  