-- 
Libya Forces Halt Sirte Attack

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-27T14:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/libya-forces-halt-sirte-attack.html
Libyan National Transitional
Council forces halted their assault on Sirte to allow civilians
to flee, after entering “the heart” of Muammar Qaddafi’s
hometown, Abdul Busin, a spokesman for the NTC, said.  “The only delay at the moment is they are waiting for the
residents to clear out,” Busin said today in an interview in
Tripoli, the capital. The council’s fighters are also running
low on ammunition for assault rifles and anti-aircraft guns, and
are waiting for new supplies to arrive, he said. Qaddafi
loyalists have moved to higher ground south of Sirte, giving
them a slight military advantage, he said.  In the eastern city of Benghazi,  Libya ’s interim leaders
are holding a third day of negotiations on a government to see
the country through to elections. The formation of the interim
cabinet has been repeatedly postponed since the NTC took Tripoli
in late August. Mohammed Al-Alagi, justice minister in the
council, said it will be formed in the “coming days.”  Since moving to Tripoli from its eastern base in Benghazi,
where the uprising began, the NTC has been working to stabilize
the economy and establish its authority over factions that
rebelled against Qaddafi, including the council in Misrata, the
main rebel stronghold in the west during the seven-month
conflict.  Qaddafi’s forces have held off council fighters, backed by
 North Atlantic Treaty Organization  airstrikes, in Sirte and the
mountain town of Bani Walid for about a month.  NATO Strikes  NATO maintained “an intensive air presence” over both
places yesterday, the U.K. Ministry of Defence said in an e-
mailed statement today. In Sirte, British Tornado GR4s attacked
ammunition stores, destroying their targets with Paveway guided
bombs, it said.  Eni SpA , the largest oil producer in Libya, and Total SA
said they resumed output there and are aiming to export again in
October, ending a seven-month shutdown that hurt earnings and
led to refinery halts. Libya, holder of  Africa ’s biggest crude
reserves, is seeking to return crude production to 1.5 million
barrels a day within 15 months.  Eni’s Abu-Attifel field, 300 kilometers (190 miles) south
of Benghazi, is pumping about 31,900 barrels of oil-equivalent a
day, the Rome-based company said yesterday, adding that more
fields will restart soon to fill its pipeline to the port of
Zuetina.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 