-- 
Hilary Churns Off Mexico as Philippe Weakens

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-09-27T15:08:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/hilary-churns-off-mexico-as-philippe-weakens.html
Hurricane Hilary churned in the
waters off  Mexico ’s Pacific coast as Tropical Storm Philippe
lost power in the Atlantic and the remains of Ophelia showed
signs of redeveloping near the Leeward Islands.  Hilary’s winds dropped to 115 miles (185 kilometers) an
hour from 135 mph yesterday, the center said in an  advisory  at
11 a.m. Miami time. The system, a “major” Category 3 hurricane
on the 5-step  Saffir-Simpson scale , was 595 miles southwest of
the tip of Baja California.  Hilary is forecast to weaken to a depression later this
week on a course that may take the storm near Baja California’s
west coast on Oct. 1, the center said.  The center is also tracking an area of disturbed weather
about 1,500 miles west-southwest of  Baja California  that has a
10 percent chance of becoming a tropical system in the next two
days.  In the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Philippe’s top winds fell
to 45 mph from 60 mph yesterday. The storm is about 750 miles
west of the Cape Verde Islands and is expected to remain at sea,
according to the hurricane center. It is moving northwest at 5
mph.  A low-pressure system near the Leeward Islands that
includes the remnants of last week’s Tropical Storm Ophelia
shows signs of regenerating, according to the center. It has an
80 percent chance of becoming a tropical depression or storm in
the next two days.  The system may bring heavy rains to the northern Leeward
Islands through tomorrow. The Leeward Islands include the U.S.
and  British Virgin Islands  and St. Maarten and St. Barth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 