-- 
Miliband’s ‘True Face of British Business,’ John Rose, Has Become Banker

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-27T15:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/miliband-s-true-face-of-british-business-has-become-banker.html
The industrialist praised by Labour
Party leader  Ed Miliband  as “the true face of British
business” in a speech that said the U.K. needs “not financial
engineering, but real engineering” has just become a banker.  John Rose, former chief executive officer of Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc, was appointed last week as deputy chairman of
Rothschild Group, which ranks sixth in  Europe  this year in
providing advice on mergers and acquisitions, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Miliband told his party’s annual conference today in
Liverpool, northwest  England , that businesses could be divided
between “producers,” which “do the right thing,” and
“predators,” such as those involved in some company takeovers.  “Are you on the side of the wealth creators or the asset
strippers? The producers or the predators?” Miliband asked.
“Producers train, invest, invent, sell; things Britain does
brilliantly, but not enough. Predators are just interested in
the fast buck, taking what they can out of the business.”  Rose is “a great British business leader,” Miliband said,
“creating wealth and keeping jobs in this country” when he was
at Rolls-Royce, in contrast to  Fred Goodwin , the former chief
executive officer of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, which had
to be bailed out by the previous Labour government.  “This was not an anti-banker speech,” Miliband’s office
said in a statement after the leader’s address. “It was an
anti-irresponsibility speech.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in Liverpool, England, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in Liverpool, England, at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net . 