-- 
Millionaire’s Sydney Harbor Mansion Sale a Test for Australia Luxury Homes

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-28T07:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/millionaire-s-harbor-mansion-a-test-for-australian-luxury-homes.html
A mansion with a 4,000-bottle wine
cellar in one of Sydney’s most exclusive waterfront suburbs is
seeking a record A$50 million ($49 million) in a test of
Australia’s luxury property market.  Prices of homes costing more than A$15 million have
declined about 15 percent, said  Michael Dunn , principal at
property broker Richardson & Wrench Double Bay, one of the
agents marketing the five-bedroom house in Darling Point in the
city’s east. The number of potential buyers has dropped to one
or two per property, from five or six before 2009, and homes
that once sold within 90 days now take about 120, Dunn said.  Home prices  in the top 20 percent of capital city suburbs
when measured by the median sale price fell 5.7 percent in the
six months to July, according to figures from real estate
researcher  RP Data . That’s more than double the 2.7 percent
decline in the lowest 20 percent by sale value and a 2.6 percent
drop across the middle 60 percent.  “Nobody suggested that getting a record price would be an
easy exercise in this climate,” Dunn said in a telephone
interview Sept. 26. “But these sorts of properties sell in good
times and bad.”  The most expensive house sold in Sydney is Coolong on the
waterfront in Vaucluse, which fetched A$45 million three years
ago.  Sydney’s top-end homes cost 590 pounds ($922) a square foot,
London-based  Savills Plc (SVS)  said in a report last week accompanying
its billionaire property index. That places them 10th on a
global list topped by  Hong Kong , Tokyo, Paris and  London .  Price Declines  “The trend of value declines has actually worsened at the
top end of the market over the months leading up to July, so a
recovery doesn’t appear to be on the cards just yet,” Tim Lawless, national research director at RP Data, said in an e-
mail yesterday.  Australian homeowners are increasingly pessimistic about
the housing market as rising unemployment and constrained sales
dampen growth expectations, a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) 
survey showed today. Home prices fell 2.4 percent in the third
quarter and are expected to fall 1 percent over the next year,
 Australia ’s fourth-largest lender said in an e-mailed report.  Prices in Sydney’s eastern suburbs, among Australia’s most
expensive, have dropped 10.5 percent in the year to June 30,
Moody’s Investors Service said in an e-mailed report today. Home
prices in inner  Melbourne  have crumbled 14.9 percent, and
central metropolitan Perth has seen values slump 12.5 percent,
the ratings company said.  Rising Delinquencies  The ability of Australian homeowners to keep up with
mortgage payments declined over the past year, according to
Moody’s.  The national delinquency rate rose to 1.67 percent
from 1.36 percent between March 2010 and June this year, while
the number of regions with mortgage performance classed by the
risk assessor as “poor” or “very poor” increased fourfold to
28 out of 65.  “Despite Australia experiencing a mining and resources
boom, many more borrowers are falling behind in their mortgage
repayments,” Moody’s said in the report. “This paradox is due
to the fact that mining generates fewer direct jobs than other
sectors of the economy, Queensland’s heavy reliance on a weak
 tourism industry  and strained household budgets due to increased
food and utility costs.”  Top-End Buyers  The S&P/ASX 200 share index has plunged 15 percent this
year as the sovereign-debt crisis in Europe roils markets.  The uncertainty and seven interest-rate increases in
Australia between October 2009 and November 2010 has kept buyers
sidelined even as more houses are coming onto the market. The
number of homes listed for sale across the country jumped 23.6
percent in August from a year ago, according to SQM Research Pty,
and the number of sales is 18 percent below the five-year
average, RP Data said.  “We aren’t likely to see a dramatic improvement in buyer
numbers in the top price brackets until we see some renewed
stability in equity markets and both consumer and business
confidence levels,” Lawless said.  Australian business confidence plunged last month to the
lowest level since April 2009, a National Australia Bank survey
published Sept. 13 showed.  Consumer confidence  rebounded this
month from a two-year low as the central bank indicated it will
keep the developed world’s highest borrowing costs on hold.  Lloyd Wright-Inspired  The Darling Point mansion belonging to William Tyree, the
millionaire founder of closely held transformer manufacturer
Tyree Industries, is set on 1,800 square meters (19,375 square
feet) of land. The Frank Lloyd Wright-inspired home opens up to
tiered gardens and lawns that lead down to a boat pen.  The sale will be the highest in Sydney this year, said Ken
Jacobs, managing director of Ken Jacobs Real Estate, who is also
marketing the mansion.  Jacobs is also working on the sale of Amaroo, a six-bedroom
waterfront home on Bayview Hill Road in Rose Bay, another
eastern suburb. While he declined to comment on a price he’s
aiming to sell Amaroo for, another home in the street holds the
record for the most expensive in the suburb, at A$18.2 million.  “It’s always difficult at the top end, but there are
certainly anti-cyclical buyers out there who see real estate as
a good place to invest,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  