-- 
Time Warner Cable Said to Be Close to Offering HBO Go Service

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T21:09:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/time-warner-cable-said-to-be-close-to-offering-hbo-go-to-subscribers.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is close to
offering the  HBO Go  application to its 12.2 million video
subscribers, enabling them to watch shows including “The
Sopranos” and “Curb Your Enthusiasm” on mobile devices,
according to two people familiar with the negotiations.  An agreement may be announced in the next several weeks,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. A deal would give Time Warner Cable customers who
subscribe to HBO,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s pay-TV channel, access to
past and current programs on smartphones,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads and
personal computers.  Time Warner Cable and  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  are the
only large U.S. pay-TV providers that don’t already give their
HBO subscribers access to content on HBO Go. The application has
been downloaded more than 4.5 million times from Apple’s iTunes
store, according to HBO. Maureen Huff, a Time Warner Cable
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Time Warner Cable has been negotiating with HBO since at
least May on a deal, said the people. Delays have prevented
subscribers in New York and Los Angeles, where Time Warner Cable
is the dominant cable-TV provider, from getting access to HBO
content outside of their home.  Currently, customers of  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  DirecTV (DTV) ,  Dish
Network Corp. (DISH) , Verizon Communications Inc.’s FiOS,  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
U-verse,  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR)  and Cox Communications Inc.
can authenticate themselves as paying HBO subscribers and get
content from HBOGO.com.  Time Warner Cable, which was spun off by Time Warner in
2009, advanced 88 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $66.99 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares have risen 1.5
percent this year. Time Warner, the owner of CNN and the Warner
Bros. movie studios, gained 97 cents, or 3.2 percent, to $31.72
and has fallen 1.4 percent this year. Both companies are based
in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  