-- 
Time Warner Balks at Europe Media Prices as Deal Flow Slows

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T15:43:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/time-warner-balks-at-european-media-prices-as-deal-flow-slows.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and Sony Corp.
both bid for All3Media Holdings Ltd., lured by surging earnings
of the British TV producer. The sale was pulled this month after
the bids failed to meet the seller’s target.  Permira Advisers Ltd., owner of London-based  All3Media , was
seeking about 750 million pounds ($1.2 billion), or 12 times
operating earnings, said two people with knowledge of the
negotiations who declined to be named as the talks were private.  The aborted sale is symptomatic of the mismatch this year
between global media companies seeking expansion in  Europe  and
sellers unwilling to cash out as prices drop. The number of
announced or completed deals involving the region’s media
companies declined 27 percent in the first half, Bloomberg data
show. The worsening debt crisis and slump in equity markets have
distorted valuations, said David Kershaw, chief executive
officer of advertising firm  M&C Saatchi .  “The expectations of the sellers haven’t caught up with
where multiples of potential acquirers have fallen to,” Kershaw
said in an interview. “That’s where people start taking things
off the table.”  Price-to-earnings ratios among U.S. media companies on
average fell 19 percent on a market-capitalization weighted
basis in the last three months, according to Bloomberg data. The
ratio for European media companies rose 2.2 percent in the same
period, meaning investors need to pay more.  ‘Skins’  The Bloomberg European Media 500 Index fell 1.8 percent to
64.73 at 4:15 p.m. in  London . The media-company index declined
16 percent in past the 12 months.  Spokesmen at All3Media, which produced the “Skins” TV
series for Viacom Inc.’s MTV channel and the “Are You Smarter
Than A Fifth Grader” game show for News Corp.’s Fox network,
and at Time Warner declined to comment on the talks. Sony didn’t
return calls and e-mails seeking comment.  Permira may look at selling All3Media again once the
economy improves, said one of the people with knowledge of the
situation. While there isn’t a timeframe for approaching buyers,
the company may reconsider a sale next year, the person said.  The sale of EMI Group Ltd., the London-based music label
taken over by  Citigroup Inc. (C)  this year after failing to meet its
debt requirements, is dragging out. Bids for the company, which
also owns recordings from the Beatles and Queen, were initially
expected to wrap up this month and have now been pushed to
October, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Odeon Sale  Sony, Bertelsmann’s BMG Rights Management GmbH, billionaire
 Len Blavatnik ,  Universal Music Group  and private-equity investor
Alec Gores are interested in the record label of Katy Perry and
Coldplay, two people with knowledge of the situation said in
July. EMI declined to comment.  Investor  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd. firm
cancelled a sale of U.K. cinema chain Odeon & UCI Cinemas Group
Ltd. last quarter after getting offers from theater companies
and private-equity firms below the asking price, said two people
with knowledge of the bids. They declined to be identified
because the matter is not public. Terra Firma and Odeon declined
to comment.  There were 60 acquisitions for media companies announced or
completed in the Eastern and Western European markets in the
first six months, according to Bloomberg data. That compares
with 82 deals in the same period a year earlier.  Earlier this year,  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  was among
suitors of  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM) ’s Nordic assets, which the
German broadcaster decided to keep at the end. The owner of
cable television’s Animal Planet and  Discovery Channel  is
looking for purchases, especially in Eastern Europe, but hasn’t
found very much that is for sale, CEO David Zaslav said.  Hoarding Cash  “We’re a little surprised given that the economy has been
soft,” Zaslav said in an interview last week. “We haven’t been
able to find the right assets at the right price.”  Discovery has about $1.1 billion in cash and cash
equivalents. That’s up from $466 million at the end of last year
and $623 million in 2009.  Especially U.S. companies “have cash and they want to
invest,” said Barry Maloney, a partner at  venture capital  firm
 Balderton Capital . “But if they can’t meet the expectations,
the deals aren’t going to be done.”  Corporations have been hoarding cash and paying down
borrowings. The S&P 500’s net debt to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization ratio is down to 2.6 from 5
in the second quarter of 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
This year’s earnings will increase 18 percent to a record $99.36
a share and break $100 next year, according to the data.  Time Warner fell 1.1 percent to $31.37 at 11:30 a.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares declined 1.4
percent this year before today. Discovery dropped 1.6 percent to
$41.13 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Social Media  About $3.5 trillion had been erased from global equity
values last week, driving the MSCI All-Country World Index into
a  bear market  and price-earnings ratios down to the lowest
levels since March 2009.  While most fast-growing digital Internet companies such as
Google Inc. and Facebook Inc. are based in the U.S., Europe
still makes up a large portion of the world’s largest media
companies. According to a Forbes ranking from 2010, media firms
from Europe, including Germany’s Bertelsmann AG and Italy’s
 Mediaset SpA (MS) , made up eight of the top 20 media companies,
making the region second only to the U.S.  Spotify  There also some bright spots in the European digital space
that will draw interest from potential acquirers such as London-
based music-streaming service  Spotify Ltd. , which is privately
held and expanded into the U.S. market this year, said Balderton
Capital’s Maloney, who helps manage the fund’s $1.9 billion in
committed venture capital, including funding for German social
games developer Wooga GmbH and U.K. online loan-provider Wonga.  While international media companies are interested in
expanding in Europe to get access to the local know-how and the
world’s region with the highest gross domestic product in 2010,
the lack of suitable acquisition targets may prompt investors to
spend their money elsewhere.  The U.K. and other European markets “remain very
attractive for lots of reasons, albeit economic growth isn’t one
of them,” said Stuart Sparkes, director of the media corporate
finance advisory at Deloitte LLP in London. “If you want access
to growth, you inevitably end up going to the developing world
in terms of  India  and  China  and most excitingly of all,
 Brazil .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  