-- 
Impax Targets Wind With $450 Million Renewables Fund, Chief Says

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a   a n d   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 
2011-09-27T16:43:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/impax-targets-wind-with-450-million-renewables-fund-chief-says.html
Impax Asset Management Ltd., a
London-based clean-energy investor, closed a 330 million-euro
($450 million) private equity fund that will focus on European
wind investments, its managing director said.  The funds raised were 10 percent more than targeted and
will be fully invested in renewable energy projects by 2015,
Peter Rossbach said today in an interview.  “Our key interests are in French, German and Polish
wind,” the  fund manager  said by phone. “We’re focused on these
countries because of the stage of market development and the
availability of financing. In Germany and  France , you get pretty
fair financing and in France and  Poland , we expect material
construction over 2012-13.”  The wholly owned unit of  Impax Asset Management Group Plc (IPX) 
has closed its second private equity fund targeting renewable
energy. The first closed in 2006. The fund, which invests in
both projects and companies, expects to develop as much as 100
megawatts in French wind capacity over the next 18 months.  Participants in the Impax New Energy Investors II fund
reflect the interest of institutional investors in the long-term
cash flows produced by renewable energy projects. More than half
were U.K. pension funds and others included Finnish, German,
Japanese and American investors, Rossbach said.  The fund, which targets as many as 14 companies in six to
eight countries. will look into solar energy next year,
according to the managing director.  “While we are not buying solar today, we can see the
opportunity to buy solar in 2012 because the panel prices are
now going below a euro a watt,” he said. “We target investing
in solar next year and are also interested in solar thermal.”  The fund will target equity investments of 10 million and
60 million euros. “We are not finding securing debt financing
difficult at the moment,” Rossbach said.  To contact the reporters on this story: Marc Roca in London at
 and Louise Downing at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  