-- 
Tin Jumps as Indonesia Halts Exports; Timah Plans Restart If Price ‘Right’

-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-09-27T09:48:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/tin-rallies-as-indonesia-plans-export-halt-next-month-to-try-to-end-rout.html
Indonesia , the biggest exporter of
tin, plans to halt overseas shipments from Oct. 1 to support
prices after a slump, said Johan Murod, director at PT Bangka
Belitung Timah Sejahtera, a group of smelters. Futures rallied.  PT Timah, the biggest producer, and Malaysia Smelting Corp.
unit PT Koba Tin are among 28 companies that agreed to the halt
after meeting yesterday with Bangka Belitung Governor Eko Maulana Ali, Murod said by phone. Overseas shipments will resume
if the price goes to $25,000 per metric ton, Murod said.  Reduced supplies from Indonesia may help to stem a plunge
in prices that’s been driven by concerns that the world economy
may slip into another recession as U.S. growth falters and
 Europe  battles a sovereign-debt crisis. Tin producers faced
bankruptcy if prices continued the slump, Murod said on Sept. 24.  “The drop in prices to below $20,000 was mostly driven by
 market sentiment  over the European crisis, not because of
demand-and-supply fundamentals,” PT Timah President Director
Wachid Usman said by phone today. Timah will be ready to resume
overseas shipments “when the price is right,” said Usman, who
attended the producers’ meeting in Pangkalpinang last night.  Tin for delivery in three months climbed as much as 6
percent to $21,550 per ton on the London Metal Exchange,
extending yesterday’s 0.6 percent gain. The metal sank to
$17,000 on Sept. 23, 49 percent below the all-time high of
$33,600 touched on April 11.  ‘Very Effective’  “This should be a very effective measure,” Wu Xiaofeng,
an analyst at data provider SMM Information & Technology Co.,
said by phone from  Shanghai . “The country is the world’s major
supplier, accounting for one-third of total production.”  Commodities including base metals have plummeted this month
as investor concerns about a global recession have intensified.
Tin lost 13 percent in the week to Sept. 23 as nickel and copper
shed 15 percent and lead dropped 17 percent.  “We feel that the export ban is the best instrument at the
moment that may effectively help boost prices,” Murod said
yesterday after the meeting in Pangkalpinang, Bangka Belitung.
“This is an effort to help the tin industry, as well as the
traditional miners.” Bangka Belitung is the main mining region.  Timah Sejahtera, which groups six smelters, suspended
production last week after the plunge in prices prompted mining
suppliers to halt sales of unprocessed ore, Murod said Sept. 23.  Decree Likely   The Bangka Belitung governor will issue a decree as a legal
basis for the export halt, Rudy Irawan, deputy chairman of the
Indonesian Tin Industry Association, said in a text message.  Solder represents 52 percent of global tin demand and
tinplate 17 percent, according to ITRI Ltd., a  St. Albans ,
England-based researcher. The metal is used in electronic goods
and a high proportion of electrical appliances, ITRI said.  Shares of PT Timah advanced as much as 8.8 percent to
1,850 rupiah in Jakarta today. “We agreed and fully supported
the export halt,” said Usman. PT Timah will discuss the
suspension with its buyers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  