-- 
Linc Surges on ‘Significant’ Australian Oil Shale Discovery

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-09-27T05:52:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/linc-surges-on-significant-australian-oil-shale-discovery-2-.html
Linc Energy Ltd. (LNC) , an Australian
company planning acquisitions of U.S. oil assets, rose the most
in seven weeks in Sydney trading after saying it found a
“significant” oil shale deposit in  South Australia .  Linc climbed as much as 13 percent to A$1.90, the most
since Aug. 10, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index gained 3.2
percent. The shares traded at A$1.895 at 3:49 p.m. Sydney time.  The Brisbane-based company is exploring for oil and gas in
the Arckaringa Basin, where it plans to spend at least A$10
million ($9.86 million) on drilling next year after investing
the same amount so far this year, said Craig Ricato, legal and
corporate affairs director at Linc. The oil shale deposit was
discovered within the Stuart Range Formation in the region.  “It’s early days,” Ricato said in a phone interview
today. “We need to define this resource. We’ve got at least a
year or two of detailed exploration and definition work.”  Linc has completed three oil and gas wells out of a planned
10-well drilling campaign in the basin, he said. The South
Australian oil shale deposit is about 124 meters (407 feet)
thick and was intersected at a depth of more than 854 meters,
Linc said in a statement today.  “It is a remarkable prospect that we have only just begun
to properly explore,”  Peter Bond , the company’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  Teresa Project  The energy company, which also converts coal into liquid
fuels, aims to sign an agreement to sell its Teresa coal project
in Queensland state by the end of this year, Ricato said. Linc
is in the final stages of talks with groups from  India  and  China 
to sell the asset, Bond said Aug. 8.  Linc plans to complete talks in the next month with ERG
Resources LLC to acquire oilfields in Texas and  Louisiana ,
Ricato said. While Linc announced in July that a $236 million
purchase of 14 oilfields from ERG had been scrapped, it said
last month that discussions are still on to complete a deal.  Linc said in June it may spend as much as A$800 million on
U.S. purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  