-- 
India’s Rupee Rises Most Since December on Europe Debt Optimism

-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 
2011-09-27T11:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/india-s-rupee-strengthens-most-in-week-on-europe-debt-optimism.html
India ’s rupee rose the most in
almost 10 months on speculation European policy makers will
increase efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis, supporting
demand for emerging-market assets.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensitive Index snapped a four-
day decline after a central bank official from  Europe , who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the information is
confidential, said the  European Central Bank  will likely
consider restarting covered-bond purchases along with further
measures to ease monetary conditions.  “The news out of Europe has provided some comfort that a
solution to the turmoil, albeit buying time, can be achieved,”
said Krishnamurthy Harihar, treasurer at FirstRand Ltd. in
Mumbai.  The rupee rose 0.8 percent to 49.0750 per dollar at the 5
p.m. close in Mumbai, the biggest gain since Dec. 1, 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It has fallen 8.9
percent this year, the worst performer among Asia’s 10 most-
traded currencies. The rupee has weakened 9 percent this
quarter.  Wholesale-price inflation accelerated to a 13-month high of
9.78 percent in August, official data show. Inflation remains
above the level the central bank deems acceptable,  Reserve Bank 
of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in  New York  yesterday,
signaling pressure remains for monetary tightening in Asia’s
third-largest economy.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 49.78 to
the dollar in three months, from expectations of 50.32
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  