-- 
India Central Bank May Raise Rates Again, JPMorgan’s Mowat Says

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-09-27T10:50:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/india-central-bank-may-raise-rates-again-jpmorgan-s-mowat-says.html
Adrian Mowat , JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s emerging-market strategist, comments on the outlook for
the Indian stocks. He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg-UTV.  The BSE  India  Sensitive Index jumped 3 percent to 16,524 at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, the biggest gain in almost a
month. The gauge lost 6.1 percent in four sessions before today.  On U.S., Europe:  “There are very significant risks to capital markets. We
have a formal 40 percent probability of a U.S. recession. In the
U.S., there is 1 percent growth and 3.8 percent inflation. These
are times I’d like to call stagflation.  ‘‘The Fed announcement last week highlighted very little
monetary flexibility. The virtual war between republicans and
democrats are making chances of fiscal stimulus extremely low.
European crisis is building momentum. It’s extremely difficult
for northern Europeans to subsidize problems in Eastern  Europe .
There are problems within ECB where senior Germans are leaving
ECB. It’s a difficult idea to sell to the Germans.”  On emerging market equities:  “Our preferred asset is the  U.S. dollar . Emerging-market
stocks may have good fundamentals but they’re owned heavily by
international investors. We are in the second stage of a  bear
market . ASEAN sold down heavily in spite of good fundamentals.
People are trying to lock in profits before they evaporate. This
will continue until some sort of resolution of Europe’s crisis
is reached. India and China, where inflation is high, will deal
with it by maintaining tight monetary policy. They will prepare
for a slowdown in growth rather than not fight inflation at this
time.”  On commodity prices:  “Commodity markets are still in a state of denial about
what is going on. They are far too bullish on global growth and
they are very naïve what is happening in  China . The decline in
commodity prices is a real possibility. There is stagflation in
the U.S. A sharp decline in commodity prices is the best thing
that can happen to us and the European consumer. It will boost
real income. I see the decline as a good economic event, even
though there will be pain as commodity prices decline.”  On India strategy:  “My strategy is to hold U.S. dollars. If we get a fall in
the commodity markets we will raise interest in current-account
deficit markets like India and  Turkey .  ‘‘India is a current-account deficit economy, which needs
capital to flow to everyday. Market expectations are extremely
low on politics, earnings and hopes of inflation coming down. I
expect Indian markets to be declining.  ‘‘India valuations will stop declining once growth slows
down. The current market scenario in India favors defensives
like staples and telecom. We will look at buying interest rate
sensitives when monetary tightening eases.’’  On central bank action:  ‘‘Our expectation is of a further increases in the repo
rate in the next few quarters. The  Reserve Bank  of India is
concerned about stopping inflationary pressure. They have a
limited influence in the economy. The RBI can’t address the
official deficit as long as types of deficit-expanding schemes
like the rural income schemes continue.’’  On outlook for the rupee:  ‘‘The rupee will continue to sell-off as the RBI has a
policy of minimum intervention. This is about capital protection
at a time of heightened inflation, and not a reflection of the
fundamentals.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  