-- 
Indonesia Church Bomber Was Wanted Terrorist Suspect, Police Say

-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-09-27T11:04:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/indonesia-church-bomber-was-wanted-terrorist-suspect-police-say.html
The suicide bomber who attacked a
church in Central Java,  Indonesia  over the weekend was part of a
West Java-based terrorist network and one of five suspects
wanted in connection with a bombing in Cirebon, police said.  Pino Damayanto, 31, was a member of Jama’ah Anshorut Tauhid
operating in Cirebon, West Java, his hometown, Anton Bahrul Alam,
a spokesman for the national police, told reporters today at a
press briefing in Jakarta. The attack in the Sept. 25 bombing at
a Christian church in the Central Java city of Solo killed the
bomber and wounded 27 other people, police said at the time.  Jama’ah Anshorut Tauhid is allegedly  led  by Indonesian
cleric Abu Bakar Bashir, according to an  International Crisis
Group  report published in June last year. Bashir was sentenced
to 15 years in prison in June for funding a terrorist training
camp in Aceh province. In April, a suicide bomber attacked a
mosque at a police station in Cirebon, killing himself and
wounding several officers.  Indonesia, a secular state with the world’s biggest
population of Muslims, has stepped up raids against terror
suspects since 2009 bombings at Jakarta’s JW Marriott and Ritz-
Carlton hotels killed nine people, including the two attackers.
Authorities have blamed Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-Qaeda-linked
group, for attacks on hotels, nightclubs and embassies that
claimed more than 200 lives in the past decade.  Indonesia’s national police force and the country’s
intelligence agency are search for four other suspects in the
Cirebon bombing, Alam said.  Indonesia’s government must adopt new strategies to target
terrorist acts carried out by individuals after authorities
dismantled or disrupted larger organizations, Crisis Group said
in a report in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  