-- 
South African Stocks Gain Most in 16 Months on Euro Zone Hopes

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-09-27T15:45:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/miners-rally-in-south-africa-as-copper-jumps-from-14-month-low.html
South Africa ’s share gauge rose the
most in 16 months, led by miners, as commodities had their best
two-day run this month on bets European policy makers will boost
efforts to contain the region’s debt crisis.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index advanced 3.5 percent to
30,752.40, its first increase in five days. The FTSE/JSE Africa
Mining Index surged 4.3 percent by the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg, its biggest gain since May 2010. Copper climbed as
much as 5.9 percent to $7,694 per metric ton on the London Metal
Exchange after dropping to $6,800 yesterday.  Anglo American Plc (AGL) ,
the mining company that makes up about 9 percent of the
benchmark measure, added 6 percent.  BHP Billiton Plc (BIL) , the
world’s biggest mining group, rose 6 percent.  The  European Central Bank  is likely to debate next week
restarting covered-bond purchases and may discuss interest-rate
cuts, a euro-region central bank official said. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that European
governments will step up their response to the crisis.  “The rebound was led yesterday by banks in  Europe  and
America and now commodities are following,” Gerhard Lampen,
head of Sanlam iTrade, a unit of South Africa’s biggest insurer,
said by telephone from Johannesburg. “We might see a flight
into the stock market in the last quarter of the year,
especially if they do manage to solve the euro-zone debt crisis
to some extent.”  The S&P GSCI Spot Index has lost 2.1 percent this year,
erasing a 20 percent gain posted in the first four months, on
speculation that slower economic growth will ease shortages in
everything from copper to corn.  “The selloff is probably not over,”  Tobias Merath , head
of global commodity research at Credit Suisse AG in Zurich,
wrote in an e-mailed report. “Indicators of funding stress are
still showing growing and not easing pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  