-- 
Mirae Hoards Cash to Buy Emerging Market Debt When European Crisis Eases

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-09-27T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/mirae-hoards-cash-to-buy-emerging-debt-when-europe-crisis-eases.html
Mirae Asset Global Investments ,
 South Korea ’s biggest mutual fund manager, is increasing its
cash holdings, preparing to buy fixed-income assets in emerging
markets after  Europe ’s debt crisis eases.  Heo Joon Hyuk, who manages 1.4 trillion won ($1.2 billion)
as the New York-based head of global fixed-income investment at
Mirae Asset, said in a phone interview yesterday that his debt
funds would boost holdings of cash to 25 percent from 20
percent. Developing-nation debt has slumped because global funds
sought to accumulate cash and not because of any change in the
countries’ economic fundamentals or growth outlooks, Heo said.  “The solutions to ease Europe’s debt crises may arise by
year-end or some time in November,” Heo said. “We expect
emerging-market currencies to recover quickly once there are
measures to boost liquidity” in global markets, he said.  He said he was considering buying debt from  Brazil ,  Mexico ,
 South Africa , Turkey, Hungary and Indonesia when market
conditions improve. Mirae Asset bets mostly on  interest rates ,
while minimizing currency depreciation risks, he said.  Debt from oil-producing countries such as Mexico,
Kazakhstan and Russia has been “oversold” recently due to oil-
price declines, Heo said. He said he planned to buy debt from
these countries on the likelihood crude will rise.  Bank Debt Selloff  Asia ’s local-currency debt lost 2.5 percent this quarter,
while the region’s dollar debt declined 1.3 percent, according
to indexes tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan
Asia Dollar Index lost 3 percent since June 30, set for the
worst quarter since September 2008, as Europe’s debt crisis and
a U.S. economic slowdown prompted investors to reduce riskier
holdings.  The  fund manager  recently sold emerging-market corporate
notes rated BB, and securities issued by U.S. and European banks
on increased credit risks, Heo said. The amount of European and
U.S. bank debt in Mirae’s funds has dropped to below 1 percent
from a high of 10 percent, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Bank of America Corp.
and Wells Fargo & Co.’s long-term credit ratings this month.
Credit Agricole SA and Societe Generale SA, France’s second- and
third-largest banks by assets, had their ratings cut one level
by Moody’s on Sept. 14.  Mirae Asset’s flagship bond fund, Mirae Asset Global
Dynamic Securities Feeder Investment Trust, returned 3.3 percent
this year through Sept. 22, according to the company. The fund
aims for an annual return of 5 percent to 6 percent, Heo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  