-- 
Irish Property Crash Helps Homeless as Charity Buys Flats

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-09-28T12:45:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/irish-property-crash-helps-homeless-as-charity-buys-apartments.html
The bursting of Ireland’s property
bubble may benefit some of the poorer members of society, as
apartments built in anticipation of the boom years continuing
are sold to social housing projects to cover debts.  Cluid Housing Association , which rents dwellings for as
little as 10 euros ($14) a week, is buying 58 apartments from a
receiver appointed by Ireland’s National Asset Management
Agency. The flats are located in an unfinished Dublin
development, originally marketed as a “new high end retail,
residential, office and hotel quarter.”  NAMA, set up in 2009 to purge banks of bad debts, is
accelerating the sale of properties and other assets of indebted
investors. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny ’s government is pushing the
agency, which controls loans linked to about 10,000 residential
units, to unload more dwellings and invest in unfinished
developments. Thousands of properties remain vacant or
uncompleted across Ireland, even with prices crashing 43 percent
after the property boom.  “There is a perception at the moment that there isn’t any
housing need because we have all these empty homes everywhere,”
said Neil Bolton, director of operations at Dublin-based Cluid.
“But a lot of people are struggling so the housing need is as
strong now as it’s ever been.”  Cluid purchased units in the development at an average cost
of 177,500 euros. A two-bedroom apartment in the complex is for
sale for 340,000 euros, according to property website Daft.ie.  Housing Needs  Cluid plans to lease 24 of the apartments at market rates,
with the remaining 34 to be leased to those in need of social
housing, Bolton said. The association will have a dedicated
housing officer working on the project and aims to get a “good
mix” of tenants that may include people with disabilities or
without fixed abodes, he said.  Cluid is also talking with another NAMA-related developer
to buy about 30 dwellings outside of Dublin, he said.  NAMA Chief Executive Brendan McDonagh said today a
government agency is reviewing residential properties linked to
NAMA loans for possible use as social housing. McDonagh warned
in an e-mailed statement that while NAMA is linked to one in
five unsold newly built residential dwellings, mostly
apartments, many may not be suitable for social housing needs
because of their type, and concern “over concentration of
social and affordable housing” in particular locations.  The state-run Housing Agency said Sept. 19 the number of
households in need of social housing rose 75 percent to 98,318
between 2008 and 2011 as more people can’t afford to pay for
their accommodation. Housing lists have lengthened as
unemployment tripled since 2007 following the collapse of the
country’s property boom.  ‘Supply and Demand’  “What we are trying to do is marry supply and demand as
far as we possibly can particularly through NAMA properties to
facilitate the ever growing number of people on the housing
lists,” Phil Hogan, minister for the environment, said in an
interview on Sept. 7.  The agency has “relatively little exposure” to Ireland’s
worst category of so-called Ghost estates, NAMA spokesman  Ray
Gordon  said in an e-mailed statement. Gordon said while NAMA
expects there to be more transactions of the Cluid nature, the
projects must also fulfil NAMA’s “objective, which is to secure
the repayment of debt owed to the Agency.”  House Prices  NAMA has paid 30.5 billion euros to buy loans with a face
value of 72.3 billion euros from the nation’s banks, Chairman
Frank Daly said Sept. 9.  Bank of Ireland Plc’s Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher said Sept. 14 his bank isn’t offering mortgage holders
write-offs on debt. House prices have dropped 43 percent since
the 2007 peak, according to the  Central Statistics Office .  Dublin apartment prices fell 6 percent in August from the
previous month, the largest drop since the property crash, the
CSO said. Nationally, prices fell 1.6 percent in the month.  Almost one in 10 Irish people believe they are “very” or
“quite” likely to become  homeless , according to a Ipos MRBI
survey carried out earlier this year for Focus Ireland, a
charity for the homeless. While  house prices  continue to fall,
the average asking rent in Ireland in July was 823 euros a
month, the same level as a year earlier, Daft, Ireland’s largest
property web site, said in August.  With more people unable to make mortgage payments, Focus
Ireland helped 5,300 homeless people or those at risk of
homelessness by July, more than the total 2008 figure, said
Joyce Loughnan, head of the charity.  “Finally some of this stuff is starting to shift and we
are starting to put to use some of these fantastic assets, which
are here lying vacant and is a squandering of our money,”
Loughnan said. “What is costing us all our money is these
buildings so let’s put them to some good use.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  