-- 
Israeli Bonds Rise on Bets for More Rate Cuts; Shekel Rebounds

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-09-27T14:34:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/israeli-bonds-rise-on-bets-for-more-rate-cuts-shekel-rebounds.html
Israel ’s benchmark government bonds
rose, pushing the yield to the lowest in more than two weeks, on
investor speculation the Bank of Israel may follow yesterday’s
rate cut with more reductions as global growth slows.  The yield on the 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit government notes
due January 2020 slid four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 4.47 percent at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the
lowest level since Sept. 11. The shekel gained 1 percent to
3.6961 per dollar, trimming the quarterly decline to 8 percent.
It reached 3.7420 yesterday, the lowest since Jan. 31, after the
central bank cut the benchmark interest rate for the first time
in 2 1/2 years, taking it to 3 percent from 3.25 percent.  “The central bank made it clear in its move to lower
borrowing costs that the downside risks to global growth
represent a central threat to the Israeli economy,” Moshik Yaniv, head of the local fixed-income desk at Migdal Capital
Markets Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone. “Investors are betting
on another  interest rate  cut this year as the central bank is
seeking to boost the economy.”  Two-year interest-rate swaps, an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, plunged 18 basis points
yesterday to 2.75 percent, the lowest in a year, suggesting
traders expect another reduction. The swaps rose two basis
points today. Israel may cut the benchmark rate to 2.5 percent
by the end of the year, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a
report today. The rate may rise to 3 percent by the end of 2012,
Goldman said.  Shekel Rebound  Borrowing costs remain higher than near-zero rates in the
U.S. and that will continue to lure funds into shekel assets,
said Rony Gitlin, head of spot trading at Bank Leumi Le-Israel
Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “Investors are today turning back to the
shekel as the rate differential with the U.S. is still
attractive and the local economy is expected to do relatively
well,” Gitlin said by telephone.  Israel’s economy will probably grow 5 percent this year led
by investment in fixed capital including housing, the  Central
Bureau of Statistics  said Sept. 26. The country enjoyed one of
the fastest rebounds from the global financial crisis among
advanced economies, a group that is forecast by the
 International Monetary Fund  to expand an average 1.6 percent
this year.  Inflation Expectations  “The small size of the cut coupled with the underlying
strength of the Israeli economy and ensuing outstanding domestic
inflationary pressures suggest to us that this is not the
beginning of a new easing cycle,” David Petitcolin, an
emerging-market analyst and Roderick Ngotho, a strategist at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc wrote in a report.  Unless, there is a further sharp deterioration in the
global economy, RBS expects the central bank to keep rates on
hold this year.  The two-year breakeven rate, which reflects market
expectations for inflation over the time period, rose for the
first time in three days, increasing nine basis points to 198,
implying an average annual inflation rate of 1.98 percent. The
yield on the CPI-linked bond due in June 2013 fell 15 basis
points to 1 percent, the biggest one-day drop since Aug. 15.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.4 percent in August from a
high this year of 4.3 percent in March. That’s above the
government’s target range of 1 percent to 3 percent. A
government-appointed panel yesterday submitted proposals,
including opening markets to more imports and increasing the
stock of affordable housing, in response to consumer protests
against high living costs that have drawn hundreds of thousands
of Israelis to the streets over the past three months.  Housing Costs  “Although inflation expectations have eased, housing costs
are still high which could pose a risk,” Migdal’s Yaniv said.  Prior to yesterday’s cut,  Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley
Fischer  had raised the rate 10 times in two years to rein in
inflation. The central bank last week reduced its 2012 growth
forecast to 3.2 percent from 3.9 percent, saying export growth
may slow.  The yield on the 5.5 percent government bond due in January
2022 declined for a sixth day, falling three basis points to
4.66 percent. The Tel-Bond 40 Index of corporate bonds advanced
1 percent to the highest since Aug. 4.  Israeli markets will be closed until Oct. 2 for the Jewish
New Year holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  