-- 
Israeli Protesters Reject Committee Proposals to Reduce Prices

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-27T15:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/israeli-protesters-reject-committee-proposals-to-reduce-prices.html
Leaders of an Israeli protest
movement rejected proposals by a panel appointed by the
government to help bring down the cost of living, while Finance
Minister Yuval Steinitz praised the recommendations.  “Most of the proposed solutions are temporary or cosmetic
changes and they maintain the destructive policies that brought
us to this situation in the first place,” Dafni Leef, one of
the founders of the group that set up tent-camps in  Tel Aviv  to
protest high rents in July, said in an e-mailed statement.  The committee, headed by economist Manuel Trajtenberg,
proposed yesterday that corporate taxes be raised to 25 percent
next year and 26 percent in 2013, from 24 percent this year.
Among its other recommendations were raising the top rate of
income tax to 48 percent, increasing  Israel ’s stock of
affordable housing, providing more childcare and nursery
education, and opening markets to more imports.  Steinitz said the Trajtenberg committee “did well” in
recommending improvements in education and social welfare
“without breaking the budgetary framework and endangering
economic fundamentals.” He was speaking in an interview
broadcast on Israel Radio.  The tent camps that Leef and other leaders started in Tel
Aviv’s fanciest neighborhoods spread to cities across the
country and galvanized support for rallies in August that
brought out as many as 400,000 people protesting the high cost
of housing, education and food.  Defense Budget   The proposed tax increases would raise 30 billion shekels
($8 billion) over five years, and the money should mostly be
spent on education, the panel said. It also proposed cuts to the
defense budget.  Israeli consumer prices rose 0.5 percent in August, more
than forecast, as rental costs climbed, government-regulated
electricity fees increased and the weakening of the shekel
helped push up import and travel prices. Annual inflation stayed
at 3.4 percent, above the government’s target of 1 to 3 percent.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  cut the benchmark
 interest rate  by a quarter point to 3 percent yesterday, judging
that the threat to Israel’s economy from a global slowdown
outweighed the risk of higher inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Jerusalem  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 