-- 
U.S. Joins Europeans in Decrying Israeli Settlement Announcement

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-27T22:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/israeli-panel-approves-new-homes-in-disputed-jerusalem-area-1-.html
The U.S., the  United Nations  and
the European Union criticized Israel’s approval of 1,100 new
Jewish housing units on disputed territory, saying the move
imperils the latest effort to revive Mideast peace efforts.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said today Israel’s
announcement that it would expand construction of Jewish housing
in the Gilo area outside east  Jerusalem , which Palestinians want
as the future capital of an independent state, is
“counterproductive” to efforts to broker a peaceful, two-state
solution.  “We have long urged both sides to avoid any kind of action
which could undermine trust, including, and perhaps most
particularly in Jerusalem, any action that could be viewed as
provocative,” Clinton said.  The international community’s focus “must remain on
working to convince the parties to return to direct
negotiations,” without which “nothing changes on the ground,”
she told reporters today in Washington.  The decision by an Israeli Interior Ministry committee
follows Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s vehement opposition
to  Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas’s application
for statehood at the UN last week.  The U.S., the UN, the European Union and  Russia  -- the so-
called Quartet for Middle East Peace -- responded to Abbas’s bid
with a Sept. 23 proposal for Israel and the Palestinians to
restart peace talks within a month. The statement called on both
sides to refrain from “provocative actions.”  ‘Provocative Actions’  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s high representative
for foreign affairs, today deplored the settlement decision and
called on Israel to reverse it.  “Settlement activity threatens the viability of an agreed
two-state solution and runs contrary to the Israeli stated
commitment to resume negotiations,” she told the European
Parliament in Strasbourg,  France . “The Quartet has called the
parties to refrain from provocative actions if negotiations are
to resume and be effective.”  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon and other world leaders
have called settlements illegal.  Netanyahu defended the action in comments published today
in The Jerusalem Post. “This is nothing new,” he said. “We
plan in Jerusalem. We build in Jerusalem. Period.”  Peace negotiations broke down last year when Netanyahu
refused to renew a partial, 10-month moratorium on settlement
expansion, which the Palestinian Authority had made a
precondition for negotiations.  ‘Serious Threat’  The U.S. has repeatedly criticized Israel for building on
land seized from Jordan in the 1967 Six-Day War, and President
 Barack Obama  called on Netanyahu in May 2009 to halt
settlements. He dropped the demand last year in the face of
 Israel ’s refusal.  The French Foreign Ministry today condemned the
“colonization” of the east Jerusalem area, calling it
“illegal” and “a serious threat to the two-state solution.”  Addressing the UN Security Council in  New York  today, UN
Under-Secretary-General Lynn Pascoe said, “We have repeatedly
stated that settlement activity is illegal and contrary to
Israel’s Roadmap commitments.”  The Roadmap for Peace, a two-state peace plan outlined by
the Quartet in 2002, requires Israel to end settlement activity
and the Palestinians to abandon violence, ensure Israel’s
security and adopt democratic reforms.  Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erakat condemned Israel’s
announcement today as “unilateral” in a phone interview.
“Israel doesn’t want to stop settlement activities.”  The planned construction is “Netanyahu’s answer to the
Quartet and to the world -- another ‘No’ in his book,” Erakat
said.  The Israeli Interior Ministry’s district planning
committee’s backing of construction in the Gilo area is one step
in a lengthy process before any construction begins, ministry
spokeswoman Efrat Orbach said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  