-- 
Italian Prosecutors Seek U.S. Cooperation on S&P Investigation

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-27T15:09:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/italian-prosecutors-seek-u-s-cooperation-on-s-p-investigation.html
Italian prosecutors investigating
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service rating policy
for Italy are seeking documents from U.S. authorities on S&P’s 
decision to cut that nation’s AAA ranking in July, a person
familiar with the inquiry said.  Michele Ruggiero, a prosecutor from the southern city of
Trani, may travel to the U.S. next month for talks with U.S.
authorities on the S&P decision, the person said. Ruggiero met
with Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s undersecretary, Gianni Letta, last week to seek government support for efforts to
secure U.S. cooperation.  Both S&P and Moody’s face legal challenges by Trani’s
prosecutors investigating market-moving statements on Italy’s
creditworthiness by the two companies. Rome-based stock-market
regulator Consob also questioned both companies in July after
they placed the country on review for a possible downgrade.  On Sept. 19 S&P cut  Italy ’s credit rating to A from A+,
with a negative outlook, on concern that weakening economic
growth and a “fragile” government mean that the nation will
struggle to reduce the euro-region’s second-largest debt.  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee is looking into the U.S.
downgrade, a committee aide briefed on the matter said Sept. 8.
The aide declined to be identified because he wasn’t authorized
to discuss the matter publicly. The Securities and Exchange
Commission is scrutinizing the method S&P used and whether the
firm properly protected the confidential decision, a person with
direct knowledge of the matter said Aug. 15.  S&P’s July downgrade of the U.S. credit rating by one level
to AA+ was unjustified and casts doubt on the credibility of the
company’s decision, John Bellows, acting assistant secretary for
economic policy said on Aug. 6.  Trani prosecutors are also investigating Moody’s for a
statement on May 6 of last year, saying it was assessing the
risk of “sovereign contagion” that could affect the banking
industries of  Portugal ,  Spain , Italy, Ireland and the U.K. The
following day Moody’s said that Italy wasn’t among the countries
most at risk from  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis and its credit
outlook for 2010 remained stable. S&P is being investigated for
its decision in May this year to put Italy’s rating under
review, which led to the downgrade this month.  S&P and Moody’s defended their work amid the Trani
investigation. The probe is “without foundation” and the
credit rating company will “strenuously defend its work,” S&P
said in an e-mail on Aug. 4. “Moody’s takes its
responsibilities surrounding the dissemination of market
sensitive information very seriously and is cooperating with the
authorities,” the company said in a separate e-mail on the same
day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  