-- 
Mitchells & Butlers Says Same-Store Sales Increased 2.7%

-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 
2011-09-27T15:59:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/mitchells-butlers-says-same-store-sales-grew-2-7-in-51-weeks.html
Mitchells & Butlers Plc (MAB) , the U.K.
owner of the All Bar One pub chain, said sales growth at outlets
opened at least a year grew 2.7 percent in the 51 weeks to Sept.
17 and the consumer environment remains “challenging.”  Same-store sales in the nine weeks to Sept. 17 grew 0.5
percent while total sales for its retained estate increased 4.7
percent in the first 51 weeks, the Birmingham, England-based
company said today in a statement.  “The consumer environment is going to remain tough,”
interim Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Blood said in a phone
interview today. “There are cost pressures. We have got a
number of initiatives in place to improve productivity and lower
costs.”  A potential offer of 230 pence per share by Piedmont Inc.
to buy the company “significantly undervalues” the business,
Blood said, reiterating a statement earlier this month by
Mitchells & Butlers. “We are waiting on them to make an offer
or not make an offer, they have until October 17.”  Piedmont, which is controlled by U.K. billionaire  Joe Lewis 
and owns 23 percent of Mitchells & Butlers, said on Sept. 12 it
was considering an offer for the remainder of the company after
a previous proposal of 224 pence a share in cash or stock was
dismissed by the company.  Mitchells & Butlers said in a separate statement that it
has “not as yet requested or received confirmation from
institutional shareholders, as required by the Note to Rule 19.3
of the takeover code, regarding their support for the
independent directors’ rejection of the possible offer.” The
company said it made the statement in response to “press
reports” and added there is “no certainty that any offer will
ultimately be made.”  Mitchells & Butlers closed down 6 pence, or 2.4 percent, to
246.5 pence at the 4:35 p.m. close in London trading, giving the
company a market value of 1 billion pounds ($1.57 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  