-- 
Italy Beats U.S. 27-10 as Japan Ties With Canada in Rugby World Cup Games

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-27T12:06:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/japan-canada-tie-23-23-in-rugby-world-cup-pool-a-match-in-new-zealand.html
Italy  beat the U.S. 27-10 at the
Rugby  World Cup  yesterday to cut the gap to Pool C leader
Ireland to three points before they meet in the last group game.
Canada and Japan drew 23-23, the third tie in tournament
history.  Italy’s Sergio Parisse, Luciano Orquera and Martin
Castrogiovanni touched down in the first half and the Italians
got a penalty try in the second half in Nelson, New Zealand.
Chris Wyles accounted for all 10 points for the Americans, who
were playing their last match at this year’s tournament.  Italy plays Ireland on Oct. 2 in a match that will decide
which team advances to the quarterfinals. Ireland leads the
five-team group with 13 points, followed by  Australia  and Italy
on 10. Australia takes on last-place Russia the day before.  “We are happy because we took the five points,”  Italy
captain Parisse said. “That was the important thing for us. The
U.S. made it hard work. Now we’re looking forward to the last
match against Ireland with a lot of confidence.”  Today,  Georgia  takes on  Romania  in Palmerston North in a
Pool B game.  In Nelson, Parisse scored for Italy in the third minute,
and the Americans responded as Paul Emerick burst through poor
Italian tackling and passed to Wyles, who took it over the line.  The game was tied 10-10 in the 28th minute after the sides
exchanged penalty kicks before Italy took control using its
superior strength.  Orquera scored in the 30th minute and Castrogiovanni
powered over the try line in the 40th minute to leave the
Italians leading 20-10 at halftime.  Second-Half Pressure  In the second half, Italy secured possession and put the
Americans under pressure near their own try line. The U.S.
conceded 19 penalties to 7 for the Italians.  Referee George Clancy gave a yellow card to Louis Stanfill
in the 59th minute as the Americans bent under the pressure of
the Italian pack. Eight minutes later, he gave the penalty try
to the Italians.  “They’re a tough team,” U.S. Captain Todd Clever said.
“They’re a Six Nations team and have gotten some wins, because
they know what to do under pressure. We gave it all that we had
but in the end it wasn’t enough against a strong Italian side.”  In the Pool A match between  Japan  and Canada, the Brave
Blossoms’ were leading 23-15 with eight minutes left in Napier
after tries by Shota Horie and Kosuke Endo, and 13 points from
James Arlidge.  Japan Ties Canada  Ander Monro scored Canada’s third try before adding a 79th-
minute penalty. It was the teams’ second straight draw at
rugby’s four-yearly championship after they tied 12-12 in 2007.  “It was some great fight at the end there to come back,”
Canada captain Pat Riordan said in a televised interview. “We
got out of it with a couple of points. That was the plan.”  The result lifted Canada above Tonga into third place in
the Pool A standings with both teams having one match left to
play. The third-place finisher will qualify automatically for
the next World Cup in 2015.  Canada takes on top-ranked  New Zealand  in its final pool
match on Oct. 2, a day after Tonga plays  France . The All Blacks
are the only team at the 20-nation tournament to have sealed a
place in the quarterfinals.  “We’ll see what Sunday brings,” said Canada coach Kieran
Crowley. “We’re now currently sitting third in the pool and
that’s something that Canada’s never done before. We’ll be
watching that France game pretty closely.”  Winless Streak  Japan, which had lost 16 and drawn one of its previous 17
World Cup games, took a five-point lead over Canada into the
final quarter at McLean Park. Japan had led 17-7 at halftime
following first-half tries by hooker Horie and winger Endo.  Canada  winger Phil Mackenzie burst through the Japan
defense to make it 17-12 four minutes after the break. Monro’s
64th-minute penalty then cut gap to two points before Arlidge
struck two penalties to put the Japanese closer to a first win
since beating Zimbabwe at the 1991 tournament.  Monro then scored the final eight points to earn Canada the
draw as Arlidge sent a drop goal attempt short in the final
moments.  “We had the game, I thought we should have won it,” Japan
coach John Kirwan said in a televised interview. “The boys
played their hearts out. They did a great job today. A win would
have been great but we just need to keep working hard.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  