-- 
Japan’s Ruling Party Proposes Tax Increases, Sale of Japan Tobacco Shares

-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-09-28T02:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/japan-ruling-party-plans-more-taxes-japan-tobacco-share-sales-to-rebuild.html
Japan’s ruling party proposed a 9.2
trillion yen ($120 billion) temporary tax increase and selling
the government’s stake in  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  to fund rebuilding
from the March 11 earthquake and nuclear disaster.  The  Democratic Party of Japan  yesterday also agreed on a
third post-quake stimulus package of about 12 trillion yen,
party policy chief  Seiji Maehara  told reporters last night.
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government must now negotiate
with opposition lawmakers to get the plans approved.  “We need to explain sincerely to the public that tax
increases are needed to support reconstruction,” Maehara said
yesterday. “These are temporary measures. We want to avoid a
negative impact on the economy.”  Under the plan, corporate taxes would be raised starting
next April for three years, while income taxes will increase as
of January 2013 for 10 years. Tobacco levies will go up next
October.  The proposal to sell the government’s stake of just over 50
percent of  Japan  Tobacco may be complicated by concerns that it
would reduce crop demand, hurting the country’s tobacco farmers.
A senior member of the Liberal  Democratic Party  yesterday said
he’s opposed to the move.  “We must not allow the sale of Japan Tobacco shares,”
former Finance Minister Bunmei Ibuki said yesterday. “Tobacco
leaf farmers are nervous about whether JT will continue buying
all of their produce.”  ‘Hoping For That’  Japan Tobacco spokesman Hideyuki Yamamoto today said the
eventual complete privatization of Asia’s biggest cigarette
maker by market value “has been national policy” ever since its
monopoly ended in 1985 “and we are hoping for that as well.”  The government plans to spend 19 trillion yen over the next
five years to rebuild after the record temblor and tsunami
devastated the northeast and prompted world’s worst nuclear
disaster 25 years. While the government has already approved two
packages totaling about 6 trillion yen, the economy has shrunk
for three straight quarters.  Japan Tobacco shares rose as much as 9.23 percent, the
biggest intraday gain in six months, before ending morning
trading up 0.7 percent to 365,500 yen. The stock has risen 22
percent this year. The government’s share in the company was
worth 1.8 trillion yen as of yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
NI JAPAN
NI BON
NI ECO
NI GOV
NI FRX
NI JPGOV
NI MOF
NI POL
NI  ASIA  