-- 
Italian City of Cassino Ordered to Disclose Details of JPMorgan Swap Deal

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-09-27T12:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/jpmorgan-swap-deal-with-cassino-must-be-disclosed-court-says.html
The Italian city of Cassino was
ordered by a court to disclose the terms of a settlement it
reached with  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to terminate a derivative that
cost taxpayers as much as 2 million euros ($2.7 million).  An administrative court published a  ruling  yesterday saying
Bloomberg News should be granted access to the swaps contracts
and settlement after a lawsuit under the country’s freedom-of-
information laws. The central Italian city and the bank agreed
to end the swaps contract in 2009 without disclosing the terms.  Faced with shrinking income and growing expenses, cities
throughout  Italy  bought swaps to cut their short-term interest
expenses, while putting them at the risk of rising interest
costs. About 300 were losing a total of 912 million euros on
derivatives as of March,  Bank of Italy data  show.  “This ruling will create a precedent,” said Elio Lannutti, a senator and member of the opposition Italian Values
party, who also heads the Adusbef consumer group. “This ruling
re-establishes the law, which was violated by the obscure
dealings that prohibit taxpayers from choosing and judging their
local administrations and their relations with banks.”  The city of 33,000, and site of heavy fighting during World
War II, sought to keep the settlement secret, citing a
confidentiality clause in its agreement with JPMorgan, the
second-biggest U.S. lender by assets.  The city will comply with the court order once received,
said Enzo Salera, Cassino’s finance chief. The city can still
appeal to the country’s highest administrative court, the
Council of State. A JPMorgan spokesman declined to comment.  ‘Greater Transparency’  “The taxpayers of Cassino deserve to understand how the
government managed to lose millions of dollars in their
interest-rate swap with JPMorgan,” said  Matthew Winkler ,
editor-in-chief of Bloomberg News. “We continue to seek greater
transparency, accountability and disclosure of the financial
terms in this case to shed light on how taxpayer money is being
used.”  In 2003, Cassino entered a seven-year swap with Bear
Stearns Cos., which JPMorgan bought in 2008, to adjust payments
on about 22 million euros of debt. The swap switched the city’s
4.7 percent fixed interest rate payment for a variable rate,
according to a June 2009 report by Italy’s financial police.  The city paid a floating rate based on the U.S.-dollar
London interbank offered rate, an “extremely risky” bet given
that Libor was at a record low, police said in testimony to the
Italian Senate.  Dollar Libor  Three-month  U.S. dollar  Libor was at a 1 percent in June
2003 and by January 2006 had surpassed 4.7 percent, according to
data compiled by the British Bankers’ Association. The measure
climbed as high as 5.7 percent in September 2007 as credit
markets began to seize up, before declining to a record low of
0.25 percent by December 2009 after policy makers cut rates.  JPMorgan was named an interested party in the lawsuit
because of the potential impact on the firm. The bank is
separately on trial in Italy in the first European criminal case
involving swaps. Together with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Depfa Bank Plc
and UBS AG, JPMorgan faces charges in Milan for fraud for
tricking the municipal government into buying the contracts. The
lenders deny the allegations.  In a judgment published earlier this month, Italy’s highest
administrative court ruled that Pisa’s provincial government has
the right to annul swaps contracts with Dexia Crediop SpA and
Depfa Bank Plc.  Bloomberg News also sued the  European Central Bank  in
December to make it release documents showing how  Greece  used
derivatives to hide its fiscal deficit and helped trigger the
region’s sovereign debt crisis. The case is pending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  