-- 
TMK May Spend $3 Billion on U.S., Russia Pipe Expansion, Pumpyansky Says

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-09-27T07:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/tmk-may-spend-3-billion-on-pipe-making-in-u-s-russia-romania.html
OAO TMK, the world’s largest maker
of oil and gas pipes by output, may spend as much as $3 billion
this decade on projects in  Russia , Romania and the U.S. as
rising profit drives technology upgrades and growth.  “We’ve spent about $2.5 billion on modernization so far
and about $2 billion more on acquiring new assets to expand the
business,” billionaire owner Dmitry Pumpyansky said in an
interview. TMK plans to invest about $300 million a year by 2020
to maintain those assets and develop new pipe products, he said.  The new spending proposal coincides with the completion of
TMK’s $2.5 billion investment program, begun six years ago, and
follows a fourfold jump in first-half profit. TMK and European
competitors including  France ’s  Vallourec SA (VK)  are investing in
more-advanced products as oil and gas companies explore in
remoter and deeper fields to counter declining output elsewhere.  TMK must keep spending to remain the “industry leader,”
boost earnings and increase its market value, while expanding
into “advanced-quality” pipes, Pumpyansky said in Moscow on
Sept. 22. The company, which has plants in Russia,  Romania ,
 Kazakhstan  and  North America , will spend 25 percent to 30
percent of annual investment in the U.S., he said.  Ipsco Deal  The Moscow-based pipemaker bought 10 U.S. factories
previously held by Ipsco Inc. in 2008 for $1.2 billion. TMK
Ipsco is now the U.S.’s No. 3 pipe producer, and counts  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  among its clients,
Pumpyansky said. TMK Ipsco got a $260 million  credit line  from
 Wells Fargo & Co . this year.  The move “opened the door to cheap American financing,”
the billionaire said, adding that U.S. interest rates are 200 to
300 basis points lower than in Russia. TMK will “seriously
expand” in North America and invest in producing “premium
connection” pipes and tubes for offshore drilling, he said.  A shift into the offshore drilling market would pit TMK
against Vallourec and Luxembourg-based  Tenaris SA (TEN) , according to
Olga Danilenko, a Moscow-based analyst at VTB Capital.  “Only Tenaris and Vallourec are able to supply pipes for
offshore oil and gas drilling so far,” Danilenko said by
telephone on Sept. 23. “If TMK succeed in it, it will be a sort
of revolution.”  Premium-connection seamless pipes command higher prices
because they enable oil and gas producers to drill deep and at
pressure, Danilenko said, adding that the U.S. market is
particularly lucrative. Even ordinary seamless pipes sell for 25
percent more in the U.S. than in Russia, she said.  No Decline  Pipe demand isn’t suffering from the global market turmoil,
according to Pumpyansky, who said financial market instability
“isn’t based on fundamentals” and demand in Russia has gained
30 percent this year. In the U.S., active oil rigs totaled a
record 1,886 as of July 1, Baker Hughes Inc.’s Rig Count shows.  “We conservatively expect the U.S. market to increase by 5
to 10 percent next year,” Pumpyansky said. Pipe stockpiles in
the country will last only five months, compared with as long as
10 months in 2008, before the economic crisis sapped production,
he said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in April that gas consumption
in the U.S. may surge by as much as 20 billion cubic feet a day
in the next 20 years because of demand from the power generation
and transport industries. The U.S. has become the world’s
largest gas producer, largely as a result of a boom in shale gas
development, whose extraction methods have sparked concern among
groups including the Environmental Protection Agency.  U.S. Shale  “We don’t see any real intention of the U.S. government to
ban shale gas drilling, which could have an effect on us,”
Pumpyansky said, adding that high-quality pipes can remove the
risk of environmental pollution from shale extraction, which
uses water, sand and chemicals to fracture gas-trapping rocks.  TMK expects to raise the share of its U.S. and other
foreign units in total sales. While Russia currently accounts
for 60 percent of revenue, TMK is seeking to get about half from
overseas assets in the “near future,” Pumpyansky said.  The company reported a fourfold increase in first-half net
income on Sept. 2, beating analyst estimates, and confirmed
previous guidance on growth in sales volumes.  Full-year earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization will exceed levels in 2007 to 2008, Pumpyansky
said, adding that TMK’s Ebitda margin is closing the gap on
Vallourec. Ebitda reached $996 million in 2008, and analysts
expect 2011 earnings of $1.2 billion, according to the average
of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  TMK hopes to increase dividend payments and won’t need to
sell shares to pay down debt, Pumpyansky said. Debt was $3.84
billion at the end of March, which implies a ratio of net debt
to Ebitda of 3.3. TMK targets a ratio of 1.5 to 2, he said.  “The average  interest rate  we pay on our debt now is 7.33
percent, and we plan to improve our debt profile further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  