-- 
Kasich Urges Four-State Natural-Gas Fleet That May Expand Honda, GM Market

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/kasich-urges-four-state-natural-gas-fleet-that-may-expand-honda-gm-market.html
Ohio Governor  John Kasich  wants his
fellow Republican governors in  Indiana ,  Michigan  and
Pennsylvania to join him in an unprecedented initiative to
replace their state fleets with vehicles that run on compressed
natural gas.  Kasich said he has spoken with Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett and is contacting  Mitch Daniels  of Indiana and
Michigan’s  Rick Snyder  to generate the demand needed to persuade
automakers to produce more of the vehicles.  The four states have almost 41,000 vehicles in their
fleets, and there are 112,000 natural-gas vehicles on U.S.
roads, according to NGVAmerica, a Washington-based trade
association. With Ohio and Pennsylvania trying to tap the
natural-gas deposits, Republican governors who sometimes scrap
over jobs would be embracing an environmental cause that makes
good economic sense, Kasich said.  “Sometimes we do compete with one another, but there is no
reason that we all can’t work together to lead America,”
Kasich, 59, said last week at two-day conference he convened in
Columbus to create an  energy policy . “Without scale, it’s not
going to happen.”  The conference included panels that discussed the drilling
method known as hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, which uses
water, sand and chemicals to release natural gas. Kasich has
said he’s committed to fracking while ensuring it is “done in
an environmentally sound way.”  Creating a Market  Corbett thinks Kasich’s idea could be part of an overall
plan to boost natural-gas production in Pennsylvania, said Eric
Shirk, a spokesman for the governor.  “It’s something we’ll be looking into,” Shirk said by
telephone from Harrisburg.  Snyder is “always open to discussion with other
governors,” Sara Wurfel, a spokeswoman, said by telephone from
Lansing. It’s likely that Daniels would listen to Kasich’s idea,
 Jane Jankowski , a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  No states have combined fleet purchases as Kasich proposes,
said Richard Kolodziej, president of NGVAmerica. States
including  California  are buying natural-gas vehicles, and public
and private fleets use the alternative fuel for buses, street
sweepers and other large vehicles, he said. Almost 960 of New
York City’s 5,200 buses run on compressed natural gas, the
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority  said in an e-mail.  Big, Symbolically  A four-state deal “would be huge, not just for the impact
of the purchase, but for the symbolic nature,” Kolodziej said
in a telephone interview.  Ohio has a fleet of 12,073 vehicles and buys an average of
1,100 a year, Molly O’Reilly, a spokeswoman for the
Administrative Services Department, said by telephone. Indiana
has 10,050 vehicles, Pennsylvania has 11,838 and Michigan has
7,101 after going to an all-leased fleet two years ago, said
Kurt Weiss, spokesman for the Department of Technology,
Management and Budget.  Honda Motor Co. is the only automaker selling cars that run
on compressed natural gas to U.S. retail customers, Jessica
Fini, a spokeswoman, said by telephone from Torrance,
California.  General Motors Co. (GM)  began offering them to U.S. fleet
buyers last year, and Chrysler Group LLC, the U.S. automaker
controlled by  Fiat SpA (F) , has said it plans to start by 2017.  Buckeye Built  Honda makes its natural-gas Civic GX in Greensburg,
Indiana, with engines built in Anna, Ohio, Fini said. The
automaker, which began selling the vehicles in 1998, has been
producing about 1,000 a year with plans to double that with the
2012 model, Fini said. The 2011 model costs $25,490, compared
with $18,555 for a comparable conventional-gas Civic, she said.  Purchases from states, cities and other governments compose
about 60 percent of Honda’s Civic GX fleet business, Fini said.  Natural gas -- along with alternatives such as electricity
and propane -- is a good option for fleet vehicles, said Sam
Spofforth, executive director of Clean Fuels  Ohio , a Columbus-
based nonprofit group.  “I don’t think we’ll know exactly what the right mix is
until we just start rolling up our sleeves and working with them
on it,” Spofforth said in a telephone interview.  The major drawback to natural-gas vehicles is the range,
because refueling is limited, said  David Cole , chairman emeritus
of the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann Arbor , Michigan. It
makes sense for fleet vehicles that return to base daily, Cole
said.  “This is very doable,” Cole said. “It just depends on
the economics.”  Local governments and private companies might join the
states, Cole said. Kasich also raised that possibility.  “Maybe some of those new cars will be built in Ohio, maybe
some of them will be built in  Pennsylvania ,” Kasich said. “If
we move America forward and begin to wean ourselves off that
foreign dependence, it doesn’t matter where they’re built, does
it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  