-- 
Kerimov, Uralkali Owners Study Sale of Russia Rare-Earth Company

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-09-27T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/kerimov-uralkali-owners-study-sale-of-russia-rare-earth-company.html
OAO Uralkali’s billionaire owners,
led by  Suleiman Kerimov , are studying a potential sale of rare-
earth producer OAO Solikamsk Magnesium Plant and have held talks
with a Rosatom Corp. unit, company executives said.  Solikamsk Magnesium shareholders have been in discussions
to sell it to state-run Rosatom’s uranium-mining unit ARMZ,
Solikamsk board member and Uralkali Chief Operating Officer
Evgeny Kotlyar said in a Sept. 22 interview in the Perm region.
He couldn’t comment on the outcome of the talks. Artyom
Gorbachev, an ARMZ spokesman in Moscow, declined to comment.  Solikamsk has more than quadrupled in Moscow trading this
year, increasing its market value to about $90 million, on
higher prices for rare earth metals. The group of elements are
used in products ranging from electric cars and laptops to
guided missiles and satellites. Prices for certain rare earth
metals fell 22 to 48 percent from their July high, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said last week.  “There are several companies interested in the asset,”
said Viktor Belyakov, a Solikamsk board member and chief
financial officer of  Uralkali (URKA) , the world’s biggest potash
producer. “This business has strong fundamentals, while certain
difficulties prevent it from achieving as high price multiples
as the ones enjoyed by Uralkali.”  Kerimov and his partners bought Solikamsk Magnesium as part
of their acquisition of rival potash supplier OAO Silvinit last
year. Solikamsk is among only six companies that currently
produce rare-earth metals outside  China , Ernst & Young LLP said
in an April report.  China Supplies  China agreed in July to almost double its export quota for
the second half from a year earlier. JPMorgan last week cut its
rating of  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , owner of the world’s largest rare-earth
deposit outside China, to “neutral” from “overweight.”  Prices for the elements had risen 17-fold since 2009 when
China curbed exports, and reached  $173 a kilogram  last quarter,
according to Australian supplier Lynas Corp. Ltd.  The previous owners of Solikamsk Magnesium sold another
rare-earth asset,  Estonia ’s AS Silmet which processes semi-
finished products from Solikamsk, to Molycorp in April for $89
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  