-- 
Kia Motors, Korea Companies Luring China Spending to Gain, No. 2 Fund Says

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 
2011-09-27T01:54:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/korean-companies-luring-china-spending-to-gain-no-2-fund-says.html
South Korean companies that sell
cosmetics, food containers and vehicles in  China  will outperform
the benchmark index as their sales are sheltered from a global
economic slowdown, the smaller nation’s second-best performing
fund manager said.  The companies are either selling necessities or increasing
market share in the world’s second-largest economy, making them
less susceptible to inflation, said Kim Jae Dong, the Seoul-
based head of equity at SEI Asset Korea Co., which manages about
$5.2 billion in assets.  “Bets on a structural growth of Chinese consumer demand
won’t disappoint even as heightened uncertainties over the
global economy and financial system are sparking overall risk
aversion,” Kim said in an interview today. “Their
outperformance to the benchmark index is likely to continue for
a while.”  China, the biggest contributor to world growth last year
according to the  International Monetary Fund , may expand more
than five times faster than the U.S. and euro area this year,
according to forecasts from Citigroup Inc. and HSBC Holdings
Plc. China’s consumer-price gains eased to 6.2 percent in August
from a three-year high in July.  Kim’s SEI Nurture Regular Savings Plan Equity Fund gained
10 percent in the past one year, the second highest among 107
equity funds focusing on South Korean stocks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund has “overweight” holdings on
 Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , an affiliate of Hyundai Motor Co., Orion
Corp., a snacks maker, and  Amorepacific Corp. (090430) , a cosmetics
manufacturer, said Kim.  Plastic Containers, Cars  South Korea’s Lock & Lock Co., which makes plastic food
containers, plans to increase the number of its stores in China
ten-fold to 1,000 in three years, the Korea Economic Daily
reported on Sept. 18. Kia,  South Korea ’s second-largest
automaker, said it sold 190,000 vehicles in China in the first
six months, an increase of 18 percent from a year earlier.  “South Korean auto names are boosting their  brand
recognition  in China, where the bulk of global demand growth
will come from going forward,” SEI Asset’s Kim said.  Kia and Orion, both based in Seoul, climbed 32 percent and
37 percent this year through yesterday, respectively, while the
benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 19 percent. Seoul-based Amorepacific
gained 5.4 percent for the same period, while Asan-based Lock &
Lock rose 1.1 percent. Kim is also “overweight” on Lock &
Lock.  Among other South Korean equities, Kim said he favors
mobile contents providers such as game makers as growing use of
smartphones and other mobile devices will increase their
earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  