-- 
KKR’s Kravis Says Tighter Credit Markets Are Making Buyouts More Expensive

-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-09-27T22:34:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/kravis-says-rising-cost-of-borrowing-make-leveraged-buyouts-more-expensive.html
Henry Kravis , co-founder of KKR &
Co., said private-equity deals are becoming more expensive as
the reluctance of banks and investors to lend drives up
borrowing costs.  “As the debt markets tighten and the cost of capital goes
up, something has got to give,” Kravis said yesterday at the
Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York. “You just have to pay
more.”  Kravis, 67, said the cost of capital for a leveraged buyout
has risen more than 2 percentage points since the firm agreed to
buy Pfizer Inc.’s Capsugel unit in April, forcing buyers to put
up more cash for deals and borrow less. Uncertainty in the
equity markets also is making it more difficult to reap profits
through initial public offerings or sales of companies owned by
private-equity funds, he said.  Private-equity transactions rose 51 percent to $287 billion
this year over the same period a year earlier, Bloomberg data
show. Economic uncertainty and volatile equity and debt markets
have stunted recent dealmaking. Announced transactions in
September dropped to $8.2 billion from $29 billion in August.  “Right now it’s harder to exit situations, but the reality
is what goes down comes up,” Kravis said.  Concerns that European governments such as Greece and  Italy 
won’t be able to repay their debts, coupled with a slowdown in
the  U.S. economy , have stalled credit markets.  Junk Bonds   Junk bonds, a staple of LBO financing, have lost about 2.1
percent this month, following a decline of 4 percent in August,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. That’s the worst back-
to-back performance since the failure of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. prompted a seizure in credit markets, leading to a
decline of 23 percent in October and November 2008.  The total cost of capital for the Capsugel purchase was
6.88 percent, Kravis said. The same deal today would cost “just
under” 9 percent, he said.  European economies are “very troubling” and face larger
problems than the U.S. after the 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., said Christopher Flowers, founder of
private-equity firm JC Flowers & Co.  Flowers, speaking at the conference, said he is keeping
“plenty of cash and capital” in the event of a deeper crisis.  “In  Europe , you have sovereign states that don’t control
their own currency,” said Flowers, 53, who is chairman and
chief executive officer of the New York-based firm. “It’s going
to be an interesting situation.”  ‘Dangerous’ Europe  Flowers, who has been investing in the U.K. and Europe in
the past year, said interbank lending in the region is dead.
While Europe is the “most dangerous it’s been,” the European
Union will probably succeed at holding the regional economies
together, he said.  Private-equity firms may lower return targets as banks shun
financing leveraged buyouts at past levels, said Guy Hands,
chairman and chief investment officer of Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd.  With less debt, buyout firms may target returns of “20-
plus percent” from 25 percent to 30 percent previously, Hands
said at the conference. He sees a “rocky” 18 months ahead,
with “attractive” returns beyond 2013.  “The bankers are not coming out, and they will not come
out until they have the liquidity,” said Hands, 52. “There’s
less incentive for a bank to provide financing now. The reality
is, pre-January 2008, it was very profitable to do private-
equity financing” because of the multiple opportunities to
generate fees, he said.  Expanding Businesses  Buyout firms typically use loans secured on the targets
they acquire to finance more than half of the purchase price and
cash from their own funds for the rest. The firms seek to
improve performance at the companies they acquire or expand them
before selling them within about five years.  KKR, which Kravis created in 1976 with  George Roberts  and
Jerome Kohlberg, is expanding into  hedge funds , real estate and
underwriting to reduce reliance on buyouts after the firm gained
a listing on the New York Stock Exchange last year. KKR this
year hired a group of former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  traders
led by  Bob Howard  to start KKR’s first hedge fund.  KKR, which last year listed shares in New York after
combining with its publicly traded European fund, has lost 20
percent this year. The stock rose 14 cents, or 1.3 percent, to
$10.90 at 4:15 p.m. yesterday in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading.  Mezzanine Loans  An 11 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
this quarter has made it harder for firms to exit investments
and return money to investors, Kravis said. KKR earlier this
year sold HCA Holdings Inc. in an initial public offering. It
has yet to complete a planned IPO for Toys R Us Inc.  The firm, which has participated in some of the largest
deals in private-equity history, is gathering as much as $10
billion for North American private-equity deals. KKR has already
raised money to invest in natural resources investments and this
month pooled $1 billion for mezzanine loans used to finance
takeovers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  