-- 
Palm Island Builder Nakheel Backed Bond With Undersea Land, Chairman Says

-- B y   S t e f a n i a   B i a n c h i   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 
2011-09-27T12:58:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/nakheel-to-issue-remainder-of-sukuk-before-end-of-this-year.html
Nakheel PJSC, the builder of man-
made islands off Dubai’s coast, said some of the land used as
collateral for a $1.31 billion Islamic bond is at the bottom of
the  Persian Gulf .  “The land has been valued by reputable companies and was
accepted by lenders and trade creditors,” Chairman Ali Rashed Lootah said after a press conference today, without saying who
evaluated the asset. “What’s the issue?”  The government-owned developer issued 3.8 billion dirhams
($1 billion) of Islamic bonds to its contractors and suppliers
last month as part of an 8.5 billion-dirham program. The company
will issue another 1 billion dirhams of the bonds, or sukuk,
before the end of this year as part of its $16.1 billion
restructuring deal with trade creditors, Lootah said today. He
confirmed reports that one plot of land backing both parts of
the sukuk is seabed.  The underlying assets for the sukuk are plot 502 in the
Persian Gulf and plot 513 in the desert, two people familiar
with the transaction told Bloomberg News on Sept. 21.  The sukuk pay a profit rate of 10 percent and are being
used to pay 60 percent of what’s owed to the trade creditors.
The remaining 40 percent is being settled in cash. The
securities yielded 21.6 percent today, according to Standard
Chartered Plc prices on Bloomberg.  Investors Offload Bonds  “Given Dubai’s land law, the return to the bondholder
rests entirely on the health of Nahkeel, so there shouldn’t be
much of a shift here beyond the headline shock,” said Emad Mostaque, a London-based  Middle East  and North Africa strategist
at Religare Capital Markets Plc. “Most of the weakness recently
has been investors who received the bonds as recompense and are
offloading their positions. Few of them particularly care about
the underlying asset.”  Nakheel built the Palm Jumeirah artificial island off
Dubai’s coast as well as a chain of islands shaped like a world
map that remains largely undeveloped. Plans to create two
further palm-shaped islands were put on hold after the emirate’s
property market collapsed in 2008.  Nakheel expects to report a profit this year, and has no
plans to tap the market further after the second  bond issue 
later this year the chairman said. “We see stability in
property prices and an increase in villa prices,” he said.
“It’s a sign of a good recovery.”  Nakheel had a profit of 58.9 million dirhams in the first
half of 2010 compared with a loss of 13.4 billion dirhams a year
earlier, according to a bond prospectus issued last month and
obtained by Bloomberg News. The company had a loss of 76.6
billion dirhams in 2009 and a profit of 505.3 million dirhams in
2008, according to the document.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefania Bianchi in Dubai at 
 sbianchi10@bloomberg.net 
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  