-- 
Nestle Appoints Wal-Mart’s Martello as CFO, Adding Outsider

-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   C e l e s t e   P e r r i
-- 
2011-09-28T10:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/nestle-finance-chief-to-retire-and-be-succeeded-by-martello.html
     Sept. 28 (Bloomberg) --  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, named  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  executiveWan Ling Martello
as chief financial officer to succeed Jim Singh, adding an
outsider to a company run by veterans.  Martello, 53, will take charge in April after Singh, 65,
retires, Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle said in a statement
yesterday. Martello is currently Wal-Mart’s executive vice
president of global e-commerce and emerging markets and
previously held posts at  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and Borden Foods Corp.  The U.S. citizen of Chinese and Filipino heritage will join
a board whose 12 other executives have almost three centuries
combined of experience working at Nestle. She will be the second
person from outside the Swiss company to take the CFO post in
less than a decade. Paul Polman, a former Procter & Gamble Co.
executive and now head of Unilever, ran Nestle’s finances from
2006 until early 2008.  “For a company of too many ‘insiders’ at senior level
positions, this external perspective and experience could prove
to be very useful at Nestle,”  Andrew Wood , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein in  New York , wrote in a note to investors.  Nestle rose as much as 1.2 percent to 50 Swiss francs and
was up 0.9 percent as of 12:45 p.m. in Zurich trading as the
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 0.2 percent. With a market value
of about 164.4 billion francs ($184 billion), Nestle is Europe’s
second-most valuable company after Royal Dutch
Shell Plc.  Chinese Purchase  Martello’s experience in emerging markets may help Nestle
achieve its goal of expansion in those regions. The company,
which agreed to its biggest Chinese acquisition with a bid for
candy maker Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd. in July, has set a
target of getting 45 percent of revenue from  developing
countries  by 2020, compared with about a third now. Unilever
generates about half its revenue from those markets.  Martello speaks Mandarin and Hokkien Chinese and the
Filipino language of Tagalog in addition to English. None of
Nestle’s executive-board members list Chinese among their
language skills in their profiles on the company’s  website . She
will also be Nestle’s highest ranking female executive.  The new CFO may also improve ties between Nestle and
Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, the world’s biggest
retailer and one of the Swiss manufacturer’s largest customers,
analysts at MF Global, including Andy Smith in  London , said in a
research note.  ‘Celebrated Resume’  “She comes with a celebrated resume and has the required
exposure to this business as both a supplier and a customer,”
said  Thomas Russo , who manages about $4 billion, including
Nestle shares, as a partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner in
Lancaster,  Pennsylvania .  Nestle usually promotes insiders as the average term of
employment of Nestle executive board members is 28 years,
according to Patrick Hasenboehler, an analyst at Bank Sarasin &
Cie. in Zurich.  Consumer-goods companies are promoting people with
emerging-market backgrounds as countries such as China and  India 
fuel their sales growth. Rakesh Kapoor became chief executive
officer of  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/)  this month, capping a
career at the U.K. household-products manufacturer that started
in his native India in 1987.  Online Outlets  Nestle is focusing more on the Internet as a way to sell
products, such as Nespresso coffee, Special-T tea and BabyNes
infant formula. The company created a website in  Germany  called
 Nestle Marktplatz  this month to sell 1,500 products, including
Baci Perugina and KitKat Mini chocolates.  Martello, who joined Wal-Mart in 2005 as CFO of its
international unit, helped lead the U.S. retailer’s acquisition
this year of a minority stake in Yihaodian, a Chinese online
supermarket operator. Her replacement hasn’t been named, said
Lorenzo Lopez, a Wal-Mart spokesman.  “Martello does not have a superstar CV,” and she may have
taken a step back from a more senior position within Wal-Mart,
Sanford’s Wood wrote.  Nestle may be trying to avoid a similar situation to that
of former CFO Polman, who many investors had hoped would become
CEO, Wood said.  “At first glance, Martello is far from the stature of
Polman,” Wood wrote. “Somewhat cynically, perhaps Nestle
considers that it learned its lesson last time and does not want
the same again.”  Nina Backes, a Nestle spokeswoman, declined to comment on
Wood’s remarks.  Singh has worked at Nestle for 35 years and has been CFO
since 2008. During his tenure in that post, Nestle sold its
holdings in eye-care provider Alcon to Novartis AG for $39
billion, freeing up cash for acquisitions, share buybacks and
dividend payments.  Once Martello takes her new post, Nestle will have changed
half its executive-board members since  Paul Bulcke  became CEO in
2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  