-- 
New York Gasoline Gains as Conoco Idles Pennsylvania Refinery

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-09-27T18:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/new-york-gasoline-gains-as-conoco-idles-pennsylvania-refinery.html
New York  gasoline rose as
ConocoPhillips announced that it would stop processing crude at
the end of this week at its Trainer, Pennsylvania, refinery and
attempt to sell the plant.  The 185,000-barrel-a-day refinery will permanently close in
six months if no buyer is found, the Houston-based company said
in a statement.  Refiners on both sides of the Atlantic basin are facing
“restrained product demand, increased operating costs and the
need to invest in being capable of a more flexible crude
choice,” said Mark Routt, a senior consultant at KBC Energy in
Houston.  The premium for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in New
York Harbor rose 0.25 cent to 2.75 cents a gallon versus futures
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:14 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery gained
11.26 cents to $2.707 a gallon.  The Trainer refinery can produce 105,000 barrels a day of
gasoline and 65,000 barrels a day of diesel, heating oil and  jet
fuel , according to the company’s website.  The same fuel in the  Gulf Coast  strengthened 2.65 cents to
a discount of 0.75 cent.  Motiva Enterprises LLC shut a catalytic cracker at its
Norco refinery in Louisiana, and had a leak from a reactor
stripper overhead line resulting in emissions, according to a
filing with the National Response Center.  BP Plc (BP)  shut a crude unit at its Whiting, Indiana, refinery
yesterday for unplanned maintenance, a person familiar with the
situation said. The unit is expected to return to service today,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 