-- 
New York Pension’s Schloss Raising Allocation to Private Equity

-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/new-york-pension-s-schloss-increasing-private-equity-allocation.html
New York City employees’ pension
fund is increasing its allocation to  private equity  to 6.5
percent from 4 percent and using fewer firms in pursuit of total
returns of 8 percent, said Larry Schloss, chief investment
officer and deputy comptroller for pensions.  The city’s pension plans to allocate $2.5 billion annually
for the next four to five years to increase its private-equity
commitments, Schloss said yesterday at the Bloomberg Dealmakers
Summit in New York.  The pension will sell about $2 billion in existing private-
equity funds as it seeks to pare relationships to about 70 firms
in the “top quartile” from 106 when Schloss joined the pension
in January 2010, he said. The city will “write bigger checks”
of more than $300 million, versus about $100 million on average
to each fund before the overhaul, he said.  “When I got here, we had $12 billion commitments, $7.2
billion in the ground, 106 GP relationships and 162 funds,”
Schloss said. “Our 12-year IRR was 6.8 percent -- not very
good,” he said, referring to the internal rate of return.  The $41.8-billion  New York  City Employees Retirement
System, whose 347,000 members are the most of any U.S. municipal
retirement fund, aims to generate returns of at least 8 percent,
Schloss said. Private-equity firms, which typically buy
companies using loans secured on the targets and work to improve
performance before selling them in five to 10 years, are a long-
term commitment that offer potentially the highest returns,
Schloss said.  “We have great expectations for private equity,” he said.  The firms get money from investors including pension plans
and endowments with a mandate to invest it within five to six
years and return it with a profit after about 10 years. Private-
equity firms typically charge an annual management fee equal to
1.5 percent to 2 percent of the fund, and keep 20 percent of
profit from investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  