-- 
New York’s Second-Biggest Public Union Rejects New Contract

-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T21:11:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/new-york-s-second-biggest-public-union-rejects-new-contract.html
New York’s second-biggest public
union rejected a contract that would have frozen wages for three
years, increased worker health-care contributions and prevented
thousands of firings that may begin as soon as today.  Almost 70 percent of the 56,000-member  Public Employees
Federation , which represents professional, scientific and
technical employees, voted on the contract, the union said today
in a statement sent by e-mail. They opposed it 19,629 to 16,906,
marking the first time in the union’s 34-year history that the
rank and file rejected a pact recommended by its leadership, the
statement said.  The outcome represents a defeat for Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
effort to win unions’ acceptance of cost-cutting measures under
the threat of firings. Cuomo gave the unions the choice as a way
to close a $10 billion budget gap without raising taxes. The
deal the PEF rejected mirrors one approved in August by the
state’s biggest union, the 66,000-member  Civil Service Employees
Association .  “The decision to reject the tentative agreement was made
by our rank-and-file members who clearly feel they are being
asked to sacrifice more than others, particularly in light of
the pending expiration of the state’s millionaire’s tax,” said
PEF President Ken Brynien in a prepared statement.  Another Vote Sought  New York will begin dismissing 3,500 workers today,  Howard Glaser , director of state operations, said in a statement. The
firings could be stopped if PEF leaders explain the benefits of
the contract to their members and schedule another vote, he
said.  “We spent months working with PEF’s leadership and reached
an agreement,” Glaser said. “We now find out that they do not
truly represent their membership.”  PEF leaders averted firings in July when they agreed to the
tentative deal their members rejected today. The union intends
to ask the governor to send his negotiators back to the
bargaining table immediately, Brynien said.  “We are calling on the governor to resist laying off
thousands of our members, as he has threatened and, instead,
work with us to identify savings that would preserve the state’s
depleted workforce and services,” Brynien said.  The PEF rank and file began voting on the five-year
contract this month. Cuomo didn’t back down from his threats of
firing employees after today’s vote count.  Cuomo Urges Reconsideration  “The Legislature passed a budget that made clear that
reducing these costs would be achieved either through the
collective-bargaining process or through layoffs,” Cuomo said
today in a statement. “I urge them to reconsider.”  Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat, has sought to cut public-
employee wage-and-pension costs by increasing the  retirement age 
for new employees to 65 from 62 and boosting worker
contributions. The changes would save taxpayers $93 billion over
30 years, the governor has said.  Under the rejected contract, PEF workers would have
received a 2 percent annual wage increase starting in 2014,
after three years of no raises. The deal would save $75 million
this fiscal year, $92 million next year, and almost $400 million
over the life of the contract, Cuomo has said.  In March, lawmakers approved Cuomo’s $132.5 billion budget,
which cut total spending by 2 percent and closed the $10 billion
gap with no new taxes.  In budget negotiations this year, Cuomo rejected a proposal
pushed by Democrats who control the state Assembly that would
have extended an 8.97 percent tax on millionaires due to expire
Dec. 31. He has continued to oppose efforts by Assembly Speaker
Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, to tax those earning more
than $1 million a year, saying it would drive the wealthiest
from the state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in  New York  at 
   hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  