-- 
News Corp. Marketer Used Movie Lessons to Instill Fear in Rivals, Clients

-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l ,   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-27T16:24:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/news-corp-marketer-used-mafia-lessons-to-instill-fear-respect.html
A News Corp. unit that used lessons
gleaned from gangster films to motivate employees and crush
rivals is the latest arm of  Rupert Murdoch ’s media empire to be
swept up in a probe that began with hacking and bribery
allegations.  Already the subject of inquiries in America and the U.K. of
police payoffs and illegal voice-mail access by its British
newspapers, News Corp. has been asked by U.S. investigators for
documents relating to its News America Marketing Group, which
places in-store ads in supermarkets and retailers worldwide,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  The U.S. government last month asked a lawyer at Williams &
Connolly LLP for documents from a 2009 trial between News
America and a New Jersey advertising company, Floorgraphics
Inc., according to the person, who declined to be identified
because the request was confidential. New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) 
in July hired Brendan Sullivan, a criminal defense lawyer at the
 Washington  law firm, amid claims of illegal hacking at the now-
defunct News of the World tabloid.  Along with the request for files, prosecutors asked this
month to meet with lawyers for Robert Emmel, a former News
America employee who alleged in court papers the division
violated racketeering laws and engaged in “predatory and
anticompetitive schemes.”  The expanding review by U.S. prosecutors of potential
wrongdoing at News of the World, which represented only 1
percent of annual revenue for News Corp., has now touched a
subsidiary that generated four times that much, and about 12
percent of the parent company’s profit for fiscal 2011.  Flouting Antitrust Laws  That unit, rivals claimed in court papers, has expanded by
flouting antitrust laws, and in one case, computer hacking.
Evidence presented in one trial showed that News America’s CEO,
also publisher of the New York Post, used popular films such as
“‘A Bronx Tale” and “The Untouchables” to teach employees how to
instill fear in potential clients.  “There is a pattern of anticompetitive behavior by News
Corp.,” said  Melanie Sloan , executive director of Citizens for
Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a government watchdog
group. “We’ve seen it in Britain, and we’ve seen it in
America.”  Suzanne Halpin , a spokeswoman for News America,
declined to comment on the U.S. request for information.  News America places in-store ads and shelf promotions for
consumer goods marketers such as H.J. Heinz Co. and The Quaker
Oats Co. in 55,000 retailers and distributes coupon booklets in
1,600 Sunday newspapers.  The News Corp. unit, which had originally been a printer
and distributor of coupons inserted in local newspapers, almost
doubled in size following the 1997 acquisition of Heritage Media
Corp. and its Actmedia Inc. unit, then the largest provider of
in-store promotions.  Under the direction of Chief Executive Officer Paul Carlucci, who was put in charge of News America in 1997 by News
Corp. chairman Murdoch, the unit has thrived.  In-Store Promotions  By 2004, News America accounted for $390 million of the
$450 million spent on in-store promotions in the U.S., according
to claims in one lawsuit. The division is the “dominant
player” in the in-store marketing field, said Steven Frenda,
managing director for strategy and development at the Path to
Purchase Institute, a Skokie, Illinois-based trade group.  News America generated almost $1.2 billion, or about 3.7
percent, of the parent company’s revenue of $32.8 billion in
fiscal 2010, the last year for which such figures are available.  In a 2008 deposition, Carlucci said his division’s profit
margin was about 33 percent. In subsequent years, that number
has fallen, according to the company and research from Jessica Reif Cohen of Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  For fiscal 2010, the unit was on its way to producing about
$349 million of News Corp.’s $2.5 billion in net income before a
$500 million legal settlement flipped the number to an operating
loss of about $151 million.  Pattern of Conduct  Competitors attribute News America’s success to what they
claim in court filings is a pattern of illegal conduct. The
Wilton, Connecticut-based unit has been sued by six rivals since
1997 in lawsuits that ended in two adverse jury verdicts and
settlement payments topping $650 million. The company has
threatened competitors, lied to its own clients, and made
improper payments to supermarket chains to retain business,
according to the lawsuits.  News America has repeatedly been accused of illegal
“tying,” or pressuring advertisers who want only in-store
programs to hire it for its newspaper coupon business, according
to court records.  ‘The Only Company’  “News set out to be not just the largest company -- it
wants to be the only company that can put the sign in the
aisle,” Julian Solotorovsky, a lawyer for  Insignia Systems
Inc. (ISIG) , a Minneapolis-based marketer that placed promotional signs
on supermarket shelves, told jurors at the start of a trial in
February.  The lawsuits reflect mere “business disputes,” said
Halpin, News America’s spokeswoman. “A number of our
competitors have been unable to compete with NAM on a level
playing field -- in the marketplace,” she said in a statement,
referring to her company by its initials. “So they resorted to
litigation as a business strategy.”  News Corp.’s share price has fallen by almost 10 percent
since news broke on the July 4 weekend that employees at News of
the World had arranged to hack into the voicemail of private
citizens, paid police for story tips and used access to
sensitive personal information to intimidate politicians.  The U.K. disclosures led to the shutdown of the 168-year-
old newspaper and abandonment of News Corp.’s bid for control of
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc, a pay-television
broadcasting service.  Multiple Probes  In addition to three U.K. police probes and an inquiry by
Parliament, U.S. prosecutors this summer began investigating
whether employees of the U.K. newspaper unit hacked into the
voicemails of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
Prosecutors have yet to uncover any evidence to support that
claim, according to a person familiar with the matter.  U.S. investigators also are examining whether employees of
News of the World paid bribes to U.K. officials in violation of
a federal anticorruption law, said a person familiar with a
letter sent by investigators to the company.  The Floorgraphics case that has piqued the interest of U.S.
investigators, according to the person familiar with the recent
document request, began in 2004 when the company sued News
America, saying its rival was seeking to drive it out of
business. At the 2009 trial, George Rebh, co-founder of
Floorgraphics, which places ads on the floors of supermarkets,
testified that Carlucci threatened him in 1999 after he refused
to sell his company to News America.  ‘Will Destroy You’  “If you ever get into any of our businesses, I will
destroy you,” Carlucci said, according to Rebh’s testimony.
Then, referring to Murdoch, Carlucci added, “I work for a man
who wants it all,” Rebh testified.  Carlucci has denied making such statements.  From then on, Floorgraphics claimed, News America made
improper payments to gain retailers’ business, spread
misinformation about Floorgraphics’ success in installing ads
and defaced some of its floor ads, creating the potential of
slip-and-fall lawsuits that would deter retailers from doing
business with Floorgraphics, according to testimony at trial. By
2009, Floorgraphics, now based in Hamilton,  New Jersey , had gone
from 85 employees to fewer than 25.  “News America never ‘defaced or scraped up’ Floorgraphics’
products,” Halpin said, calling all the allegations “false.”  Company Computer  A News America lawyer acknowledged to the jury in the case
that “some person” had used a company computer to hack into
Floorgraphics’ password-protected customer website.  Lawyers for Floorgraphics presented evidence that one or
more people using the News America computer system had hacked
into the rival’s website 11 different times over a four-month
period.  The case settled six days into the trial when News America
agreed to purchase Floorgraphics’ assets for $29.5 million.  Also that year, News America suffered its biggest legal
defeat in a trial against  Valassis Communications Inc. (VCI) , a
Livonia, Michigan-based marketer that competed to sell coupons
in Sunday newspapers. After a Detroit jury ordered News America
to pay $300 million, the companies settled that and two other
suits for a total of $500 million.  At the Valassis trial, witnesses testified that News
America leveraged its near monopoly of in-store promotions to
take free-standing insert business away from its rival.  With a strategy called “Project Pre-empt,” the News Corp.
unit gave advertisers discount prices for merchandising programs
that included coupon-inserts and in-store shelf ads. Prices were
much higher for advertisers wanting only in-store shelf-ads.  Sara Lee  Debra Lucidi, a former  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE)  procurement staffer,
told jurors her Downers Grove, Illinois-based company wanted to
split its coupon program, placing free-standing inserts with
Valassis and in-store promotions with News America.  At first, News America refused to unbundle its bid, she
testified. When the company finally gave her a price for the in-
store portion alone, Lucidi said she was shocked at how far the
prices had spiked. She testified News America seemed to be
“strong-arming” her company in a bid to keep it from doing any
business with Valassis.  “Feels like they are raping us, and they enjoy it, and
there is no desire to work with us in partnership to grow our
business,” a colleague told her in an e-mail, she testified.  Executives from companies including  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  and
 Lancaster Colony Corp. (LANC) ’s T. Marzetti unit said they felt
“penalized” or “held hostage” by News America, according to
evidence presented in court. When Michael Murphy of  Unilever NV (UNA) 
and Glenn Barry of  Nestle SA (NESN)  wouldn’t buckle to News America’s
alleged pricing pressure, the News Corp. unit complained to the
men’s bosses in letters questioning their judgment, according to
trial evidence.  Nestle, Unilever  Representatives of Nestle, Lancaster Colony, Unilever, Sara
Lee and ConAgra didn’t return calls or declined to comment.  Halpin said that Project Pre-empt succeeded in passing
along cost savings to customers, who “welcomed the lower
rates.” She said News America rebuffed an alleged bid by
Valassis to launch a price-fixing scheme, leading to a Federal
Trade Commission lawsuit against Valassis for collusion.  In a 2006 consent order, Valassis agreed not to collude.  “It was only after NAM refused to participate in its
scheme that Valassis sued NAM,” Halpin claimed.  Even with the lawsuits, Murdoch was pleased with Carlucci’s
performance, according to evidence presented at the Valassis
trial. Murdoch rewarded him in 2005 with a second job as
publisher of the New York Post.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  News Corp. rose 46 cents to $16.80 at 12:19 p.m. New York
time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.  Earliest Lawsuits  One of the earliest lawsuits against News America was filed
14 years ago by Theme Promotions Inc., a San Francisco agency
that specialized in joint supermarket promotions pairing well-
known brands such as Coca-Cola and Orville Redenbacher popcorn.  Theme claimed in 1997 that News America tried to punish it
because it distributed coupons through Valassis.  Theme founder Gerry Gersovitz said in an interview that his
conflict with News Corp. started in 1996, when Dominick Porco, a
senior News America executive at the time, left a voicemail for
him, saying Theme’s insistence on doing business with Valassis
would “leave us no choice but to pursue the dark and dirty
road.” Porco didn’t return a call seeking comment.  At the 2005 Theme Promotions trial, Chris Mixson, then
executive vice president at News America, told jurors that his
employer wanted “all” of its clients’ coupon-insert business.
“‘All’ means exactly what it says: ‘all’,” he testified,
according to court papers. Halpin said it was Theme that reneged
on a partnership deal with News America.  “It is a function of business to seek additional market
share,” she said. Theme prevailed at the trial, winning a $3.5
million verdict.  Ended in Settlements  Other cases against the News Corp. subsidiary ended in
settlements and, in one instance, a News America victory.  In February, it took one day at a trial in Minneapolis
before News America agreed to pay $125 million to settle its
fight with Insignia. Insignia claimed that News America had lied
to manufacturers about its business, paid retailers to boycott
the company, removed Insignia signs from stores and bundled
coupons and in-store promotion to force Insignia out of the
market.  There was no finding of liability by the jury, Halpin said.  News America also agreed in a 2008 consent decree with the
Minnesota attorney general not to make misrepresentations about
its competitors. Halpin said there was no finding of wrongdoing
by the state, which had joined the Insignia case.  Another company, Boston-based Pop Radio LP, won a 2005
court ruling after claiming News America violated a non-compete
clause in a contract involving the in-store broadcast of ads.
The case settled and News America was allowed to sell a
competing product, Halpin said.  Coupon Dispensers  Menasha Corp., a Neepah, Wisconsin-based marketer that sold
on-shelf coupon dispensers in supermarkets, also accused News
America of trying to force it out of business. A judge dismissed
the case in 2003, saying Menasha hadn’t alleged enough facts.
Nancy Whitton, a spokeswoman for Menasha, declined to comment.
The company no longer sells on-shelf dispensers.  “They feel they’re untouchable,” said Michael Klabunde,
president of Connect Communications Inc., a Minneapolis-based
 marketing company  who said News America threatened in 2005 to
“crush” his company if it didn’t withdraw a successful
advertising program from Kroger Co.’s Ralphs supermarkets.
“It’s arrogance.”  Halpin denied Klabunde’s account and said News America
offered to help him distribute his advertising product. Keith Dailey, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Kroger, said the grocer
had a contract requiring exclusivity with News America.  ‘Culture’ of Wrongdoing  Anthony Barkow, the executive director of the Center on the
Administration of Criminal Law at  New York University School of
Law , said U.S. investigators may examine whether there’s a
“culture” of wrongdoing at News America. In several cases, its
competitors sought to show that Carlucci encouraged a corporate
culture modeled on Hollywood films.  Under questioning in a 2008 deposition, Carlucci said he’s
rallied workers by showing clips from “The Untouchables,” a
film about  Al Capone  and the federal agents who pursued him.
Carlucci also testified that he told sales agents to heed the
actions of Sonny LoSpecchio, a New York crime boss played by
Chazz Palminteri in the film “A Bronx Tale.”  “Sonny asked a question to his young mentoree: Would you
rather be feared or respected?” Carlucci told his sales agents,
according to evidence at the Valassis trial. “Our clients have
a fear. They have a fear of being left on the shelf.”  ‘Incorrect or Exaggerated’  Halpin called such accounts “incorrect or exaggerated”
and said Carlucci had shown clips from other films including
“Singing in the Rain.”  Carlucci insisted in a deposition that he didn’t show the
part of the “teamwork” scene in which Capone, as played by
Robert DeNiro, beats an underperforming adjutant with a baseball
bat. The “Untouchables” clip was an example “of how not to
promote teamwork,” Halpin said.  The current federal probe of News America may depend in
part on Emmel, who is described by his lawyers as a
whistleblower.  In response to a News America lawsuit which claims that
Emmel stole data from the company, he filed a counterclaim,
accusing his ex-employer of “extensive billing and revenue-
sharing fraud” against customers, “predatory and
anticompetitive schemes against competitors,” and “fraudulent
inflation of its reported earnings unbeknownst to its
shareholders.”  He’s also taken his complaints to U.S. regulators, none of
whom have so far acted on them publicly.  ‘Bed-Wetting Liberals’  As a witness in the Floorgraphics trial, Emmel told jurors
that Carlucci offered to “outplace” any “bed-wetting
liberals” who were concerned “about doing the right thing” in
dealing with competitors.  Emmel said his former employer hadn’t paid advertising
earnings it was required to share with Harris Teeter, a grocery
store chain. Catherine Reuhl, a spokeswoman for Harris Teeter,
declined to comment.  Emmel declined to detail his allegations in an interview,
saying a judge has barred him from doing so. He sought personal
 bankruptcy protection  after a judge ruled in favor of News
America in the contract case. An appeals court reversed the
ruling in June. The litigation is pending.  “All of Mr. Emmel’s claims against News America Marketing
are meritless,” said Halpin, adding that Emmel was fired in
2006. “There have been three very public lawsuits about these
matters, and at no time during any of these legal proceedings
was any evidence produced to support Mr. Emmel’s claims.”  News Corp. Standards  The take-no-prisoners conduct alleged by Emmel and News
Corp.’s rivals isn’t what Murdoch’s company promises
shareholders in its business standards of conduct.  There, News Corp. pledges the “company will compete fairly
for business, respecting the rights of other parties.”  At their parliamentary hearing in  London  this summer as
part of the U.K. hacking scandal, Murdoch, 80, and his son James
retreated from the claim News Corp. had made several years
earlier, when a News of the World reporter and a private
investigator were sent to jail for hacking.  At the time, the company blamed the incident on a rogue
reporter who was allegedly willing to do anything to dig up
information on Britain’s royal family.  At the July hearing, following disclosures that hacking was
widespread at the tabloid, Murdoch and his son apologized for
the behavior of News of the World employees. Rupert Murdoch told
lawmakers that his company aspired to the highest ethical
standards, and that illegal behavior would not be tolerated.  Gersovitz, the founder of Theme Promotions, said he doesn’t
buy that.  “His company tries to win by any methods, whether they are
legal or not,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Farrell in New York at   gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at   dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  