-- 
Novartis Seeks Approval for Smoker’s Cough Treatment Seebri

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-09-27T08:18:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/novartis-s-seebri-improves-lung-function-in-smokers-study-shows.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  applied for European
approval of its Seebri drug for smoker’s cough after studies
showed it improved lung function and helped patients exercise
for longer.  A daily dose of Seebri, also known as NVA237, boosted lung
function compared with placebo after 12 weeks in a trial of the
inhaled treatment in 822 patients with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in
a statement today. The results were presented at a conference in
Amsterdam.  Novartis expects European regulators to endorse Seebri next
year, and plans to apply for approval in the U.S. this year,
 Eric Althoff , a spokesman, said in an e-mail. The company is
also working on a combination of the drug with its Onbrez
treatment, which analysts expect to garner sales of $358 million
by 2015, according to the average of three estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Novartis rose 1.7 percent to 49.96 Swiss francs as of 10:10
a.m. in Zurich trading, compared with a 1.5 percent gain in the
Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index.  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, is most
commonly caused by smoking, and is characterized by shortness of
breath, wheezing, chest tightness and a chronic cough.  Seebri boosted lung function, measured by the amount of air
a patient can exhale in 1 second, by 108 milliliters, Novartis
said. A separate study showed it raised exercise endurance by
21 percent after three weeks.  Novartis bought marketing rights to the drug in 2005 from
 Vectura Group Plc (VEC) , which said it will receive a $5 million
payment as a result of the filing. Vectura advanced 2.3 percent
to 88.25 pence as of 9:13 a.m. in London trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  