-- 
Obama Attacks Republicans on Taxes in Hollywood Fundraising Trip

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-27T05:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/obama-attacks-republicans-on-taxes-in-hollywood-fundraising-trip.html
President  Barack Obama , in a
fundraising foray to Hollywood and the West Coast, attacked
Republicans for favoring the wealthy and stepped up a campaign-
style drive to win support for his $447 billion jobs package.  At a rally at House of Blues on Sunset Strip in Los
Angeles, the president, trying to fatten his war chest for the
2012 presidential election, pleaded for help in repelling what
he described as his opponents’ retrograde approach to solving
the nation’s problems.  Republicans want to “cut taxes for folks who don’t need
it,” Obama said yesterday in his visit to Los Angeles. “That’s
not the vision you believe in, and that’s not the vision I
believe in.”  Republicans, including the field of presidential hopefuls,
would eliminate vital regulations, leave the country with
“dirtier air” and “let the banks do whatever they want,”
Obama said to about 800 supporters who paid $250 and up to
attend the rally. “Yes, we’re going through tough times. But
the question is where do we go from here?”  At the Fig and Olive Restaurant, his second stop in
Hollywood, Obama said “The other side has a very different idea
about where to take this country.” His audience included
entertainment executives among a group of about 120 people who
paid $17,900 each. He said his vision is “big, optimistic” and
“not a cramped vision that says you’re on your own.”  Conceding he is grayer and “ all dinged up” from the
battles back in  Washington , the president said, “I’m going to
need your help, so don’t get tired on me now.”  Entertainment Elite  Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive of  DreamWorks Animation
SKG Inc. (DWA) , who introduced the president, said he had a
“dependency” on Obama and “so does the nation and the rest of
the world.”  “We must keep fighting for him so he can keep fighting for
us,” Katzenberg said.  Among the group of backers were actor-singer Jamie Foxx,
film director  Judd Apatow  and  Quincy Jones , chairman and chief
executive of Quincy Jones Productions Inc. Governor  Jerry Brown 
of California also attended.  The event at the House of Blues, part of a group of live
concert halls and restaurants on the Sunset Strip, was disrupted
by a man close to the stage who began shouting, “Christian God
is the one and only true living God, the creator of Heaven and
the Universe.” He was hustled out by the Secret Service.  Obama is wrapping up a three-day swing to the West Coast
and Colorado that included nine appearances, seven of them
fundraisers. He raised money in the Seattle and San Francisco
Bay areas,  San Diego  and  Los Angeles . The campaign is seeking to
raise at least $4 million before a Sept. 30 deadline to file
campaign finance reports.  Denver Visit  Today, the president visits a Denver high school to push
his jobs agenda and urge people to pressure Congress to pass it.
A vote in the Senate is expected next month, according to the
White House.  The plan includes $25 billion for renovation, asbestos
abatement and science labs in 35,000 public high schools and $5
billion to modernize community colleges. It also proposes to
spend $35 billion to prevent the layoff of as many as 280,000
teachers and support hiring of tens of thousands of police and
firefighters, according to a White House fact sheet.  At a fundraiser in San Diego yesterday, Obama warned
supporters that the 2012 campaign would be difficult.  Voters
are “frustrated” because of the economy, he said, and they
have “got to be convinced, got to be persuaded, and I can’t do
it alone. You guys are my ambassadors, my advocates, my shock
troops.”  LinkedIn Forum  Answering questions earlier yesterday at a forum organized
with LinkedIn Corp., the social and business networking website
in  Mountain View ,  California , Obama said the nation can’t afford
to wait until the presidential and congressional elections next
year to act on boosting growth.  He cited forecasts from independent economists that say his
plan to cut payroll taxes for workers and employers, spend money
on infrastructure repairs and give aid to states to stem teacher
layoffs would add as much as 2 percentage points to economic
growth next year and 1.9 million jobs.  “It’s the right step to take right now,” Obama said of
the proposal he announced earlier this month.  The economy will be the top issue for voters, and Obama is
confronting persistently high unemployment and sluggish growth.
The White House Office of Management and Budget forecast in
August that the economy will expand 2.6 percent next year with
the jobless rate averaging 9 percent. That didn’t take into
account the impact of the jobs plan.  Payroll Tax Cuts  The payroll-tax cuts, the centerpiece of the plan, cover
the first $106,800 in earnings and are evenly split between
employers and employees. Obama would reduce the portion paid by
workers next year to 3.1 percent from 6.2 percent. The rate had
been cut 2 percentage points under the terms of a tax deal
reached last year, which is set to expire Dec. 31.  The president said the difficulties in the U.S. reflect
what is happening in the global economy. The financial crisis
brought on by the European debt crisis “is scaring the world,”
he said.  European governments are “trying to take responsible
actions, but those actions haven’t been quite as quick as they
need to be,” Obama said.  As European officials discussed plans to tame the 18-month
debt crisis, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 2.3 percent
in  New York  yesterday. Ten-year U.S. Treasury note yields
increased six basis points to 1.90 percent, rising from near a
record low.  Obama’s trip marks his 10th stop in California, his fourth
in  Colorado  and third in Washington since becoming president in
January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  