-- 
Obama Lawyers Signal Likely Supreme Court Appeal on Health Care

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/obama-lawyers-signal-likely-supreme-court-appeal-on-health-care.html
The Obama administration signaled
it will seek U.S.  Supreme Court  consideration of the landmark
health-care overhaul in a move that may lead to a ruling in the
middle of the 2012 presidential race.  The  Justice Department  said yesterday it will forgo further
review at the federal appeals court that declared the law
unconstitutional in August. The administration has until mid-
November to file an appeal with the Supreme Court.  A Supreme Court ruling striking down parts of the law would
transform the campaign, forcing the candidates to refashion
their messages, said William Carrick, a Democratic campaign
consultant. A decision would probably come in late June, at the
end of the court’s nine-month term.  “They would really send the political debate in a whole
new direction,” Carrick said.  President  Barack Obama  is trying to resolve the legal
issues on his watch, said  Alex Castellanos , a Republican
consultant. “This is not politics,” he said. “This is
governing.”  The government had until yesterday to seek a new hearing
before a larger panel of judges at the Atlanta-based appeals
court.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department spokeswoman, said
the U.S. won’t take that step and declined to say whether the
government would file a Supreme Court appeal.  Seeking Court Review  The “clearest inference” is that the administration will
seek high court review, said  Carter Phillips , a Washington
lawyer who has argued 71 Supreme Court cases and isn’t involved
in the health-care litigation. And with federal appeals courts
divided -- another court upheld the law and a third said courts
don’t yet have authority to get involved -- Supreme Court
consideration this term is “about as close to 100 percent as
you can get,” said Phillips, a partner at Sidley Austin LLP.  The health law would expand coverage to an estimated 32
million Americans who lack insurance, largely through an
expansion of the federal-state Medicaid program and so-called
exchanges, in which consumers will be able to buy insurance. The
law requires insurers to accept people with pre-existing
conditions.  The challenges to the law, including a lawsuit being
pressed by 26 states, say Congress exceeded its constitutional
power by requiring people to either acquire insurance or pay a
penalty.  A Supreme Court decision upholding the law would bolster
Obama’s image, said Barbara Perry, a presidential and Supreme
Court scholar at the  University of Virginia ’s Miller Center of
Public Affairs in Charlottesville. The president would be able
to point to the health-care law as an achievement that will
provide coverage for tens of millions of uninsured Americans.  ‘Strong Leader’  “It would help him to make the case that ‘I’m a strong
leader and I was a strong leader from day one, and the court
agrees with me,’” Perry said.  To win the case, Obama will need at least one of the
court’s five Republican appointees to conclude that the
Constitution’s commerce clause gives the federal government
broad power to regulate the health-care market.  Such a ruling would “strengthen the viability of the law”
because it would come from a “center-right court,” said Chris Jennings, president of Jennings Policy Strategies and formerly a
senior health policy adviser to President  Bill Clinton .  All eight Republicans seeking the party’s presidential
nomination favor repealing the health-care law. The two
candidates leading in the polls, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, each vowed at a Sept.
12 Republican debate to block the law’s implementation without
waiting for Congress to repeal it.  Menu of Options  “The divisions are so strong that many people would regard
the court as simply having gotten it wrong,” said Lawrence
Baum, a specialist in judicial politics who teaches at  Ohio
State University  in Columbus. “Their unhappiness about the law
probably wouldn’t abate too much.”  The high court would have a menu of options for resolving a
case. A majority could uphold the law, strike down only the
mandate or void other parts of the measure as well. The justices
could also adopt the approach taken by one of the appeals courts
and conclude that judges shouldn’t review the law until 2015,
when the first penalties are assessed.  A ruling invalidating even part of the law would be a boon
to the Republican nominee, said Scott Reed, a Republican
strategist who managed Bob Dole’s 1996 presidential campaign. He
said the Republican candidates will treat the law “like a
pinata” during their nomination fight, undercutting its support
among voters.  ‘A Loser’  “If part is overturned, it’s going to feel like all of it
was overturned, and that will further brand it as a loser,”
Reed said.  Public opinion polls show a divide over the law that
mirrors the broader ideological divisions in the country, said
Drew Altman, president of the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a
nonpartisan group based in  Menlo Park ,  California , that tracks
health policy.  The foundation’s most recent monthly tracking survey, taken
Sept. 7-12, found 41 percent of Americans have a favorable view
of the law, while 43 percent were unfavorable. Another 16
percent of those surveyed said they didn’t know enough to say.
The poll surveyed of 1,207 adults nationwide and had a margin of
error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  “Republicans intensely dislike the law,” Altman said.
“Democrats favor the law and independents are stuck in the
middle.”  Pre-Existing Conditions  Both the administration and challengers have said in court
papers that a decision striking down the mandate would require
the invalidation of provisions that make more people eligible
for insurance, including the pre-existing condition rule.  The Supreme Court wouldn’t necessarily have to follow that
course. In declaring the mandate unconstitutional, the 11th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals left the rest of the law intact,
including the pre-existing condition rule.  Such an outcome would be a blow to the  insurance industry ,
which is counting on the mandate to ensure the participation of
young, healthy subscribers who can offset the costs imposed by
other parts of the law.  With so many possible legal outcomes, the likely political
impact is murky, Baum said.  “This is not the kind of issue where it’s clear that one
side would benefit rather than the other,” Baum said. “It
stirs things up for both sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 