-- 
Obama, in Hollywood for Fundraising, Says U.S. Faces Steep Climb

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-27T01:57:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/obama-in-hollywood-for-fundraising-says-u-s-faces-steep-climb.html
President  Barack Obama , raising
campaign cash in Hollywood tonight, told supporters the  U.S.
economy  has faced a steep climb to emerge from recession.  “Yes, we’re going through tough times,” he said at the
House of Blues in  West Hollywood , part of a group of live
concert halls and restaurants on the Sunset Strip. “But the
question is where do we go from here?”  Guests include Jesse Tyler Ferguson, who plays Mitchell
Pritchett on the ABC situation comedy television show “Modern
Family” and entertained guests before Obama spoke. About 800
supporters paid $250 and up to attend.  Taking aim at Republicans, Obama said his opponents want to
“cut taxes for folks who don’t need it. That’s not the vision
you believe in, and that’s not the vision I believe in.”
Republicans, including the field of presidential hopefuls, would
eliminate vital regulations and leave the country with “dirtier
air” and “let the banks do whatever they want.”  Earlier today in  San Diego , Obama warned supporters that
the 2012 campaign would be difficult.  Voters are “frustrated”
because of the economy, he said, and they have “got to be
convinced, got to be persuaded, and I can’t do it alone. You
guys are my ambassadors, my advocates, my shock troops.”  Obama planned to raise several million dollars for his 2012
re-election campaign with fundraisers in the Seattle and San
Francisco Bay areas, San Diego and  Los Angeles .  Of nine stops on Obama’s three-day trip, seven are devoted
to raising money. The campaign is seeking to raise at least $4
million before a Sept. 30 deadline to file campaign finance
reports.  LinkedIn Forum  Answering questions earlier today at a forum organized with
LinkedIn Corp., the social and business networking website in
 Mountain View , California, Obama said the nation can’t afford to
wait until the presidential and congressional elections next
year to act on boosting growth.  He cited forecasts from independent economists that say his
plan to cut payroll taxes for workers and employers, spend money
on infrastructure repairs and give aid to states to stem teacher
layoffs would add as much as 2 percentage points to economic
growth next year and 1.9 million jobs.  “It’s the right step to take right now,” Obama said of
the proposal he announced earlier this month.  The economy will be the top issue for voters, and Obama is
confronting persistently high unemployment and sluggish growth.
The White House Office of Management and Budget forecast in
August that the economy will expand 2.6 percent next year with
the jobless rate averaging 9 percent. That didn’t take into
account the impact of the jobs plan.  Seeking Enthusiasm  The president is seeking to revive enthusiasm among his core
supporters and draw support from independents as he builds
toward his 2012 campaign.  Employment was the main topic of questions from the audience
at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View. Several of the
questioners said they had recently found jobs after periods of
unemployment or were still looking for work.  “We’ve got a short-term challenge, which is how do we put
people back to work right now,” Obama said. The tax cuts and
spending proposals in his jobs package “can have ripple effects
and help the economy take off.”  Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio ,
have said they oppose the spending proposals in Obama’s plan and
have questioned the value for job creation of the  payroll tax 
cuts he’s proposing.  Payroll Tax Cuts  The payroll-tax cuts, the centerpiece of the plan, cover
the first $106,800 in earnings and are evenly split between
employers and employees. Obama would reduce the portion paid by
workers next year to 3.1 percent from 6.2 percent. The rate had
been cut 2 percentage points under the terms of a tax deal
reached last year, which is set to expire Dec. 31.  The package also would include a $105 billion
infrastructure proposal for school modernization, transportation
projects and rehabilitation of vacant properties, as well as $35
billion in state aid to save teachers’ jobs.  Obama also promoted his proposal for raising taxes on the
wealthiest taxpayers by letting the rate cuts passed during
former President  George W. Bush ’s administration expire, and
increasing levies on those with incomes of $1 million or more.  The rates would return to those in the 1990s, when Democrat
 Bill Clinton  was president, a period in which “the rich got
richer, the middle class expanded, people rose out of poverty,
because everybody was doing well,” Obama said.  Impact of Europe  The president said the difficulties in the U.S. reflect
what is happening in the global economy. The financial crisis
brought on by the European debt crisis “is scaring the world,”
he said.  European governments are “trying to take responsible
actions, but those actions haven’t been quite as quick as they
need to be,” Obama said.  As European officials discussed plans to tame the 18-month
debt crisis, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index jumped 2.3 percent
to 1,162.93 according to preliminary closing figures at 4 p.m.
in  New York . Ten-year U.S. Treasury note yields increased six
basis points to 1.90 percent, rising from near a record low.  The trip marks Obama’s 10th stop in  California , his fourth
in  Colorado  and third in  Washington , since becoming president in
January 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Mountain View, California, at   rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 