-- 
Obama Says Economic Plans Show Differences With Republicans

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-09-27T21:39:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/obama-says-economic-proposals-show-differences-with-republicans.html
President  Barack Obama  presented
his proposals to spark the economy and trim the nation’s long-
term deficit as examples of the policy differences between
Republicans and Democrats 14 months before the next election.  Promoting his $447 billion jobs plan today in Colorado,
Obama said the nation needs to reset its priorities to assure
future growth.  “Would you rather keep tax loopholes for  oil companies ?”
the president said at Abraham Lincoln High School in Denver.
“Or do you want construction workers to have a job rebuilding
our schools and our roads and our bridges?  ‘‘Would you rather keep tax breaks for billionaires that
they don’t need?’’ he said. ‘‘Or would you rather put teachers
back to work, and help small businesses, and cut taxes and
reduce our deficit?’’  Denver is the last stop in a three-day trip that also took
Obama to Washington state and  California  to raise money for his
re-election and press Congress to enact his package of tax cuts
and spending aimed at spurring hiring to trim the nation’s 9.1
percent unemployment rate.  Obama highlighted the spending provisions in his proposal,
which he said would put construction crews to work and improve
schools that need renovation.  The jobs plan he announced Sept. 8 includes $25 billion for
renovation, asbestos abatement and science labs in 35,000 public
high schools and $5 billion to modernize community colleges. It
also proposes to spend $35 billion to prevent the firing of as
many as 280,000 teachers and support hiring of tens of thousands
of police and firefighters.  School Upgrades  He said Lincoln High School is among the fastest-growing in
 Colorado  and is adding advanced courses and upgraded computer
systems to keep up with demands for an educated workforce.  ‘‘But things like science labs take money to upgrade,’’
Obama said. ‘‘And the ones here at Lincoln High were built
decades ago, back in the 1960s.’’  Obama would pay for the improvements largely by raising
about $400 billion during the next 10 years by capping itemized
deductions for individuals earning more than $200,000 a year and
married couples earning more than $250,000. The plan would treat
carried interest as ordinary income to raise $18 billion, end
oil and gas subsidies for a savings of $40 billion and repeal
accelerated depreciation on corporate jets to save $3 billion.  Republican Reception  Republicans, who control the U.S. House, have given the
jobs package a chilly reception, saying that tax increases would
discourage  job creation  and the spending provisions would have
little impact. Some Democrats have expressed reservations about
the tax increases as well.  Obama dismissed Republican arguments that his plan to raise
taxes on the wealthy amounts to class warfare.  ‘‘The only class warfare I’ve seen is the battle that’s
been waged against the middle class in this country for a decade
now,” he said.  The economy will be the top issue for voters in the 2012
elections for president and Congress. The White House Office of
Management and Budget forecast in August that the economy will
expand 2.6 percent next year with the jobless rate averaging 9
percent. That analysis didn’t take into account the impact of
the jobs plan.  At a fundraiser in  San Diego  yesterday, Obama warned his
donors that the 2012 campaign would be difficult.  Voters are
“frustrated” because of the economy, he said, and they have
“got to be convinced, got to be persuaded, and I can’t do it
alone. You guys are my ambassadors, my advocates, my shock
troops.”  Raising Money  Of his nine appearances during the last three days, seven
of them were at fundraisers. Obama spoke to donors in the
Seattle and San Francisco Bay areas, San Diego and  Los Angeles .
The campaign is seeking to raise at least $4 million before the
third quarter fundraising deadline of Sept. 30.  The Obama campaign collected more than $86 million in the
quarter that ended June 30, surpassing the combined haul of the
entire field of candidates for the Republican presidential
nomination. The total includes money collected by the  Democratic
National Committee .  The DNC and the campaign lowered their third-quarter
combined fundraising goal to $55 million because Obama events in
July and August were canceled during the fight over the debt-
ceiling debate.  Obama’s fundraising disclosure reports for the quarter as
well as those of the Republicans seeking their party’s
nomination to oppose him will be reported publicly on Oct. 15.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  