-- 
Moby Swaps Drink, Parties for Insomnia, Studio Tan: Interview

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-09-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/moby-swaps-drink-parties-for-insomnia-studio-tan-interview.html
“I never expected to have a career
as a musician,” says Moby.  Richard Melville Hall is being amiable and candid about
life as a star.  “I thought that professional musicians were other people,”
he says. “I thought I was going to spend my life teaching in a
 community college , working in a bookstore and making music that
no-one listened to.”  Instead, Moby has sold more than 20 million records and is
touring the U.S. in support of his album “Destroyed.” I catch up
with him just before the end of the European section: Moby is
sitting in a hotel suite in Knightsbridge,  London .  In his  concerts , rave anthems with firecracker beats catch
the excitement of the best nightclubs. The soundscapes are
recreated by a live band, the vocal samples of the originals
given a brighter life courtesy of a flesh-and-blood singer.  Melville Hall, 46, says he is related to Herman Melville
and took his stage name from the writer’s fictional whale. His
first hit was “Go” in 1991, which used a simple sample of Angelo Badalamenti’s “Laura Palmer’s Theme” from Twin Peaks.  “I really like simplicity,” Moby acknowledges. “Nothing
makes me happier than when I can write a song that only has one
or two chords in it, because it seems like a fantastic affront
to all that complicated music theory I was brought up with.”  In 1996, “Animal Rights” explored his roots in punk rock.
“No one liked it,” says the star, adjusting the spectacles on
his bare head. “We played concerts to 20 people a night. By the
late ‘90s I was essentially a ‘has been.’”  One More Album  Daniel Miller, the head of  Mute Records , Moby’s label,
encouraged him to make one more album.  “I made this weird lo-fi obscure record,” says Moby,
wearing a black tee-shirt and jeans. “I started looking at going
back to school and figure what sort of job I should get.”  That weird record, “Play,” mixed downtempo electronica with
scratchy samples from the  Alan Lomax  folk archives. Gradually,
it started to sell and has now passed 10 million.  “All of a sudden I was playing to 10,000 people and being
invited to crazy celebrity parties, drinking too much, doing a
lot of drugs and going to red-carpet events,” recalls Moby. “It
took me a while to realize I really didn’t enjoy it.”  At the height of his fame, he bought a compound in upstate
 New York , put in a disco and a spa and held wild parties. It has
since been sold. “That abject pursuit of debauchery and
degeneracy, I’m not constitutionally capable of it.”  He attracted criticism because all the tracks on “Play”
were licensed to advertisements -- many for cars, seemingly at
odds with his environmental views.  Advert Attack  Moby points out that many publications that attacked him
relied on the same advertisers. “I realized it would be more
interesting to take their money and give it to environmental
organizations.”  These days, he is more relaxed. He talks engagingly about
politics, aesthetics and the perils of the rock lifestyle.  The  deluxe version  of “Destroyed” comes with a book of his
photographs, mostly taken on tour. He is wary of pinpointing
what makes a good image, arguing that this is subjective.  “A grandmother looking at a terrible photograph of her
grandchild is going to think it’s the greatest ever taken,”  he
says. “She’s not going to notice the composition or the
lighting. All she is going to know is that it is her grandson.”  Moby is a classic backroom boy, who has what Frank Zappa
called “studio tan.” He’s also an insomniac who recorded most of
“Destroyed” in the middle of the night. It is full of big chord
sequences, easy-on-the-ear electronics, and a warm, fuzzy tone,
because he decided to work with old analog equipment.  “I just ended up with a more idiosyncratic and vulnerable
record,” he says. “At this point I’m not interested in making
pop songs, getting commercial radio play or record sales. I am
interested in trying to make music that I really, really love.”  The Moby tour continues with dates in  Seattle  (Sept. 30),
Mexico City,  Montreal , Toronto, New York,  Washington  and ending
in Asheville on Oct. 28.  “ Destroyed ” is on Little Idiot/Mute priced about $12 or 8
pounds for the standard edition or about $16/ 17 pounds for the
hardback book version. Download fees vary across services.  Information:  http://www.moby.com/ .  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. This interview is adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 