-- 
Ohio Residents Would Repeal Law That Limits Government Unions, Poll Finds

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-27T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ohioans-would-repeal-law-limiting-government-unions-poll-says.html
A majority of Ohio voters oppose a
law limiting collective bargaining for public employees that
will be the subject of a Nov. 8 referendum, a  Quinnipiac
University  poll showed.  Fifty-one percent of voters would repeal the law known as
Senate Bill 5 that first-term Republican Governor  John Kasich 
signed in March, compared with 38 percent who would keep it,
according to results released today. Still, the margin of
opposition was higher in July, when 56 percent backed repeal,
according to the poll.  “Backers of SB 5 have only six weeks to make up the
difference, although public opinion appears to be moving in
their direction,” Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the
Quinnipiac University Polling Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut ,
said in a release.  The law allows public employees to bargain only for wages,
hours and working conditions, bans strikes and sets minimums for
employee pension and health-care contributions.  We Are Ohio , the campaign backing repeal of the law, and
 Building a Better Ohio , the group supporting it, are airing
television commercials in the Buckeye State.  The We Are Ohio ads say “Columbus politicians” are
targeting police officers, firefighters, teachers and nurses,
while the Building a Better Ohio ads emphasize the “reasonable
reforms” of requiring public workers to pay at least 15 percent
of their health-care insurance and 10 percent toward pensions.  Ohio voters support requiring government employees to pay
more toward health care and pensions and oppose banning them
from striking and bargaining over insurance, the poll found.  The survey of 1,301 registered voters by land lines and
cell phones was conducted Sept. 20-25 and had a margin of error
of plus or minus 2.7 percentage points, the university said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  