-- 
Oil Falls, Heading for Quarterly Decline on Europe Debt Crisis

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-09-28T12:53:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/oil-declines-in-after-biggest-gain-in-four-months-on-concern-over-europe.html
Oil fell in New York, heading for
the biggest quarterly decline since 2008, on speculation that
fuel demand will drop as the  U.S. economy  slows and  Europe ’s
debt crisis batters consumer sentiment.  Futures slipped as much as 2.1 percent after posting the
biggest gain in four months yesterday. U.S. inventories of
gasoline and crude oil increased last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey before today’s Energy Department report.
Commerce Department data today showed U.S. durable goods orders
fell and a report tomorrow may confirm European  consumer
confidence  slid to a two-year low in September.  “We’re likely to see more of a correction in  oil prices  as
the slowdown in economic growth and demand does not bode well,”
said Eliane Tanner, an analyst at Bank Sarasin & Cie AG in
Zurich, who last month correctly predicted oil would drop.
“Brent prices could go below $95, but as we approach $90 it
becomes a buying opportunity.”  Crude for November delivery slid as much as $1.79 to $82.66
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange and was at $83.40 at 1:40 p.m. London time. The
contract yesterday climbed $4.21, or 5.3 percent, to $84.45. It
was the biggest gain since May 9.  Oil is down 6.1 percent this month and 8.7 percent this
year. Prices have dropped 13 percent since the end of June, the
biggest quarterly loss since the last three months of 2008.  Fuel Supplies  Brent crude  for November settlement was at $106.37 a
barrel, down 77 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium of
$22.97 to U.S. futures, compared with a record $26.87 on Sept.
6, based on front-month settlement prices.  An Energy Department report today was forecast to show a
gain of 1 million barrels, according to the median estimate of
15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Stockpiles  of crude oil rose
2.05 million barrels, or 0.6 percent, to 341.1 million barrels
last week, according to the median of responses.  The  American Petroleum Institute  said yesterday gasoline
supplies increased 4.6 million barrels last week, while crude
stockpiles rose 568,000 barrels. The industry-funded API
collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis from
operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Demand Slump  Most advanced economies are lapsing back into recession
while the U.S. is already in the throes of an economic
contraction,  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and chairman of Roubini
Global Economics LLC, said yesterday in a panel discussion at
the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York.  Orders for U.S. durable goods fell 0.1 percent in August,
the Commerce Department reported in  Washington  today. That
compares with a median forecast of a 0.2 percent decline in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  The U.S. is the world’s biggest crude consumer, accounting
for 21 percent of global demand last year, according to BP Plc’s
annual Statistical Review of World Energy. The European Union
accounted for about 16 percent.  Front-month Brent futures are poised to drop relative to
longer-dated contracts, Citigroup Inc. said in a note. A return
of Libyan crude production and weakening refinery margins may
lead to a narrowing in the premium of prompt Brent oil,
Citigroup. said in a note e-mailed today, dated Sept. 26.  Libya Output  The Seamagic, an oil tanker managed by Greek shipping
company Thenamaris Ships Management Inc., started loading a
cargo of crude oil from two Libyan ports on Sept. 26, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the transaction.  Fighting in the African nation since February has reduced
the availability of light, sweet crude, or oil with low density
and sulfur content. The country’s output fell to 45,000 barrels
a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates, compared
with the 1.6 million barrels a day the nation pumped in January.  Oil in New York has technical support along its lower
Bollinger Band on the daily chart at around $80.35 a barrel
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bollinger Bands,
which plot support and resistance levels based on volatility,
are used by investors to determine entry points for buying or
selling contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  