-- 
Oil Gains on Optimism Europe Will Tame Debt Crisis, Boosting Fuel Demand

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-27T12:48:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/oil-gains-on-optimism-europe-will-tame-debt-crisis-boosting-fuel-demand.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  on speculation European governments will contain their
sovereign-debt crisis, limiting its impact on the global economy
and demand for raw materials.  Futures gained as much as 3.6 percent, trimming the biggest
quarterly decline since the global financial crisis in 2008.
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted Europe
will intensify efforts to contain its debt problems after being
pressured at international meetings in  Washington  last week.
European stocks climbed for a third day.  “It’s a ‘risk-on’ day for oil,” said Thorbjorn Bak Jensen, an analyst at Global Risk Management in Middelfart,
 Denmark , who predicts Brent will average $107 in the fourth
quarter. “Investors are hoping the  European Central Bank  will
pull a rabbit out of the hat, in the form of an increase in the
strength of the bond-buying program.”  Crude for November delivery climbed as much as $2.90 to
$83.14 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $82.62 at 1:44 p.m.  London  time. Oil has
dropped 13 percent since the end of June, the biggest quarterly
loss since the three months ended December 2008. Prices are down
7 percent this month and 9.6 percent this year.  Brent futures for November settlement on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange rose as much as $2.25, or 2.2
percent, to $106.19 a barrel. The European benchmark contract is
down 6.1 percent this quarter. It traded at a premium of $23.03
to U.S. futures, down from a record $26.87 on Sept. 6.  Credible Plan  “If there’s a credible plan that is good enough and
certain enough to restore reasonable confidence to the world,
then a lot of things are going to look cheap at current prices
and that probably includes oil,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.  Treasury Secretary Geithner said in a television interview
on ABC that comments by European leaders at the annual
International Monetary Fund meetings foreshadowed an
“escalation” in measures to contain the debt crisis.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 3 percent to
226.88 as of 1:47 p.m. in London. The Dollar Index fell for a
second day, increasing the appeal of commodities priced in the
U.S. currency.  Oil in New York has technical support around $80.35 a
barrel, after settling above its lower Bollinger Band yesterday,
based on data compiled by Bloomberg. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  U.S. crude stockpiles probably climbed 2.2 million barrels
in the week to Sept. 23 as demand weakened in the world’s
largest oil-consuming nation, according to the median estimate
of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before an Energy
Department report tomorrow. Gasoline inventories are expected to
have risen 1 million barrels to the highest in two months, the
survey showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  