-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Cities Fell 4.1% in Year Ended July

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-27T13:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/home-prices-in-u-s-cities-fell-4-1-in-year-ended-july-case-shiller-says.html
Home prices  in the U.S. declined
less than forecast in July from a year earlier, a sign bank
delays in processing foreclosures may have temporarily slowed
the slump in real-estate values.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4.1 percent from July 2010, after a revised 4.4 percent
drop in the 12 months to June, the group said today in  New York .
The median forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
projected a 4.4 percent decline. Values were little changed in
July from the prior month after adjusting for seasonal changes,
the same as in June.  Investigations into bank foreclosure practices led to
delays in processing that may have helped stabilize prices in
recent months. Values may soon resume their slide as the holdups
dissipate, putting more houses on to the market and pushing back
any recovery in the industry that precipitated the last
recession.  “The enormous supply overhang of existing homes,
particularly factoring in all those in foreclosure or soon to
be, promises to keep pressure on prices for some time,”  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
New York, said in a note to clients. “We look for further
declines to be registered in the quarters ahead, although in all
likelihood the rate of deterioration will be nowhere near as
steep as that recorded earlier.”  Stock-index futures held earlier gains following the report
on optimism European leaders will solve the region’s debt
crisis. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring
in December rose 1.8 percent to 1,179.6 at 9:27 a.m. in New
York.  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note up to 1.99 percent from 1.90 percent late
yesterday.  Survey Results  Estimates for the price change from July 2010 ranged from
declines of 4 percent to 5.5 percent, according to the Bloomberg
survey. The Case-Shiller measure is based on a three-month
average, which means the July data were influenced by
transactions in June and May. July’s year-to-year drop was the
smallest since March.  Prices in the 20 cities rose 0.9 before adjusting for
seasonal changes in July after climbing 1.2 percent in June.  “This is still a seasonal period of stronger demand for
houses, so monthly price increases are expected,”  David Blitzer , chairman of the S&P index committee, said in a
statement. “We are still far from a sustained recovery.”  Combined with data showing a drop in housing starts, an
increase in sales of existing homes, fewer defaults and a plunge
in  consumer confidence , these data “indicate that the housing
market is still bottoming and has not turned around,” said
Blitzer.  Panel’s View  The year-over-year gauge provides better indications of
trends in prices, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller group. The
panel includes  Karl Case  and  Robert Shiller , the economists who
created the index.  Eighteen of the 20 cities in the index showed a year-over-
year decline in July, led by a 9.1 percent drop in  Minneapolis .  The only gainers were  Detroit , which showed a 1.2 percent
advance, and Washington, with a 0.3 percent increase.  Home sales remain in the doldrums. Purchases of new houses
fell in August to a six month low, figures from the Commerce
Department showed yesterday. Purchases of previously owned homes
rose to a five-month high, boosted by demand of low-priced,
distressed houses, the National Association of Realtors said
Sept. 21. Sales of existing properties have averaged a 4.97
million annual pace this year, compared with the 7.25 million
peak reached in September 2005.  ‘Under Stress’  “The U.S. housing market remains under stress,”  Frank
Blake , chairman and chief executive officer at  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,
the biggest home-improvement retailer, said on an Aug. 16
teleconference with analysts. “We do not expect any meaningful
improvement in the housing market for the back half of 2011, and
events here and across the globe would suggest that there are
more risks to the downside than the upside.”  More distressed properties may soon come on the market,
adding to the pressure on prices. Default notices sent to
delinquent U.S. homeowners surged 33 percent in August from the
previous month, a sign that lenders are speeding up the
foreclosure process after almost a year of delays, RealtyTrac
Inc. said Sept. 15.  Fed policy makers last week announced more steps to spur
growth and revive the residential real estate industry, which
since 1982 has aided every economic recovery except the current
one. In a move aimed at lowering borrowing costs, the Fed said
it will buy $400 billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30
years through June, while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less.  The central bank said it will also reinvest maturing
mortgage debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of
Treasuries in an attempt to spur housing and refinancing.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed said in a statement on Sept. 21 after its two-day meeting.
“The housing sector remains depressed,” and there is
“continuing weakness in overall labor market conditions.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  