-- 
Home Prices in U.S. Cities Probably Fell in July From Year Ago

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-09-27T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/home-prices-in-20-u-s-cities-probably-decreased-in-july-from-year-earlier.html
Home prices  in the U.S. probably
declined in July from a year earlier, depressed by an imbalance
between supply and demand that shows little sign of easing,
economists said before a report today.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4.4 percent from July 2010, the 10th consecutive year-to-
year drop, according to the median forecast of 27 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report may show consumer
confidence held in September near a two-year low.  Unemployment, stagnant wages and falling stock prices may
keep weighing on sentiment, prompting homebuyers to hold off
just as foreclosures swell the number of properties on the
market. The housing slump was among dangers that prompted the
 Federal Reserve  to take additional steps last week to prevent
the world’s largest economy from sliding back into a recession.  “The risks are on the downside for U.S. home prices given
the overhang of unsold homes and the weakness in the labor
market,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “Foreclosure rates remain high, and that
will likely put downward pressure on prices.”  The data from S&P/Case-Shiller are due at 9 a.m. New York
time. Economists’ estimates ranged from declines of 5.5 percent
to 4 percent.  The report may also show the market is bouncing along the
bottom rather than deteriorating further. Prices may have risen
0.1 percent from the prior month following a 0.06 percent
decline in June, according to economists’ forecasts.  Little Confidence  A 10 a.m. report from the New York-based Conference Board
may show its  consumer confidence  index rose to 46 in September
from 44.5 the prior month, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed. August’s level was the lowest since April
2009, when the economy was still in the recession.  Home sales remain in the doldrums. Purchases of new houses
fell in August to a six-month low, figures from the Commerce
Department showed yesterday.  Purchases of previously owned homes rose to a five-month
high, boosted by demand of low-priced, distressed houses, the
National Association of Realtors said Sept. 21. Sales of
existing properties have averaged a 4.97 million annual pace
this year, compared with the 7.25 million peak reached in
September 2005.  “The U.S. housing market remains under stress,”  Frank
Blake , chairman and chief executive officer at  Home Depot Inc. (HD) ,
the biggest home-improvement retailer, said on an Aug. 16
teleconference with analysts. “We do not expect any meaningful
improvement in the housing market for the back half of 2011, and
events here and across the globe would suggest that there are
more risks to the downside than the upside.”  Shares Slump  Builder shares have underperformed the overall market,
reflecting the protracted industry slump. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index has dropped 28 percent so far
this year compared with a 7.5 decrease in the  S&P 500 .  More distressed properties may soon come on the market,
adding to the pressure on prices. Default notices sent to
delinquent U.S. homeowners surged 33 percent in August from the
previous month, a sign that lenders are speeding up the
foreclosure process after almost a year of delays, RealtyTrac
Inc. said Sept. 15.  Fed policy makers last week announced more steps to spur
growth and revive the residential real estate industry, which
since 1982 has aided every economic recovery except the current
one. In a move aimed at lowering borrowing costs, the Fed said
it will buy $400 billion of bonds with maturities of six to 30
years through June, while selling an equal amount of debt
maturing in three years or less.  The central bank said it will also reinvest maturing
mortgage debt into mortgage-backed securities instead of
Treasuries in an attempt to spur housing and refinancing.  “There are significant downside risks to the economic
outlook, including strains in global financial markets,” the
Fed said in a statement on Sept. 21 after its two-day meeting.
“The housing sector remains depressed,” and there is
“continuing weakness in overall labor market conditions.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  