-- 
London Metal Exchange Takeover Bids Mean Most Is at Stake for Goldman, UBS

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-09-28T15:20:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/london-metal-exchange-takeover-bids-mean-most-is-at-stake-for-goldman-ubs.html
The potential sale of the London
Metal Exchange, home to the city’s last open-outcry trading,
means Metdist Ltd.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , MF Global (U.K.)
Ltd.,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Sucden Financial Ltd. have the most at stake.  The companies and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are the biggest
shareholders in the 134-year-old bourse, according to a filing
to the U.K.’s Companies House a year ago. The exchange told
members in a notice on Sept. 23 that it had received “several
expressions of interest” and would begin a process that may
lead to “an acceptable offer for the company being received.”  Metals prices more than tripled in the past decade as
demand from emerging markets overwhelmed supplies from mines,
attracting a surge of interest from investors. The LME handled a
record $11.6 trillion of contracts in copper and other
industrial metals last year, compared with $2.5 trillion in
1999. It operates  London ’s last open-outcry transactions through
a 6-meter-wide (20-foot) ring in which traders shout out orders.  “My initial preference would be to remain as an
independent exchange, but if the conditions are right, then we
would have to consider what would be right for us as a
company,” said Michael Overlander, chief executive officer of
Sucden. “There are other exchanges which perform very well, but
I don’t think any of them come close to offering, or being able
to provide, what the LME has.”  Share Classes  The exchange is owned by LME Holdings Ltd., which issues
two  share classes . There are 12.9 million ordinary shares, which
confer ownership and traded at 4.925 pounds ($7.72) in July,
according to data on the bourse’s website. There are also 1.34
million B shares, which exchanged hands at 85.425 pounds
yesterday. Neither shares trade on an exchange.  Metdist Ltd., a U.K. metals trading company, owns 912,000
ordinary shares, New York-based Goldman 900,000, and MF Global
600,000, according to a filing as of September 2010. UBS Ltd. is
registered as holding 550,000 shares and Sucden 362,000. J.P.
Morgan Metals Ltd. and J.P. Morgan Securities Ltd. have a
combined 550,000 shares, while Metdist Trading Ltd. owns 300,000
shares.  Spokeswomen for Goldman, MF Global, UBS and JPMorgan
declined to comment.  Raj Bagri, who was chairman of the LME from 1993 to 2002,
is a director of Metdist Ltd. and Metdist Trading Ltd.,
according to filings with  Companies House  last year. Apurv
Bagri, also named as a director of the two companies in the
filings, declined to comment, his office said in an e-mailed
response to questions.  Owners of B shares get no dividend and have no right to the
profits or assets of the company, according to the articles of
association. In the event of a distribution of assets, they are
entitled to get the nominal value of the capital paid up on each
share. They can’t attend company meetings unless changes to
their rights are being considered. It is mandatory for four out
of seven categories of membership to own the B shares.  Seven Categories  The bourse is valued at about 160 million pounds, based on
the last published price of its closely held shares,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW Inc. in  New York , wrote in a report
Sept. 23. At the time, the B shares had last traded at 70
pounds. The exchange’s value may be “significantly more” than
its 2010  net income  of 9.5 million pounds would suggest,
according to Ruben Lee, chief executive officer of Oxford
Finance Group, a London-based company specializing in financial
and commodity markets.  Bidders may include  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures market, IntercontinentalExchange Inc. and Singapore
Exchange Ltd., KBW’s Alexander wrote in her report. Officials
from all three exchanges declined to comment. The LME is being
advised by U.S. investment bank Moelis & Co.  Metal Prices  The LME Index of six main industrial metals is down 19
percent this year, after more than doubling the previous two
years. The gauge prices copper, aluminum, lead, tin, zinc and
nickel.  Electronic trading accounted for 52 percent of LME volumes
in September 2010, telephone-brokered transactions 27 percent
and the remainder went through the ring. Prices used as a
benchmark by metals producers, consumers and merchants are
established during the second daily ring session.  “The second ring closing prices are used in more than 90
percent of all physical contracts worldwide in copper,” said
Herwig Schmidt, head of sales in London at Triland Metals Ltd.,
one of the 12 companies authorized to trade in the ring. “If
you want to change that you will have to work against quite a
strong lobby.”  Open-outcry allows brokers to handle larger volumes at the
same time, Schmidt said. The simultaneous buying and selling of
contracts for different delivery dates can be done faster in the
ring than through electronic trading, he said.  “Whoever takes over the LME, the open outcry will shut,”
said David Threlkeld, president of Resolved Inc. in Scottsdale,
 Arizona , who was an LME member until 1990.  Trading Floors  Trading floors were already shut by the International
Petroleum Exchange and the London International Financial
Futures & Options Exchange. ICE Futures U.S. ended floor trading
of commodities including cotton in 2008 after 128 years.  “It certainly would be a shame to see something that has
been there for all of its history disappear, if that’s what in
fact a prospective buyer would want to do,” Sucden’s Overlander
said. “There’s no guarantee that a prospective buyer would want
to destroy that level of flexibility. It’s got open outcry, it’s
got electronic trading, it’s got telephone trading. Any
prospective would probably have to consider the value of
preserving those conditions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 