-- 
Hong Kong Court Clears Construction of $11 Billion Bridge

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g   a n d   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-09-27T09:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/hong-kong-court-clears-construction-of-11-billion-bridge-1-.html
Hong Kong ’s government won an
appeal to overturn a court ruling that the environmental aspects
of a 72.9 billion yuan ($11.3 billion) bridge under construction
weren’t properly assessed.  The three judges at the Court of Appeal, led by Robert
Tang, ruled unanimously today that the environmental department
won the appeal against a suit filed by Chu Yee Wah, a 66-year-
old woman, according to court documents.  Chu in April won a lower-court victory on the Hong Kong-
Macau-Zhuhai bridge, a key initiative under Chief Executive
Donald Tsang, leading the government to halt construction on as
many as 80 projects. Tsang’s administration has argued the
bridge, due for completion in 2016, will speed up travel in the
 Pearl River Delta  and improve economic links.  “We did it not for ourselves, but for the air quality of
Hong Kong,” Alan Wong, Chu’s lawyer, told reporters outside the
court today. “I need to read the verdict in detail to give
legal advice to my client.”  No decision has been made on whether to appeal the
judgment, Wong said.  “The project has been delayed by almost a year, costing
about HK$6.5 billion,” Eva Cheng, secretary for transport and
housing, told reporters in Hong Kong today. “The government
will strive to commence project works before the end of this
year.”  Competition Concern  Apart from the bridge, a HK$60 billion ($7.7 billion)
cross-harbor metro line is also affected by the ruling on Chu’s
case, hurting Tsang’s effort to boost the economy by building
infrastructure. Tsang announced 10 projects in 2007 to support
growth after a decade in which the city suffered two recessions,
a property market crash, the SARS epidemic and the resignation
of his predecessor Tung Chee-hwa.  In a May 19 speech, Tsang said he had visited Beijing,
Shanghai and  Singapore  and saw how “one construction project
after another” had transformed the cities. “But when I look at
Hong Kong’s infrastructure projects and realize how they have
been delayed unnecessarily, I begin to worry about its ability
to sustain its competitiveness.”   “The Environmental Protection Department welcomes the
court’s judgment,” it said in a statement on the government’s
website today. “The department will continue to implement every
possible policy in place to protect the environment.”  Hong Kong’s gross domestic product grew an annual average
3.8 percent from 1996 to the end of 2006, behind Singapore’s 5.7
percent and Shanghai’s 11.7 percent gains. Singapore’s economy
is forecast to overtake Hong Kong’s this year, while  Shanghai ’s
surpassed it in 2009.  The case is Chu Yee Wah and the Director of Environmental
Protection, CACV84/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  