-- 
Hong Kong Keeping Dollar Peg Set for ‘Soft Landing’ in Housing, Tsang Says

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-09-27T07:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/hong-kong-keeping-dollar-peg-set-for-soft-landing-in-housing-tsang-says.html
Hong Kong  Financial Secretary John Tsang predicted a “soft landing” for the real estate market
and said the city will keep its currency peg to the  U.S. dollar ,
blamed for helping drive home prices up about 70 percent.  “There have been ups and downs but the peg has come
through for us,” Tsang said in an interview in Chicago
yesterday. As for the  property market , “transactions have
fallen and prices are starting to trend down slowly,” he said.  The U.S. dollar’s 6.8 percent decline against the yuan in
the past two years has inflated the cost of imports to Hong Kong
and drawn property buyers from  China . Home prices have tripled
from their 2003 low, prompting a government crackdown on
speculation that’s caused a three-month drop in new lending.  “The residential market has basically frozen as a result
of the curbs and the global downturn,” said Alva To, head of
consulting for North  Asia  at DTZ, a property broker. “Our
surveyors are seeing almost a 60 percent drop in the number of
valuation queries from banks compared with normal times.”  Hong Kong’s used home sales have slowed, with prices
falling for the first time in seven months in July. That’s not a
“very violent reaction,” Tsang said.  The government has imposed measures to address concerns
about housing affordability, including raising the down-payment
for some mortgages, accelerating land sales and imposing a tax
on real estate resold within six months of purchase. Prices have
jumped about 70 percent since the start of 2009. New loans
approved fell 10.3 percent in August from a month ago.  ‘Simple and Transparent’  Hong Kong’s economic cycle still most closely resembles the
U.S.’s, so the city has no need or intention to change the
dollar peg, he said.  “It is simple and transparent,” Tsang said. “There’s no
need for us to make any changes.”  William Ackman , founder of hedge fund Pershing Square
Capital Management LLP., said this month he’s using options to
bet that Hong Kong will allow its currency to appreciate. The
 Hong Kong dollar  has been kept at about HK$7.80 versus the
greenback since 1983.  One-year implied volatility, a measure of exchange rate
swings used to price options, for the Hong Kong dollar climbed
to 2.25 percent from 0.66 percent a year ago. The jump is the
biggest in Asia even as fluctuations anticipated for the Hong
Kong dollar are smaller than for the yuan, whose volatility rose
to 5.4 percent from 4.4 percent, and for the South Korean won,
which climbed to 20 percent from 13.1 percent.  Linking the Hong Kong dollar to the yuan won’t work until
the Chinese currency is fully convertible with an open capital
account, Tsang said. Dealing with Hong Kong’s soaring  home
prices  and inflation are the policy priorities, he said.  Rising Inflation  The Hong Kong government said last week that inflation is
yet to peak after consumer prices rose 5.7 percent in August
because of higher costs for rents and food. The gains came after
a 7.9 percent increase in July, the biggest in 15 years.  Rising consumer prices coincide with a slowdown in the
city’s growth. Hong Kong’s economy expanded 5.1 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, down from 7.5 percent in the
first three months. Growth in the third quarter will probably be
between four percent and five percent, Tsang said.  Chief Executive  Donald Tsang  may speak about housing prices
in his annual policy address next month, said  John Tsang , who
isn’t related to the city’s top official. The chief executive
may also talk about the city’s wealth gap and its aging
population, he said, without giving details.  ‘Faltering Demand’  With Hong Kong’s exports about three times to four times
the size of its gross domestic product, the city is “very much
affected” by events in the U.S. and in  Europe , Tsang said.  “The situation in the  United States  is seeing faltering
demand,” Tsang said. “That is obviously of some concern to us
in Hong Kong because we do quite a bit of export to this part of
the world.”  Tsang, a former teacher in Boston public schools, said the
 U.S. economy  will recover.  “I have a lot of confidence in the creativity and
innovation in the U.S., once the nation has been able to
identify a clear direction forward after the political issues
have been solved,” Tsang said.  In Europe, constitutional issues may stand in the way of
resolving the continent’s sovereign debt problems, he said.  “The situation there is a lot more difficult,” Tsang said.
“In Europe we have a group of countries that are basically
insolvent. Europe needs to look at an arrangement to restructure
those that are not quite solvent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  Chicago  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at   bruceg@bloomberg.net  