-- 
Montenegrin Finance Minister Sees Tourism Fueling Growth Coming Years

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-09-27T13:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/montenegrin-finance-minister-sees-tourism-fueling-growth-in-2011.html
(Corrects the year of independence in third paragraph.)  Montenegrin economic growth will
match or exceed last year’s 2.5 percent rise amid a tourism
boom, Finance Minister Milorad Katnic said.  Tourism, which generates one-tenth of economic output for
the Adriatic Sea nation, grew 8 percent in the first seven
months, more than the government’s 5 percent forecast, he said
yesterday in an interview while attending meetings at the
 International Monetary Fund  and  World Bank  in Washington D.C.  The country, which gained independence in 2006 and wants to
join the European Union by the end of the decade, is relying on
2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in planned Italian and Egyptian
investments in energy and tourism over the next decade to turn
the smallest former Yugoslav republic into an energy hub of the
Balkans and holiday choice for the wealthy, Katnic said.  Montenegro will be the fastest-growing tourism destination
in the world with an “average growth rate above 5 percent in
the next 10 years,” he said, citing data from the  World Tourism
Organization . “We are trying to move from more mass tourism to
luxury tourism to find a specific niche.”  Montenegro, with a population of about 662,000, has borders
with Serbia, Croatia and Albania. The government is now trying
to create conditions for a 1 billion-euro investment in the next
10 years by Orascom Hotels and Development on its pristine
coastline, he said.  Hotel, Energy Investments  Another 1 billion-euro investment is expected from  Italy ’s
 Terna Rete Elettrica Nazionale SpA (TRN) , which wants to build an
undersea cable, the second largest in  Europe  in the next five
years. “If it happens, all of our countries will benefit and
Montenegro will be a hub for transmission of energy,” he said.  Economic expansion in 2011 has also been bolstered by
rising output in agriculture, infrastructure projects and sales
of commodities, he said.  While the IMF has forecast 2012 growth at 3.5 percent,
Katnic said he prefers a conservative projection of 3 percent
because Europe’s debt crisis could affect the country.  “This year we projected growth of 2.5 percent, but it
seems that it will be” faster, Katnic said. “We are a very
small, open economy and any turbulence in international markets
or any external changes can damage our economy. We’re trying to
be careful about the projection to be on the safe side.”  The government remains committed to following Maastricht
criteria for the budget gap and public-spending levels and wants
to lower the  budget deficit  to 2 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012 from “around 3 percent” in 2011. Its medium-
term goal is to slash public spending to 40 percent of GDP from
45 percent in 2011.  The targets have been challenged by “strong public
pressure” to boost spending in an economy suffering from a lack
of liquidity and whose mainly foreign-owned banks are plagued by
non-performing loans. Unemployment stood at 19.9 percent in
seven months to July and fiscal spending was 6.6 percent above
plan as the government stepped up wage and pension payments.  Eurobond Issue  Some budget revenue, including cash from state-asset sales,
have underperformed and could force the government to seek
additional borrowing this year, according to the  Finance
Ministry ’s September  macroeconomic report .  Katnic said this year’s deficit financing has been secured
and Montenegro will tap foreign markets again next year if
market conditions are right.  “We’ll look for around 150 million euros to 200 million
euros, like in the previous Eurobond issue,” he said. Depending
on market conditions, the government may look for financing
alternatives, including more cash from the World Bank or even
some “new issuance programs” from the IMF. “But for us, the
Eurobond is the first choice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  