-- 
Top Chile Funds Say Entel to Extend Country-Best Rally on Dividend Yield

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-09-27T19:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/top-chile-funds-say-entel-to-extend-country-best-rally-on-dividend-yield.html
Chile ’s top two fund managers say a
stock rally that has made Empresa Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
SA the country’s best performer in the past year isn’t over as
investors seek shelter from global turmoil.  An estimated dividend yield that’s double the Chilean
benchmark’s average and a debt-to-equity ratio that’s half the
index’s average boost the shares’ appeal amid signs of a
faltering global economic recovery, according to Tomas Langlois
and Jose Luis Luarte, who manage the two best-performing local
equity funds this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Excellent management, a lot of cash, very little debt
make it one of the most recommended companies in these turbulent
times,” Langlois, who manages $550 million in Latin American
stocks at Larrain Vial SA, said by telephone from Santiago.  Entel, as Chile’s second-largest mobile operator is known,
rose 3.4 percent today, the most in three weeks, to 9,738.5
pesos. The stock has surged 23 percent this year as the Ipsa
index slumped 20 percent. Entel fetches 12 times trailing
earnings, versus 15 for the Ipsa, while its estimated dividend
yield of 5 percent compares with an average 2.3 percent for Ipsa
members, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company, sold by  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  to local business
group  Almendral SA (ALMEN)  in 2005, has banked on data services and
post-paid contracts to boost growth. First-half profit jumped 32
percent to 104 billion pesos ($203 million) from a year earlier,
while active clients rose 22 percent to 8.3 million and mobile
broadband customers more than doubled to 813,000.  ‘Defensive’ Stock  Entel’s total debt represents 50.3 percent of equity
compared with the Ipsa average’s 108 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a defensive stock and pays good dividends,” said Luarte, who manages $92 million of local equities for
 Euroamerica Administradora General de Fondos SA . “It’s a stock
that makes us really happy in times like these when the market
is down.”  Luarte’s Euroamerica Ventaja Local fund first bought Entel
shares about five months ago and the stock now accounts for
about 9 percent of holdings. The fund has declined 18 percent
this year, the second-best performance after the 13 percent drop
by Larrain Vial’s Beagle among funds that have solely Chilean
stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The peer
average is a decline of 26 percent. Beagle returned 82 percent
last year, beating all other Chile-based funds.  Beagle focuses on small-cap stocks and doesn’t own Entel.
Larrain Vial’s Acciones Beneficio and Acciones Nacionales funds
have added to their holdings of Entel, and the shares accounted
for 7.3 percent of Beneficio’s holdings and 7.5 percent of
Nacionales as of last month, up from 3 percent and 4.6 percent
in May, according to data from the securities regulator.  Expansion Plans  Entel plans to invest $673 million this year, as part of a
budgeted $2 billion capital expenditure over three years, after
spending $576 million last year. The company aims to increase
mobile broadband customers fivefold to 3 million by 2014,
Chairman Juan Hurtado said April 26. Entel registered in July to
sell as much as $470 million in inflation-linked bonds.  Entel has a “buy” recommendation by seven of 11 analysts,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The other four rate the
stock “hold.” Chief Executive Officer Antonio Buchi and Chief
Financial Officer Felipe Ureta didn’t respond to requests
seeking comment.  The stock’s outperformance this year can be explained by
its underperformance in previous years, Rodrigo Rojas, a  fund
manager  at Celfin Capital SA, said in a Sept. 6 interview.  Discount Reduced  Entel rose 12 percent last year while the Ipsa surged 38
percent. The stock climbed 5.7 percent in 2009 against the
index’s 51 percent jump. This year’s gain has reduced the
discount that Entel trades relative to the index to the lowest
level in two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Last year “was a good entry point, but the low hanging
fruit isn’t there anymore,” Eric Conrads, who manages $1.2
billion in Latin American stocks at ING Groep NV said by phone
from  New York . “You probably have some better stories within
Chile from a relative point of view.”  The company faces rising competition in a country where
there is already more than one mobile phone per person. VTR
Globalcom SA, a unit of Englewood, Colorado-based  Liberty Global
Inc. (LBTYA)  and Chile’s Saieh Group, and Reston, Virginia-based NII
Holdings Inc. plan to start mobile operations in Chile this
year. Also Grupo GTD, a data services and cable TV provider, is
preparing to begin virtual mobile operations.  ‘Reduce Margins’  “There’s no certainty on the effect that the entry of the
new rivals will have,” German Guerrero, a partner at Santiago-
based MBI Corredores de Bolsa SA, said in a Sept. 7 telephone
interview. “They may want to gain market share through a price
war and that will reduce margins for the whole industry.”  Entel may be able to more easily wrest customers from
competitors with the government’s plans to start introducing
number portability by the end of this year, Luarte said.  “They are very interested in providing a good client
service,” he said. “Number portability may be seen as a cause
of uncertainty but they have said that they look forward to it.
And it’s good for us as we own the stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  