-- 
Ophelia May Grow Into a Hurricane This Week

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-27T21:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ophelia-may-grow-into-a-hurricane-this-week.html
Tropical Depression Ophelia
regenerated and may grow into a hurricane later this week on a
track that takes it east of  Bermuda  by this weekend, according
to the National Hurricane Center.  Ophelia’s top winds are 30 miles (48 kilometers) per hour
and it is about 175 miles east-southeast of the northern Leeward
Islands moving west-northwest at 5 mph, according to a center
 advisory  at 5 p.m. New York time. Its maximum winds need to
strengthen to 39 mph to become a tropical storm and 74 mph to be
called a hurricane.  Ophelia formed Sept. 20 about 1,585 miles east-southeast of
the northern Leeward Islands and degenerated into what is called
a remnant low on Sept. 25. The hurricane center continued to
track the low pressure system, which reorganized this afternoon.  “It is going to threaten Bermuda, but other than that I
don’t think anyone has to worry about it,” said  Jeff Masters ,
co-founder of  Weather Underground Inc . in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.
“I thought we had this storm killed but it is like it said ‘I
am going to stay right here and annoy you guys.’”  Sixteen storms have formed in the Atlantic, making this the
seventh-most active year on record. Most of them have been weak
systems, Masters said. In 2005, 28 storms formed, the most ever,
including  Hurricane Katrina , which struck near  New Orleans ,
killing 1,836 people.  Philippe and Hilary  Farther to the east, Tropical Storm Philippe was about 795
miles west of the Cape Verde Islands with top winds of 40 mph,
according to the hurricane center. The story is moving west-
northwest at 7 mph deeper into the mid-Atlantic.  Masters said seasonal changes are going to start affecting
the remaining Atlantic season, which ends on Nov. 30. The
western Gulf of Mexico is probably getting to the point where it
doesn’t need to worry about hurricanes for the rest of the
season, he said.  “Texas is pretty much done,” Masters said.  The Gulf is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and
6.5 percent of natural gas production.  In addition, the tropical waves coming off the coast of
 Africa  begin to lose their potential to become storms by the
second week of October, he said. The focal point of the
 hurricane season  now shifts into the Caribbean and storms that
form tend to take a more northerly track, which can be a threat
to  Florida ’s Gulf coast.  In the Pacific, Hurricane Hilary’s winds dropped to 110 mph
from 135 mph yesterday, the center said. It’s a category two
storm on the 5-step  Saffir-Simpson scale  and is 615 miles from
the southwest of the tip of Baja California.  Hilary is forecast to weaken to a depression later this
week on a course that may take the storm near  Baja California ’s
west coast on Oct. 1, the center said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ; 