-- 
More Americans Say They’re Skipping Medical Care to Save Money

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-09-27T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/more-americans-say-they-re-skipping-medical-care-to-save-money.html
More people in the U.S. ignored
their doctor’s advice and skipped  prescription drugs  or medical
procedures to save money in 2011 than a year earlier, a  Consumer
Reports  survey showed.  Almost half of the 1,226 consumers taking at least one
medication said they didn’t fill prescriptions, took less
medicine than a prescribed dose or failed to undergo a medical
test advised by their physician, according to the survey. That’s
9 percentage points higher than the 39 percent reported in 2010
by the annual survey.  Even with the  U.S. recession  ending more than two years
ago, one in six American households and one in four with incomes
less than $50,000 told Yonkers, New York-based Consumer Reports
that they felt stress over how much they must spend on medical
care. The pressure is prompting consumers to pursue potentially
dangerous strategies for coping, said  John Santa , director of
 Consumer Reports ’ Health Ratings Center.  “The rising percentage of people putting off health care
makes us wonder if we are really done with the recession,”
Santa, a physician, said in a telephone interview. “This is one
of the most sensitive barometers of how people are coping with
the financial pressures.”  Doctors need to ask patients whether they are having
trouble paying for drugs or medical care, and patients -- if
doctors fail to ask -- should tell them when they are
financially stressed, Santa said. Only 5 percent of the survey
said they found out about the cost of a drug at the doctor’s
office; 64 percent were told by their pharmacists.  Doctors Don’t Know  “In some cases, doctors don’t have these conversations
with their patients because they just don’t know how much a drug
or procedure costs,” Santa said.  The survey found the use of generic drugs increased to 75
percent of the prescriptions filled compared with 73 percent in
2010. Even so, 39 percent of respondents didn’t know that
generics must meet the same federal standards on safety and
efficacy and contain the same active ingredient as their brand-
name counterpart. Forty-one percent said their doctors only
sometimes or never recommended a generic.  Patients said their choice of medication was influenced by
advertising. Eighteen percent of those surveyed said they asked
their doctor to prescribe a drug they saw advertised and 70
percent of those who asked said their doctors wrote the
prescription.  “If patients are given a choice they are more likely to
fill the prescriptions for pain relievers or drugs that treat
specific symptoms they are experiencing,” Santa said.
“Unfortunately, they don’t always fill the prescriptions for
drugs that treat conditions like diabetes or high  blood pressure 
which may not be causing them trouble now but will if they don’t
take the medication.”  The national telephone survey of those older than age 18
was conducted June 2 through June 6 and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 2.9 percentage points. The survey began in 2008.  Consumer Reports  is published by  Consumers Union , a
nonprofit research and advocacy organization.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pat Wechsler in New York at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 