-- 
Los Angeles Dodgers Seek Delay to MLB Attempt to Strip Bankruptcy Control

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-27T18:44:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/los-angeles-dodgers-seek-delay-to-mlb-attempt-to-strip-bankruptcy-control.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  asked a
judge to postpone a hearing on  Major League Baseball ’s request
to strip exclusive control of the club’s bankruptcy from owner
 Frank McCourt , who is trying to sell the team’s TV rights.  The Oct. 12 hearing should be delayed to give the team time
to investigate accusations raised by Major League Baseball in
its motion, the Dodgers said in a filing today in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware . The team didn’t
specify a new date.  “The motion is based on a long list of heavy-handed
allegations that we have not had a chance to test,”  Bruce Bennett , a team attorney, said in an interview. The Dodgers
called the league’s request meritless in a statement last week.  Baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  is seeking court permission
to file a restructuring plan that would sell the team, arguing
in court papers that the Dodgers’ proposal to sell only the
television rights is designed to alleviate McCourt’s personal
problems, not improve the franchise.  Under bankruptcy court rules, the Dodgers have the
exclusive right to try to restructure the team for at least 120
days, with extensions if they can show progress.  ‘Everyone Wins’  “The proceeds of a sale of the Dodgers are a far superior
source of financing for Mr. McCourt, as compared to destroying a
storied franchise by using it as his personal piggybank,” Major
League Baseball said in its filings. “If exclusivity is
terminated to facilitate a sale of the Dodgers, everyone wins.”  The hearing on the Dodger’s request to auction future media
rights is also scheduled to be heard Oct. 12 by U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge Kevin Gross.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in June after Selig
rejected McCourt’s first attempt to sell the television rights.
That deal would have extended the right of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
Sports to televise the games.  Selig used his authority to impose a monitor on the Dodgers
to oversee some operations. When the team filed for bankruptcy,
McCourt barred the monitor from its offices. Under bankruptcy
court rules, Selig would need to get permission from Gross to
bring the monitor back or to strip McCourt of control.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 