-- 
Moss Bros Returns to Profit, Plans 5-Year Refurbishment

-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 
2011-09-27T09:51:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/moss-bros-reports-first-half-profit-on-sales-store-disposals.html
Moss Bros Group Plc (MOSB) , a U.K.
menswear retailer, returned to profit in the first half as sales
at outlets open more than a year increased and the company
disposed of some stores. It plans to refurbish its remaining
outlets.  Net income for the six months ended July 30 was 8.1 million
pounds ($12.6 million), compared with a 2.6-million pound loss a
year earlier, the London-based company said in a statement
today. This includes cash generated from the sale of its
franchised stores this year. Same-store sales grew by 15.4
percent, compared with a 13.4 percent increase for the 20 weeks
ended June 18.  “We’re very cash rich, both because of a turnaround in
trade” and “because we’ve sold two businesses,” Chief
Executive Officer Brian Brick said in a phone interview. “We
can now concentrate totally on our core business.”  Moss Bros will invest money in its formalwear business,
with plans to refurbish its stores in the next four to five
years, he said. “We’re looking at taking more stores,
refurbishing existing stores, re-siting some into more prominent
stores,” Brick said. The company plans to open 20 to 30 stores
in the U.K. as part of the expansion plan, he said, without
specifying a time frame.  Moss Bros, which provides formalwear rentals, has been
selling off franchised stores to boost revenue and profit in its
main business. The company sold eight Cecil Gee shops to JD
Sports Fashion Plc for 1.7 million pounds in June, having
disposed of 15 Hugo Boss franchised stores to Hugo Boss UK Ltd.
in April for about 16.5 million pounds.  Shares Rise  Shares rose 9 percent to 39.5 pence as of 10.17 a.m in
 London , giving the company a market value of 37.7 million
pounds.  First-half results “demonstrate a very creditable
performance, with management now anticipating the year end
outturn to be ahead of previous expectations,” John Cummins, a
London-based analyst at Altium Capital, wrote in an e-mailed
note today, maintaining a buy rating on the company. Altium is a
broker and adviser to Moss Bros.  “It’s been a good first half, we’re quietly optimistic
about the second half,” Brick said. The company, whose rental
business makes more money in the first-half, expects
“reasonable” Christmas sales with “very good business” in
corporate black-tie events.  Early response to the autumn and winter range of clothing
has been positive and the sales for the full year in a “fragile
external trading environment” will be “ahead of previous
management expectations” the company said in the statement.  U.K. retail sales fell in August on declining  consumer
confidence  and losses from riots in London and other cities.  Consumer confidence dropped to a four-month low last month,
according to a report by the  Nationwide Building Society , as the
government implemented spending cuts and inflation rose at
almost twice the rate of wage growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at  njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  