-- 
Most Greek Say Smaller State Needed, Will Pay Taxes, Poll Shows

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-09-27T10:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/most-greek-say-smaller-state-needed-will-pay-taxes-poll-shows.html
Most Greeks see the need for a
smaller public sector and plan to pay extraordinary levies,
including a property tax, even as they disagree with them,
according to a poll for  Mega TV .  About 72 percent of 1,010 respondents in a GPO survey for
Athens-based Mega TV said the public sector needs to be
“drastically” cut, while 23 percent said it didn’t need to be.
Sixty-five percent of Greeks said the announced new tax measures
will be implemented and 70 percent said “yes” or that
“probably” they will pay them.  Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos has said a “smaller
and smarter” state is needed as he works to implement
additional measures including lower wages and pensions and a
property tax to secure a second international bailout amid
questions about whether it can satisfy the terms for aid.  The  Greek economy  is under a fifth review by officials to
qualify for a sixth loan payment next month under the May 2010
financing package.  Early elections aren’t needed, according to 53 percent of
those polled, compared with 46 percent who said they are or
probably are needed. One in two people said that early elections
will likely be held, while 42 percent said they probably won’t.  The poll, conducted between Sept. 22 and Sept. 26, showed
55 percent see the “danger” of a default. Almost 8 in 10
respondents said  Greece  should “definitely” remain in the
euro, compared with 16 percent who said “no or probably no.”  While 85 percent of Greeks said the Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s government hasn’t adopted the right policies to
handle the economic crisis, 73 percent said they believed the
main opposition  New Democracy  party hasn’t offered an effective
solution.  Papandreou is the most qualified to lead the country,
according to 16 percent of those polled. New Democracy leader
Antonis Samaras was chosen by 23 percent, while 60 percent said
neither when asked to choose between the two.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  