-- 
Total’s Edradour Exceeds Expectation, Will Be Tapped Separately

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-09-27T08:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/total-s-edradour-exceeds-expectation-will-be-tapped-separately.html
Total SA (FP) , the largest investor in
U.K. oil-production projects, said its Edradour natural gas and
condensate discovery exceeds expectations, making it big enough
to be developed as a separate project.  The company will drill more wells to appraise the field
next year, said Patrice de Vivies, senior vice president for the
Northern Europe exploration and production division. Edradour,
which may start pumping in 2014, will be linked to the $3.9
billion Laggan/Tormore development west of the Shetland Islands.  “We are happy with what we’ve tested because what we’ve
produced was a bit more than we expected and the quality of the
reservoir was bit better than expected,” Vivies said in
Aberdeen,  Scotland . “It is a brick in our new hub strategy.”  Total, based in Paris, plans to invest $15 billion in  North
Sea  projects in the U.K., the Netherlands and  Norway  in the next
five years. The company has reiterated plans to become the
largest oil and gas producer in the North Sea next year, ahead
of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Total plans to invest about $400 million in exploration in
the area in 2012, in line with this year. It forecast 35 percent
of its production will come from the region’s new projects in
2015. The North Sea accounted for about 23 percent of Total’s
output worldwide in 2010, according to a company presentation.  “There is still a lot of potential in the North Sea,”
Vivies said. “We are investing in the North Sea not just to
resist decline. We are investing because we have good new
projects.” He declined to disclose Edradour’s resource volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  