-- 
Total Ends Exploration North of Shetlands on U.K. Tax Burden

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-09-27T13:57:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/total-ends-exploration-north-of-shetland-islands-on-u-k-taxes.html
     Sept. 27 (Bloomberg) --  Total SA (FP) ,  France ’s largest oil
producer, halted exploration of the Tobermory gas field north of
the U.K.’s Shetland Islands and relinquished other blocks in the
area after the national government increased taxes in April.  The company also plans to reduce exploration near its Alwyn
production hub in the North Sea, said Patrice de Vivies, senior
vice president for Northern Europe at Total. It’s proceeding
with development of the  Laggan/Tormore  fields.  “For the projects which have been sanctioned, which are
under development, we don’t stop,” Vivies told reporters in
Aberdeen,  Scotland . “We need stability. The tax will have an
impact in two, three, four, five years time.”  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  has raised
taxes on oilfield profits to 62 percent from 50 percent to pay
for a lower consumer levy on gasoline.  North Sea  explorers have
said the tax increase will slow exploration and force some
marginal projects to halt.  Maersk Oil , a unit of  Denmark ’s A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S,
has been in talks with the British government over the impact of
the tax-rate increase, the third since the company entered the
nation’s continental shelf about six years ago, said Martin Rune
Pedersen, managing director at Maersk’s U.K. division.  “It’s a major disappointment that raises quite a lot of
concern,” Pedersen said in an interview in Aberdeen. “There
are some more challenging exploration projects, appraisal
projects and also some smaller fields where we have significant
concerns of whether they will be still viable.”  Total, the largest investor in U.K. oil projects, plans to
spend more than $5 billion on field development in the country
in “coming years,” Vivies said. The Paris-based company is the
second-biggest oil producer in Britain after  BP Plc. (BP/)  The nation
accounts for about 9 percent of its total crude and gas output.  “We could have invested more,” Vivies said. “We are
reducing the potential of the projects by increasing the tax”
payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  