-- 
Housing Finance of Kenya Considers a Second Bond Issue

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-09-27T13:10:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/housing-finance-of-kenya-considers-a-second-bond-issue-1-.html
Housing Finance Ltd., Kenya’s only
publicly traded mortgage company, plans to issue 3 billion
shillings ($29 million) of debt when the “market stabilizes,”
Managing Director Frank Ireri said.  The company sold 7 billion shillings of 8.5 percent seven-
year bonds last September. Borrowing costs in Kenya surged as
much as 20 percent in August as the central bank restricted
 money supply  to lenders. Inflation soared to 16.7 percent in
August, more than triple the 5 percent target, as the worst
drought in six decades damaged crops and the shilling slid 22
percent against the dollar this year, making it the world’s
worst performer.  “If we tried to go out to the market today they will
probably ask for 15 percent,” Ireri told reporters today in
Nairobi, the capital. The issuance would “insulate the housing
finance system from market fluctuations associated with short-
term funds.”  Housing Finance will increase funding from cheaper sources
by introducing current accounts in the first quarter of 2012,
Ireri said. The facility is expected to boost deposits at the
Nairobi-based lender by 20 percent over two years, Ireri said.  Urban areas in  Kenya  need 150,000 housing units a year,
compared with the 35,000 being added, resulting in overcrowding
and informal settlements, according to Housing Finance.  Before the end of this year, Housing Finance will begin
construction of houses in three residential estates in Nairobi,
Ireri said. He declined to give the number of units and cost of
the projects because the company is still awaiting approvals
from government agencies.  Over the past 30 months, the company has approved customers
loans worth 7 billion shillings, Ireri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net . 