-- 
Ozzie Guillen Released as White Sox Manager, May Join Florida Marlins

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-27T04:31:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ozzie-guillen-released-as-white-sox-manager-may-join-florida-marlins.html
Ozzie Guillen was released from his
contract as manager of the  Chicago White Sox  and his next job
may be with the  Florida Marlins .  The White Sox issued a  statement  after last night’s 4-3 win
over Toronto, saying that they agreed to Guillen’s request to
pursue other opportunities.  Guillen spent eight years with the White Sox and guided the
team to a World Series title in 2005. He had one year remaining
on his contract in Chicago and said he didn’t want to return
without a new deal for more money. The White Sox retain rights
to compensation should Guillen accept a managerial position at
another major-league team in 2012.  “We shared the greatest moments together and wish him
nothing but future success in baseball and in life,” White Sox
Chairman Jerry Reinsdorf said in a  statement .  The White Sox and Marlins are in the final stages of
completing a deal that will bring Guillen, 47, to Miami, the
 Chicago Sun Times  reported last night, citing multiple people
familiar with the situation it didn’t identify. Guillen didn’t
comment on the report after last night’s game.  He won’t manage the final two games of the season for
 Chicago , which is 78-82.  The Marlins have a managerial vacancy after Jack McKeon
said yesterday that he’s retiring after the team’s final game of
the season on Sept. 28.  McKeon, 80, is the second-oldest manager in major-league
history behind Connie Mack, who ran the  Philadelphia Athletics 
at 87 in 1950.  The Marlins will open a $515 million ballpark next season
in downtown Miami.  Guillen, who played 13 seasons as a shortstop for the White
Sox from 1985-97, led the team to a World Series title in his
second year as manager. He had a 678-617 record with the White
Sox.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  