-- 
Palu Returns Home; Matfield to Lead Boks; Read Is Ready: World Cup Roundup

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-09-27T05:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/palu-s-cup-is-over-matfield-returns-for-boks-rugby-world-cup-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
stories from the 2011 Rugby  World Cup  in  New Zealand .  Wallabies Injuries  Australia No. 8 Wycliff Palu was ruled out of the World Cup
after straining his left hamstring in last week’s win over the
U.S., team management said.  Coach Robbie Deans said the Wallabies may wait until after
the Oct. 1 pool match against  Russia  before naming Palu’s
replacement in the 30-man squad.  “Waiting just gives us a little bit of license should we
have a similar circumstance post match,” Deans said in comments
distributed by tournament organizers.  Centers  Pat McCabe  and Rob Horne, who also got injured
against the U.S., will stay with the squad after being ruled out
of the Russia game. Full-back Kurtley Beale will miss the match
because of a minor hamstring strain.  McCabe and Horne are likely to be available for the
quarterfinals and semifinals, respectively, should  Australia 
advance that far. Anthony Fainga’a, who got knocked out against
the U.S., is following tournament concussion protocols and may
be available for Australia’s next match.  Matfield Returns  Victor Matfield will return from a hamstring injury to lead
defending champion South Africa in its final Pool D match
against Samoa on Sept. 30, SA Rugby said.  Matfield’s  inclusion at lock  is one of seven changes from
the team that began last week’s 87-0 rout of  Namibia . Matfield,
who missed the past two games, assumes the captaincy after
hooker  John Smit  was named on the replacements’ bench, allowing
Bismarck du Plessis to make his first start of the tournament.  “My role on the field is pretty much the same as it always
is, making certain calls,” Matfield said at a news conference.
“I’ll go out and play the same way.’’”  South Africa , which will finish atop the pool by avoiding
defeat to Samoa, is seeking a national record 11th straight
World Cup win. Australia holds the all-time record of 12
victories in a row at the four-yearly championship.  Read Ready  New Zealand No. 8 Kieran Read, who sat out the All Blacks’
first three games because of an ankle injury, said he’s fit for
the host nation’s final Pool A game against Canada on Oct. 2.  “The ankle is great. I’ll be available for selection for
this week,” Read said at a news conference in Wellington.
“It’s obviously been pretty tough watching.”  The All Blacks are assessing injuries to wingers  Richard
Kahui  and Cory Jane, and full-back Israel Dagg, assistant coach
Wayne Smith told reporters. Kahui is the only one of the back
three ruled out of the  Canada  game so far, Smith said.  French Changes  France made three changes to the team beaten by New Zealand
last weekend for its final pool game against Tonga on Oct. 1.  Hooker William Servat and No. 8 Raphael Lakafia return to
the starting lineup and Alexis Palisson makes his World Cup
debut on the left wing. Morgan Parra was retained at fly-half
even though he’s mostly played at scrum half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  