-- 
Papandreou Wins Vote on Greek Property Tax Needed to Secure Bailout Funds

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-09-28T10:09:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/papandreou-wins-vote-on-property-tax-to-meet-rescue-aid-target.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won parliamentary backing for a property tax to meet
deficit-reduction targets required to avoid default, prompting
an offer of support from German Chancellor  Angela Merkel .  Papandreou’s Socialist Pasok party won the vote in Athens
late yesterday by 155 to 142 after Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told Greeks they face economic collapse if they don’t
plug a budget gap that is exceeding the target set in a bailout,
putting an 8 billion-euro ($11 billion) aid payment due next
month at risk.  “We want a strong Greece in the euro area and  Germany  is
ready to offer all kinds of help that is needed,” Merkel told
reporters at a joint briefing with Papandreou immediately after
the vote. “I have heard so far that  Greece  is ready to meet the
conditions” set by the  International Monetary Fund ,  European
Central Bank  and the European Commission. “We will discuss in
great detail how we can be of help here.”  Concern that a potential default in Greece could damage
 Europe ’s core countries and plunge the global economy into
recession dominated weekend talks of policy makers, investors
and bankers in  Washington , where the IMF and  World Bank  held
their annual meetings. President  Barack Obama  underscored the
urgency when he said Sept. 26 that European governments are
“trying to take responsible actions, but those actions haven’t
been quite as quick as they need to be.”  Bond Yields  The yield on 10-year Greek  government bonds  fell 4 basis
points to 23.27 at 12:30 p.m. in  Athens  today and the two-year
note yield climbed 38 basis points to 70.43 percent.  Greek bonds have tumbled in recent weeks and credit
insurance has soared, putting the chance of default at more than
90 percent, as Papandreou struggled to rein in the deficit and a
recession deepened in its third year.  “Implementation of the measures is the biggest challenge
for the government as the trade unions and parts of the civil
service will mount significant resistance, raising the risk of
inertia and inaction,”  Wolfango Piccoli , an analyst in  London 
at Eurasia Group, said before the vote.  The property tax was part of a package of cuts announced
earlier this month after officials from the European Union and
IMF told Greece it wasn’t meeting the terms of a May 2010
rescue.  Merkel’s Greek Interview  Merkel, in an interview with Greek broadcaster NET posted
on her party’s website last night, signaled policy makers may
review the terms of Greece’s second bailout after the team of
inspectors finishes the latest review of the country’s finances.  Greece’s “numbers in September, as it now seems, were again
different from what we expected under the program,” Merkel said,
when asked whether the second Greek bailout agreed by European
leaders on July 21 will be revised.  “We must now await what the troika, that is the expert
mission, find out and tells us: do we need to renegotiate or
don’t we need to renegotiate?” Merkel said, according to the
interview transcript. “What we would like the most, of course,
is that the numbers stay as we know them. But I can’t pre-empt
the outcome of the troika.”  Venizelos said yesterday he expected approval of the next
loan tranche “in time.” Papandreou dined with Merkel in the
German capital as lawmakers in Athens voted on the tax and also
ratified an upgrade of the 440 billion-euro bailout fund.  Taxi Strike  Public transportation workers and taxi drivers are holding
a fourth 24-hour strike in Athens today and staff in
municipalities walked-off the job from 11 a.m. to the end of the
day in protest of the new measures.  The state budget deficit in the eight months to the end of
August widened 22 percent to 18.9 billion euros, more than the
target of 18.1 billion euros for the period. Greece has pledged
to reduce its general government deficit to about 7.5 percent of
gross domestic product this year from 10.5 percent in 2010.  The property levy, to be collected via electricity bills,
will provide an annual yield of 1.1 percent of GDP. It will
generate as much as 1.8 billion euros, according to Eurobank
EFG.  Venizelos also announced an additional 20 percent wage cut,
on top of 15 percent for the civil service and 25 percent in the
wider public sector. Pensions are being reduced 4 percent on
average, in addition to previous cuts of 10 percent. A lowering
of the tax-free threshold to 5,000 euros will mean higher taxes
for all Greeks.  More than 74 percent of 1,002 Greeks polled by Rass for  To
Paron  newspaper opposed the property tax. The poll also showed
that 59 percent believed Papandreou’s government won’t be able
to avert a default. The survey had a 3.1 percentage point margin
of error. Papandreou’s government trails the opposition party in
all polls.  Unions have called general strikes for Oct. 5 and Oct. 19,
while public-transit companies including the Athens subway have
held strikes over the past few days to oppose the measures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  