-- 
Papandreou Says Greece ‘Not Poor,’ Can Overcome Debt Crisis

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-27T09:27:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/papandreou-says-greece-not-poor-can-overcome-debt-crisis.html
Greece can overcome the debt crisis
and bolster all  Europe  with the help of stronger leadership from
policy makers, Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said.  Greece will live up to all its commitments and deserves
“respect” for its efforts thus far, Papandreou said in a
speech to a German industry federation event in Berlin today. He
noted that from a “huge” primary  budget deficit  in 2009,
Greece will probably see a primary surplus next year.  Greeks ask whether this is a Sisyphean task or whether the
country can surmount the crisis, Papandreou said. “My answer is
yes we can,” he said. “Greece has the potential, Europe has
the potential,” and can achieve it through global cooperation.
“We are not a poor country, we’re a country that has been
governed badly.”  Papandreou is in Berlin for talks with  Chancellor Angela Merkel  two days before German lawmakers vote on enhancements to
the European rescue fund. Members of Merkel’s coalition are
threatening to oppose the changes amid voter anger over aiding
Greece, while in Athens lawmakers are preparing to vote today on
a property tax that is key to averting the country’s default.  The crisis “offers a unique chance to bring in important
reforms,” Papandreou said. While such “major changes” will
take many years, “we are determined, the Greek people are
determined to make this a success,” he said. “Whether I am re-
elected or not is not my problem, my problem is to save the
country.”  ‘Blaming Each Other’  Europe must solve the debt crisis together with  Greece ,
Papandreou said, urging fellow European countries to end finger-
pointing over the crisis and its causes.  “European partners must stop blaming each other for
collective and institutional failings and acknowledge that no
European nation will thrive in isolation,” he said. “We must
stop blaming each other for our different weaknesses.”  European stocks climbed for a third straight day, with
BNP Paribas SA and Societe Generale SA leading a rally in banks.
German 10-year bonds, perceived as among Europe’s safest
securities, also fell for a third day.  Policy makers “must prove to the markets that we have a
firm grip on the debt crisis and we are determined to solve it
together,” Papandreou said.  He said that he appreciated the “political difficulties”
for other governments to justify euro-area bailouts, saying that
rescue funds are “common success” in the future.  “We are not asking for applause,” he said. “We need
years to make these major changes. We are simply asking for
respect of the facts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  