-- 
Persian Gulf Bond Sales Approach 2008 Low as Risk Increases: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-28T06:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/persian-gulf-bond-sales-approach-2008-low-as-risk-increases-arab-credit.html
Bond sales from the Persian Gulf
region have slumped to the lowest level since 2008 as the threat
of another global recession fueled the steepest surge in the
region’s credit risk in seven quarters.  Sovereign and company debt issuance in the six-nation Gulf
Cooperation Council, which includes Saudi Arabia and the  United
Arab Emirates , have totaled $1.54 billion since June 30, the
smallest amount since the last quarter of 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The average cost of insuring the Middle East’s
notes against default jumped 75 basis points in the period to
344 yesterday, headed for the biggest increase since the three
months ended Dec. 31, 2009, according to data provider CMA.  Emerging-market bond funds saw the biggest capital outflows
in more than two years in the week to Sept. 21, EPFR Global data
show, as Europe’s debt crisis prompted investors to exit riskier
assets. Last week, the  Federal Reserve  said there are “downside
risks” to the  U.S. economy  and the  International Monetary Fund 
cut its forecast for 2011 global growth to 4 percent from 4.3
percent.  Abu Dhabi ’s Tourism Development & Investment Co. and
Dolphin Energy Ltd. deferred debt sales this quarter.  “A lot of issues have been delayed because of the
volatility in the markets,” Ahmed Talhaoui, the Abu Dhabi-based
head of investment and asset management at Royal Capital PJSC,
said in an interview on Sept. 25. “And we would probably expect
it to remain this way for the foreseeable future.”  Default Swaps  The cost to protect the bonds of Dubai, which received $20
billion in loans from Abu Dhabi in 2009 to avert defaults by
state-owned firms, against nonpayment using credit-default swaps
jumped 148 basis points this quarter to 488 on Sept. 27,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Swap prices for Abu Dhabi added 28 basis points to 123 and those
for  Saudi Arabia  rose to as much as 131.  Borrowers in the GCC area have raised $11.8 billion from 26
debt issues so far this year, compared with $16 billion in the
same period a year ago, Bloomberg data show. Total issuance
across emerging markets climbed 10.5 percent this year to $578
billion, led by issuers from  China , according to the figures.  The market for Persian-Gulf notes is unlikely to see “a
meaningful pickup” in the coming months amid concern world
growth is stalling, Gus Chehayeb, a Dubai-based associate
director at the investment bank Exotix Ltd., said in an
interview on Sept. 21. The current economic crisis may lead to a
possible recession in the U.S. and  Europe  that may be hard to
alleviate, according to Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds.  “With the shocks emanating out of Europe and the U.S.,
there is much less appetite for risk,” Chehayeb said.  Alternative Funding  Unfavorable bond-market conditions are spurring Persian-
Gulf nations to seek funding alternatives including bank loans
as economic growth quickens, helped by higher earnings from oil
exports. The  World Bank  last week lifted its 2011 growth
estimate for the Middle East and North Africa to 4.1 percent
from 3.6 percent. Crude prices have averaged 23 percent more
this year from the same period of 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC, the operator of Carrefour SA
stores in the  Middle East , shelved in July a plan to sell five-
year bonds, opting instead to raise $1 billion in bank loans.
Saudi Oger Ltd., a Riyadh-based construction, telecommunications
and utility company, last month hired lenders to arrange $1.86
billion in loans. Dubai Holding LLC, one of the emirate’s three
main state-owned holding companies, agreed with lenders in
August to extend a $1.16 billion liability to December 2016.  “Look at Majid Al Futtaim, they pulled their  bond issue 
and went to the loan market instead, so there is always a way
around,” Royal Capital’s Talhaoui said.  Beating Emerging Markets  Persian Gulf bonds are still beating emerging-market debt
this year as increased oil revenue supports regional economies.
Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
led by Saudi Arabia and the U.A.E., will earn a record $1
trillion this year, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Dollar notes from the GCC have returned 5.9 percent in
2011, according the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC US Dollar Sukuk/Bond
Index. Emerging-market bonds worldwide have returned 3.1 percent
so far this year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. data show.  “For the right credits from this region, namely the
sovereigns, government-related entities and top-notch financials
from Abu Dhabi and Qatar, there is still appetite out there,”
Chavan Bhogaita, head of the markets strategy group at  National
Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , said in an interview Sept. 26. “GCC and
selected emerging-market credits stack up better than many
European ones in terms of risk and reward.”  Planned Bond Sales  International Petroleum Investment Co., an Abu Dhabi
government-controlled energy investor, is the region’s biggest
debt issuer this year, raising $4.37 billion in March to help
pay for acquisitions. Dubai’s government raised $500 million in
June to help bridge a  budget deficit .  Union National Bank PJSC, the U.A.E. lender in which the
governments of Abu Dhabi and Dubai both hold stakes, began
meeting investors in the U.A.E. and  Singapore  this week as a
prelude to a possible bond issue. Bahrain, which was rocked by
protests led by its Shiite majority, plans to sell about $1
billion in Islamic bonds next month as the kingdom seeks to
bridge its budget deficit.  Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK) ,  Qatar
International Islamic Bank (QIIK)  and Abu Dhabi’s Al Hilal Bank are
also planning sales.  Ten-year U.S. Treasury yields have dropped more than 1.10
percentage points in the past three months, reaching a record
low of 1.6714 percent on Sept. 23 as investors sought refuge in
 U.S. government debt  from the worldwide economic slump. Credit-
default swaps on French and German government debt rose to
records on Sept. 26 as policy makers struggled to resolve
Europe’s debt crisis.  With “more negative news coming one after another,” it’s
difficult to predict the flow of new bond issues going forward,
National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s Bhogaita said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  