-- 
Polish 2.9% Budget Gap Is ‘Difficult, Possible,’ Trenkner Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-09-27T14:00:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/polish-2-9-budget-gap-is-difficult-possible-trenkner-says.html
Cutting Poland’s 2012 budget
deficit by half will be “very difficult, but possible” as the
European Union’s biggest eastern economy seeks to maintain
funding from the 27-member bloc, a central bank adviser said.  A cash cushion accumulated by the Finance Ministry,  tax
revenue  that’s beating government forecasts and a “rigorous”
budget plan for 2012 will help bring the shortfall to 2.9
percent of gross domestic product from an estimated 5.6 percent
this year, Halina Wasilewska-Trenkner, who advises Narodowy Bank
Polski Governor  Marek Belka , said yesterday.  “All of this relieves pressure on next year’s public-
sector deficit,” Wasilewska-Trenkner, a member of Poland’s
rate-setting Monetary Policy Council until last year and a
former Finance Minister, said in an interview in Warsaw.  She said the government that emerges from general elections
on Oct. 9 will have “limited scope” to overhaul the budget,
since 70 percent of expenditures are mandated by law and any tax
increases would have to be approved by parliament and signed by
the president by the end of November.  Poland  exceeded the EU’s 3 percent deficit ceiling for a
third year in 2010. If next year’s shortfall doesn’t narrow to
beneath that limit, funding from the bloc, which helped the
country grow throughout the global credit crunch, will fall.  Credit Rating, Swaps  Concern that Poland won’t be able to control its deficit
after the election increased the cost of insuring the country’s
debt against default. The nation’s A- credit rating may come
under negative pressure as the vote raises the risk of looser
budget policy, according to  Fitch Ratings , which said on Sept. 8
that the government’s revenue forecasts are “too optimistic”
and austerity measures “definitely aren’t sufficient.”  Five-year credit-default swaps, used to speculate on a
borrower’s ability to repay debt or hedge against losses, were
trading at 314.5 basis points today, compared with Slovakia’s
262 and the  Czech Republic ’s 171, figures from data provider CMA
show.  “The EU debt crisis means there’ll be no mercy for
countries exceeding the Maastricht Treaty budget-deficit limits,
so Poland has to play by the rules,” Wasilewska-Trenkner said.
“We can’t afford to lose a single cent of EU funding.”  ‘Buffers’  Poland’s economy grew 4.3 percent from a year earlier in
the second quarter, helping boost tax revenue and reduce this
year’s budget gap by about 10 billion zloty ($3.1 billion),
according to a Finance Ministry estimate. The country has 50
billion zloty in cash and may start raising funds for next year
in October, according to the ministry.  “One could say Poland has buffers in place to absorb some
of the shock from a possible crisis,” Wasilewska-Trenkner said.
“However, simply stating that Poland is prepared raises the
question of whether we have prepared enough.”  She “doubts” the country will be able to trim its deficit
after next year as economic growth may slow because of a
weakening global economy. Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski has
pledged Poland will reduce the shortfall to about 2.5 percent of
GDP in 2013 and balance the budget in 2015.  The Cabinet approved the 2012 draft budget today with a
deficit of 35 billion zloty, the government’s press office said.
Public debt will reach 53.8 percent of GDP this year, compared
with a 52.7 percent estimate earlier this year, the office said
in a statement. Debt will fall to 53 percent next year,
exceeding the previous 51.9 percent forecast and staying below
the 55 percent ceiling that triggers mandatory spending cuts
under Polish law.  “What the  Finance Ministry  has prepared is a credible
budget that balances the need for savings with pro-growth
spending,” she said. “Its growth forecasts will probably be
adjusted as the global economic situation warrants.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  