-- 
Qatar Holding Plans to Assist Volkswagen With Porsche Merger

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-27T15:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/qatar-holding-plans-to-assist-volkswagen-with-porsche-merger-1-.html
Qatar Holding LLC, the third-
largest investor in  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , will work with VW to assist
in its integration with Porsche SE after the merger between the
two carmakers planned for this year fell through.  VW’s goal to combine with Porsche by the end of 2011 has
been held up by lawsuits in the U.S. and an investigation by
German prosecutors linked to Porsche’s botched effort to buy VW.  “If there’s now a different way, we may as well try to
help to make it happen,” Ahmad Mohamed Al-Sayed, chief
executive officer of the foreign investment arm of the Gulf
country’s sovereign wealth fund told reporters in Berlin today.  Europe ’s biggest carmaker and Porsche have the option to
forego a full merger and instead fold Porsche’s auto-making
business into the VW group while leaving a separate holding
company to manage its 50.7 percent of VW’s common shares. Qatar
has a 17 percent VW stake, trailing the German state of  Lower
Saxony ’s 20 percent holding, and controls 10 percent of Porsche.  “We’re on the board of both companies and that’s the best
way to work together,” Al-Sayed told reporters at a German
industry federation event.  A combination of Volkswagen and Porsche is “a matter of
time” as both carmakers have already deeply integrated their
managements, Al-Sayed said. VW, which paid 3.9 billion euros
($5.3 billion) in December 2009 for 49.9 percent of Porsche’s
automotive unit, reshuffled executives in the past year to
underscore its plan to add Porsche to its nine-brand structure.  Merger Agreement  After failing to complete the merger by the end of the
year, the two manufacturers will need to come up with a new
agreement if they intend to combine VW with Porsche’s holding
company, which owns the remaining 50.1 percent of Stuttgart,
Germany-based Porsche’s car-making business.  Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said on Sept.
12 that VW’s intention to merge with Porsche remains unchanged
and that the Wolfsburg, Germany-based carmaker didn’t plan to
“wait too long” to move forward with the combination.  Qatar Holding, which also has a holding in German builder
 Hochtief AG (HOT) , is also looking for “the right partner” in
 Germany  as the company aims to increase its position in Europe’s
largest economy, Al-Sayed said.  “When the opportunity comes we’ll think about it but it’s
not specific yet,” the executive said.  EADS Stake  Al-Sayed declined to comment on whether Qatar Holding was
seeking to take a stake in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co. from  Daimler AG (DAI) , which controls the voting rights of 22.5
percent of EADS. Germany’s Spiegel magazine reported on Sept. 17
that the Arab nation was aiming to buy a 7.5 percent holding in
EADS from Daimler, without saying where it got the information.  “A lot of times people are saying things or speculate but
I can’t comment on this,” Al-Sayed said.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government is seeking investors
to buy EADS shares controlled by Daimler as the carmaker aims to
reduce its holding, three people familiar with the matter said
on Aug. 17. The search for private investors is the first step
before politicians weigh whether to authorize a state purchase
of the shares, one of the people said, speaking on condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  