-- 
Trader Pay, Rater Rules, ‘Sinister’ Insurance, EU Auditors: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-27T12:06:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/trader-pay-credit-rater-rules-sinister-insurance-compliance.html
U.S. banks would have to change the
way they compensate traders involved in market-making activities
under one of the proposed restrictions of the so-called Volcker
rule, according to a draft circulating among regulators.  The rule, which aims to ban most proprietary trading by
banks with federally insured deposits, would exempt trades
related to market-making as long as the activity met at least
seven standards, or principles. One principle would be that
traders get paid from fees and the spread of the transactions
rather than the appreciation or profit from their positions,
according to a copy of the draft reviewed by Bloomberg News.  The Volcker rule, part of the Dodd-Frank Act, is being
written by regulators in five Washington agencies and may be
released as early as October, according to three people briefed
on the discussions. It aims to reduce the chance that banks will
make risky investments with their own capital that put their
deposits at risk.  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  have shut down or made plans to spin off
standalone proprietary-trading groups to prepare for the rule,
which is named for its original champion, former  Federal Reserve 
Chairman Paul Volcker.  Lawmakers who crafted Dodd-Frank in 2010 chose to exempt
market-making from the rule, along with certain forms of hedging
and underwriting, because of concerns that a broad ban on
proprietary activities could bring some U.S. and world markets
to a halt. The 174-page draft, dated Aug. 11, shows among other
things how regulators including the Federal Reserve and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. are working to define market-making.  The draft proposal may still change, the people briefed on
it said. Each of the draft’s sections is followed by dozens of
questions from regulators seeking more details as they prepare
the final draft language.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Small Credit Raters Say SEC Rule Gives Big Three an Advantage  Small credit-rating firms complain that proposed rules
requiring analysts to do more training are too costly and would
help larger firms without addressing the errors that contributed
to the financial crisis.  Lawmakers have criticized credit-raters for contributing to
the 2008 credit meltdown by inflating ratings on mortgage
securities. Last year’s Dodd-Frank Act mandated reforms
including reducing conflicts of interest, vetting assets more
thoroughly and better analyst training and testing.  The Securities and Exchange Commission released 517 pages
of  proposed rules  in May that would require credit-rating firms
to keep marketing and ratings departments separate, conduct more
due diligence on assets and establish a schedule for training
and testing analysts.  Smaller firms say those rules hand an advantage to the
three dominant players -- Standard & Poor’s Rating Services,
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and  Fitch Ratings .  Sean Egan , president of the Egan-Jones Ratings Co. of
Haverford, Pennsylvania, which has 22 employees, said in an
interview that the proposed training and testing rules don’t
address the fundamental conflict of interest at the heart of
most credit raters’ business model: Raters are paid by the
companies whose financial products they are rating.  An April congressional report noted the pressure placed on
raters by banks that pay for the ratings.  For more, click here.  FSB Says  Australia  Should Speed Work on Bank Recovery Plans  The  Financial Stability Board  said Australia should speed
work on “recovery and resolution plans” for big banks.  Plans should focus on banks’ critical economic functions,
the FSB said yesterday in a “peer review” of Australia
released by e-mail.  McCoy Says Mortgage Rules to Back Simplified Disclosures  The  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  will begin writing
mortgage rules next month that will back up its simplified loan
disclosure forms, the agency’s top mortgage official said.  The consumer bureau will soon wrap up testing of two-page
disclosure forms, after which the process for writing the
underlying rules will begin, Pat McCoy, the agency’s assistant
director for mortgage and home equity markets, said yesterday.  McCoy made the remarks at a  Mortgage Bankers Association 
conference in  Washington .  The bureau intends to publish proposed forms and
regulations by July 21 of next year, McCoy said at the
conference.  France Has No Plans to Recapitalize Banks, Minister Says  French Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said that the
government has no plans for a recapitalization of French banks
and that the lenders are “solid” and don’t need more funds.  The government is “working hand in hand with the banks”
and meets with the banks’ chiefs often, Pecresse said. The
minister declined to confirm whether a meeting took place on
Sept. 11 between the government and the heads of France’s five
biggest banks regarding an investment plan, as reported Sept. 25
by Journal du Dimanche.  Pecresse spoke on the TV program Le Grand Jury on LCI.  Germany  to Negotiate Tax Accord With Liechtenstein, Focus Says  Germany will start negotiations with Liechtenstein for an
agreement to address tax evasion,  Focus  reported, citing Deputy
Finance Minister Bernhard Beus.  The government aims to reach an agreement similar to the
one concluded with Switzerland, the magazine said in a preview
of an article to appear in its next edition.  Europe to Propose Tougher Rules for Auditing Firms in November  The  European Commission , the European Union’s executive
arm, will propose new rules for auditors in November to bolster
investor confidence in financial information.  The measures could force companies to periodically change
auditors and prevent auditing firms from offering management-
consulting services, Accountancy Age reported yesterday, citing
a draft version of the proposals.  Commission officials have yet to complete the draft
measures, which “may be subject to change before they’re
proposed in November,”  Chantal Hughes , a spokeswoman for the
commission, said in a telephone interview in Brussels.  The EU began reviewing audit rules last year. The top four
accounting firms have market share of about 90 percent in the
majority of EU member states, according to the commission’s
report last year.  EU Seeks to Resolve U.K.-ECB Clash on Derivatives Clearing  Derivatives clearinghouses such as LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.
may face less pressure to move parts of their business from the
U.K. to the euro area as European Union negotiators seek to
resolve a clash between Britain and the  European Central Bank .  Poland, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, proposed
changing a draft law on over-the-counter derivatives so that
“no member state or a group of member states should be
discriminated, directly or indirectly, as a venue for clearing
services,” according to the  document  posted on an EU website.
The U.K. said “there are a number of issues” requiring
discussion before Britain can sign off on the law.  The new wording was added to negotiating texts after the
U.K. said on Sept. 15 that it would sue the ECB over its plans
to prevent some euro-denominated securities from being cleared
outside the 17 countries that share the currency. The text was
added to ease U.K concerns that the ECB may push for
clearinghouses to relocate, according to an EU official familiar
with the talks who couldn’t be identified because negotiations
on the measures are private.  EU governments have discussed giving clearinghouses access
to central-bank liquidity as a way to prevent them from
collapsing and causing a financial crisis. The ECB has  said 
clearing activities should take place in the euro region if it
is expected to provide such financial support.  The U.K. has argued that the ECB’s position violates EU
principles that guarantee companies freedom to choose where they
do business within the bloc’s borders.  The derivatives rules are scheduled to be discussed at a
meeting of EU diplomats on Sept. 29, according to the EU
official.  Compliance Action  SEC Drops Claims Against Ex-Officer of  Alabama  County  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said it
voluntarily dismissed claims against the former president of the
Jefferson County Commission in Alabama,  Larry Langford .  The SEC dropped claims against Langford after he received a
15-year prison sentence and restitution and forfeiture orders in
a parallel criminal case that arose from the SEC investigation,
according to a statement on the agency’s website.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Langford, 7:08-cr-00245, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham). The
appeal in the criminal case is U.S. v. Langford, 10-11076, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit (Atlanta).  Finland Banks Must Brace for Longer Debt Crisis, Watchdog Says  Finland’s financial institutions must take steps to protect
themselves from a protracted debt crisis, the country’s
financial watchdog said.  Banks operating in Finland, including  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  and
Sampo Bank, a unit of Danske Bank A/S, face “significantly
increased” risks from the debt crisis that threatens the
financial system of the euro area, the Financial Supervisory
Authority said in a report published today in Helsinki.  The country’s lenders had a capital adequacy ratio of 14.4
percent and the aggregated core Tier 1 ratio was 13.2 percent on
June 30, the financial supervisor said. Banks’ deposit stock has
risen by 3 billion euros ($4.1 billion) this year, strengthening
funding structures, the watchdog said.  Sweden Insurers Should Review Finances, Watchdog Says  Swedish insurers should review their ability to strengthen
finances if needed and make sure their long-term commitments to
customers are sustainable, the  Swedish Financial Supervisory
Authority  said in a letter posted on its website today.  The financial watchdog said it’s worried market
uncertainties will prompt insurance companies to sell stocks and
buy bonds, which could worsen the situation for insurers that
are finding it difficult to stay solvent.  Courts  Insurers Can Contest Stranger-Originated Policies, Court Rules  Insurers can challenge life policies that pay investors
when the subject of the policy dies, the Delaware Supreme Court
ruled, citing state policy, as well as 18th-century British law.  The federal court in Wilmington had asked the state high
court to interpret Delaware law on the question of honoring such
policies, according to two opinions filed Sept. 20. The insurers
said such so-called stranger-originated life insurance policies
were invalid because the beneficiaries were part of a “multi-
layered trust scheme” in which investors paid the premiums.  “Under Delaware common law, if a life insurance policy
lacks an insurable interest at the inception” it is void, even
after a two-year contestability period, because it violates
state policy against wagering, the justices decided.  The decision arose from two cases filed since 2009 in
federal court, one from Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. and
the other from PHL Variable Insurance Co. (Phoenix), according
to court papers. In each case, the insured has died.  The court noted that the use of so-called dead pools to
wager on strangers’ lives was a popular practice in England
until it was prohibited in 1774. In 1881, the U.S. Supreme Court
described such wagers as a “sinister” interest in seeing the
insured die, according to the Delaware decision.  The two lawsuits filed by the insurers are continuing in
federal court in Wilmington.  The cases are Variable Insurance v. Price Dawe Insurance
Trust, 10-CV-964; and Lincoln National v. Joseph Schlanger 2006
Insurance Trust, 09-CV-506, U.S. District Court, District of
Delaware (Wilmington).  Interviews/Speeches  Carney Says Delaying Financial Regulations Won’t Aid Recovery  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  told a banking group
that new financial-market regulations won’t hobble the global
economic recovery, citing the recent  UBS AG (UBSN)  trading loss of $2.3
billion as an example of why greater controls are needed.  The Basel III regulations, which need to be implemented by
2019, give countries with weaker economies time for a smooth
transition, Carney, 46, said in the text of a speech he was set
to give yesterday to the  Institute of International Finance  in
Washington. The IIF’s research overstated the potential losses
to output from the new rules, he said.  “The implementation timetable for Basel III begins in two
years and ends in 2019,” Carney said in the speech. “It is
difficult to believe that prolonging this implementation phase
even further would have a material impact on real economic
outcomes.”  Carney said that historically well-capitalized banks have
been rewarded with better valuations.  “In the end, it is in your interest to comply,” Carney
said. Arguments that companies will seek to bend the rules or
that financial crises can’t be avoided is a “fatalism” that
“should be rejected,” he said.  Comings and Goings  UBS Bankers Face Few Options as Securities Unit Shrinks  As  UBS AG (UBS)  prepares to shrink its investment bank following
a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading, bankers pushed
out or looking to leave may find few opportunities as Wall
Street rivals slash jobs.  Switzerland’s biggest bank said on Sept. 24 that its
investment bank will carry less risk and use less capital in the
future, after the loss by a trader on the Delta One desk in
 London  spurred demands to scale back the division.  Even before the trading scandal, Zurich-based UBS had
announced plans to cut 3,500 jobs, with 45 percent of those
reductions at the investment bank, as market turmoil curbed
client activity and rising capital costs made certain businesses
less attractive. The firm now may accelerate that shrinkage,
throwing more bankers out of work at a time when European rivals
including  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Barclays Plc and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  have announced plans for more than 70,000 cuts.  The biggest global banks are trimming jobs the fastest
since 2008 as companies seek to improve profitability,
regulators boost capital requirements and a weakening economy
squeezes revenue.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 