-- 
Rajaratnam Hearing to Determine Insider-Trading Amount Loss Set for Oct. 4

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-27T17:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/rajaratnam-hearing-to-determine-amount-loss-set-for-oct-4.html
The judge who will sentence Raj Rajaratnam for insider trading will hold a hearing next week to
determine the amount of losses from his crimes, a court
spokeswoman said.  U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan is set to
sentence Rajaratnam, the co-founder of Galleon Group LLC, on
Oct. 13. Rajaratnam, 54, was convicted in May on all 14 criminal
counts against him. Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million by
trading with inside information in 11 stocks, including  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , ATI Technologies
Inc. and  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)   Galleon earned $53.8 million in profit and avoided losses
of $9.9 million, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent
testified at Rajaratnam’s trial. His lawyers argued in court
papers filed Sept. 9 that the government’s loss calculation,
used to support its recommendation that Rajaratnam be sentenced
to as much as 24 1/2 years in prison, “massively overstates the
seriousness of the offense.”  “In financial crime cases, the loss determination has
become the driving factor in sentence calculations,” A. Jeff Ifrah, a lawyer in Washington who co-wrote “Federal Sentencing
for Business Crimes,” said today in a phone interview.  Prosecutors have asked for a prison term of at least 19
years and seven months, calling Rajaratnam “the modern face of
illegal  insider trading .” He is a central figure in Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s crackdown on insider trading at
 hedge funds .  Federal Guidelines  Holwell scheduled an Oct. 4 hearing on the loss amount,
Stephanie Cirkovich, a spokeswoman for the Southern District of
 New York , said today in a phone interview.  Rajaratnam claims the government’s flawed loss calculation
is responsible for most of its requested prison sentence.
Federal sentencing guidelines, which are advisory, increase the
recommended term for financial crimes based on the amount of
money lost.  If determining losses is too difficult, a judge may
substitute the amount of money gained by the defendant from the
crime. Even if Rajaratnam gets the loss figure reduced, he
probably won’t avoid a stiff sentencing recommendation under the
guidelines, Ifrah said.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers argued that Holwell shouldn’t consider
share-price movements unrelated to Rajaratnam’s illegal conduct,
or the amount of losses avoided or profits not made by
Rajaratnam himself. The lawyers asked Holwell to impose a
sentence “substantially below” the federal guidelines, saying
the term sought by the U.S. is “grotesquely severe.”  Wire Taps  John Dowd , Rajaratnam’s lawyer, and  Ellen Davis , a
spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment on the hearing.  The insider-trading case was the largest brought by the
U.S. in a generation and the first to make extensive use of
wiretaps, an investigative tool more commonly used against
organized crime.  A federal jury in  Manhattan  convicted Rajaratnam on May 11
after a two-month trial in which they heard evidence that
Rajaratnam engaged in a seven-year conspiracy to trade on inside
information from corporate executives, bankers, consultants,
traders and directors of public companies.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 