-- 
Rand Leads World Currency Gains to Dollar as Commodities and Stocks Rally

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-09-27T14:19:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/rand-leads-world-currency-gains-as-commodities-rally-bonds-rise.html
The rand rallied the most worldwide
against the dollar as stocks and commodities rose on speculation
European governments will boost efforts to contain the region’s
debt crisis. Bonds gained for a second day.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated 3.6 percent to 7.8111
per dollar as of 3:38 p.m. in Johannesburg. The rand has
increased 5.3 percent in the past three days, the biggest three-
day gain on a closing basis since April 2009.  Emerging-market shares climbed the most in 16 months, and
commodity prices rose for a second day. South Africa’s benchmark
stock index gained for the first time in five days, led by raw
materials exporters including Anglo American Plc and BHP
Billiton Ltd. German Chancellor Angela Merkel hosts Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  for talks in Berlin today. Merkel is
stepping up her defense of a more united  Europe  before German
lawmakers vote in two days on an enhanced European rescue fund.  “Developments along these lines might very well prove
supportive of emerging-market assets as well as assets with
riskier profiles overall,” Tradition Analytics strategists led
by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote in a research
note. “Equity markets have performed exceedingly well overnight
and at this point it would appear that a risk-on environment is
gradually starting to form.”  Greek leaders appealed for support at home and abroad to
avert default before key legislative votes after the U.S.
criticized European leaders for moving too slowly to stem the
debt crisis. Papandreou traveled to Berlin two days before
lawmakers there were to ratify an overhaul of the euro rescue
fund, pledging success in a struggle to restore budget balance.
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos promised “superhuman”
efforts hours before a vote in  Athens  on an unpopular property
tax needed to avoid default.  ‘Relatively Positive’  “Dire as the situation is in Europe, they are attempting
to address it; the perception out of the euro region is
relatively positive,” William van Rijn, a currency trader at
Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said by phone. “The rand
has underperformed relative to its peers until yesterday, and
we’ve closed some of that gap today.”  The rand extended its advance after  home prices  in the U.S.
declined less than forecast in July from a year earlier.  Bonds rallied for a second day, driving the yield on 10-
year government notes to the lowest since Sept. 21, on
speculation the stronger rand will give the central bank room to
cut interest rates to bolster growth in  Africa ’s biggest
economy.  Rate Outlook  The 6.75 percent securities due 2021 climbed 94 cents to
90.87 rand, cutting the yield 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 8.15 percent. The 13.5 percent bonds due
2015 rose 60 cents to 122.53 rand, driving the yield down 16
basis points to 6.90 percent.  The Bank of  Israel  cut its benchmark  interest rate  by 0.25
percentage point to 3 percent yesterday, joining countries
including Brazil and  Turkey  that have lowered rates to shield
their economies against a global slowdown. The South African
Reserve Bank will “act appropriately” if the global economy
deteriorates, Governor Gill Marcus said on Sept. 22.  “South Africa stands out as one of the countries in our
time zone where leading indicators are pointing to a sharp
deceleration in growth in the coming quarters and where we think
the  Reserve Bank  could ease policy in the coming months,” BNP
Paribas SA analysts led by London-based Bartosz Pawlowksi said
in an e-mailed comment. “Were it not for the weakness in the
currency, the bank would have probably delivered a rate cut
already.”  Forward Rates  Money-market rates are pricing in a 40 percent chance of a
rate cut at the November meeting of the Monetary Policy
Committee, and a 50 percent chance of a cut in January, Tertia Jacobs, an analyst at Investec Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in a
research note.  Forward-rate agreements effective after the November
meeting dropped seven basis points today to 5.31 percent, the
lowest on record, according to prices on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  