-- 
RBC Agrees to Pay $30 Million for School District CDO Losses

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-09-27T19:16:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/rbc-agrees-to-pay-30-million-over-school-districts-cdo-losses.html
RBC Capital Markets LLC agreed to
pay $30 million to resolve U.S. regulators’ claims that it
marketed and sold unsuitable securities to five Wisconsin school
districts that wiped out $200 million.  RBC Capital, the investment-banking unit of  Canada ’s
biggest lender, failed to explain the risks of notes tied to
synthetic collateralized debt obligations, even though there
were “significant concerns” within the bank about whether the
investments were suitable for the school districts, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said today in a statement.  The RBC unit, which arranged the CDOs, is the second firm
to face SEC sanctions over the sale of $200 million in
derivative-linked debt to the school districts, which borrowed
money to buy the investments and planned to use returns to cover
health-care benefits for retiring employees.  The SEC sued brokerage Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. and one of
its former bankers last month for selling the CDOs to the school
districts.  “RBC Capital’s failure to fulfill its obligation as a
broker-dealer to sell suitable investments was particularly
troubling because the districts are relatively unsophisticated
and the investments were complicated,”  Kenneth Lench , who heads
an SEC enforcement group focused on structured products, said in
a statement.  Unused to Risks  School district board members and business managers had no
prior experience investing in CDOs and “lacked sufficient
knowledge and sophistication” to appreciate the investments’
risks, the SEC said in its statement.  While RBC arranged the CDOs, it was Stifel that persuaded
the school districts to invest in it, said  Kevin Foster , a
spokesman for RBC in  New York . RBC had no “significant access”
to the districts and met with them only once before being hired,
he said.  “Had we known that Stifel was misrepresenting this product
as comparable to Treasury notes, we could have intervened, but
we had no significant access to Stifel’s client or the
communications between them,” Foster said in an e-mail
statement. “We are pleased to resolve this matter and that the
school districts benefit from the resolution.”  When Stifel was sued in August, the St. Louis-based
brokerage faulted RBC for the loss and said it would fight the
SEC allegations.  RBC’s Concerns  According to the SEC, RBC bankers raised internal concerns
about whether the school districts knew the risks they were
taking on by plowing borrowed money into CDOs, and spent more
time discussing ways to shelter the firm from liability than
whether the investments were appropriate. RBC also prepared
marketing materials that distorted the safety of the securities,
the SEC said.  “Are these guys sure what they are getting into at
effectively 80-100x leverage?” one senior RBC executive asked,
according to the SEC.  Because of the way the deals were structured, the districts
were at risk of losing everything if the CDO portfolios
underlying the investments had losses of 5 percent to 6 percent,
according to the SEC. RBC was also leery of the program when
first reviewing Stifel’s proposals, the SEC said.  A senior municipal finance banker for RBC wrote in a
memorandum that it “clearly is not a concept that we want our
bankers as a general group pitching to their clients.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  