-- 
U.S. Real Estate Deals Hindered by Financing, Investors Say

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   D o m i n i c   C h u
-- 
2011-09-27T23:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/real-estate-deals-hindered-by-financing-economy-investors-say.html
Rising borrowing costs and anemic
economic growth are hindering investments in U.S. commercial
real estate, said panelists at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit
in  New York  today.  “In the last 60 days, it’s really slowed down,” Related
Cos. President Jeff Blau said at the conference. “People are
throwing term sheets around, but I don’t think anyone’s really
closing deals.”  Property deals have been scuttled or slowed by upheaval in
the $600 billion market for commercial mortgage-backed
securities, the financing source that fueled record property
purchases from 2005 to 2007. A slowdown in the U.S. economic
recovery and concern the European debt crisis may worsen have
weighed on financial markets. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
slid 6.4 percent last week, the most since October 2008.  The slump has benefited investors looking to buy distressed
assets, said Barry Sternlicht, chairman and chief executive
officer of Starwood Capital Group LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut,
and of real estate lender  Starwood Property Trust Inc. (STWD)   “We’ve seen much more realistic sellers the last 60
days,” he said.  ‘Remarkable Bounce-Back’  U.S. regions are recovering at different rates, the
panelists said. New York commercial real estate has seen a
“pretty remarkable bounce-back to historic highs of 2007”
while much of the rest of the U.S. hasn’t recovered amid a weak
economy, Blau said. “There is New York, and there’s the rest of
the country.”  “The great bulk of assets haven’t participated” in a
recovery, said Dune Real Estate Partners LP CEO Daniel Neidich.  Real estate investors are concerned the  U.S. economy  may
enter another slump, Sternlicht said. The market is at an
“inflection point,” he said. “There’s no question commercial
banks are taking one step back. They got too aggressive.”  Banks still have troubled loans to deal with and want to
shrink the amount on their balance sheets, said Neidich of Dune.  “They’re all still scared,” Neidich said.  Wall Street  has arranged about $25 billion in sales of
bonds tied to offices, hotels and shopping centers in 2011
through last week, compared with $11.5 billion in all of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Offerings have tumbled
from a record $234 billion in 2007.  Outside the U.S.  Some U.S. real estate investors are chasing deals outside
the country as domestic growth stalls.  “You can’t ignore those markets, given the slowdown in the
U.S.,” said Blau, whose company has opened offices in  Shanghai 
and  Abu Dhabi  and is considering adding one in  Brazil . Related
Cos. is developing a building for the new stock exchange in Abu
Dhabi, including two office towers and 800,000 square feet
(74,000 square meters) of retail space, he said.  For investors specializing in distressed assets, the U.S.
and Western Europe offer better opportunities than the faster-
growing economies of Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and China, Neidich
said. It’s possible to buy real estate in the U.S. and Western
Europe at “significant” discounts to building new, he said.  Starwood Capital likes India for distressed assets after
the foreign capital that came in during the boom fled the
country and property stocks tumbled, Sternlicht said.  ‘Like That Market’  “There is distress in India,” he said. “We like that
market because no one else is there.”  Starwood, which has an office in Mumbai, has made two
investments in India. One is a partnership with  Vornado Realty
Trust (VNO)  that built a 640,000-square-foot Mumbai office building
and is selling half of it to a foreign bank, Sternlicht said.  In  Japan , Starwood closed its office after making 17
investments and generating an internal rate of return of 37
percent, he said. Japan’s aging population makes it hard for the
country to generate growth, he said.  “Japan is really a problem,” Sternlicht said. “If you
think  Greece  is a problem, if Japan ever had to compete for
capital on a world basis, they’re bankrupt. They make Greece
look pretty fiscally responsible.”  The U.S. has economic problems as well, said Blau of
Related Cos. At a dinner last night hosted by an Arab bankers
group, the head of a Middle Eastern sovereign wealth fund told
the crowd of about 600 that his pool no longer considers U.S.
Treasury securities the global benchmark for risk-free
investment, Blau said.  House in Order  “It’s a little bit embarrassing,” Blau said. “When you
travel around the world, you talk to people. You go to  China .
They are laughing at us. We need to get our house in order.”  Confidence has eroded as the U.S. deficit burgeoned, partly
because of costs to bail out banks during the credit crisis, and
gross domestic product growth slowed.  Elected officials have “lost all common sense” and are
focused on partisan bickering instead of the nation’s economic
challenges, Sternlicht said. “We haven’t solved any of the
problems, whether education or national  energy policy .”  The 2012 election “is going to take a point off GDP,” he
said. Sternlicht endorsed a comment by billionaire real estate
investor Sam Zell, who said earlier this month he would support
any presidential candidate other than  Barack Obama .  “I will go with  Sam Zell ,” Sternlicht said. “Anything
but the current president.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Dominic Chu in New York at 
 dchu16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   ketzel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Colarusso at   dcolarusso@bloomberg.net  