-- 
Record Tire Sales Rally Rubber as Japan Converges With China: Commodities

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a ,   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-09-27T10:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/record-tire-sales-rally-rubber-as-japan-converges-with-china-commodities.html
Record demand for autos in  China ,
the world’s largest market, and the biggest increase in Japanese
vehicle production in three decades means tiremakers will make
the most sales ever, reigniting a rally in rubber prices.  China’s vehicle sales exceeded the combined global total of
General Motors Co. and Volkswagen AG, the world’s top two
automakers, in the first half, and Japanese output more than
doubled in three months as factories reopened after the March
earthquake. Tire demand will shrink rubber stockpiles to 12
percent of use in 2012, a four-year low, estimates Citigroup Inc.
Prices may jump 18 percent to $5 a kilogram (2.2 pounds) by Dec.
31, a Bloomberg survey of 15 analysts and traders shows.  Expanding vehicle sales in China and other emerging markets
will compensate for weakening demand in developed economies
roiled by debt crises, giving carmakers their best year ever,
according to JD Power & Associates, a research company.
 Bridgestone Corp. (5108) , the biggest tiremaker, has more orders than
it can handle, eroding rubber inventories just as rains delay
harvesting in Thailand, the largest producer.  “There are pessimistic views about economies as concerns
grow over  Europe ’s debt crisis, but we cannot ignore the fact
that auto sales in emerging markets are still expanding,” said
 Tetsu Emori , the Tokyo-based chief fund manager at Astmax Co.,
who helps manage about $400 million of assets. “Demand for the
commodity will be influenced more by emerging economies than
mature markets.”  23-Foot Tsunami  Rubber futures traded on the  Singapore Exchange  reached a
record $6.488 on Feb. 17 before slumping 35 percent to $4.198 as
the temblor and 23-foot tsunami that hit  Japan  on March 11
closed factories and power plants in the world’s third-largest
car market. The nation’s vehicle production collapsed to its
lowest level since at least 1982 in April, data from the Japan
Automobile Manufacturers Association show. Tires account for
about 60 percent of rubber consumption.  Japanese output is now resurging and reached 790,325
vehicles in July, about 1 percent less than in February, the
data show. Toyota Motor Corp.,  Asia ’s largest automaker, and
Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan Motor Co. expect to resume full
production globally by next month. Carmakers are boosting output
“like we never have before,” Toshiyuki Shiga, the head of the
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, said Aug. 31.  Commercial Vehicles  Global sales of cars and light commercial vehicles will
rise 4 percent to 75.4 million units this year, and a further 10
percent to 83.3 million in 2012,  Westlake Village , California-
based JD Power estimates. Tire purchases will increase 6.5
percent to an all-time high this year and a further 5.7 percent
in 2012, according to Arifumi Yoshida, director at Citi
Investment Research & Analysis in  Tokyo , who was ranked equal-
first by Bloomberg for his recommendations on Bridgestone.  Those forecasts may have to be trimmed should the global
economy tip back into recession. Rubber for February delivery in
Tokyo dropped 13 percent in the week through yesterday to 303
yen ($3.96) per kilogram on concern the European debt crisis
will hurt demand. The contract jumped as much as 6.9 percent
today, the most in six months, before settling at 318.4 yen on
optimism European officials will find ways to tame the crisis.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its global growth
forecasts to 4 percent for this year and next on Sept. 20,
compared with earlier estimates of 4.3 percent for 2011 and 4.5
percent in 2012. The U.S. Federal Reserve said the following day
that there are “significant downside risks” in the  U.S.
economy , the second-biggest car market.  Emerging Markets  Demand for cars and light vehicles in developing economies
wasn’t big enough to maintain a worldwide expansion during the
recession of 2008 and 2009, the worst since World War II,
according to Tokyo-based Nomura Securities Co. While emerging-
market sales jumped 30 percent over that period, the global
figure retreated 9 percent, the brokerage estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 3.3
percent this year, better than the 14 percent slump in the MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities. Treasuries returned 8.8
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Vehicle sales in China, the biggest rubber consumer, may
expand about 5 percent this year, the Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said July 8, cutting its previous forecast of 10
percent to 15 percent.  China’s economy  will expand 9.3 percent this year, compared
with 10.4 percent in 2010, the median of as many as 10
economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The central
bank raised  interest rates  five times since October and ordered
lenders to set aside a record amount for reserves.  Lehman Brothers   This year’s growth in China would still be almost six times
the projected expansion in the U.S. and more than five times the
pace of the euro region. Nomura predicts a 7.6 percent gain in
Chinese auto sales this year, accelerating to 10 percent in 2012.
That should ensure demand for tires keeps strengthening.  “The global tire market has never been so tight,” said
Citigroup’s Yoshida. “Tiremakers can’t respond quickly enough
to demand because they suspended expansion plans after the
Lehman shock,” he said, referring to the failure of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Bridgestone and Michelin & Cie., the second-biggest
tiremaker, raised prices for truck and bus tires in Japan by 10
percent this month, the second increase this year. Tokyo-based
Bridgestone’s U.S. unit will raise some prices in the U.S. and
 Canada  by as much as 8 percent from Nov. 1 to reflect higher
raw-material costs, the company said Sept. 7.  Petrochemical Research  Even after the slump in rubber futures since mid-February,
prices are still 15 percent higher than a year ago and about
double the average of $2.135 over the past decade.  The cost of synthetic rubber, derived from crude, surged 76
percent in the past year and reached $4,450 a ton on Aug. 3, the
highest since at least 1997, according to data from Sutton,
Surrey-based ICIS, a petrochemical research company. A supply
shortage will widen this year because of shutdowns and capacity
constraints, according to  Ben Santoso , an analyst at DBS Vickers
Securities Pte in  Singapore .  Bridgestone will report a 19 percent gain in net income to
117.46 billion yen ($1.53 billion) in 2011, the most in four
years, according to the mean of 13 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Profit at Clermont Ferrand, France-based Michelin
will rise 18 percent to 1.24 billion euros ($1.67 billion), the
mean of 10 estimates show.  Even after raising prices, Bridgestone has yet to recoup
all of the increases in raw-material costs, said Kaoru Tomizawa,
the company’s public relations manager. Officials at Michelin’s
office in Japan declined to comment.  Provinces Flooded  Global demand for natural rubber will rise 5.3 percent to
11.58 million metric tons in 2012, the third consecutive annual
increase, Citigroup estimates. Production will expand 5.4
percent to 11.59 million tons, too little to prevent a decline
in stockpiles relative to consumption, the bank predicts.  Production in  Thailand  and Indonesia, which represent 60
percent of global supply, is below normal, said Yium Tavarolit,
chief secretary of the International Rubber Consortium Ltd., a
venture between the two countries and Malaysia to market the
commodity. Rainfall is disrupting tapping in Thailand and trees
are shedding their leaves in Indonesia’s South Sumatra, he said.  Fifty-seven of Thailand’s 77 provinces had flooding since
July, said the Department of Disaster Prevention & Mitigation.  Rubber stockpiles monitored by the Shanghai Futures
Exchange stand at 33,766 tons, compared with a five-year average
of 63,213 tons, bourse data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s
helping shore up prices, compensating farmers for lost output.  “Prices over 100 baht ($3.24) are more than enough to keep
me happy,” Wiwat Anantarat, a 55-year old farmer, said by phone
from Trang province in southern Thailand. “I’ve built a new
two-storey house paid by cash from tapping trees and expanded
the plantation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Poole  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net . 