-- 
Billionaire Ambani in Talks to Sell Fund Unit Stake, Plans ‘Reliance Bank'

-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-09-27T10:58:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/reliance-capital-may-enter-banking-industry-anil-ambani-says.html
Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance
Capital Ltd. (RCAPT)  is in talks to sell a stake in its fund management
unit to Nippon Life Insurance Co. and may enter the banking
business as it seeks to revive shareholder returns.  There will be “definitive news” on the talks to sell a
stake in Reliance Capital Asset Management Ltd. soon, Ambani
said at his company’s annual general meeting today. Proceeds of
Nippon’s proposed investment in Reliance Asset will be used to
reduce debt, Ambani said. Akira Tsuzuki, a spokesman for Nippon
in  Tokyo , declined to comment on the talks.  Ambani is planning to sell stakes in units including his
mobile-phone tower business as he attempts to reduce net debt of
over $15 billion in six Reliance companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Reliance Capital, whose shares have
plunged 40 percent this year, is considering new growth
opportunities, including banking, in a market where credit
growth is forecast at 18 percent for the year ending March.  “Banking is a new growth opportunity,” Ambani said at his
company’s annual general meeting, according to a statement sent
to  stock exchanges . “We will evaluate opportunities to enter
this high-growth sector.”  Companies including  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  and  Religare
Enterprises Ltd. (RELG)  have expressed interest in acquiring bank
licenses. The  Reserve Bank  of  India  last month proposed tougher
capital rules and mandatory share sales within two years as
conditions for issuing licenses for the first time in seven
years.  Banking Rules  “Reliance Bank” will tap the low penetration of financial
products and services in India, Ambani said.  The company is looking forward to the release of the final
guidelines for applying for banking licenses, Reliance Capital’s
Chief Executive Officer Sam Ghosh said in a statement on Aug. 29
after the central bank published the draft rules.  Reliance Capital, which has over 20 million customers, rose
1.4 percent to 394.8 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai.  Ambani said Reliance Capital shareholders had asked for
free shares and a special dividend and the request would be
placed before the company’s board for consideration.  Eton Park Capital Management LP, the hedge-fund firm
founded by former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner  Eric Mindich ,
paid 5.01 billion rupees ($102 million) in December 2007 for a 5
percent stake in Reliance Asset, valuing the company at 100
billion rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  