-- 
Reliance Sees India Open to Foreign Retailers Within 12 Months

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-27T17:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/reliance-sees-india-open-to-foreign-retailers-within-12-months.html
Reliance Retail Ltd., a unit of
India’s most valuable company, expects foreign multibrand
retailers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  may be allowed to enter
the country in as soon as six months from now, Chief Executive
Officer Bijou Kurien said.  “How long will it take to actually become policy?” Kurien
said in an interview at the World Retail Congress in Berlin
today. “My sense is between six months to a year from now,
because a lot of the work is already completed and the
government is under pressure to introduce the reforms.” It has
“always been a politically sensitive issue, it’s not just a
policy decision,” he said.  India’s current laws, aimed at protecting owners of smaller
shops, have restricted foreign companies to operating single-
brand outlets or wholesale stores. The CEO said the retail
market will grow to $800 billion in five to 10 years and is big
enough for the unit of  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  to compete
against possible rivals such as Wal-Mart,  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and
 Carrefour SA. (CA)   “Modern retailing” accounts for about 6 percent of the
Indian market of $440 billion this year, so “there’s a lot of
opportunity for us to grow,” Kurien said. “You need a lot of
retailers to help build that, and to build the agri-supply chain
connecting farmers with cities and the stores. And it’s too
large an investment for one single retailer to do.”  A state panel made recommendations for opening the market
in August, including that foreign retailers should invest at
least $100 million to start stores.  A $100 million investment requirement for foreign companies
“is reasonable,” Kurien said. “If you want to be in a big
market like  India  it’s certainly not a large number.”  Reliance Retail, with 22 formats including a new wholesale
store, has about 20 percent of the “organized retail” space,
placing it behind India’s Future Group, the executive said.  The intensity of competition “is something we will worry
about 10 years later, the next 10 years will be heady growth for
all,” Kurien said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 