-- 
Price, Growth Outlook Support Polish Rate Pause, Central Bank Adviser Says

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-09-27T11:10:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/trenkner-says-polish-price-growth-outlook-supports-rate-pause.html
Declines in the zloty may not stoke
Polish inflation, justifying the central bank’s decision to
leave  interest rates  on hold as  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens
the economy, an adviser to Governor  Marek Belka  said.  While a weaker currency pushes fuel prices higher, “it
will limit imports of some other goods, so in the short term it
shouldn’t only act as an inflation booster,” Halina Wasilewska- Trenkner said yesterday in an interview in Warsaw. “Our economy
is growing, but every debt restructuring scenario for  Greece 
carries the risk of a collapse in global growth, which must be
taken into account in Polish forecasts.”  The Narodowy Bank Polski left its benchmark interest rate
at 4.5 percent for a second meeting on Sept. 7 as fears the
economy will slow overshadowed price growth. Still, the central
bank warned in an e-mailed statement that selloffs on global
financial markets may affect the zloty and inflation.  The zloty is the world’s third-worst performing currency
since June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, prompting
the central bank to intervene by selling foreign currency for
the second time in its history on Sept. 23. The zloty, which
plunged to its weakest in almost 27 months the previous day,
traded at 4.3915 per euro at 10:30 today in Warsaw, up from
4.4322 late yesterday.  ‘Relatively High’ Inflation  The central bank raised borrowing costs four times in the
first six months of the year as inflation accelerated, peaking
at 5 percent in May. Prices grew 4.3 percent from a year earlier
in August, up from 4.1 percent the previous month and above the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target.  “It’s foreseeable that inflation could stay relatively
high for some time to come, but there is no threat in sight that
could disrupt its slowing trend,” said Wasilewska-Trenkner. She
expects inflation to average 4 percent this year, slowing to 3
percent in mid-2012 on lower commodities prices.  The weaker zloty will probably have a limited impact on
inflation,  Poland ’s Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said in an
interview in  Washington  on Sept. 23.  Poland’s economy, the only one in the European Union to
avoid recession two years ago, grew 4.3 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter after expanding 4.4 percent in the
first.  Gross domestic product may expand 4 percent this year,
slowing to 3.5 percent in 2012 on “growing external threats,
including a possible Greek bankruptcy,” according to
Wasilewska-Trenkner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  