-- 
Renren ‘Cautious’ About Deals Amid High China Internet-Company Prices

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-27T09:08:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/renren-cautious-about-deals-amid-high-china-internet-company-prices.html
Renren Inc., the Chinese  Internet
company  that completed a $855 million initial share sale this
year, said prices of local Web assets have defied a slump in
global stocks, making acquisitions too expensive.  “Price is on the high side, we remain very cautious,”
Renren Chief Executive Officer Joseph Chen said in a phone
interview today. The Beijing-based company agreed earlier today
to buy online video operator 56.com for $80 million in cash, its
first acquisition in five years, Chen said.  Chen said Renren won’t “try to do too many” deals and
will focus on integrating 56.com, which has fewer users than
video websites such as  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU)  Renren’s bigger Chinese
Internet rivals including Baidu Inc. and  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) 
have stepped up acquisitions to expand in  China , the world’s
biggest online market by users.  Renren rose 1.5 percent to $5.35 in New York trading
yesterday, down more than 60 percent from its initial public
offering price of $14 in May. Huang Hui, Renren’s chief
financial officer, declined to comment on the stock’s price
during the call with Chen.  Baidu, China’s biggest Internet company by market value,
agreed in June to buy a controlling stake in travel-search site
Qunar.com. Tencent, the biggest Chinese online games company,
said in June it will double the size of a fund that invests in
technology companies to 10 billion yuan ($1.6 billion).  Renren is bolstering its social-networking service, which
is similar to Facebook Inc.’s, by offering online videos and
daily deals, as competition with Tencent and Sina Corp.
intensifies. Renren had 124 million social-networking users as
of June, while a rival service from Tencent had 129 million
users.  56.com, with about 66 million active users, had a net loss
of about $500,000 in the second quarter, Renren CFO Huang said.  The $80 million purchase price for 56.com is “very
reasonable,” Chen said.  “I still think, especially in the private market,
valuation still doesn’t make too much sense compared to the
public counterparts,” Chen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  