-- 
Research In Motion Gains on Speculation Icahn May Buy Stake

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 
2011-09-27T20:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/research-in-motion-surges-on-speculation-icahn-may-buy-stake.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , the maker
of the BlackBerry smartphone struggling to revive falling sales,
rose 4.5 percent on speculation that activist investor  Carl Icahn  is buying a stake in the company.  “This is a typical Carl Icahn scenario to come in and
change,” said Sameet Kanade, an analyst at Northern Securities
Inc. in Toronto who recommends investors sell the stock. “If he
did this though, it would have to be on a hostile basis, given
that the two co-CEOs own 11 percent of the stock.”  RIM has plunged 61 percent on the Nasdaq this year after
earnings missed analysts’ estimates on slumping demand. Stung by
customer defections to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets that run
on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform, RIM’s share of the global
smartphone market fell to 12 percent last quarter from 19
percent a year earlier, according to Gartner Inc.  RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, gained 97 cents to $22.65
at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Icahn built his reputation as a corporate raider in the
1980s targeting companies such as Phillips Petroleum Co., Texaco
Inc. and Trans World Airlines Inc. He more recently sparred with
management at Motorola Inc. and  Clorox Co. (CLX)  He often spends years
holding stocks as he waits for investments to pay off.  Strategy Push  “If he has taken a position, he may likely push for a
board seat and compel the company to peruse value-creating
strategies such as a sale of the company,”  Mike Abramsky , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said today in a
research note.  Abramsky, who has a “sector perform” rating on the
shares, said in July that the company could split into two, with
one business continuing to build hardware and the other focused
on supplying networks and so-called “cloud” Internet storage
services to corporate customers.  Icahn had pushed for a board seat at Motorola and pressured
the company into splitting into two, which it did in January.
Last month, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. agreed to sell
itself to Google for $12.5 billion.  The billionaire investor may look to keep RIM as one
company to maximize its undervalued assets, said Michael Cote,
whose consulting firm Cote Collaborative Inc. has advised
Motorola and other U.S. handset makers and wireless carriers.  ‘More Aggressively’  “They have an extensive intellectual property portfolio
and they could use that more aggressively,” Cote said today in
an interview.  The BlackBerry maker holds more than 2,000 patents,
pertaining to everything from mobile security to e-mail,
according to the U.S. Patent Office.  RIM’s data network could also have value beyond the
transport of BlackBerry traffic, Cote said. In addition, cash
generated from its monthly collection of BlackBerry services
fees gives it “a reason why someone like an Icahn would be
interested.”  Icahn and Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for RIM, didn’t
immediately return phone calls seeking comment.  RIM’s largest shareholders are co-Chief Executive Officers
 Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis , who is also the company’s
founder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   Scott Moritz in New York at 
 Smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  