-- 
Lehman Certificate Holders Lose German Suits Over Disclosure

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-09-27T16:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/retired-teacher-may-lose-german-ruling-over-lehman-certificates.html
Two consumers lost their lawsuits
in the first German top court cases heard over sales of
certificates issued by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   The Federal Court of Justice rejected suits seeking 10,100
euros ($13,600) each from Hamburger Sparkasse, the savings bank
that sold the products. The German bank advised its customer
adequately about the risks and didn’t have to disclose that it
sold the products for a higher price than which it bought them,
Presiding Judge Ulrich Wiechers said.  “At the time the products were sold, no one expected a
Lehman collapse, so it was enough to inform about the general
risk that an issuer can go bankrupt,” said Wiechers. “That the
bank made money by selling the products is obvious, and the bank
didn’t have to explicitly disclose that.”  The ruling is a blow to thousands of Germans who bought
certificates and lost their money because of New York-based
Lehman’s 2008 bankruptcy. The U.K. Financial Services Authority
in 2010 fined a London-based financial advice company 700,000
pounds ($1.1 million) for not fully explaining the risks of
similar products backed by Lehman to customers.  “We don’t feel like winners, even if the top court ruled
in our favor,” Reinhard Klein, a  Hamburger Sparkasse  executive,
said in an e-mailed statement.  Swap Ruling  The ruling clarifies whether margins need to be disclosed
and how far advising duties go, he said. The decision is
important for banks that feared the top court might continue to
beef up legal disclosure requirements after a March 22 swap
ruling by the same judges.  While they said in their March ruling that a bank must
disclose a negative market value of a “highly complex”
interest-rate swap, which included the bank’s profit margin,
judges ruled today that lenders don’t have to disclose that
figure when selling their own products.  Banks also don’t have to disclose they buy certificates at
a lower price than they are selling them to customers, Wiechers
said.  The suits were brought by a retired teacher and a beauty-
parlor owner. One of the certificates was linked to the DAX
index and the other one to the Dow Jones EuroSTOXX 50 index.  “I’m totally disappointed by the ruling,” said Richard
Lindner, the plaintiff’s attorney. “Regulators issued rules
that require the disclosure of the profit margin in these cases,
and this court now says that has no effect in a civil suit.”  The cases are BGH, XI ZR 178/10, XI ZR 182/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe via 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in London at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 