-- 
Romney Lures Away Obama’s Wall Street Supporters in Race for Campaign Cash

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-09-27T16:08:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/romney-lures-obama-wall-street-donors-in-race-for-campaign-cash.html
Republican presidential hopeful
Mitt Romney has raised more than twice as much money from Wall
Street as  Barack Obama  -- an edge gained in part by luring away
at least 100 donors, mostly investors, who backed the president
in 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The former Obama donors are helping the former
Massachusetts governor lock up Wall Street dollars as Romney
races to financially outpace primary rival Texas Governor Rick Perry in advance of the Sept. 30 third quarter deadline for
campaign fundraising.  “It’s going to be very hard for the president to bash the
rich and create jobs at the same time,” said Anthony Scaramucci, 47, founder and managing partner of New York-based
SkyBridge Capital LLC that manages $8 billion, who has switched
support from Obama in 2008 to Romney. “I don’t think the
country is about class warfare.”  While Romney works the financial services industry, Perry
is picking up support from prominent Republicans who had planned
to back Republican Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour , had he
run.  Perry and Romney are holding competing fundraisers today,
as they try to bank closing cash for reports that historically
have established the candidate pecking order in the run-up to
the early primaries or driven some hopefuls from the race.  Clearing the Field  In 1999, five candidates -- including former Senator
Elizabeth Dole, a North Carolina Republican -- abandoned their
bids after failing to keep financial pace with former then-
Governor  George W. Bush  of Texas. Bush reported raising $57.7
million through Sept. 30 compared with Dole’s $4.8 million.  Perry’s event in  Washington , with members of the host
committee each agreeing to raise $10,000, will be held at the
Willard InterContinental Hotel, which is situated two blocks
from the White House. Supporters who donate $1,000 can attend a
general reception. Among the Willard event organizers is Kirk
Blalock, a senior aide to Barbour in 1994 when he was chairman
of the  Republican National Committee , and Dirk Van Dongen,
president of the Washington-based National Association of
Wholesaler-Distributors.  Blalock and Van Dongen each raised at least $100,000 for
Bush in 2004 and at least $500,000 for Republican presidential
nominee  John McCain  in 2008.  Events Today  Later, Perry will attend a reception at the home of Mary
Ourisman, a Bush supporter and former U.S. ambassador to
Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean.  Romney has scheduled a $2,500-a-head breakfast at the Essex
House overlooking Central Park in  New York City . It’s being
organized by a host committee that includes top executives of
Goldman Sachs Group, KKR & Co. LP and  Blackstone Group LP. (BX)  For
$500, Romney supporters can attend a general reception after the
breakfast.  Among the organizers of Romney’s event today is
Scaramucci, who gave $4,600 to Obama in 2008.  “You need a turnaround specialist in Washington right
now,” Scaramucci said in an interview. “You have to cut and
cap the growth of the government, but at the same time you need
to figure out a way to put the private and public sectors in
balance to stimulate the economy. Governor Romney has done
that.”  Scaramucci is one of at least 100 former Obama contributors
who have given to Romney’s 2012 campaign, according to a
Bloomberg analysis of data provided by the  Center for Responsive
Politics , a Washington-based research group that tracks
political giving. They have helped Romney, founder of the
Boston-based private equity firm  Bain Capital  LLC, raise $2.3
million from the securities industry sector, compared with
$857,000 for Obama.  Industry Donations Shift  In 2008, Obama received $15 million from employees in the
securities and investment industry, more than any other
candidate, according to the center. Romney received $5 million.
Some donors who gave to Obama during his 2008 race also gave to
Romney or other Republicans.  The industry opposed efforts by Obama to impose new
regulations and consumer protections on the financial sector,
blamed for contributing to the worst economic slowdown since the
Great Depression. Obama signed the new rules into law last year.  Romney has  called for repeal  of the new financial law,
which, he said in his jobs plan, “sends a flood of new
regulations washing over the financial sector and anyone seeking
to borrow money to buy a home or build a business.”  Wall Street  ‘Gravitating’  Emil Henry Jr., a former Bush administration assistant
treasury secretary who is organizing fundraising events for
Romney, said, “Wall Street is gravitating towards Mitt Romney
and away from President Obama because financial professionals
see clearly the severity of our country’s financial problems and
view Romney, with a 25-year career as a turnaround specialist,
as the most capable to address those problems versus a career
politician with zero financial background.”  Glenn Totten, a Democratic consultant, countered, “There’s
no doubt that the laissez-faire capitalist mentality that runs
rampant on Wall Street is not going to take regulation lying
down. The fact that President Obama actually made an attempt to
rein in those abuses put him on the wrong side.”  In addition to tapping into Obama’s donors, Romney is
competing with Perry in reaching out to former Barbour
supporters.  Romney backers said their effort got a boost after Perry
was booed by party activists during a Sept. 22 Florida debate in
which he defended his support of a  Texas  law allowing children
of illegal immigrants to pay discounted, in-state tuition.  Post-Debate Momentum  “I sent out a ‘save-the-date’ this week for a Romney event
and there was a noticeable uptick in my in-box this weekend,”
said Bobbie Kilberg, a former Barbour supporter who is hosting
an Oct. 25 fundraiser at her Northern Virginia home for Romney.  Blalock said Perry supporters are not worried about the
state of the race.  “They expected some bumps along the road for somebody who
has not done this before,” he said, adding that there are a
number of donors still not committed to any candidate. “It’s a
lot of people who were never energized by  Mitt Romney ’s
candidacy in the 2008 presidential campaign and still aren’t
now.”  Perry’s Handicap  Perry, who entered the race in August, will file his first
fundraising disclosure report on Oct. 15. His ability to raise
money on Wall Street is handicapped by a Securities and Exchange
Commission rule prohibiting firms handling Texas public pension
funds from contributing to his campaign. The Texas Teachers
Retirement System, for instance, has management contracts with
hundreds of fund advisers, including those at Blackstone Group,
Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs.  “In the South, I see traditional party leaders going for
Perry,” said Charlie Black, a Republican lobbyist who has
worked on Republican presidential campaigns for more than three
decades and is neutral so far this year. “Around the rest of
the country, the majority that has chosen a candidate has
probably chosen Romney.”  Although Sept. 30 is the third quarter fundraising
deadline, the detailed reports for all of the candidates won’t
be filed until Oct. 15. Through June 30, Romney raised $18.3
million overall, more than any of his opponents for the
Republican presidential nomination,  Federal Election Commission 
reports show. Obama took in $46 million, more than the entire
Republican field.  “It’s no surprise that the Romney campaign is raising
money from Wall Street by saying they want to repeal consumer
protections and allow Wall Street to write its own rules,” said
 Ben LaBolt , an Obama campaign spokesman.  “The president has attracted support from Americans across
the country, including business leaders, who recognize the
president’s leadership in putting us on a path to recovery and
laying the foundation for a fairer economy -- and believe we
should pass his plan to create jobs and provide middle-class
security,” he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at   or
 llerer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 