-- 
Roubini: U.S. in Throes of Economic Contraction

-- B y   L i z a   H o r o w i t z   a n d   M a t t   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-09-27T18:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/roubini-says-u-s-is-running-out-of-bullets-in-what-may-become-recession.html
Most advanced economies are lapsing
back into recession while the U.S. is already in the throes of
an economic contraction, according to  Nouriel Roubini , co-
founder and chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC.  “The way I see the global economy, I think we’re entering
into a recession again in most advanced economies,” Roubini
said in a panel discussion today at the Bloomberg Dealmakers
Summit in  New York . “I think we’re already into one in the U.S.
based on the hard and soft data -- same with most of the euro
zone, same with the  United Kingdom .”  The  Conference Board  today said that confidence among U.S.
consumers stagnated in September near a two-year low as the
share of households saying it was difficult to find a job
climbed to the highest level in almost three decades. European
leaders over the weekend faced pressure at the annual meetings
of the  International Monetary Fund  to solve a debt crisis
already spilling over into other parts of the world.  “At this point, the issue is not whether there is going to
be a recession or a double-dip but whether it’s going to be
relatively mild or whether it’s going to be a severe recession
and a global financial crisis,” Roubini said. “The answer to
that question depends on what’s going to happen in the euro zone
and whether they can get their act together.”  “We are running out of policy bullets,” said Roubini, a
professor at New York University’s Stern School of Business. The
debt crisis in  Europe  could have consequences that are “worse”
than the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Predicted Bubble  Roubini predicted the bubble in U.S. housing prices before
the market peaked in 2006. His forecasts haven’t all been
accurate. When the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell to a 12-year
low on March 9, 2009, he said it probably would drop to 600 or
lower by the end of that year. Instead, the U.S. equity
benchmark gained 65 percent for the rest of 2009.  Speaking at the same panel, billionaire  Wilbur Ross ,
chairman of private-equity firm WL Ross & Co., said that Ireland
will likely be the first country to recover from the debt
crisis.  “The reason why I like Ireland is because unlike what I
call the Club Med countries it doesn’t need reforming,” he
said. “My leading indicator for Ireland is pub sales.”  “Club Med” countries is a term occasionally used to refer
to nations in southern Europe.  European banks are “extremely dependent on the wholesale
funding markets, in plain English, hot money,” Ross said.
“That’s what makes them vulnerable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liza Horowitz in New York at 
 lhorowitz2@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Winkler in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  