-- 
Rousseff Crisis Spurred by Lula Debts as Brazil Boom Diminishes

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/rousseff-crisis-spurred-by-lula-debts-as-brazil-boom-diminishes.html
On a cool July evening, Brazilian
President  Dilma Rousseff  hosts a cocktail party for 50 leaders
of her governing coalition, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its November issue. Speaking from the foot of a red-carpeted
staircase in the living room of Alvorada Palace, where she lives
with her mother and aunt, Rousseff tells the gathered
politicians that these are the best times for Brazil, according
to four people who attended.  “The world is going through economic and financial
turbulence,” says Rousseff, who’s dressed in a black pantsuit.
“But we’re living through a great moment.”  In a toast, Dilma, as she’s known to almost all Brazilians,
juxtaposes the task of managing the country’s new economic
prosperity with U.S. President Barack Obama’s struggle with the
Republicans to get the U.S. government budget under control.  “And up there, they only have two parties,” she jokes.  Brazil  has 27.  Rousseff, 63, inherited just about everything a president
could want from her mentor and predecessor, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva: an economy growing at a 7.5 percent annual pace and
unemployment, at 5.3 percent, that was the lowest since at least
2001. Brazil’s Bovespa stock market index rose six-fold during
Lula’s eight-year tenure, as  iron ore , soybean and sugar exports
boomed, driven in large part by demand from  China .  Lula pulled 24.5 million people out of poverty in his years
in office, according to data compiled by the  Getulio Vargas
Foundation , and Rousseff says that in the next four years, she
will eliminate extreme poverty in Brazil.  A Miracle Subdued  Yet Rousseff took office in what has turned out to be a
rocky period for Brazil’s economic miracle. Her government and
Brazil’s economy have been hit with a series of setbacks.
Brazil’s subdued mood may be best captured by the swoon in its
stock prices: The Bovespa index was down 22 percent in 2011 as
of yesterday.  The bad news spills over into politics. From June to
September, five of Rousseff’s cabinet ministers resigned, four
of them after the police or the press made allegations they had
misused public money.  On Aug. 17, Agriculture Minister Wagner Rossi stepped down
after Veja magazine alleged he had illegally used his influence
for personal gain. Rossi denies wrongdoing. His PMDB party, with
80 deputies in the 513-member lower house, is a crucial part of
the 15-party governing coalition led by Rousseff’s Workers’
Party, which itself has just 86 Assembly seats.  Inflation Affliction  On the economic side, Brazil is once again suffering from
an old affliction: inflation. Consumer prices, as measured by
Brazil’s IPCA index, rose 7.2 percent during the 12 months ended
in August. Though mild compared with the country’s legendary
hyperinflation -- which peaked at an annual rate of 6,821
percent in April 1990 -- the price increases are eroding some of
the progress Lula and Rousseff, who used to be his chief of
staff, have made at reducing poverty and building a middle
class.  The dilemma for Rousseff’s government is that officials
don’t want the fight against inflation to choke off economic
growth. From January to July, central bank President Alexandre Tombini responded to the inflation threat by raising Brazil’s
benchmark interest rate five times.  Then, on Aug. 31, to the surprise of analysts, the central
bank lowered the rate, to 12 percent from 12.5 percent. Even
after the cut, Brazil’s rate was the highest among the Group of
20 nations, representing the world’s largest economies.  Global Downturn  The central bank’s rationale for the rate cut was that a
“substantial deterioration” in global economic growth will
also slow Brazil’s expansion and push down inflation.  “Even assuming that they’re correct on their overly
bearish view on Brazil’s economy, they’re clearly putting growth
above their inflation target,” says  Tony Volpon ,  Latin America 
strategist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York .
“The outcome in the long run will be higher overall
inflation.”  Despite the global economic gloom, Will Landers, who
manages $8.5 billion in Latin American stocks at New York-based
BlackRock Inc., sees only blue sky for Brazil’s economy.  “The natural resources aren’t going away, global food
demand isn’t going anywhere and the middle class will continue
to develop,” Landers says. “The domestic consumption story is
unparalleled. It’s still a great place to invest.”  There are two immediate culprits behind what is the worst
inflation in six years: skyrocketing credit and heavy spending
by the government. Bank lending to businesses and consumers
stood at 47 percent of GDP as of July, up from 24 percent when
Lula took office in 2003, according to the central bank.  Lula’s Mixed Legacy  And in the run-up to the Oct. 31, 2010, election that put
Rousseff into the presidency, Lula spent lavishly.  Government
spending  in 2010 jumped 22.3 percent to 700 billion reais ($378
billion).  To tame inflation, Rousseff pledged on Feb. 9 to cut 50
billion reais from the 2011 budget. She also needs to cut the
government subsidies that allow the National Development Bank to
lend money at cheap rates, says Paulo Vieira da Cunha, a former
central bank director who’s now a partner at New York-based
hedge fund Tandem Global Partners LLC. The bank handed out a
record $101 billion in loans last year for projects such as
building nuclear  power plants , dams and roads and improving the
electrical grid -- 40 percent more than the $72.2 billion loaned
to countries around the globe by the  World Bank .  Carry Trade  Commercial banks have also contributed to the inflation
spiral. With near-zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Europe ,
banks have been borrowing at low rates abroad and then lending
at higher rates in Brazil, prompting Tombini to tighten bank
liquidity requirements, a move that he says has removed 61
billion reais from circulation and helped prevent a credit
bubble.  Brazil’s high interest rates have attracted speculative
investors to Brazil’s bond market, adding fuel to the 27 percent
rise in the value of the real against the dollar since the end
of 2008. The strong real makes exports more expensive and
imports cheaper, which has resulted in a flood of Chinese goods
filling store shelves, hurting local manufacturers.  The real has fallen 13 percent this month against the
dollar as investors have fled emerging market assets on concern
Europe’s debt troubles will stall the global economy. The
decline may improve Rousseff’s image with exporters and
manufacturers, although it will fuel inflation by increasing
prices for imported consumer goods, says Mauricio Rosal, an
economist with Raymond James Financial Inc. in  Sao Paulo .  “The real fell because of problems with Europe, but if a
solution is found, the currency will bounce back,” Rosal says.
“What’s happening in Europe isn’t going to solve Brazil’s
structural problems.”  World Cup  Costs Rise  Rising borrowing costs make government financing more
expensive for the road improvements and other construction
projects Brazil is undertaking to prepare for hosting the 2014
 World Cup  and the 2016 Summer Olympics. The government is
building stadiums, housing and other facilities for the games
and is also upgrading transportation and other infrastructure as
part of an $886 billion investment plan through 2014.  Rousseff can attack all of her problems at once with a
single measure: reducing the huge and growing government budget,
says  Alberto Ramos , a New York-based economist at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  specializing in Latin America. Since Lula took
office, public spending has tracked GDP upward, with the economy
growing to $2.1 trillion in 2010 from $552 billion in 2003.  Need for Austerity  “I’ve never seen an economy with so many macro issues that
can be addressed with just one instrument,” Ramos says. “If
they would cut the fiscal budget significantly, they’d let the
central bank loosen monetary policy. Lula rode the wave of
rising commodity prices and forgot to make the reforms needed to
make it sustainable.”  By cutting government spending, Brazil could both lower
taxes and reduce the cost of its $1.73 trillion debt by making
more room for policy makers to cut interest rates, Ramos says.
In 2008, the last year for which data are available, Brazil’s
federal, state and local governments collected taxes equivalent
to 35 percent of Brazil’s GDP, with half of the money spent on
pensions, corporate subsidies and welfare programs and 16
percent spent on debt payments.  Both public and private projects are expensive to bring off
because of what Ramos and other analysts call the Brazil Cost.
The price of doing business is driven up by taxes, graft, a
turgid bureaucracy and high borrowing costs, Ramos says.  Unfriendly to Business?  Brazil, the world’s seventh-largest economy, ranks 127 out
of 183 countries in the ease of doing business, according to the
World Bank’s Doing Business 2011  survey .  It takes an average of 120 days to complete the 15
procedures to start up a company.  Persuading the legislature to spend less will be an uphill
battle, according to an Aug. 10 report on the economy by Bank of
America Corp. The most Rousseff can hope for, the report says,
are modest changes in the tax code and a rise in the time
younger government employees need to work before they get their
pensions.  The generous pension system is an important component of
government overspending, says Simon Nocera, founder of San
Francisco-based hedge fund Lumen Advisors LLC, who studied the
subject while working as an economist at the  International
Monetary Fund  in the 1990s.  Public servants can retire with 100 percent of their final
salary after as few as 25 years of service, though men must be
60 and women 55 before they can collect. In 2010, the government
spent 333 billion reais on pensions -- almost the GDP of
Ireland.  Generous Pensions  “If they reformed the pension system, they could lower
taxes and interest rates,” Nocera says. “It’s the easiest way
to lower costs, but there’s no political will.”  Rousseff, who had never run for any office before being
elected president, has little experience in negotiating the
political deals that will be needed to reduce the budget and
push down inflation and interest rates. And the recent cabinet
resignations don’t help.  One victim was  Antonio Palocci , Dilma’s chief of staff, an
experienced Workers’ Party leader who stepped down in June after
a news report that his consulting firm had earned 20 million
reais in 2010, most of it when he was running Dilma’s electoral
campaign. Opposition lawmakers claim he was selling access to
the future president. Palocci denies wrongdoing.  Palocci Departs  Rousseff replaced Palocci with Senator Gleisi Hoffmann, a
woman with almost no heft within the party, according to  David Fleischer , a political analyst at the University of Brasilia.  Rousseff also lost her tourism minister -- who resigned on
Sept. 14 after federal police arrested 38 people for the illegal
use of money from his ministry.  Alfredo Nascimento, her powerful transportation minister
and a leader of the Party of the Republic, also resigned amid
allegations of kickbacks and overbilling in a ministry that
doles out $15 billion a year for public works projects. He also
denies wrongdoing.  With the pressure on to root out corruption, in the
following two months Rousseff forced out about 20 more officials
from the Transport Ministry, prompting Nascimento’s party to
pull out of the government coalition.  Rousseff’s July cocktail party was one attempt to keep the
government together so she has a chance to fight off the demon
of inflation. At one point, Rousseff raised her wine glass for a
toast to “fraternity” and “harmony” before noticing that not
everyone had a drink. Waiters scurried to give glasses to those
who were empty-handed before she continued.  Toasting Together  “It was very important for President Dilma to make sure we
could all toast together,” Minister of Institutional Affairs
Ideli Salvatti says.  Her coalition might be fragile, but given the economic
powerhouse that Lula bequeathed her, Dilma’s glass is still more
than half full.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 