-- 
RTB Bor Set to Ride Out Copper Slump, Keeps Output, Upgrade Plan

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-09-27T13:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/rtb-bor-set-to-ride-out-copper-slump-keeps-output-upgrade-plan.html
-- RTB Bor,  Serbia ’s state-owned
copper producer, sees copper prices rebounding in the fourth
quarter on a “fundamental” need for the metal in developing
economies, Chief Executive officer Blagoje Spaskovski said.  The Balkan country’s only copper producer is sticking to
its 2011 output target of 30,000 tons of copper, along with
almost 1 ton of gold and 5.2 tons of silver, even as this
month’s drop in commodities prices threatens to wipe out its
profit margin, Spaskovski said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in Bor, eastern Serbia.  “We may not get back soon to the highs we’ve seen this
year, but I’m sure there is strong fundamental demand in the
emerging economies that still have plenty of infrastructure
plans, especially in energy and for new  power lines ” that
require copper, he said today.  The 10,000 hectare (24,710 acre) copper complex, whose ore
deposits are estimated at 1.5 billion tons, remains state-owned
after three failed attempts to sell it to private investors. The
company broke even in 2010 after two decades of losses, on
rising commodity prices and improved productivity.  Upgrades include a 175 million-euro ($237.5 million)
investment in a new smelter and sulphuric acid plant, supported
by a 135 million-euro credit from Export Development  Canada  and
carried out by Canada’s  SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC)  with  Finland ’s
 Outotec Oyj. (OTE1V)   Loan Needs  A protracted or deeper decline in the commodity would force
RTB Bor to reach for new loans and go deeper into debt, which is
now “at around 500 million euros,” Spaskovski said.  “For us, anything above $7,000 per ton is acceptable,”
even before ongoing upgrades are completed by 2014 to cut costs
and enhance extraction of the metals from the ore, he said.
“Right now, the margin is thin, very thin.”  Under a government-supported restructuring plan, made
before the recent drop in metal prices, some creditors may be
offered to convert their claims into minority stakes in RTB Bor,
Spaskovski said.  Creditors include  Greece ’s  Mytilineos Holdings SA (MYTIL)  and
 Standard Bank , which bought 134 million euros of RTB Bor’s debt
earlier this year.  “I think Standard would prefer actual repayment to
equity,” Spaskovski said without elaborating.  RTB Bor is also investing its own funds in new mining
equipment and froth flotation facilities that all together
should increase its processing capacity to 400,000 tons of
copper concentrate a year, or as much as 80,000 tons of copper
catodes and 350,000 tons of sulphuric acid.  Output Burden  It produced 14,000 tons of copper in the first six months,
34 percent more than a year ago.  The biggest production burden at present is removing waste
rock from open pits that was not properly disposed during “the
chaotic 1990s,” when the country was led by  Slobodan Milosevic 
and suffered from crippling international sanctions, Spaskovski
said.  “Once that problem is resolved in a few years, we could do
nicely with any price above $4,000,” per ton of copper, he
said.  RTB Bor, which employs 4,750, may also reopen its Coka
Marin gold mine next year, where a ton of ore contains between 7
grams and 14 grams of gold.  Switzerland ’s Glencore International AG, Trafigura AG and
Canadian Reservoir Minerals Inc. have shown interest in
processing the ore from Coka Marin, which RTB Bor itself cannot
handle without causing cadmium and mercury pollution, Spaskovski
said.  “Gold is our byproduct” and its price volatility has less
impact on operations, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  