-- 
Rubber Surges Most in Six Months as Europe Seeks Solution to Debt Crisis

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-09-27T08:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/rubber-surges-most-in-six-months-as-europe-seeks-solution-to-debt-crisis.html
Rubber surged by the most in six
months on expectation that European leaders will act to prevent
the region’s sovereign-debt crisis from getting worse, and amid
speculation the German economy may avoid recession.  February-delivery rubber jumped as much as 6.9 percent, the
biggest gain since March 18, before settling at 318.4 yen a
kilogram ($4,170 a metric ton) on the  Tokyo  Commodity Exchange.
The March-delivery contract, listed on the bourse today, climbed
to as high as 325 yen after opening at 318.7 yen.  Futures recovered from a one-year low reached yesterday
after a euro-region central bank official said the  European
Central Bank  is likely to debate restarting covered-bond
purchases and may discuss interest-rate cuts to ease funding
strains. Asian stocks extended a global rally while oil advanced
for a second day, boosting the appeal of natural rubber.  “Pessimistic views about  Europe ’s debt crisis receded,
spurring investors to buy back futures,” Takaki Shigemoto, an
analyst at JSC Corp. in Tokyo, said today by phone.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has stepped up her defense
of the euro and toned down calls to punish  Greece  for its fiscal
sins as the region’s debt crisis spread. Merkel hosts Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  for talks in Berlin today as
credit-default swaps show a more than 90 percent chance that
Greece won’t meet its debt commitments.  German business confidence fell less than economists
forecast in September, suggesting Europe’s largest economy may
avoid recession even as the region’s debt crisis worsens.  ‘Panic Selloffs’  Futures also increased after the International Rubber
Consortium Ltd. said Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia, which
represent about 70 percent of supply, may slow exports.  “The group is closely monitoring the situation and has
prepared measures to respond to panic selloffs in the futures
market,” Yium Tavarolit, chief secretary of the group said
yesterday. The cash price of Thai rubber dropped 1.5 percent
134.10 baht ($4.33) a kilogram today, the Rubber Research
Institute of  Thailand  said on its website.  Rains persist in Thailand, raising concerns that supplies
from the largest growing nation may decline, said Chaiwat
Muenmee, an analyst at Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures
Co. Rains spread across 80 percent of the south, which accounts
for 80 percent of the country’s production, the institute said.  In Shanghai, January-delivery rubber jumped as much as 4.8
percent to 28,785 yuan ($4,501) a ton, before closing at 28,250
yuan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  