-- 
Ruble Snaps 12-Day Losing Streak Versus Basket as Oil Rallies

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-09-27T09:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ruble-snaps-12-day-losing-streak-versus-basket-as-oil-rallies.html
The ruble strengthened for the
first time in 13 days against the central bank’s target dollar-
euro basket as oil,  Russia ’s chief export earner, rallied.  The Russian currency appreciated 0.5 percent to 37.2971
against the basket as of 1:25 p.m. in Moscow, the first gain
since Sept. 8. The ruble advanced 0.7 percent to 32.207 per
dollar and was little changed at 43.52 per euro.  Oil rose in  New York  after U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy
F. Geithner  predicted Europe will intensify efforts to contain
its debt problems, signaling demand for the commodity may
recover in the euro area. Crude for November delivery climbed 3
percent to $82.65 a barrel.  “This has mainly been driven by local demand fueling some
ruble buying and a gentle recovery of oil prices,” Carolin Hecht, a strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by e-
mail. “I don’t think this will last.”  President  Dmitry Medvedev  signed the resignation of Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin yesterday evening after the ruble’s 7
p.m. close in Moscow. Kudrin had criticized Medvedev’s spending
plans in comments to reporters in Washington Sept. 24.  “His resignation is negative for bonds and the ruble,”
 Clemens Grafe , chief economist in Russia for Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Russia’s finance ministry canceled an auction of 10 billion
rubles of four-year bonds today, according to a statement on the
ministry’s website. “The current market yields do not properly
reflect the credit quality of the instruments offered,” the
ministry said in the statement.  The yield on the notes jumped to a record-high 8.45 percent
yesterday as speculation rose Kudrin would resign. The bonds
rallied today, pushing the yield down nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 8.36 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  