-- 
Russia’s Renaissance Group Cutting 10% of Global Workforce

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-09-27T12:02:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/russia-s-renaissance-group-cutting-10-of-global-workforce-1-.html
Renaissance Group, a Moscow-based
bank that invests in emerging markets, said it’s cutting 10
percent of its global workforce to “align” costs with current
market conditions.  The group, which includes  Renaissance Capital , the
investment bank partly owned by billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ,
is eliminating 125 jobs from its overall headcount of 1,250. The
job cuts won’t affect Renaissance Credit, the consumer-lending
unit,” Preston Mendenhall, a Moscow-based spokesman for
Renaissance Group, said by phone today.  “Renaissance Group is aligning its costs with current
market conditions, a process which has affected 10 percent of
staff,” the bank said in an e-mailed statement today.  Concern over the global economy and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis has roiled markets in Russia. The ruble fell yesterday to
the lowest closing level in more than two years against the
dollar after Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, the second-longest
serving minister, threatened to quit after more than a decade in
his job. The country’s benchmark Micex Index has slumped 18
percent this year.  Renaissance reduced the number of bankers to 190 from 650
after  Russia ’s debt default in 1998, and cut staff again in 2008
by 40 percent from 1,150. The bank’s founder, Stephen Jennings,
sold half of RenCap to Prokhorov for $500 million to keep it
afloat in September 2008 amid a record rout in Russian stocks
that included a 25 percent plunge in the benchmark Micex Index
over three days.  Investment Banks Cutting  Western securities firms and banks have also been cutting
jobs after reporting declines in investment-banking profit as
Europe’s sovereign debt crisis cripples trading.  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, said in August it will
pare about 3,500 jobs. HSBC Holdings Plc plans to eliminate
30,000 jobs by the end of 2013, while Zurich-based Credit Suisse
Group AG said it will trim about 2,000 posts. In the U.S.,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in July it will cut 1,000 jobs
after a plunge in fixed-income revenue.  Renaissance increased its investment-banking, asset-
management, real-estate and private-equity headcount by 7
percent in the first six months to 1,250. It made senior hires
in  India ,  Africa ,  New York  and  London  in the last two months.  “We are still hiring and still investing across all of our
geographies because it’s a very favorable market,” Mendenhall
said today.  The investment bank this month hired Soroosh Shambayati as
global co-head of markets from Nomura Holdings Inc. RenCap also
recruited Burak Akbulut, an investment banker at Tera Menkul in
Istanbul, to head its expansion in  Turkey . Last month, the
company hired Ateev Chadda from Religare Capital Markets Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradley Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  