-- 
Russian Economy to Expand Less Than Expected in 2011, IMF Says

-- B y   A l a n   C r o s b y
-- 
2011-09-27T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/russian-economy-to-expand-less-than-expected-in-2011-imf-says.html
Russia ’s economy will expand less
than expected this year and next because of Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis and lower  oil prices , the  International Monetary
Fund  said.  Gross domestic product will grow 4.3 percent in 2011, down
from a previous estimate of 4.8 percent, and 4.1 percent next
year, compared with an earlier forecast of 4.5 percent, the
Washington-based lender said today in a report following an
Article IV consultation that ended on Sept. 9.  “If the crisis in the euro area intensifies and leads to
another global downturn and a precipitous fall in oil prices,
Russia’s economy could be severely affected,” Deputy Mission
Chief Daria Zakharova said in a survey accompanying the report.  Concern over growth in the global economy and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis has roiled markets in Russia, which saw
its economy contract 7.8 percent in 2009, its worst recession on
record. Even as growth returned in 2010, with GDP rising 4
percent, the government’s macroeconomic policies would “benefit
from more stable, predictable” frameworks in monetary and
fiscal policy, the IMF said.  The central bank should “focus squarely” on inflation,
while the government must tighten fiscal policy and focus more
on the non-oil deficit, which the IMF sees this year at 11
percent of GDP.  “Our advice is to refocus fiscal policy on the non-oil
balance and introduce an ambitious, credible, and growth-
friendly fiscal consolidation that aims at reaching a non-oil
deficit of 4.7 percent, the current long-term fiscal target of
the government,” Zakharova said in the survey.  Russian price growth will be 7.5 percent at the end of
2011, 0.5 percentage points lower than previously forecast, the
report said.  “This level will still exceed the central bank’s own
target range of 6-7 percent for end-2011 and in the staff’s
view, further monetary tightening remains necessary to bring
inflation firmly on a path toward an appropriate medium-term
level of 3-5 percent,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crosby in Prague at 
 acrosby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  