-- 
Russian Mall Construction May Reach Record

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-09-27T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/russian-mall-construction-may-reach-record-as-retail-sales-climb.html
Russian shopping-mall construction
may climb to a record this year as retailers take advantage of
rising sales by moving into bigger, more modern buildings,
Cushman & Wakefield Inc. said.  Nine malls with combined space of 400,000 square meters
(4.3 million square feet) were completed during the first half,
down from 488,313 square meters a year earlier, according to the
 New York-based real-estate broker . About 3 million square meters
may be added through 2012, Cushman said.  The pipeline is “staggering,” said Charles Slater, the
Cushman partner in charge of retail service in  Russia , by
telephone. “A lot of the cities are under-supplied in terms of
modern-day retail, which only really started about 10 years
ago.”  Russia has shopping centers with about 80.5 square meters
of retail space for every 1,000 shoppers, according to Cushman.
That’s less than a third of the average for the 27 countries in
the European Union.  The eastern European nation’s shoppers are spending more as
unemployment falls and wages rise faster than inflation. Retail
sales climbed 7.8 percent in August from a year earlier, the
most in a year, according to the Federal Statistics Service.  Afimall City  The largest shopping center mall to open in the first half
was  AFI Development Plc (AFRB) ’s  Afimall City  mall in central Moscow.
The  OZ mall in Krasnodar  and retail centers in Ufa and Samara
are among those that are due to be built by the end of next
year.  “If all the projects are scheduled for the second half are
completed on time, the 2011 development figure will be the
highest on record,” Cushman said in the  report .  Two of  Europe ’s five largest malls are in Moscow. The  MEGA
Belaya Dacha  and MEGA Khimki centers were constructed by the
real estate development arm of Inter Ikea Systems BV.  Rents for prime shopping-center space in Russia range from
750 euros to 2,200 euros a square meter, generating income
equivalent to about 10 percent of the investment in the center,
the Cushman report showed. That pricing compares with about 6
percent in the U.K. and more than 5 percent in France and
 Germany , the broker said.  Turkey added the second-highest amount of shopping-center
space in the first half with 340,000 square meters, the Cushman
study showed. The figures were boosted by Multi Corp.’s opening
of the  Marmara Forum mall  in Istanbul.  The two countries account for 41 percent of the new
shopping center space that’s scheduled to be developed in Europe
through 2012, the report estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 