-- 
Russia Spending $574 Million on Ports to Regain Wheat Export Rank: Freight

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 
2011-09-27T23:06:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/russia-spending-574-million-on-ports-to-regain-wheat-export-rank-freight.html
Russia  is poised to again become
the world’s second-biggest wheat exporter as the nation’s
largest grain-port overhaul raises shipping capacity by as much
as 67 percent in four years.  Government and private operators are spending $574 million
to develop and add terminals on the Baltic Sea, the  Black Sea 
and the nation’s rivers to end bottlenecks that keep trains
waiting for weeks to unload. Supply is surging following an
almost yearlong ban imposed by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  to
conserve grain after the worst drought in half a century.  Russia’s emergence as a leading supplier may reduce global
grain prices, said Peter Biermann, a trader at Aston FFI in
Lausanne, Switzerland.  “Russia could easily become the No. 1 exporter of wheat in
the world” on the expansion plans, Biermann said. Aston is a
trading unit of Russian grain and oilseed producer OAO Aston.  Russia is seeking to again become a leading wheat supplier
about three decades after the cost of imports helped push the
 Soviet Union  to the brink of bankruptcy in the 1980s. Exports
began climbing in 2000, and by 2002 Russia was among the top
three wheat-exporting countries, according to the  International
Grains Council  in  London .  It may supply more than 12 percent of global wheat this
season, the council says, making it the world’s fourth-biggest
supplier.  Hidden Costs  The new investment may increase grain loading capacity to
almost 42 million metric tons in 2014 from 25 million tons this
year, according to Bloomberg calculations based on investors’
plans.  More terminals will reduce the hidden costs of grain
shipments by at least $15 a ton because exporters won’t have to
pay for the idle hours that rail cars and ships spend in
bottlenecks or for fines for delayed cargoes, said Igor
Pavensky, head of Rusagrotrans’s market analysis department.
Rusagrotrans is the country’s bigger carrier of grain by rail.  Russia may be able to sell grain in international tenders
at a discount to the global price by $7 to $8 a ton by 2015,
Pavensky said. Russian wheat sells at a discount of about $10 a
ton compared with French milling wheat from Rouen, he said.  Government and private operators plan to invest at least
18.2 billion rubles ($574 million) to add 18.9 million metric
tons of capacity at grain terminals in the five years through
2014, according to Bloomberg calculations based on company
plans. That includes additions last year during the export ban.  Asia, Cuba  Lower logistics fees will allow traders to open up new
markets, Rusagrotrans’s Pavensky said. Russia may supply up to 4
million tons of grain to the Asia-Pacific region and up to 2
million tons to  South America  and Cuba by 2020, he said.  Dry weather is hurting crops from the U.S. to Ukraine, just
as near-record corn prices spur livestock farmers to the highest
use of wheat for feed in two decades.  Mexico ’s Grupo Bimbo SAB,
the world’s largest bread maker, and CSM NV of the Netherlands,
the biggest manufacturer of bakery ingredients, are among
companies that have increased prices to pass on higher costs.  Wheat futures have climbed 4.2 percent since the start of
the growing season in July to about $6.39 a bushel ($234.80 a
metric ton) on the Chicago Board of Trade. Russia’s export ban
prompted an 8 percent surge in wheat prices to almost $7.86 a
bushel on Aug. 5 of last year, while the price dropped 4.6
percent to $7.82 a bushel on May 31 after news that exports
would resume.  Weather and Politics  “Cheaper input costs will allow Russia to export at more
competitive prices to the Mediterranean and beyond,” said
Swithun Still, a trader at  Switzerland ’s  Alegrow SA . “However,
as last year showed, we are at the mercy of the weather and
politics, two things we cannot predict very well or control.”  Putin imposed the grain export ban to shore up domestic
supply after the drought caused Russia’s grain crop to plummet
37 percent to 60.9 million tons last year, from 97 million tons
a year earlier.  Handling prices have been rising because of capacity
limitations, spurring state and private investors to build
terminals, Alexander Korbut, vice president of Russia’s Grain
Union, said by phone on Sept. 22. At one terminal in the port
city of Novorossiysk on the Black Sea, fees jumped about 40
percent to $28 a ton from a year ago and at another by about 35
percent to $23, he said.  ‘Extremely Profitable’  Grain handling is “extremely profitable in Russia,”
Korbut said. “When small ports appeared on the Azov Sea in 2006
to 2008, investors made a return in just one season.”  Plans to boost exports may stumble on a lack of railway
infrastructure and rail cars; rising transportation costs; and
market demand, according to the Institute for Agricultural
Market Studies, known as Ikar.  About half of the projects are located in the city of
Novorossiysk, where OAO Russian Railways banned rail shipments
on Aug. 27 because of congestion. The restriction to one
terminal was lifted after 10 days and to the other after almost
three weeks.  Most of the new projected capacity, or about 13 million
tons, may be devoted to wheat exports, according to Ikar. This
amounts to 10 percent of the world’s wheat imports, a quantity
Russia will find hard to grab from existing suppliers, Ikar
director Dmitry Rylko said by phone on Sept. 26.  Ukraine, Russia’s neighbor and the world’s third-biggest
barley exporter last season, may compete with Russian projects
as it has about 6 million tons of surplus export capacity
already, according to Rylko.  Ukraine,  Kazakhstan   While Ukraine increases capacity, now at about 30 million
tons, Kazakhstan also has ambitious plans to expand its wheat-
export potential and the U.S. may also increase grain shipments
in five years, he said.  “Still, we need the terminals,” Rylko said. “They’re
being built with room to grow and so we can at least maintain
exports.”  Private building efforts are already underway. Delo Group,
beneficially owned by Sergei Shishkarev, head of the transport
committee in Russia’s lower house of parliament, opened a
terminal in Novorossiysk this year, according to the group’s
press service.  Vladimir Lisin , the billionaire owner of OAO
Novolipetsk Steel, built a terminal in Tuapse last year,
according to his UCL Holding company.  In addition to Novorossiysk and Tuapse, investment is also
flowing into construction of terminals and expansion of existing
capacity in Kaliningrad on the  Baltic Sea , in Taman on the Black
Sea, on Azov Sea ports and on the Volga and Don rivers.  A government plan to construct another deep-water grain
terminal at the port of Taman, on a peninsula between the Black
and Azov Seas, may further expand capacity at least 6 million
tons by 2017, state-controlled United Grain Co. said last week.
The terminal may cost 10 billion rubles, according to a company
presentation last year.  “A fight for clients who supply grain will emerge,”
Korbut said. “This will increase the profitability of growing
grain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  