-- 
Russian Hockey League May Use Centralized Air Transport After Deadly Crash

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-27T11:56:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/russian-hockey-league-may-use-centralized-air-transport-after-deadly-crash.html
Russia ’s top hockey league may
switch to a centralized air transportation system in a bid to
improve safety after a chartered-plane crash wiped out the
Lokomotiv Yaroslavl team earlier this month.  OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s largest airline, may get the
contract under a restructured system, said Alexander Medvedev,
the Kontinental Hockey League president. The accident killed 44
people and sparked concern that foreign players may shun playing
in Russia because of safety issues.  “We’ve received a very good offer from Aeroflot,”
Medvedev said in an interview in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, on Sakhalin
Island in Russia’s Far East. “It is possible to minimize the
risks” of  air travel , and the league is preparing an offer for
the clubs on a centralized basis, he said.  The chartered Yakovlev-42 plane, carrying eight crew and 37
members of the Lokomotiv team, a three-time Russian champion,
crashed during takeoff Sept. 7. The accident initially had two
survivors, with 26-year-old forward Alexander Galimov dying five
days later from severe burns. Crew member Alexander Sizov, the
lone survivor, is receiving treatment in a Moscow clinic.  The crash of the flight, operated by Yak-Service, sparked
concerns that the KHL, which has become a rival to the  National
Hockey League , may be less attractive to players now in  North
America , sports agents said.  The Russian aviation watchdog revoked the Yak-Service’s
license, Sergei Izvolsky, a spokesman for the Federal Air
Transport Agency, said Sept. 21.  The KHL plans to rebuild the Lokomotiv team, and the league
board will sign off on measures to stimulate the process next
week, Medvedev said. The sporting body plans to allow the club
to take one extra foreign player for a limited period and to
have several picks from among free agents.  “Conditions will be created to attract good players,”
Medvedev said. “Already next season, Lokomotiv will have a
strong team.”  The KHL president isn't related to  Dmitry Medvedev ,
president of Russia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Russia, at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  