-- 
S&P, Moody’s, Fitch Win Dismissal of Ohio Pension Fund Suit

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-09-27T20:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/s-p-moody-s-fitch-win-dismissal-of-ohio-pension-fund-s-suit-over-ratings.html
Standard & Poor’s ,  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) 
and Fitch Inc. won dismissal of a lawsuit alleging their ratings
of mortgage-backed securities were faulty and caused five Ohio
public employee pension funds to buy money-losing investments.  U.S. District Judge James L. Graham in Columbus threw out
the case yesterday, agreeing with the firms that the ratings
were “predictive opinions.” Without specific allegations that
the ratings services intended to defraud investors, the
companies couldn’t be held liable, he said.  “The Ohio funds make a bare allegation that the ratings
agencies knew or should have known that their ratings were false
or misleading,” Graham wrote. “But a complaint must provide
further factual enhancement to avoid dismissal.”  Ohio’s Police & Fire Pension Fund, the Public Employees
Retirement System, State Teachers Retirement System of Ohio and
two other public pension plans claimed they lost $457 million on
more than 300 mortgage-backed security investments made from
January 2005 to July 2008, according to Graham’s ruling.  Former Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray  filed the suit
in 2009, accusing the three companies of making “spectacularly
misleading evaluations” of the securities because of what they
were paid by the issuers.  Goldman, JPMorgan  The judge said the pension funds bought those securities
from about 100 issuers including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   Each security had received a top rating of AAA or its
equivalent, and at least one of the ratings services named as
defendants had rated each investment, he said.  Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine, who replaced Cordray, is
disappointed in the ruling and discussing further moves in the
case with the pension funds, said his spokesman, Mark Moretti.  Cordray has been nominated to head the new federal Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  “We are pleased with the court’s clear affirmation that
credit ratings are opinions and must be regarded as such,”
 Daniel Noonan , a spokesman for Fitch, said in an e-mailed
statement.  A spokesman for Moody’s,  Michael Adler , said the company
“is pleased that the court has dismissed all of the claims in
this matter.”  Ed Sweeney , a spokesman for S&P, said his company
too is pleased with the ruling.  The case is Ohio Police & Fire Pension Fund v. Standard &
Poor’s Financial Services LLC, 09-cv-01054, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at   zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  