-- 
Saad Group Freeze, Suncity, Korea Line, Sazka Bidder: Bankruptcy

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-27T09:57:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/saad-group-freeze-suncity-korea-line-sazka-bidder-bankruptcy.html
The investment unit of  Saad Group ,
a Saudi company in global litigation over its default in 2009,
won a U.K. court order freezing 57.3 million pounds ($89
million) held by its billionaire founder Maan al-Sanea.  Saad Investments Company Ltd., which is being liquidated in
the Cayman Islands, won the asset freeze in the High Court in
 London  after claiming there was a risk al-Sanea would spend the
money before paying potential damages. The unit also claimed al-
Sanea failed to return hundreds of documents he removed from its
legal offices in Geneva two years ago.  “There is a risk of dissipation in this case” and a
“failure to cooperate with the liquidators,” Saad Investment’s
lawyer, Stephen Atherton, said of al-Sanea, one of  Saudi
Arabia ’s richest men. The company also claims al-Sanea removed
$60 million at the time he took the documents.  Al-Sanea has been sued in courts around the world by Saudi
Arabia’s Algosaibi family, which he married into before founding
Saad Group. Their Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers Co., a group
of companies spanning multiple industries, defaulted in 2009 on
about $15.7 billion in loans. Al-Sanea won dismissal of
Algosaibi’s $9.2 billion asset-freeze against him in the Cayman
Islands.  Al-Sanea, who is banned from leaving Saudi Arabia and has
had his accounts there frozen, was ordered by the U.K. judge to
provide a list of his assets worth more than $100,000. His
lawyer, Richard Morgan, denied the claims behind the U.K. asset-
freeze and said al-Sanea should be able to spend his money to
repay Saudi Arabian creditors.  The  Cayman Islands  court appointed  Grant Thornton  as
liquidator for Saad Investments in July 2009. Grant Thornton
also sued Algosaibi for about $8 billion -- a lawsuit Algosaibi
has said is baseless. Algosaibi claims al-Sanea heaped debt on
the company by taking out fraudulent loans obtained with forged
documents.  Japanese Real Estate Firm Suncity to Seek Bankruptcy Protection  Suncity Co., a Japanese real estate company, said yesterday
it would file for bankruptcy protection. The company made the
announcement in a statement distributed through the Tokyo Stock
Exchange.  PPF Bids 3.8 Billion Koruna as Highest Offer for Sazka, MFD Says  PPF, the investment company owned by Czech billionaire Petr Kellner, offered 3.81 billion koruna ($209 million) for assets
of the bankrupt lottery provider Sazka AS, Mlada Fronta Dnes
reported, citing administrator Josef Cupka. It was the highest
of the three accepted bids, the newspaper said.  Creditors Seek to Sell Pantech, Korea Economic Daily Says  Creditors including  Korea Development Bank  are seeking to
sell Pantech Co. and will receive preliminary bids by Sept. 29,
the Korea Economic Daily reported, citing unidentified financial
industry officials.  Korea Line Creditors to Meet Oct. 14 to Discuss Turnaround Plan  Korea Line Corp. (005880)  creditors will meet on Oct. 14 to discuss
the company’s turnaround plan, after the initial plan was
rejected on Sept. 23, according to a regulatory filing.  France’s General Recyclage Seeks Vote on Voluntary Liquidation  General Recyclage SA (MLGEI)  will ask shareholders to vote on a
voluntary liquidation plan for the company at a meeting on Oct.
18, it said in an e-mailed statement.  Lucchini Creditors May Get Less in Rescue Plan, Messaggero Says  Lucchini SpA’s creditors may be refunded 100 million euros
($135 million) under a revised plan to rescue the steelmaker
controlled by OAO Severstal,  Il Messaggero  reported, without
saying how it got the information.  The amount is less than the 180 million euros that lenders,
including  BNP Paribas (BNP) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
expected to get back under a previous plan, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  