-- 
Sabre Asks Court to Toss American Antitrust Claim After US Airways Ruling

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-27T16:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/sabre-cites-us-airways-ruling-in-bid-to-get-american-airlines-suit-dropped.html
Sabre Holdings Corp., the largest
U.S. provider of flight data to travel agents, asked a U.S.
judge to throw out  American Airlines ’ claim that it runs a
monopoly, citing a ruling in a  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  lawsuit.  Sabre, in a letter yesterday, asked Fort Worth,  Texas ,
federal Judge Terry Means to follow a  Manhattan  judge who, it
said, found Sabre couldn’t exercise monopoly power over a market
limited to travel agents using its service.  U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum on Sept. 12
threw out two of four antitrust claims in the  US Airways  case.  Cedarbaum “ruled that a Sabre-only market was not
plausible on its face,” because a company can’t monopolize its
own customers, Sabre attorney Don Scott wrote in the letter.  The lawsuits are at the heart of a dispute between U.S.
carriers and so-called global distribution systems like Sabre
that collect flight and fare data from carriers and distribute
it to travel agents.  The airlines want greater control over dissemination of
their data, including providing it directly to agencies that
consumers use to plan and buy travel.  American, a unit of Fort Worth-based  AMR Corp. (AMR) , initially
sued Travelport LLC, the second biggest U.S-based global
distribution systems company, on antitrust claims. It added
Southlake, Texas-based Sabre to the suit in June. Sabre and
Travelport, based in Atlanta, control more than 90 percent of
U.S. data distribution to travel agents.  ‘Remain Confident’  “We do not believe that the decision by a  New York  judge
is, in any way, dispositive of any of our claims,” Ryan Mikolasik, a spokesman for American, said in an e-mail. “We
remain confident that we will prevail on the facts and merits of
our claims.”  In addition to the American and US Airways lawsuits, the
U.S. Justice Department is investigating possible antitrust
violations involving several data distributors.  Cedarbaum, in her Sept. 12 ruling, directed US Airways to
file an amended complaint that provides the sources of
information and bases for its allegations on the two remaining
counts.  The  Fort Worth  case is American Airlines Inc. v. Travelport
Ltd., 11-cv-00244, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Texas (Fort Worth).  The Manhattan case is U.S. Airways Inc. v. Sabre Holdings
Corp., 11-cv-02725, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  