-- 
Worst Quarter Since 2008 as Queensland Leads Sales Surge: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-09-28T04:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/sales-surge-spurs-worst-yield-gap-since-2008-australia-credit.html
Australian state bonds are set for
the worst quarter relative to sovereign debt since 2008 as
record borrowing needs spur regional authorities to increase
their share of debt sales compared with corporate offerings.  The extra yield demanded to hold state securities instead
of Australian sovereign notes rose 23 basis points since June 30
to 67 on Sept. 27, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show,
compared with a 44 basis-point gain in the fourth quarter of
2008. States issued 39 percent of Australian underwritten debt
sales in the period, from 25 percent in the first half of 2011,
Bloomberg data show. The spread to Treasuries for U.S. municipal
borrowings fell 13 basis points to 56 since June 30.  Returns on Australian state debt are trailing sovereign
bonds for the first time in five quarters as investors dump
declining stocks and choose federal government assets above all
else, spurring the securities to the developed world’s steepest
annual climb. Global equities fell since June 30 by the most in
more than 2 1/2 years and local stocks are headed for their
first back-to-back annual decline since 1982. Queensland is the
biggest debt seller this year as the state boosts spending to
repair damage from its worst floods since the 1970s.  “We’ve seen a generalized flight to quality where
sovereign bonds have outperformed pretty much everything
including state debt,”  David Plank , head of research at
Deutsche Bank AG in Sydney, said yesterday. “There’s been an
element specific to the states in the context of the need for
Queensland, in particular, to issue and that’s put upward
pressure on spreads given the lack of liquidity and the general
risk-off environment.”  Fiscal Position  Australian states sold A$4.2 billion ($4.1 billion) of so-
called semi-government securities in the third quarter out of
A$10.7 billion in total issuance as most firms shunned credit
markets amid widening spreads, Bloomberg data show. Queensland,
the biggest regional government borrower, issued A$1.9 billion
since June 30 and a total of A$10 billion this year.  The state’s funding arm signaled last month it will now
issue debt only when dealers ask to buy the bonds amid volatile
markets, according to an Aug. 31 research note from Nomura
Holdings Inc. Sales of new benchmark securities will be based on
investor demand,  Richard Jackson , Brisbane-based general manager
for funding and markets at Queensland Treasury Corp. said the
same day.  Record Borrowings  Queensland has A$70.1 billion of debt outstanding followed
by New South Wales with A$52.2 billion and Victoria with A$27
billion. Semi-government debt amounts to more than A$185
billion, including borrowings from Western  Australia ,  South
Australia , Tasmania, the Northern Territory and the Australian
Capital Territory, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the
most on record, based on  Reserve Bank  of Australia figures.  “The fiscal side for the states is going to be under
pressure for the rest of this decade really, and that will put
pressure on debt levels and credit ratings for some of the
states,” said Deutsche Bank’s Plank.  Fitch Ratings  changed its outlook on Queensland’s debt,
rated AA+, to negative on July 27, citing the state’s slow
budgetary recovery in an environment that “largely remains
challenging.” South Australia had its long-term credit rating
outlook revised to negative, which may lead to a cut from AAA
within the next two years,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement
on Sept. 23.  Faltering Economy  Australia’s economy has faltered after floods at the start
of the year disrupted coal exports and the global financial
turmoil spurred by Europe’s debt crisis undermined business and
consumer confidence.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian company
bonds instead of government debt surged 53 basis points since
June 30 to 230 yesterday, according to a Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index. It reached 233 on Sept. 26, the highest since
September 2009, the Australian Corporate and Collateralized
Index shows.  Bonds sold by Australia’s six states and two territories
returned 5 percent this quarter, including reinvested interest,
the Merrill Lynch indexes show, compared with 5.8 percent for
government debt.  Australian sovereign securities have generated an 11
percent return over the past 12 months, the biggest of any major
market, Bloomberg/EFFAS Bond Indexes show. The MSCI World Index
of shares slid 15 percent since June 30 and has fallen 11
percent since Dec. 31. The Australian All Ordinaries Index of
stocks is 11 percent lower in the third quarter and down 13
percent this year.  The benchmark Australian government 10-year yield rose five
basis points to 4.25 percent as of 2:26 p.m., poised for its
highest closing level since Sept. 9. The rate’s premium over
similar-dated Treasuries widened 7 basis points to 230. The
Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency,
traded at 98.58 U.S. cents from 99.14.  Seeking Alternatives  Demand for Australian  government bonds  is being spurred by
overseas investors seeking alternatives to holding the  U.S.
dollar  and euro as those economies struggle to contain deficits.
Offshore investors held 75 percent of Australian bonds as of
June 30, up from 73 percent at the end of the previous quarter
and 66 percent in the final quarter of 2007, according to data
from the central bank and statistics bureau.  Yields on all Australian  government securities , including
the longest-dated bond maturing April 2023, have been lower than
the Reserve Bank of Australia’s cash rate since Aug. 9. While
state bonds have trailed that advance, yields on 2020 notes
issued by New South Wales and Victoria also fell below the cash
rate this quarter. Both states are rated AAA by S&P, matching
the federal government’s grade.  Rate Expectations  “The sheer expensiveness of bonds relative to cash is
something that took a heavy toll on semi-government bonds,”
said Adam Donaldson, head of debt research at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia  in Sydney. “In recent weeks, views about the
Reserve Bank have shifted and the idea that they could cut rates
has generally become more accepted than it was a few months
ago,” prompting investors to pare bets that yields will rise.  Cash-rate futures show traders are wagering that the RBA
will reduce the developed world’s highest benchmark rate of 4.75
percent to 4.12 percent by December.  The yield on New South  Wales ’ May 2020 securities was 4.79
percent yesterday and rose to as much as 74 basis points more
than the 10-year sovereign rate on Aug. 19, the most since April
2010. Victoria’s June 2020 note yielded 4.79 percent, with the
spread over benchmark government bonds reaching 72 basis points
on Aug. 19.  Queensland bonds maturing in February 2020 yielded 5.03
percent or 78 basis points more than the benchmark. The spread
for South Australia’s longest-maturity notes due September 2017
was 80 basis points more than the six-year sovereign yield,
after widening to as much as 87 on Aug. 22.  Fund Managers  Australian fixed-income fund managers increased their
weightings of state government debt to more than 27 percent of
portfolios on Sept. 26 for the first time since November 2005,
from 26.8 percent on Sept. 12, according to a Deutsche Bank
survey.  State bonds’ relative yields may be influenced by offshore
buyers comparing the debt with Australian-dollar issuance from
highly rated foreign borrowers such as the World Bank Group and
the  European Investment Bank , said Deutsche Bank’s Plank. As
 Europe ’s debt crisis spurs global financial turmoil, an increase
in the spreads for such supra-nationals may be transmitted to
Australian state debt, he said.  “Spreads are being driven more by what’s happening in
Europe than what’s happening in Australia,” said Plank.  Non-Sovereign Borrowers  An index that includes Australian-dollar denominated
issuances by highly rated non-sovereign borrowers has returned
5.2 percent this quarter, Merrill Lynch data show. The extra
yield demanded from such securities instead of sovereign notes
rose 16 basis points this quarter to 72 on Sept. 27, the data
show.  The spread between the interest Australian banks pay when
borrowing from each other for three months and swaps tracking
expectations for the RBA’s benchmark was little changed at 39
basis points. The gap, a gauge of banks’ difficulty in accessing
funds, closed at 61 on Aug. 8, the highest since January 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  