-- 
Santander CEO, Chairman May Face Investor Grilling on Capital, Loan Woes

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-09-27T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/santander-ceo-chairman-may-face-investor-grilling-on-capital-loan-woes.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  Chief Executive
Officer Alfredo Saenz and Chairman  Emilio Botin  may be grilled
by investors over the next two days on whether Spain’s biggest
bank needs more capital as a surge in bad loans curbs profit.  Saenz kicks off the lender’s “Investor Day” tomorrow with
the first of 13 presentations on the firm’s business, according
to a program for the event in London. The outlook for
Santander’s core capital, a measure of financial strength, is
one point that the bank will need to clarify, said  Andrea Williams , a  fund manager  at Royal London Asset Management.  “Whenever you look at a list of the capital ratios of the
main European banks, Santander seems to come out near the
bottom,” Williams, who holds the company’s shares and plans to
attend the investor meeting, said by telephone. “Their capital
is too light.”  Santander has a lower capital ratio than nine of the 11
European banks it compares itself to when awarding shares to top
executives. It was dented in the second quarter by the
acquisition of  Poland ’s Bank Zachodni WBK SA and after the
company set aside money to cover mis-sold U.K. payment-
protection insurance. The firm already pays out about 40 percent
of its dividend in scrip.  The core tier 1 capital ratio for the Santander, Spain-
based lender was 9.2 percent at the end of June, compared with
9.6 percent for Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, 10.2 percent for
 Italy ’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and 11 percent at  Sweden ’s  Nordea
Bank AB. (NDA)   Less Risk  Santander executives have pointed out that since the
company’s business is concentrated on retail and commercial
banking, it takes less risk than other lenders that rely more on
investing banking. Saenz told analysts in July that “we
continue to have very solid capital ratios matched our business
model.”  The  results  of European stress tests published in July
showed Santander would end 2012 with a core Tier 1 ratio of 8.4
percent in the most adverse scenario, evidence the bank said
pointed to its focus on “commercial banking, capital strength
and prudent risk management.”  “They do have a good base, bearing in mind that risk-
weighted assets are conservatively estimated,” said Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about $300 million at Abaco
Financials Fund in  London . “They can argue that capital ratios
are sound.”  A spokesman for Santander, who asked not to be identified
in line with company policy, declined to comment.  Brazil Woes  Investors and analysts may also question Santander managers
on the prospects for Spain, where defaults keep rising as
lending shrinks, and for Brazil, where costs of covering bad
loans have jumped. The South American country contributes a
quarter of the bank’s profit.  Former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  will
be the keynote speaker at a company dinner at London’s Natural
History Museum tomorrow night and Botin will close the event on
Sept. 30.  Santander, which has earned almost 30 billion euros ($40.8
billion) in profit since 2007, expects earnings before one-time
costs will be similar to the 8.18 billion euros it reported last
year, Botin told shareholders in June.  “Santander and BBVA are traditional banks that collect
deposits and lend them out -- that’s the business you want to be
in for the next 10 years,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales
and distribution at MF Global Ltd. in London.  Still, a slow recovery in  Spain  from the worst recession is
60 years has forced Saenz to put back his assessment of when
loan defaults will peak.  Impairment Concerns  The CEO in July 2010 said he’d called the peak of Spanish
loan defaults too soon and predicted they’d reach their high
point in early 2011. A year later he said the fact that lending
was shrinking at a 7 percent annual clip made it harder to
predict when the ratio would stabilize, while the executive
estimated bad loans would not grow further into 2012.  More impairments in Spain may mean the bank will need to
raise more funds to absorb them, Santiago Lopez, an analyst at
Exane  BNP Paribas (BNP)  who rates the bank “neutral,” said in a
report dated Sept. 11.  Meanwhile, the economic outlook for Spain, where
unemployment already tops 21 percent, is worsening, leading
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero to declare Sept. 14
that Spain may miss its 1.3 percent growth target this year
because of the “situation of financial tension and economic
uncertainty, mainly because of  Greece .” Funcas, the research
arm of the Spanish savings bank association, on Sept. 7 cut its
forecast for 2011 growth to 0.7 percent from 0.9 percent and now
predicts 1 percent growth in 2012, down from 1.5 percent.  U.K. Business  “I don’t attach much confidence” to Saenz’s predictions
of when Spanish loan defaults will peak in a scenario of lower
economic growth next year, said Royal London’s Williams. Bad
loans as a proportion of total lending at its Spanish business
jumped to 4.8 percent in June from 3.7 percent a year earlier,
while the ratio for its domestic branch network was 6.7 percent.  Other areas of Santander’s business that had been driving
earnings such as  Brazil  and the U.K. are now causing more
concerns for investors, said Royal London’s Williams.  Default rates in Brazilian banking industry climbed to 5.2
percent in July, the highest level since February 2010,
according to data from the country’s central bank.  “Asset quality is an issue for all of the Brazilian
system, not just Santander Brazil,” said Gustavo Schroden, an
analyst at BES Securities Brazil in a phone interview from  Sao
Paulo .  Share Sale Delay  At Santander’s U.K. business, profit has been hurt by
higher term funding costs and regulators’ efforts to force
lenders to bolster liquidity as its bank there, run by Botin’s
eldest daughter Ana Patricia Botin. The unit set aside 620
million euros to cover claims for mis-sold payment protection
insurance.  Another setback has been the delay of a share sale by its
U.K. bank planned for this year that would have raised capital,
said David Moss, director of European equities at F&C
Investments in London, where he helps manage about 8.5 billion
euros in non-U.K. equities including Santander shares.  “I do have some sympathy for the points they raise about
their capital, but I don’t think they are out of the woods
completely with some of the issues around,” said Moss, who said
he hoped to be able to catch some of Santander’s investor
presentations. “If other banks raise capital, the bar then gets
higher.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  