-- 
SAS Chief Says Cost-Cuts Goal Requires Pay Deals Below Inflation

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-27T14:22:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/sas-chief-says-cost-cuts-goal-requires-pay-deals-below-inflation.html
SAS Group, the Nordic region’s
largest airline, said workers must accept pay deals that are
lower than the rate of inflation if it’s to meet cost-cutting
targets as a slowdown in traffic weighs on ticket prices.  SAS, part-owned by the governments of Sweden,  Norway  and
 Denmark , is “preparing” employees for limited pay raises ahead
of formal talks with its 37 unions next year, Chief Executive
Officer Rickard Gustafson told reporters in Stockholm today.  “We’re getting some feedback from the unions and we’re
starting to see some common ground,” said Gustafson, who became
CEO on Feb. 1, adding that while job cuts aren’t planned, they
may become necessary should the economy worsen.  Gustafson aims to shave as much as 5 percent from annual
expenses via “continued cost reductions” and productivity gains,
he said Sept. 14. While SAS posted a second-quarter profit, it
lost money in all but two of the previous 14 reporting periods
amid waning demand for travel and competition from discount
carriers such as Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA.  Headline inflation reached 3.4 percent in  Sweden  last
month, while consumer prices rose an annual 2.6 percent in
Denmark and 1.3 percent in Norway, according to the three
countries’ statistics offices.  SAS is unlikely to be able to raise ticket prices anytime
soon amid pressure from low-cost rivals and a slowing economy,
Gustafson said. The CEO reiterated last month’s forecast for a
pretax profit this year, while cautioning that the outcome
hinges on the economy “not worsening significantly.”  SAS meanwhile plans to lease as many as 17 Airbus SAS A320
planes pending the arrival from 2016 of the re-engined A320neos
it has on order, fleet chief Niklas Hardange said at the
briefing. Leasing options will be decided within two months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  