-- 
Saudi Woman Driver Sentenced to 10 Lashes After King Grants Women the Vote

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-09-28T08:48:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/saudi-woman-driver-sentenced-to-10-lashes.html
Two days after Saudi King Abdullah’s decision to allow women to participate in elections,
two Saudi women were punished for breaking the ban on female
driving: One was sentenced to 10 lashes by a court in Jeddah and
another was detained in  Riyadh .  The incidents highlight the continuing disparity between
the rights of men and women in the kingdom. Women may be able to
vote and run in the 2015 municipal elections, but they still
can’t drive, argue in court before a judge, travel or get an
education or a job without male approval.  “Saudi Arabia made the giant leap this week from an F- to
an F+ in human rights,” David Keyes, executive director of
Advancing Human Rights, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Sept. 27. “It’s unconscionable that in the 21st
century a woman cannot drive herself to work, a restaurant or
just for the fun of it.”  Saudi Arabia , holder of the world’s biggest oil reserves,
has mostly avoided the anti-government demonstrations that have
rocked the Arab world this year. The kingdom announced spending
plans totaling about 500 billion riyals ($130 billion) to
prevent the regional unrest from sparking dissent at home.  Some women, inspired by the Arab revolts that led to the
fall of leaders in Egypt, Tunisia and  Libya , have been pushing
for change, using social-networking sites. One of their efforts,
a campaign called Baladi, calling for female enfranchisement,
partially succeeded with Abdullah’s announcement this week.
Still, it failed to lift the ban on women voting in tomorrow’s
municipal election.  Leading ‘Saudi Spring’  “Women in Saudi Arabia are leading the Saudi spring,”
said Hatoon al-Fassi, one of the Baladi campaigners, in a
telephone interview on Sept. 26. “We’re going to push for
driving as a next step.”  Another effort, Women2Drive, a campaign that called on
women with international drivers’ licenses to break the only ban
of its kind in the world and start driving on June 17, also
appeared to be making headway until this week. More than 50
women responded to the appeal that day. Several across the
kingdom continued to drive and authorities initially seemed to
turn a blind eye to the women behind the wheel.  Sheikh Mohammed al-Nujaimi, a Saudi cleric who is a member
of the non-governmental Sharia Scholars Institute, said every
country punishes infringements of rules. “I haven’t heard about
the lashing sentence, but if people violate laws, there will be
chaos,” he said in a telephone interview today from Riyadh.  Police Summons  Women2Drive said the woman who was sentenced to 10 lashes
had appeared at the Jeddah court twice before the sentencing.
Two other women have been called to court, including Najla
Hariri, who was forced to sign a pledge not to drive again and
is scheduled to appear before a Jeddah court for trial in one
month, and another woman who is on trial in the  Eastern
Province , the group said.  “This is completely unacceptable and certainly breaks laws
and regulations as well as international treaties that Saudi
Arabia has signed,” Women2Drive said in a Sept. 27 statement.
“What is happening is horrifying and must immediately be
stopped.”  Madeeha Ajroush, a 58-year-old psychotherapist, said she
was detained in Riyadh after driving “to express my joy at the
king’s decision.”  “Someone saw me drive and complained to authorities,”
Ajroush said in a telephone interview yesterday. “After I got
home, the police came to summon me.” She spent 3 1/2 hours at
the police station, signed a no-driving pledge and was let go.  Teaching Driving  Hariri, a 45-year-old housewife, said she received a call
on Sept. 21 summoning her to appear before Jeddah’s prosecutor
on Sept. 25, the day the king issued his decree.  “My need to drive should not be considered a defiance of
the law, the ruler or religion,” said Hariri in a telephone
interview from Jeddah on Sept. 27. “I drive out of a need,
because I don’t have a driver.”  The latest government actions have led to a suspension of a
new initiative that Women2Drive campaigners had hoped would
boost their effort: teaching women how to drive. More than 1,500
women had ticked the “learn” box on a confidential form the
campaigners sent around by e-mail.  During the summer months, a small group of women looked for
neighborhoods where students can practice without getting
arrested, compiled instructional material, including how-to
videos, for the theoretical part of the course and looked around
for female volunteers with valid international licenses.  ‘No Written Law’  “There’s no written law that bans women from driving, so
how can women drivers be prosecuted?” said Noura Yousef, one of
the campaign organizers, in a telephone interview from Jeddah on
Sept. 26.  Inrahim Al Mugaiteeb, an activist and president of the
Human Rights First Society, said Saudi judges can hand down
sentences based on their interpretation of Islamic Sharia law
even when there’s no corresponding rule on the country’s statute
books. “This is why it’s not uncommon to see sentences given on
the same crime, sometimes in the same city, that are radically
different,” he said.  Saudi Arabia enforces restrictions interpreted from the
Wahhabi version of Sunni Islam. In addition to the restrictions
on women, the government enforces strict gender segregations in
public, including at restaurants, schools and lines at fast food
take-outs.  The last time a group of women publicly defied the driving
ban was on Nov. 6, 1990, when U.S. troops massed in Saudi Arabia
to prepare for a war that would expel Iraqi forces from  Kuwait .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama, Bahrain at:
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  