-- 
Saw Palmetto Fruit Doesn’t Ease Enlarged Prostate, New Research Finds

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-09-27T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/saw-palmetto-fruit-doesn-t-ease-enlarged-prostate-new-research-finds.html
Men with enlarged prostates who
took higher doses of the herbal supplement saw palmetto had no
greater relief from incontinence or difficult urination than
those given a placebo, researchers said.  More than 300 men at least 45 years old were given a daily
dose of saw palmetto or a sugar pill. Over 17 months, those on
the supplement had their doses increased to 960 milligrams, or
triple the standard amount, according to the study released
today in the Journal of the  American Medical Association .  “We could not measure a beneficial effect of these
medicines over the duration of our study,” said co-author
 Gerald Andriole , the chief of urologic surgery at Washington
University School of Medicine in  St. Louis , in an interview.  Millions of men have been taking the supplement for decades
as a natural remedy to ease symptoms of a swollen prostate,
especially in  Europe  where doctors recommend it over traditional
drug treatments, Andriole said in an interview. U.S. sales of
saw palmetto were $125 million last year, little changed from
2009, according to the Nutrition Business Journal.  A 2006 study also found the supplement wasn’t effective in
reducing the symptoms for  BPH , or benign prostatic hyperlasia, a
non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate gland that affects
half of men older than 60 and 90 percent of those 70 and older.
The condition, often treated with drugs including Merck & Co.’s
Proscar or GlaxoSmithKline Plc’s Avodart, can require surgery.
The previous research left open the question of whether higher
doses of the extract would have an effect.  The new study was funded by the  National Institutes of
Health , the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and
Kidney Diseases, the National Center for Complementary and
Alternative Medicine and the NIH Office of Dietary Supplements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 