-- 
Scene Last Night: Kovner, Henry VIII, Ackermann, Anna Netrebko

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-09-27T13:38:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/scene-last-night-kovner-ackermann-bass-henry-viii-anna-netrebko-tyra.html
“Let’s just say, I think this is
my time,”  Anna Netrebko  suggested after her performance in
“Anna Bolena” at the  Metropolitan Opera ’s opening gala last
night.  “Tomorrow it’s going to be someone else’s.”  Netrebko sang in a new staging of Donizetti’s opera about
 Anne Boleyn , whose beheading started a trend at the court of
Henry VIII.  Netrebko had taken her seat at the post-performance supper.
The meal was spiced lamb and pearl couscous. The decor included
giant banners of Holbein paintings, candlelight and bowls filled
with flowers, grapes and pears.  It was a sumptuous conclusion to Anna’s final mad moments
when she swept her long hair away from her neck and ran off to
her beheading.  Netrebko, seated next to her director, David McVicar,
recalled staging the moment.  “We worked together, and we came up with the simplest
solution,” McVicar said.  “He is the one who decides,” Netrebko said. “What I work
on, is if I have enough rings on my fingers to really sparkle.”  “She is the true queen of the opera,” Mercedes Bass,
chairman of the gala and wife of oil billionaire  Sid Bass  said,
as waiters passed around sherry trifle. “She controls the
stage.”  The Basses funded the production, the Met’s first of the
opera. The Met plans to produce Donizetti’s two other Tudor
operas, even though Netrebko has declined to sing in them.  Josef Ackermann   Bruce Kovner , who recently announced he is retiring from
his hedge fund Caxton Associates LP, said he remembers seeing
the Donizetti queen operas with  Beverly Sills  at New York City
Opera.  “I was just out of grad school and I thought, this is
really living,” said Kovner, a Metropolitan Opera board member
and chairman of the Juilliard School. The Met production was
“different but wonderful,” he later added.  The Met’s opening night once again drew the support of
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , whose chairman and chief executive, Josef Ackermann, said he was happy to be there.  “My head is full of the debt crisis,” Ackermann said.
“I’m happy to relax at least for an evening.”  For tenor Stephen Costello, the night was also an early
celebration of his 30th birthday, which included distinguished
singer friends breaking out in a rendition of “Happy Birthday.”  Sher’s ‘Funny Girl’  Among the 1,100 guests at the gala supper, served in a tent
on the Lincoln Center campus, were Kevin Kennedy, of  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the incoming president of the Metropolitan
Opera; Willem Kooyker, founder of commodity hedge fund Blenheim
Capital Management; George Weiss, founder of Weiss International
Management; theater and opera director Bartlett Sher, who’s
bringing “Funny Girl” to Broadway; and model Tyra Banks,
author of the recently released teen novel “Modelland.”  Actress Leelee Sobieski said she hasn’t played a queen but
she’d like to. “Essex and Elizabeth” with Bette Davis is one
of her favorite movies.  The event raised $5.3 million.  “All of us lost our heads over this performance,” said
 Peter Gelb , general manager of the Metropolitan Opera.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 