-- 
SEC Proposes Cut in Threshold for Trading Halts

-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-09-27T18:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/sec-reports-propsals-to-revise-market-wide-circuit-breakers.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission began an overhaul of rules adopted a quarter century
ago to shut down the stock market and related futures trading
during periods of volatility, proposing that curbs be triggered
when the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falls 7 percent.  The changes would switch the index used for circuit
breakers to the S&P 500 from the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
according to proposals submitted by U.S. equities exchanges and
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Index declines that
set off halts in stocks, options and futures would be reduced
and their duration shortened, according to a summary of the
proposals from the SEC.  “Tighter circuit breakers and a coordinated effort will
allow everyone to take a breath when it’s needed,” William Karsh, a consultant and former chief operating officer at  Jersey
City , New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC, said in a phone
interview. “If they stop trading and give people a chance to
assess what’s going on, they can reopen without the crazy
whipping action we saw on May 6, 2010.”  Regulators have been seeking ways to prevent market
disruptions such as the May 6, 2010, plunge in which the Dow
briefly dropped 9.2 percent in what came to be known as the
flash crash. Rules adopted last year halt trading in many
individual stocks when they swing more than 10 percent and
mandate additional obligations for market makers.  Smaller Drops  S&P 500  declines of 7 percent, 13 percent and 20 percent
from the prior day’s close would set off halts across all
markets, narrowing the current thresholds of 10 percent, 20
percent and 30 percent in the Dow average, according to the SEC.  The proposed 7 percent circuit breakers would have been
triggered 10 days since October 1987, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Those dates include the May 6, 2010, rout and five
days in October 2008, the month after Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s collapsed, the data show.  Opting for the S&P 500 instead of the 30-member Dow will
allow market volatility to be assessed against price changes in
a broader range of securities, NYSE said in its proposal. Since
the most actively traded options and futures on index products
are also based on the broader benchmark, the switch will allow
for a “better cross-market measure” of volatility, NYSE said.  Advisory Panel  The exchanges and Finra followed many of the
recommendations by an advisory committee to the SEC and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which said in February
that marketwide halts should be permitted later in the day. The
exchanges proposed allowing halts until 3:25 p.m.  New York  time,
according to the NYSE document.  The exchanges will also calculate the threshold for halting
trading daily instead of once each quarter, they told the SEC.
This will ensure that trigger levels “relate to current market
conditions, and are not compared to what may be stale market
conditions,” NYSE said in its proposal. The trigger values will
be published before trading begins each day, NYSE said.  Plunges after 9:30 a.m. and until 3:25 p.m. that set off
the halts will pause trading for 15 minutes, NYSE’s proposal
said. The exchanges would scrap the current system of halts of
different durations based on what time the drop takes place. A
20 percent decline, whenever it occurs, would stop trading for
the rest of the day.  ‘No-Brainer’  “Recalculating the tripwire on a daily rather than
quarterly basis is a no-brainer,”  Mike Shea , managing partner
at Direct Access Partners LLC, said in an e-mail. Allowing
trading to be halted prior to only one point in time, 3:25 p.m.,
simplifies the process “without any sort of radical
consequences.”  Reducing the trigger level and length of halts means less
disruption to markets while preserving the ability to stop
trading during “serious market declines,” NYSE said. NYSE said
the tweaks will be better in “today’s markets, where trading
information travels in micro-second speed.”  The marketwide circuit breaker has only been triggered
once, on Oct. 27, 1997, NYSE said. The curbs at the time were
based on declines in the Dow of 350 points and 550 points. They
went off twice that day, first at 2:35 p.m. and then at 3:30
p.m. The second halted trading for the rest of the session.  The agency will review comments on how the suggested
changes to the marketwide curbs will work with another proposal
by the exchanges and Finra to alter circuit breakers for
individual securities instituted after the May 6, 2010.  Comments may be submitted to the SEC for 21 days once the
exchanges’ and Finra’s rule proposals are published in the
Federal Register. The SEC must approve the rules for them to go
into effect.  “Anything that increases consumer confidence in  Wall
Street  and the market is positive,” Karsh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 