-- 
SEC’s Notice to S&P May Signal Enforcement Cases Against Rating Companies

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-09-27T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/sec-s-notice-to-s-p-may-signal-enforcement-cases-against-raters.html
Four years after defaults on U.S.
home loans began to soar, regulators may be crafting their first
case against a credit-rating firm for deeming mortgage-backed
securities safe investments for pension funds and endowments.  Standard & Poor’s , the world’s largest provider of credit
ratings, could face claims by the Securities and Exchange
Commission related to the top grade it gave in 2007 to a $1.6
billion collateralized debt obligation that was downgraded six
months later, McGraw-Hill Cos., S&P’s parent company, said in a
regulatory filing yesterday.  “This was long overdue. They should have done this in
2007,” said Sylvain Raynes, a principal at R&R Consulting in
New York and a former analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.
“It’s not just a fishing expedition. They’re very serious about
shaking up the ratings world and putting everyone else on
notice.”  Credit-rating firms including S&P, Moody’s Corp. and Fitch
Ratings Ltd. have come under fire from lawmakers and investors
for failing to identify risks in the run-up to the financial
crisis. While regulators have stepped up oversight of the firms
and their processes for rating securities, they have yet to mete
out sanctions.  The weakness in the subprime market was apparent by 2007,
said  Gene Phillips , a director at New York-based consulting firm
PF2 Securities Evaluations Inc. “Everybody knew the game was
over well before then,” he said. “Banks were actively trying
to get deals done to clean up their balance sheets.”  ‘Striking Example’  In the S&P matter, the SEC may seek penalties including
disgorgement of fees related to Delphinus CDO 2007-1, a deal
highlighted in a U.S. Senate panel’s report as a “striking
example” of how ratings firms failed. S&P, Moody’s and Fitch
all rated the CDO.  S&P rated six tranches of Delphinus AAA in August 2007 and
began downgrading the securities by the end of the year,
according to the U.S. Senate  Permanent Subcommittee  on
Investigations report released in April. By the end of 2008,
they were rated as junk, according to the report.  The SEC has previously sanctioned others involved in the
mortgage securitization stream, from loan originators to the
banks who bundled them into securities for sale to investors.
The SEC last year said Moody’s violated its own procedures in
declining to correct errors in ratings on constant proportion
debt obligations out of concern that doing so would negatively
impact the firm. The SEC declined to sue Moody’s, citing
uncertainty about jurisdiction over the conduct, which had
occurred in  Europe .  Levin Report  CDOs are pools of assets such as mortgage bonds packaged
into new securities in which interest payments on the underlying
bonds or loans are used to pay investors.  In e-mails released by the Senate investigations panel led
by Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin , some S&P analysts questioned
whether the Delphinus bonds deserved top grades. The analysts
said the securities backing the deal were different from what
bankers had described, according to the report.  “Um ... looks like the remaining portion is actually all
sub-prime,” S&P analyst Lois Cheng wrote.  “Do you want to address this with them, or let it go?”
Lauren Sprinkle, another S&P analyst, replied. “Hey, let the
higher ups handle this,” Shannon Mooney, another analyst,
wrote, according to the e-mails.  The e-mails also signaled that S&P employees were aware
that a technicality had allowed Delphinus to skirt new rules at
S&P that would have negatively affected its rating. The rules,
which took effect a day before the Delphinus deal closed, were
aimed at making such ratings more conservative, reflecting the
firm’s expectation of imminent downgrades of mortgage-linked
securities.  Dummies  Delphinus, like several other CDOs, was created using
“dummies,” indicative securities used as placeholders,
according to the e-mails. S&P had rated Delphinus based on the
dummies rather than the actual securities, which weren’t
acquired until the deal closed. A rating based on the actual
securities would have been notched lower under S&P’s new
protocol, according to the e-mails. The analysts later discussed
whether the new rules should have applied to Delphinus, the e-
mails show.  Cheng, reached at her office at S&P, declined to comment.
Sprinkle referred questions to Sweeney, the S&P spokesman.  Fitch, a unit of Paris-based Fimalac SA, hasn’t received a
Wells notice regarding the Delphinus CDO or any other, said
 Daniel Noonan , a spokesman for the company. Moody’s also hasn’t
received a notice about the deal, said  Michael Adler , a
spokesman for the New York-based rater.  Magnetar Trade  About three-quarters of Delphinus, which was underwritten
by  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and managed by Delaware Asset
Advisors, was based on subprime mortgages, according to a Fitch
Ratings Ltd. report. Magnetar Capital Partners LLC invested in
the deal, according to a report by ProPublica, a nonprofit
investigative organization. Steven Lipin, a spokesman for
Magnetar, didn’t return a call seeking comment.  Mizuho,  Japan ’s third-biggest lender by market value,
stepped up its activity in U.S. mortgage-backed securities in
late 2006 and 2007, just as the housing market began its steep
decline. As defaults on subprime home loans climbed, Mizuho
struggled to find buyers for its CDOs and, as their values
plummeted, had to absorb losses.  Alexander Rekeda, who worked on the deal for Mizuho and now
works for Guggenheim Securities in  New York , didn’t respond to a
phone call and an e-mail seeking comment.  S&P ‘Cooperating’  Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman for Tokyo-based Mizuho, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking comment sent outside regular business
hours in Japan.  A Wells notice is neither a formal allegation nor a finding
of wrongdoing, McGraw-Hill said in its statement. S&P has been
cooperating with the SEC in the matter and intends to continue
to do so, according to the statement. SEC spokesman  John Nester 
declined to comment.  S&P has successfully defended itself from investor lawsuits
since the financial crisis by arguing that ratings are opinions,
protected by the right to free speech, and that any mistakes
were inadvertent, said Jeffrey Manns, a professor of law at
George Washington University.  “They’ve won every lawsuit anybody has thrown at them and
they’ve managed to answer every question the SEC has asked in
the past,” said  Edward Atorino , an analyst who follows McGraw-
Hill at Benchmark Co. in New York.  Terry McGraw, the chief executive officer of S&P’s parent
company, said on a July 28 conference call with analysts that 30
lawsuits against the rater have been dismissed or dropped and
that he’s seeing “those dark clouds go away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  