-- 
Shanghai Closes 13 Subway Stations, Slows Trains After Crash Injures 271

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-28T04:34:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/shanghai-subway-train-collision-injures-at-least-40-people-500-evacuated.html
Shanghai ,  China ’s financial capital,
shuttered a subway line for 13 stations and slowed metro trains
after two locomotives collided yesterday, injuring 271 people.  Line 10 was closed from Hailun Road to Yili Road, according
to station announcements, which didn’t say when  services  would
resume. At Yuyuan Garden station, in central Shanghai, and the
stop closest to the crash site, security guards were directing
people to special buses run by the city government.  “I’m scared of taking the subway for the time being,” Li
Fei, a 36-year-old bank worker, said as she waited at a nearby
bus stop. “I’d rather take the bus because it’s safer.”  Rail stocks also fell in  Hong Kong  on concern the accident
may damp spending on subways following a slowdown in mainline
investments prompted by a fatal high-speed crash in July. The
Shanghai accident happened when a train careered into the back
of another one while controllers were running operations using a
manual system following an equipment failure.  “This is an alarm bell for the  subway system  after years
of rapid growth,” said Jack Xu, an analyst at Sinopac
Securities Asia Ltd. in Shanghai. “Investment in the sector may
slow in the near term.”  Shanghai Construction  The subway and maglev-train network in Shanghai expanded
more than sevenfold in eight years to 453 kilometers (281 miles)
to keep pace with a growing population and demand during last
year’s World Expo. Line 10 opened last year.  The equipment that had the fault was made by Casco Signal
Ltd., Shanghai Shentong Metro Co. Chairman Yu Guangyao said at a
press conference yesterday. The city is limiting train speeds to
45 kilometers an hour (28 miles per hour) and beginning an
investigation, he said.  Casco, a venture of  China Railway Signal & Communication
Corp.  and  Alstom SA (ALO) , also made the centralized traffic control
system for the railway line involved in the July high-speed
crash, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. A person who
answered the phone at Casco’s Shanghai headquarters said the
company wouldn’t take any media interviews. She declined to give
her name. When a Bloomberg reporter visited the office, no one
answered the door. Calls to Alstom’s media-relations office in
Beijing and to China Railway Signal’s headquarters in the city
also went unanswered.  CSR, China Railway  CSR Corp., which has made subway trains for lines in
Shanghai, Nanjing and Guangzhou, fell as much as 9.6 percent in
Hong Kong trading. It was down 6.5 percent at HK$3.03 as of
11:40 a.m. Railway-builder  China Railway Group Ltd. (601390)  tumbled as
much as 6.6 percent. Shanghai Metro dropped 1.3 percent to 8.64
yuan in Shanghai.  More than 500 people were evacuated from the two metro
trains yesterday, with 62 ambulances sent to the scene, Shanghai
Metro said. Of the injured, 180 are out of hospital, 30 are
under observation and 61 were admitted, none with life-
threatening injuries, Xu Jianguang, director-general of the
Shanghai Health Bureau, said at a press conference yesterday.  A train on the No. 10 line ran in the wrong direction on
July 28 because of a signaling fault during an upgrade,
according to a statement on Shanghai Metro’s website. No one was
injured.  Shanghai Network  Shanghai had 11 metro lines and one magnetic-levitation
track at the end of last year, which together handled an average
of 5.16 million passengers a day, according to a government
booklet. Two more metro lines are due to open by 2012,
stretching the network to 500 kilometers and likely boosting the
average number of passengers to more than 8 million a day, the
booklet said.  By comparison,  London  Underground is 402 kilometers long
and carries about 3 million passengers daily, based on data on
Transport for London’s  website .  China slashed nationwide spending on railway construction
by 50 percent last month to 33 billion yuan ($5.2 billion) as it
slowed work after the high-speed crash near Wenzhou city that
killed 40 people. The government also halted approval for new
lines and fired at least three officials.  The nation’s mainline rail network is set to reach 120,000
kilometers under a 2.8 trillion yuan, five-year investment plan
running through 2015. That includes boosting the high-speed
network, which opened in 2007, to 16,000 kilometers.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  