-- 
Slim Not Spared as Bond Rout Spreads to Highest-Rated Debt: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-09-27T12:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/slim-not-spared-as-bond-market-sell-off-spreads-mexico-credit.html
The rally in bonds from  Mexico ’s
highest-rated companies is turning into a rout as  Europe ’s debt
crisis causes investors to shun all emerging-market assets.  Yields on dollar bonds due in 2020 sold by Coca-Cola Femsa
SAB, the bottler rated A- by  Standard & Poor’s , jumped 44 basis
points, or 0.44 percentage point, in the past week to 3.96
percent. Yields on similar-maturity debt from America Movil SAB,
the wireless carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
surged 56 basis points. Borrowing costs for companies globally
that share the companies’ rating rose 15 basis points in the
past week, according to Bank of America Corp.  Investors who drove yields on Coca-Cola Femsa and America
Movil to record lows in August as a bet they could withstand the
global economic slowdown are now selling on concern a Greek
default may spark a financial crisis. U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  called on governments to unite with the
 European Central Bank , warning that failure to act threatened
“cascading default, bank runs and catastrophic risk.”  “Nothing is completely secure,” Miguel Angel Aguayo, a
fixed-income analyst at Grupo Financiero Banorte-Ixe, said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “This idea of too-big-to-
fail is a joke. As long as we see this uncertain outlook, yields
on these bonds are going to continue to rise, or at least remain
at these levels.”  Yields on the Mexican government’s dollar bonds maturing in
2020 also soared in the five days through yesterday, climbing 47
basis points to 4.14 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The government is rated BBB, the second-lowest
investment grade and two steps below Coca-Cola Femsa and  America
Movil .  Treasuries Rally  Yields on benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasuries sank five basis
points in the past week as investors turned to the securities
for refuge.  Investors are selling their investment-grade Mexican
government and corporate debt because the securities are in part
easier to trade than higher-yielding, junk-rated bonds, said
Gaston Guerrero, who helps manage about $300 million of
emerging-market debt at San Diego-based Precise Securities.  “If you’re looking for liquidity, you hit the bid wherever
you can find it,” Guerrero said in a telephone interview from
 San Diego . “Pretty much all asset classes have been hit. For
second-tier Mexican corporates, there’s really no bid there.”  Average yields on Mexico corporate debt overall have
climbed 104 basis points since the end of July, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co data.  Slowing Growth  Yields on Mexico City-based Coca-Cola Femsa’s benchmark
bonds fell to 3.25 percent on Aug. 18, the lowest since they
were issued in August 2010, before beginning to move higher the
following month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Jose Castro, a Mexico City-based investor relations officer
at Coca-Cola Femsa, didn’t immediately return a telephone
message seeking comment.  America Movil’s benchmark bonds also rallied last month,
with yields sinking to an all-time low of 3.48 percent on Aug.
18.  An America Movil official who asked not to be named because
of company policy declined to comment.  Arturo Elias , a spokesman
for Slim, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail.  Mexico’s economy will probably grow 4 percent this year
after expanding 5.4 percent in 2010, the fastest pace in a
decade, central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in a Sept. 8
interview with Mexico City-based Radio Formula. Growth in the
U.S., the destination for 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, will
slow to 1.6 percent this year, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 66 analysts.  Buying Opportunity  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 14 basis points to
262 at 8:20 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The peso rose 1.2 percent to 13.3741 per  U.S. dollar  today.
It’s down 7.8 percent this month.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 10 basis points to 196 yesterday, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in January 2013 fell 21 basis points yesterday to 5
percent.  ‘Cheap Options’  The slump in bonds from investment-grade companies
including Coca-Cola Femsa and America Movil may create a buying
opportunity, said  Guillermo Rodriguez , who helps manage about
$5.5 billion at Corp. Actinver SAB. The securities may rally if
European officials take measures to resolve  Greece ’s crisis, he
said.  “There are very cheap options in the market,” Rodriguez
said in a telephone interview from Mexico City. “Once there’s
calm, once there’s more certainty, we’ll start looking at the
good corporate bonds again.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on Sept. 25 that euro-
region leaders must erect a “barrier” around Greece and expand
the powers of the region’s rescue fund to safeguard other
European countries.  Investors are growing concerned European policy makers
won’t act in time to avoid a crisis similar to the one triggered
in 2008 by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., said
 Aziz Sunderji , a credit strategist at Barclays Plc.  The average yield on Mexican corporate debt surged 477
basis points in October 2008, the month after the collapse of
Lehman, to 13.64 percent, according to JPMorgan.  “The longer we don’t get any action from European policy
makers, the more worried people get and the more concerned they
are about a dramatic sell-off -- like a 2008 type of event,”
Sunderji said in a telephone interview from  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  