-- 
Slovenian Lawmakers Seen Approving EFSF

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-09-27T07:17:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/slovenian-lawmakers-seen-approving-efsf-as-debt-crisis-worsens.html
Slovenia  will probably approve a
3.66 billion-euro ($5 billion) guarantee to the European
Union’s rescue fund, bringing it closer to full passage as the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe  worsens, economists said.  Lawmakers will vote on the European Financial Stability
Facility today, seven days as concern rose that a government
collapse would prompt a delay. EU leaders on July 21 agreed to
upgrade the 440 billion-euro fund, which needs backing of all
members of the 17-nation euro area. A parliamentary committee
passed the bill to the house in a 7-6 vote last week.  Approval would leave Slovakia, the second-poorest euro
region member, as the most reluctant state to adopt a plan meant
to prevent the sovereign-debt crisis from engulfing countries
such as Italy or  Spain . German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  met
Slovenian leaders in August as she lobbied euro members to back
the plan. The Slovenian sum represents more than 10 percent of
gross domestic product.  “The EFSF bill will be passed, but with probably quite a
slim margin,” Michal Dybula, an economist at BNP Paribas in
Warsaw,  Poland , said in a phone interview yesterday. “Slovenian
politicians are aware of the importance of the vote for Europe
and they don’t need further pressure by anybody to make up their
mind.”  Question of Credibility  A rejection would hurt the euro region’s efforts to contain
the debt crisis and damage the credibility of Slovenia, the
Finance Ministry in Ljubljana warned last week. European
nations, including  Germany , have rejected calls from U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  to boost the capacity of
the EU rescue fund. Failure to act threatens “cascading
default, bank runs and catastrophic risk,” Geithner said.  “A rejection would clearly hit the  euro zone , opening
possibly the way for further rejections of the EFSF in other
countries,” Dybula said. “This would certainly fuel anger
among some euro-zone politicians about the Slovenian vote.”  The vote comes amid political turmoil in Slovenia, which
contributed to the  credit rating  cut by Moody’s Investor Service
on Sept. 23. The ratings service cited increased risk the
government may need to support the banking system, weak economic
outlook and heightened political uncertainty when it lowered the
score to Aa3, the fourth highest investment level, from Aa2.  The cut pushed up the former Yugoslav republic’s borrowing
costs. The extra yield investors demand to hold Slovenia’s bonds
maturing in 2021 rather than similar-maturity German debt rose
to a record 343 basis points, or 3.43 percent on the day of the
Moody’s rating cut.  Slovak Opposition  The difference more than doubled since the rejection of the
pension changes in June and was at 319 basis points at 9:14 a.m.
in Ljubljana, according to Bloomberg data.  Following the sovereign credit score cut, Slovenia’s three
biggest banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor d.d. and Abanka Vipa d.d. were put on review by Moody’s
for a possible downgrade. Nova Ljubljanska and Nova Kreditna are
majority owned by the government.  Slovakia  has little empathy for countries that aren’t
showing the fiscal discipline it was forced to endure as part of
becoming a EU member in 2004. Slovak Premier  Iveta Radicova 
proposed on Sept. 20 to link the vote on the euro bailout
facility with a confidence motion to boost the chances the
legislation will pass.  Growing Skepticism  Even after approval, Slovenia may grow more skeptical of
euro-region bailouts if the opposition  Slovenian Democratic
Party  prevails in early elections, which may take place as early
as December. Democratic Party leader Janez Jansa has said
countries such as Slovenia shouldn’t have to fund nations like
 Greece .  “Our party was always in favor of the euro and we are in
favor of measures for the stability of the euro region” said
Andrej Vizjak, a former economy minister and a member of the
Slovenian Democratic Party, on Sept. 23. “At the same time, we
are disappointed by the scarcity of information that the
government provided to lawmakers. We are very much interested
about the insurance of loans to Greece and during the debate we
will see if the answers are satisfactory and we can then change
our position.”  Slovenia is also among euro-region nations demanding
collateral from Greece in order to disburse the next tranche of
its bailout contribution.  “Slovenia wants the same treatment as  Finland  achieved,”
Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic  said in Wroclaw on Sept. 17,
according to public broadcaster TV Slovenija. “The regime for
collateral will probably be tied to a payment or giving up
profit from the temporary crisis mechanism.”  Slovenia’s guarantee for the upgraded EU bailout fund
would increase from an original 2.07 billion euros, according to
the  Finance Ministry .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  