-- 
Smart-Grid Sales in Latin America to Reach $1 Billion by 2015, GE Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-09-27T19:33:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/smart-grid-sales-in-latin-america-to-reach-1-billion-by-2015-ge-says.html
Sales of equipment to manage
electricity consumption in  Latin America  may reach $1 billion by
2015, up from $100 million now, as governments require utilities
to become more energy efficient, according to a  General Electric
Co. (GE)  manager.  Half of those sales will be in Brazil, where the government
is already taking steps to expedite investment in the smart-grid
industry, Roberto Vengochea, manager at GE’s Sao Paulo office,
said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Electricity theft and energy losses from poorly conducting
cables are prompting governments in the region to require the
use of smart-grid systems that may cut power consumption by as
much as 20 percent.  “This business will explode by 2015,” Vengochea said.
“Governments are coming out with new regulations, forcing
utilities to shift to smart metering.”  Latin American power distributors lose as much as 20
percent of their energy from people who illegally tap power from
nearby lines and heat loss, he said, and sometimes more.  “ Brazil  has the highest theft,” he said. “That’s one of
the reasons why Brazil is pushing most strongly toward smart
grids.”  The smart-grid market will be worth about $5.5 billion in
the U.S. and $5 billion in China this year, Albert Cheung, an
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s London office, said
today in an interview. “One billion for Latin America isn’t out
of the question if some big projects go ahead.”  GE sells smart meters and services that optimize grid
efficiency, Vengochea said.  64 Million Meters  Brazil has been drafting legislation over the past two
years that requires utilities to install 64 million smart meters
during the next decade. At about $100 each, that would lead to
$6.4 billion in sales through 2021, Roberto Falco, Vice
President for Latin America of Ventyx Inc., a unit of Swiss
power transmission gear maker  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , said in an interview.  The regulations may lead to a “boom” in smart grid
infrastructure in other countries in the region, he said. “All
the other Latin American countries are sitting and waiting to
see what comes out of the Brazil regulator.”  Vengochea said he expects 20 percent of electricity meters
in Brazil to be smart meters by 2015, leading to energy savings
equivalent to about 300 megawatts of capacity.  Utilities  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3) ,  Ampla Energia e Servicos SA (CBEE3) ,
 Light SA (LIGT3) , Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais and Electricidade de
Sao Paulo SA are all running smart-meter pilot projects,
according to company statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  