-- 
Southern Gambles on First U.S. Nuclear Reactors in 30 Years

-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-09-27T23:00:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/southern-gambles-on-first-u-s-nuclear-reactors-in-a-generation.html
Southern Co. is poised to end a
three-decade freeze on nuclear development as the U.S. Nuclear
Regulatory Commission considers granting it the first license to
build new reactors since the Three Mile Island accident.  At stake for Atlanta-based Southern is more than its bottom
line and reputation, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Fanning said
during two interviews. If there is to be a nuclear revival in
the U.S., Southern, the largest U.S. power company, must deliver
the $14 billion project on-time and on-budget, he said.  “We’ve got to be successful,” Fanning said during an
interview at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York . “This is the
first, best shot for the nuclear renaissance in America.”  Nuclear expansion ground to a halt in the U.S. as cost
overruns, construction delays and a thicket of new regulations
after Three Mile Island’s partial meltdown in 1979 turned some
plants into economic disasters, Ted Quinn, past president of the
American Nuclear Society, said in a telephone interview.  A far worse accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
station this March so far hasn’t derailed Southern’s project at
Plant Vogtle south of Augusta, Georgia, as critics predicted.  No Japan Effect  Commission staff concluded that Japan’s nuclear disaster
didn’t offer any new information to consider in the agency’s
environmental review of the Westinghouse AP1000 reactors that
will power Vogtle, Gregory Hatchett, environmental-branch chief
in the agency’s new reactor office, said during a hearing today
examining Southern’s license application.  Southern is on track to license the plant by early 2012,
provided the commission certifies design changes for the
reactors, said Scott Burnell, a commission spokesman, in a
telephone interview.  Success at Vogtle, which will be outfitted with safety
systems designed to work during a station blackout like the one
that crippled Fukushima, could spur investment in other atomic
projects in Virginia,  Florida  and the Carolinas, Fanning said.  If Southern bungles the project, it may prove that the time
for massive nuclear reactors is over, moving the nation toward
smaller modular reactors or away from atomic power altogether,
said  Chris Gadomski , lead nuclear analyst for Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Future Nuclear Development  “If the new projects are fumbled -- over-budget, behind-
schedule -- then utilities will be much more hesitant to start
new nuclear construction,” Gadomski said in a telephone
interview.  Southern and its partners have invested more than $3
billion in the site since 2009, Fanning said, receiving special
dispensation from the commission to begin work on cooling towers
and other structures not deemed essential to nuclear safety
while they awaited final approval to build the reactors.  So far, Vogtle’s new reactors remain under budget and on
schedule to begin producing power in 2016 and 2017, Southern
said in a Sept. 20 filing with  Georgia  regulators. Georgia
consumers will pay $6.1 billion of the project’s costs through
rate hikes, while the Obama administration has pledged loan
guarantees for another $8.3 billion.  Challenges Remain  Vogtle still faces challenges. U.S. Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, on Sept. 23 called for
scrutiny of federal nuclear loan guarantees following the
collapse of solar panel-maker Solyndra LLC, which received a
$535 million loan guarantee.  Vogtle’s opponents worry it will suffer the same cost
overruns experienced by other first-of-a-kind reactors in the
U.S. when new units were being built a generation ago, Sara
Barczak, program director with the Southern Alliance for Clean
Energy, said in an interview.  She’s also concerned that Vogtle may have to be redesigned
to comply with tougher seismic standards crafted following
Fukushima and an August temblor in  Virginia .  “We want them to get it right, get it worked out, because
all they’re going to do is cost ratepayers and taxpayers
money,” said Barczak.  Seismic testing at the site showed that Vogtle’s potential
ground movement exceeds the AP1000 containment structure’s
design at certain frequencies, Bret Tegeler, senior structural
engineer with the atomic agency, said during the Sept. 27
hearing. Staff concluded the variance posed minimal erosion to
Vogtle’s safety margins because the condensed soil used at the
site and nuclear island housing the reactors would absorb
vibrations, he said.  Rocket Man  “We remain confident in the process,” Fanning said. “We
fully understand that this is the first nuclear project in a
generation. And therefore it will have everyone’s attention.”  Fanning joined the company as a financial analyst in 1980,
earning the nickname “Rocket Man” as he blazed through 15 jobs
in eight business units before ascending to CEO last year.  A monitor in his Atlanta office broadcasts live images from
the Vogtle construction site, where workers are piecing together
a giant, plate-shaped base for the reactor’s containment vessel.  “It is in my face every day,” Fanning said. “There’s
nothing more important, probably, that I can spend my time on.”  Fanning and Joseph “Buzz” Miller, Southern’s executive
vice-president of nuclear development, learned the importance of
scrutinizing the process by interviewing executives who
struggled to build the first two reactors at that site in the
1970s and 1980s.  A Master Plan  The 104 nuclear  power plants  built a generation ago in the
U.S. were customized to each operator’s whims and built without
a true master plan, said John Polcyn, a consultant and senior
nuclear adviser who has worked on about two dozen plants in the
U.S., Japan and  China .  “The one thing the industry has really gotten mature about
is standardization,” Polcyn said. “Is it perfect? No. But I
tell you we are eons better than we were the last go-round.”  Miller and Fanning have sophisticated software to monitor
every element of the project and pre-fabricated construction
that’s first being tested at two plants in China.  Miller describes his management style as “Whac-A-Mole,”
dealing with problems immediately as they arise and planning for
every contingency. His approach has been tested as Southern and
its partners deal with suppliers who haven’t built to nuclear
construction’s exacting standards since the 1990s.  Broken Crane  Among the early headaches: Delays to the world’s largest
crane, which lies in pieces at Vogtle. Assembly of the twin-
masted crane was supposed to begin Sept. 20 but has been delayed
indefinitely since its manufacturer, Bigge Crane and Rigging
Co., discovered flaws in crucial pieces of steel that join the
crane’s main boom to the carriage at its base, said Gentry Brann, a vice president at Louisiana-based Shaw.  While Bigge recasts and inspects new pieces, Miller has
devised plans to deploy smaller cranes so work can continue if
the delays persist.  “We expected those kinds of issues as a project risk when
we started,” Miller said. “We’ve managed through it quite well
to this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  