-- 
South Korea Approves Trip to North by Head of Ruling Party in Sign of Thaw

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-09-27T23:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/south-korea-approves-trip-to-north-by-head-of-ruling-party-1-.html
The South Korean government
approved a plan by the head of the nation’s ruling party to
visit  North Korea  this month in a further sign that ties may be
warming between the two civil war foes.  Hong Joon Pyo and four other members of President  Lee Myung Bak ’s  Grand National Party  were cleared for the visit yesterday,
the Unification Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. Hong
will travel to the Gaeseong industrial complex close to the
border, where South Korean companies have factories using North
Korean labor, and meet with business owners there, the statement
said.  Relations between the two countries soured last year over
attacks that killed 50 South Koreans. A Russian proposal to
build a natural-gas pipeline through the divided peninsula was
described this month by Hong as a possible turning point for
inter-Korean relations.  The Gaeseong complex is the only project between the two
Koreas after Lee in May 2010 cut off trade with the North in
retaliation for the sinking of a warship.  OAO Gazprom this month signed preliminary agreements with
 South Korea ’s  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  and the North Korean government to
build a pipeline that would carry as much as 10 billion cubic
meters of gas a year across its eastern border to the peninsula.
The Russian gas-export monopoly yesterday said it may ship more
fuel than earlier planned as well as supplying North Korean
power generation.  ‘Win-Win’  Lee called the project “a win-win for everyone involved”
in an interview this month.  Lee rolled back his predecessor’s “Sunshine Policy” of
engaging with North Korea, arguing that this rewarded the regime
for provocative behavior -- a view echoed by the administration
of U.S. President  Barack Obama . The U.S. last year tightened
financial sanctions aimed at cutting off the regime’s access to
foreign currency.  U.S. and United Nations sanctions are aimed at bringing the
North back to nuclear disarmament talks involving the U.S.,
 China ,  Russia  and  Japan , as well as the two Koreas. Six-party
talks negotiators from both sides met with their Chinese
counterpart in Beijing last week.  South Korea’s official  food aid  to the North dropped from
400,000 metric tons of rice in 2007 to zero for the past two
years, according to the United Nations Food and Agricultural
Organization.  ‘Paradigm Shift’  Hong has called for “a paradigm shift” in aid policy
toward North Korea.  “It’s time to make our North Korea policy a bit more
flexible,” he said in a speech at the National Assembly on Sept.
7. South Korea should improve irrigation systems and operate
joint farming projects in the North to boost the country’s food
output, Hong said.  Relations with North Korea reached their worst level in
decades last year, when North Korea shelled Yeonpyeong Island,
killing four people, and was blamed for a torpedo attack on the
Cheonan warship that claimed 46 lives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 