-- 
Southern Wants to Speed Reactor Building After NRC Approval

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 
2011-09-27T19:49:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/southern-wants-to-speed-reactor-building-after-nrc-approval-2-.html
Southern Co. (SO) , the biggest U.S.
utility by market value, wants to speed construction of new
reactors in Georgia as soon as the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
certifies the design, a company executive said.  “We will be in a position to implement the rule-making as
soon as it is affirmed,” Joseph “Buzz” Miller, executive vice
president for nuclear development of Southern Nuclear Operating
Co., said today at a meeting at NRC headquarters in Rockville,
Maryland.  The NRC must issue final approval of the AP1000 reactor,
designed by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Westinghouse Electric unit, before
it can issue the first license in more than 30 years to build
and operate the reactors. Atlanta-based Southern wants the NRC
to issue the license for building two units at its Vogtle plant
near Augusta,  Georgia , after the commission votes on the
designs, rather than wait 30 days after the rule is published in
the Federal Register.  The agency has already given Southern permission to perform
limited construction, including digging a hole for the
foundation and preparing it for later work, Burnell said in
August. The company wants to stay on schedule to begin producing
electricity with the reactors in 2016 and 2017, spokesman Steve Higginbottom said in August.  “The staff would expect we could publish that final rule
very early next year,” NRC spokesman Scott Burnell said in a
Sept. 16 phone interview.  ’Historic Day’  “This is an important and historic day,” NRC Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko  said at today’s meeting, the first such hearing
on a new reactor-license application since the 1970s.  Scana Corp. (SCG)  of Cayce,  South Carolina , is scheduled next.
Scana has proposed adding two AP1000 reactors at its Virgil C.
Summer plant about 26 miles (42 kilometers) northwest of
Columbia, the state capital. The NRC has scheduled an Oct. 12
hearing for that project.  Westinghouse changed the design of the AP1000’s containment
shield to accommodate U.S. rules, drafted after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, mandating that such structures be able to
withstand aircraft strikes. Southern and Scana have said they
plan to build the modified reactors.  China is building the world’s first two AP1000 reactors,
relying on an earlier design.  No Fukushima Lessons  The NRC’s staff conducting an environmental review of the
AP1000 concluded that  Japan ’s nuclear disaster in March didn’t
offer any new information to consider in the agency study,
Gregory Hatchett, environmental-branch chief in the agency’s new
reactor office, said at today’s meeting. An earthquake and
tsunami caused radiation leaks and meltdowns at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  “I’m not understanding why this wasn’t significant
information,” Jaczko said. The NRC chairman has urged
colleagues to quickly adopt a task-force’s recommendations for
improving safety at the 104 commercial U.S. reactors in response
to the catastrophe.  Changes in the review weren’t warranted because the
disaster hasn’t called into question the NRC staff’s analysis of
the AP1000’s ability to handle severe accidents, Hatchett said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Rockville,  Maryland  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  