-- 
Spanish Central Government Budget Deficit Narrows to 2.8% of GDP From 3.3%

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-09-27T12:19:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/spanish-central-government-budget-deficit-narrows-to-2-8-of-gdp-from-3-3-.html
Spain ’s central government budget
deficit narrowed in the eight months through August, bolstering
the nation’s chances of meeting its deficit goal even as
regional administrations fall behind their targets.  The central government reported a 30.9 billion-euro ($40.5
billion) deficit, or 2.83 percent of gross domestic product,
compared with 3.28 percent a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry 
in Madrid said today.  For the full year, the central government aims to reduce
the gap to 4.8 percent of GDP, as part of the goal to cut the
overall public-sector shortfall to 6 percent from 9.2 percent in
2010, when it was the third-biggest in the euro region.  Spain’s central government may have to beat its deficit
target this year to offset slippage by regional governments,
Fitch Ratings Director Douglas Renwick said on Sept. 13. The
Socialist government, which faces elections on Nov. 20, is
trying to stem a surge in its borrowing costs as the sovereign-
debt crisis threatens to engulf Spain and  Italy .  Deputy Finance Minister Juan Manuel Lopez Carbajo said the
country is on track to meet the deficit goal, and it’s “very
important” for the 17 regions to pull their weight.  “We’re not going to give a special buffer to anyone,” he
told reporters in Madrid today. “We all have to meet the
objectives.”  Spain’s regions posted an average budget shortfall of 1.2
percent of GDP in the first half, the Finance Ministry said on
Sept. 8, citing data that aren’t directly comparable with the
figures used in the final deficit calculations. The regions have
a deficit target of 1.3 percent of GDP this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  