-- 
Starbucks Sevenfold Gain Over S&P 500 Fuels Put Buying: Options

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-27T15:43:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/starbucks-sevenfold-gain-over-s-p-500-fuels-put-buying-options.html
The advance that sent  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX)  up almost seven times as much as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in the last three years has pushed bearish bets in the
options market to a 12-year high.  Outstanding puts to sell the Seattle-based company jumped
18 percent in the past two weeks, reaching 1.91 times the number
of calls on Sept. 21, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the highest ratio since March 1999, the data show.
Starbucks has gained 451 percent since slipping to a seven-year
low in November 2008, while the S&P 500 has risen 72 percent
since its bottom in March 2009, data show.  Traders are trying to lock in gains on speculation slowing
economic growth will send customers to competitors who charge
less for coffee than Starbucks. The stock trailed the  S&P 500 
during the credit crisis, falling as much as 82 percent from its
May 2006 peak compared with a 57 percent decline in the
benchmark index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “People have a memory of how fast these things can get hit
when the economy turns,” Shawn Price, who oversees $2.4 billion
including Starbucks shares at Navellier & Associates Inc. in
Reno,  Nevada , said in a telephone interview yesterday. While
Starbucks has strong earnings and sales growth, “we’re going
through deceleration because they’ve gotten as lean as they can
get,” he said.  Starbucks’s margin, or income excluding some items divided
by sales, increased to 8.86 percent in 2010 from 3.04 percent in
fiscal 2008, and is projected by analysts to rise to 10.11
percent this year.  ‘We Make Adjustments’  “We’re always looking at pricing, we’re always looking at
what we do in stores and we make adjustments,” Alan Hilowitz, a
Starbucks spokesman, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“People want their Starbucks.” He declined to comment about
the options trading in an e-mail yesterday.  Ownership of bearish Starbucks options rose in the past two
weeks, and the contracts with the biggest increase in open
interest were puts, Bloomberg data show. Options to sell shares
expiring in January with $36 strike prices added 15,182
contracts, the most among all Starbucks options, followed by $39
puts expiring in January.  “People may be putting on hedges just to protect positions
through year-end, especially given the volatility of the broad
market,”  Henry Schwartz , president of Trade Alert LLC, a New
York-based provider of options-market data and analytics, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s interesting because
it’s a building trend.”  Bullish Bets  Since options began trading in Starbucks, the put-to-call
ratio never averaged more than 0.88-to-1 in a calendar year,
meaning bullish bets always outnumbered bearish ones. This year,
the mean put-to-call ratio is 1.26-to-1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Starbucks trades at 25.81 times profit, 70 percent more
than the consumer-discretionary companies in the S&P 500.  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT)  trades at 16.55 times profit, while J.M. Smucker
Co.’s price-to-earnings ratio is 15.67.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index fell
8.7 percent to 35.63 as of 11:39 a.m. in  New York . The gauge of
S&P 500 options prices dropped 19 percent from a two-year high
of 48 on Aug. 8, the first session after S&P lowered its rating
on  U.S. government debt , through yesterday.  Europe ’s VStoxx
Index, which measures the cost of options to protect against
losses in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, slid 7.6 percent to 45.52
today.  Implied Volatility  Implied volatility, the key gauge of options prices, for
Starbucks contracts expiring in three months yesterday was
45.08, down 3.2 percent from 46.6 on Sept. 23, its highest level
since July 2009.  Starbucks, which has beaten analyst earnings estimates for
10 straight quarters, will be “opportunistic” and
“aggressive” in seeking growth, Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  told reporters in  Madrid  on Sept. 19, saying he is
“more optimistic” about the company than ever.  Sales in its global consumer-products and food-service
segment increased 26 percent in the third quarter ended July 3,
as total company revenue gained 12 percent to $2.93 billion.
This year, the company began selling Via instant-coffee packets
in  China  and is introducing them elsewhere in  Asia  and
 Australia . In March, Starbucks signed a deal with  Green Mountain
Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  to sell K-Cup capsules for  Green Mountain ’s
Keurig brewer.  “They’ve done a better of job of just kind of getting back
to the basics and getting focused,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “They certainly have a strong brand name. I think
it’s well-recognized in international markets.”  Consumer Sentiment  Consumer sentiment dropped earlier this month to the
weakest point since the recession ended in June 2009. J.M.
Smucker cut prices for the majority of coffee products sold in
the U.S. by an average 6 percent last month. Kraft followed with
a 6 percent reduction on some U.S. coffee, including Maxwell
House and Yuban, about a week later.  A 12-ounce brewed coffee from Starbucks ranges between
$1.50 and $1.75, while the 16-ounce version costs $1.95 to
$2.20, according to Hilowitz.  Starbucks packaged coffees sold in grocery stores and
retailers excluding Wal-Mart Stores Inc. lost 0.6 percentage
point of dollar market share in September, while Folgers and
private-label brands gained, according to data from researcher
SymphonyIRI Group. Starbucks raised prices on coffees sold at
grocery stores in March for the first time in two years. Schultz
last month said on CNBC the company is looking at ways to lower
coffee prices.  “Consumers have shown more of a propensity to trade down
to cheaper coffee than they did a year ago,” Kenneth Shea, a
Bloomberg Industries analyst in Princeton,  New Jersey , said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “It puts Starbucks in a tough
situation. It’s going to have to follow suit and take prices
down, or it’s likely to see more market-share erosion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  