-- 
Stillwater Pulls Junk Bond Offer Citing Market ‘Deterioration’

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-09-27T13:39:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/stillwater-pulls-junk-bond-offer-citing-market-deterioration-.html
Stillwater Mining Co. (SWC) , the platinum
producer that’s buying Peregrine Metals Ltd., canceled its plan
to sell $300 million of speculative-grade bonds citing
“dramatic deterioration” of capital markets this week.  Relative yields on high-yield, high-risk bonds have soared
39 basis points to 800 basis points, or 8 percentage points,
since Stillwater said on Sept. 19 it was offering debt to help
fund the acquisition of Peregrine and for development and
expansion projects.  “The dramatic deterioration of the capital markets during
the past week has led us to conclude that it would not be in the
best interests of our shareholders to complete a financing under
the terms currently available,” Francis McAllister, the
Billings, Montana-based company’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said yesterday in a statement distributed by
Marketwire.  Stillwater’s five-year notes may have yielded about 10.5
percent, according to a person with knowledge of the
transaction, who declined to be identified because terms weren’t
set. That compares with the average 9.35 percent yield on all B
rated debt, up from 8.96 percent on Sept. 19, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data.  Standard & Poor’s  assigned a B grade to the notes, while
Moody’s Investors Service graded them B2.  “We have ample cash liquidity available, in addition to
our strong  cash flow , to fully fund the approximately $165
million net cash portion of the Peregrine transaction, provide
for our working capital needs and fund near term capital
requirements,” McAllister said in the statement.  Speculative-grade companies sold $1.25 billion of debt
yesterday, surpassing the $1 billion total for August, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  