-- 
Sudanese Police Fire Tear Gas to Disperse Demonstrators

-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 
2011-09-27T09:45:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/sudan-police-fire-tear-gas-at-anti-inflation-protesters.html
Sudanese police fired tear gas late
yesterday in the capital, Khartoum, to disperse hundreds of
protesters demonstrating against rising prices and worsening
economic conditions, eyewitnesses said.  The protesters gathered in Buri district in eastern
Khartoum, blocking traffic on main roads and chanting slogans
before anti-riot police used tear gas and sticks to disperse
them, said Kamal al-Sedig, who joined the demonstration.  “The police kept on beating and chasing protesters on the
streets of Khartoum for seven hours,” al-Sediq said by phone
today. Police “put down a limited riot” and no injuries were
reported, the  Ministry of Interior  said in a statement.  The protests followed a two-week campaign organized by the
Sudanese Consumer Protection Society and encouraged by the
government to boycott meat due to high prices.  Sudan ’s headline
inflation rate climbed to 21.1 percent in August compared with
17.6 percent in July, the Khartoum-based  Central Bureau of
Statistics  said on Sept. 12.  “They told people to boycott meat,” said al-Sediq, 48.
“Fine, we can do without meat, but what about medicines,
transportation, bread and vegetables?”  Sudan lost three-quarters of its oil production, the third-
biggest putput in sub-Saharan  Africa , when South Sudan gained
independence on July 9.  Food and drinks inflation, the biggest component in the
 consumer price index , accelerated to 25.2 percent in August from
20.5 percent in July, with meat prices rising more than 41
percent in August from the same time last year, according to the
Khartoum-based statistics bureau.  “I came back from university to find the whole
neighborhood occupied by protesters holding inspirational
banners against injustice and the increase in prices,” said
Ahmed Ali, 24. “I joined immediately and I was able to escape
the police, but some of my friends are still missing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  