-- 
Swedish Banks Can Handle Loan Losses, Riksbank’s Nyberg Says

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 
2011-09-27T10:31:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/swedish-banks-can-handle-loan-losses-riksbank-s-nyberg-says.html
Swedish banks can cope with large
loan losses even if their financial situation deteriorates,
Riksbank Deputy Governor Lars Nyberg said.  “The Riksbank’s stress tests indicate Swedish banks have a
good capacity to handle bigger loan losses, but that they take
somewhat larger liquidity risks than many other European
banks,” Nyberg said in a speech in Oslo published on the
central bank’s website today.  Swedish policy makers have been pushing banks to increase
their capital and seek longer-term funding since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. After the 2008 failure of the U.S.
bank, the Riksbank provided dollar liquidity peaking at $30
billion after the country’s banks weren’t able to borrow in the
U.S. currency to repay short-term loans.  While Swedish banks are “well-capitalized,” their loans’
foreign currency exposure and short maturity pose a risk to the
country’s financial system if market conditions worsen, the
government said on Sept. 20.  “We have experience from excessive foreign-currency
lending, both from excesses in  Sweden  in the 1990s and, more
recently, from the Swedish banks’ foreign currency lending in
the Baltic States,” Nyberg said today.  Sweden’s biggest lenders, which include  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  and SEB AB, passed the
European Banking Authority’s stress test on July 15. Their core
Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure of financial strength, ranged
from 8.6 percent to 10.9 percent of their risk-weighted assets
at the end of last year, the government said on Sept. 20.  Finance Minister Anders Borg this month said that the
government may force the country’s banks to curb their reliance
on dollar funding through legislation as a global liquidity
crisis shows signs of reigniting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  