-- 
Swiss Market Index Rises to Two-Month High; UBS, Novartis Gain

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-09-27T16:05:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/swiss-stocks-advance-ubs-credit-suisse-novartis-rise.html
Swiss stocks gained for a third
day, with the benchmark  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rising to its highest
level in two months, amid optimism policy makers will increase
efforts to contain Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s largest
lenders, advanced more than 5 percent.  Novartis AG (NOVN) , Europe’s
second-biggest drugmaker by sales, added 1.6 percent after its
Seebri treatment showed positive results in two studies.  The SMI, a measure of the biggest and most actively traded
companies, increased 3 percent to 5,564.62 at the 5:30 p.m.
close in Zurich, its highest since July 29. The gauge has still
dropped 17 percent from its peak on Feb. 18 as disappointing
European and U.S. economic reports added to concern that the
global recovery is faltering. The broader Swiss Performance
Index gained 3.1 percent today.  “The U.S. and China are putting a lot of pressure on
Europe to find a solution,” said John Plassard, director at
Louis Capital Markets in Geneva. “They are saying Europe must
start to clean up its mess.”  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that
European governments will step up their response to their
region’s debt crisis after a chiding from counterparts around
the world.  “They heard from everybody around the world” in
Washington meetings last week, Geithner said on ABC’s “World
News With Diane Sawyer” program. Europe’s crisis is “starting
to hurt growth everywhere, in countries as far away as China,
Brazil and India, Korea. And they heard the same message from us
they heard from everybody else, which is it’s time to move.”  Greek Loan  Geithner’s remarks maintain pressure on Europe ahead of
finance minister and central bank gatherings next week and a
decision on whether to disburse a loan Greece may need to avoid
default.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hosted Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  for talks in Berlin today as credit-default
swaps show a more than 90 percent chance that  Greece  won’t meet
its debt commitments. Papandreou is testing the strength of his
parliamentary majority today as lawmakers vote on a property tax
that is key to persuading the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  to release an aid installment and avert default.  Policy makers in Europe now understand the severity of the
sovereign-debt crisis and the actions that need to be taken,
according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed A. El-
Erian.  ‘Deep Problems’  “What I learned in Washington is that Europeans finally
get it,” El-Erian, chief executive and co-chief investment
officer at the world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a
radio interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom
Keene and Ken Prewitt. “They recognize they have deep problems
and they recognize they need to do something about it.”  UBS jumped 5.9 percent to 11.26 Swiss francs. Credit Suisse
advanced 8.6 percent to 24.41 francs, the largest increase since
May 2010.  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , Switzerland’s largest
insurer, added 6 percent to 188 francs.  Novartis increased 1.6 percent to 49.90 francs. The
company’s Seebri drug improved lung function in patients with
smoker’s cough and helped them exercise for longer, according to
two studies that the Swiss drugmaker is using to apply for
regulatory approval.  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  gained 2.2 percent to 371.60 francs as
Berenberg Bank said it’s “cautiously optimistic” that European
telecommunications companies are a haven. Swisscom is one of the
firm’s preferred stocks, the analysts wrote in a note.  Newron Pharmaceuticals SpA (NWRN)  soared 13 percent to 4.82 francs
as Biotie Therapies Oyj agreed to buy the company in a
transaction valued at 45 million euros ($61 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  