-- 
Swiss Franc Declines as Consumer Demand Index Sinks to Lowest in Two Years

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-09-27T10:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/swiss-franc-declines-as-consumer-demand-index-sinks-to-lowest-in-two-years.html
The Swiss franc fell against the
dollar and the yen as data showed the country’s consumer demand
dropped to the lowest in almost two years in August, adding to
signs the economy is cooling.  The franc weakened against 14 of 16 major counterparts
tracked by Bloomberg. Swiss two-year note yields rose for the
first time in six days as stocks gained amid optimism European
governments will increase efforts to contain the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis, reducing demand for a haven.
Switzerland’s economy may expand at a slower pace than
previously forecast as the franc’s appreciation and faltering
global demand hurt exports, the KOF Economic Institute said.  “The weak data added to evidence that the strength of the
franc has hurt the Swiss economy.” said Jane Foley, a senior
currency strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “This
is likely to weigh on the currency from the economic outlook
perspective. It will probably raise the risk of further policy
intervention from the  Swiss National Bank .”  The franc weakened 0.4 percent to 90.47 centimes per dollar
at 11:36 a.m. in London. It fell 0.2 percent to 84.53 yen and
was little changed against the euro at 1.2205. The currency
dropped the most against the South Korean won and the South
African rand.  The consumption indicator, which signals developments about
three months ahead, declined to 0.79 from a revised 1.28 in
July, Zurich-based UBS AG said in an e-mailed statement today.
That’s the lowest since September 2009. It had previously
reported a July reading of 1.29.  Swiss Growth  Switzerland ’s economy may struggle to gather strength after
a surge in the franc to a record against the euro last month
hurt exports and earnings. The Swiss government said last week
that “the labor market is showing the first signs that the
positive trend may be turning” and cut its forecast for 2012
private consumption growth to 1.3 percent from 1.7 percent.
Unemployment may rise next year, it said.  Swiss gross domestic product will probably rise 2.3 this
year and 1.5 percent in 2012, the Zurich-based KOF said today.
It had previously forecast the economy to expand 2.8 percent and
1.9 percent, respectively. In 2013, the economy may grow 2.5
percent, it said.  The MSCI World Index added 1.3 percent and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index jumped 2.6 percent. U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  predicted that European governments will use more force
to resolve the region’s crisis after they heard the concerns of
global finance officials during meetings in  Washington  last
weekend.  The yield on Swiss two-year notes rose two basis points to
minus four basis points. Ten-year yields climbed three basis
points to 0.96 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  