-- 
Syngenta Loses Court Ruling Against Bunge Unit Over Modified Corn Lawsuit

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-27T19:37:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/syngenta-loses-court-ruling-against-bunge-unit-over-modified-corn-lawsuit.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
maker of agricultural chemicals, lost its bid to temporarily
force a unit of  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  to accept its bioengineered corn
until a lawsuit over the issue is resolved.  Syngenta sued Bunge last month, claiming its decision not
to accept the corn is unlawful. U.S. District Judge Mark W. Bennett in Sioux City,  Iowa , ruled yesterday that Syngenta has
“no likelihood of success on the merits of its claims” and
denied the company’s request for a preliminary injunction.  “Bunge’s decision to reject Viptera corn at all of its
locations was a legitimate and reasonable business decision,”
Bennett said in a 69-page opinion. “The injunction would impose
prodigious costs on Bunge for a situation that Bunge did not
create.”  At the heart of the dispute is corn grown from Syngenta’s
Agrisure Viptera bioengineered seeds. Bunge, which operates a
network of grain elevators and receiving stations, posted a
notice on its website and at several locations that it’s
“unable to accept” delivery of corn or soybeans produced by
the Syngenta product and another product made by DuPont Co.  Combats Insects  Syngenta has argued that Viptera complies with all U.S.
regulatory requirements. Viptera, which received U.S. regulatory
approval last year, is genetically modified to combat damaging
insects such as corn earworm and fall armyworm.  “This lawsuit is only part of Syngenta’s determination to
secure greater clarity for growers regarding industry marketing
practices for newly approved technologies, enabling them to
market their grain with confidence,” Paul Minehart, a
spokesman for Syngenta, said in an e-mailed statement today.
“From this perspective, our determination is unchanged.”  The technology has been approved for cultivation in  Canada ,
Argentina and  Brazil , and for import in Australia, Brazil,
Canada,  Japan , Mexico,  New Zealand , the Philippines, South Korea
and Taiwan, Syngenta said in a statement last month.  “The court will not vary from the opinion denying the
preliminary injunction and will ultimately confirm its ruling
that Syngenta’s case is without merit,” Bunge said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The case is Syngenta Seeds Inc. v. Bunge North America
Inc., 11-04074, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Iowa,
Western Division (Sioux City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 