-- 
U.K. Retail-Sales Index Falls to Lowest in 16 Months, CBI Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-27T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-k-retail-sales-index-falls-to-16-month-low.html
A U.K. retail-sales index fell to
its lowest level in 16 months in September as Britons cut back
spending on clothes and groceries amid a squeeze on household
budgets, the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  The gauge slipped to minus 15 from minus 14 in August, the
London-based business lobby said in a report today. That’s the
lowest since May 2010 and stores expect sales will fall at a
“broadly similar pace” in October, the CBI said.  U.K.  consumer confidence  is weakening as the recovery
falters and spending power is eroded by inflation that is almost
double wage growth. Cooling growth and  Europe ’s debt crisis have
refocused policy makers’ attention away from rising prices, and
most  Bank of England  officials said this month that expanding
stimulus is “increasingly probable.”  “Consumer confidence continues to be bruised by a
combination of low wage growth, high prices and rising
unemployment,” Judith McKenna, chief operating officer of Wal-
Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda unit and chair of the CBI’s distributive
trades panel, said in a statement. “With the consumer squeeze
set to get tighter” after utilities raised prices, “we expect
retailers will face a challenging October.”  The decline in the retail-sales index in September was led
by grocery stores, the CBI said. Clothing demand fell at the
fastest pace since July 2009, while household goods saw a
“rapid” decrease in sales volumes as Britons cut back on home
improvements.  A three-month moving average of retail sales dropped to its
lowest since August 2009, while the expectations gauge for
October was at minus 14.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain, said on
Sept. 22 it will lower prices on 3,000 essential items such as
milk, fruit and vegetables as it seeks to attract cash-strapped
shoppers. “Across the country, families are telling us the same
thing -- their budgets are under real pressure,” Tesco’s U.K.
chief  Richard Brasher  said.  Demand on suppliers also fell in September, though at a
slower pace than in August, the CBI said. That gauge rose to
minus 16 from minus 22. An index of expected demand on suppliers
next month fell to minus 19, the lowest since September 2009. A
measure of the volume of stocks in relation to expected demand
slipped to 16 from 22.  “Sales remained well below average for the time of year,
and below expectations,” the lobby group said. “Retailers
anticipate that sales will remain below seasonal norms next
month.”  The CBI report is based on a survey of 74 retailers between
Aug. 25 and Sept. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  