-- 
U.K. Minister Seeks to Learn From Germans on Protecting Industry

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-09-27T12:36:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-k-minister-seeks-to-learn-from-germans-on-protecting-industry.html
The U.K. plans to learn from German
experience in protecting manufacturing from energy costs, while
imposing a greenhouse-gas tax that its main industry lobby says
threatens units of Ineos Group Holdings Plc and  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)   “German energy-intensive industries have enjoyed sustained
support from government,” including tax exemptions, U.K. Energy
Minister  Greg Barker  said in an interview today from Berlin,
where he is heading an industry delegation. “That’s what we’re
looking to replicate.” He declined to specify any measures.  Barker, in Germany to meet with energy, chemicals and
metals executives, said his government will devise by the year-
end ways to make a “material difference” to rising costs faced
by manufacturers because of Britain’s carbon-reduction goals.  The Confederation of British Industries said in June that
U.K. units of Ineos and Tata may be “uneconomical” after 2013
because of a planned carbon tax of 4.94 pounds ($8) a metric ton
of CO2, dubbed a “floor price.” Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne 
in May said that while Britain aims to cut  carbon emissions  in
half by 2027, he would seek to help energy-intensive producers.  Ineos ChlorVinyls Ltd. Chief Executive Officer Chris Tane,
Climate Change Capital’s head of European policy, Ben Caldecott,
and Jeremy Nicholson, director of the Energy Intensive Users
Group, an industry lobbyist, are accompanying Barker, he said.  “We are looking to make a material difference in the
projected rises in costs for the key energy-intensive
industries,” Barker said, declining to say how.  He commented after a breakfast meeting with Carsten Rolle,
head of  energy policy  at Germany’s BDI business group, Thomas
Birr, corporate strategy chief at RWE AG, Norbert Theihs, a
lobbyist at the German Chemical Industries Association, and
German Steel Federation President Juergen Kerkhoff.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 