-- 
U.S. Holds Spot as Most Competitive Country for Technology

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-09-27T18:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-holds-position-as-most-competitive-country-for-technology.html
The U.S. remains the world’s most
competitive nation for information technology companies, while
the country’s IT infrastructure still ranks behind other
nations, according to a study.  “Countries that have seen continued investment in key
competitiveness enablers such as the R&D environment, talent and
skills are notable gainers” in the global comparison, according
to a study released today by the Washington-based  Business
Software Alliance  and the Economist Intelligence Unit, a
research unit of The Economist magazine.  Countries at the top of the list had “sustained
investment” in IT from industry and their national governments
during “the leanest financial times IT producers have known in
a decade, and for many governments in at least a generation,”
according to the study, which is conducted every two years.  With an overall score of 80.5 out of 100, the U.S. placed
12.5 points ahead of second-ranked Finland, to maintain the top
spot it held in 2009.  Singapore ,  Sweden  and the U.K. rounded out
the top five.  The U.S. led in three of the five categories, including
research and development environment; human capital such as the
education system’s capacity to train technologists; and support
for IT industry development, which includes government policies
that support the technology sector as a whole, rather than
specific technologies.  Work To Be Done  There is still work to be done for the U.S. to keep its
lead in the future,   Robert Holleyman , chief executive officer
of BSA, said in an interview. The group represents technology
companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Symantec
Corp.  The U.S. was 13.4 points behind leader Switzerland for the
quality of its IT infrastructure and half a point behind
Australia for the legal environment, which includes data privacy
and spam protection.  The study was conducted prior to President Barack Obama’s
Sept. 16 signing of a patent reform law, which is expected to
reduce the average 34 months it takes to issue a patent.  “The passage of the patent-reform bill will further
strengthen U.S. leadership both in the R&D environment but also
in the legal environment,” Holleyman said.  The U.S. ranked ninth in IT infrastructure behind countries
that included Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden,  Australia ,
Norway,  Hong Kong  and  Canada  mostly because broadband has yet to
extend to rural and less developed areas in the U.S., Holleyman
said.  Trade Agreements  The U.S. also is in a position to lead on issues such as
the approval of pending trade agreements with  South Korea ,
Panama and Columbia, Holleyman said. The agreements, which
Congress must pass, will “level the playing field” for U.S.
exports, he said.  The U.S. also could take more of a leadership role by
developing a “national policy around data security,” Holleyman
said. “One of the shortcomings of the U.S. in the legal
environment relates to the fact that there’s not a clear
national standard for how we deal with” data “breaches and
notifications and, importantly, how to build in incentives for
companies to have more security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Francis in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  