-- 
U.S. Mergers Outlook Likely Good Long Term, Baronoff Says

-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-09-27T17:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-companies-may-revive-m-a-next-year-to-keep-up-growth.html
The outlook for mergers and
acquisitions probably will be good over the next two or three
years as corporations cast off caution to foster growth, said
Steven Baronoff, head of M&A at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   “In the near term, M&A activity will be choppy,” Baronoff
said today at the Bloomberg Dealmakers Summit in New York. “In
the long term, the fundamentals are there -- people feel like
it’s a good time to be a buyer.” He took part in a panel on
U.S. M&A with  Ventas Inc. (VTR)  Chief Executive Officer Debra Cafaro
and Peter Clare, co-head of U.S. buyouts at  Carlyle Group .  The global rebound in takeovers faltered this quarter, with
dealmaking dropping more than 20 percent from the previous
period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Private-equity
firms may take longer to return to dealmaking because of
conditions in the debt market, which have squeezed financing,
Clare said. The amount of leveraged loans raised last month fell
to the lowest since 2008.  The picture is better for corporate acquirers as there are
plenty of potential targets trading at attractive values, giving
them more opportunity to gain scale to compete with rivals, he
said.  “It’s risky to stay as is,” said Cafaro, whose Chicago-
based real estate investment trust bought Nationwide Health
Properties Inc. in July, the biggest deal among health-care
REITs in history. There have been about $1.78 trillion in deals
announced globally this year. The largest so far is Dallas-based
 AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA from
 Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)   North American Deals  North American acquirers had about $237 billion in pending
and completed deals in the third quarter, a 20 percent decline
from the previous period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. For every $2 U.S. companies spent on purchases in the
third quarter, European ones spent less than $1, Bloomberg data
show.  “M&A follows the economy almost exclusively, with a little
bit of a lag,” said Paul Parker, head of global mergers and
acquisitions at  Barclays Capital  in New York. “There is a
strong impetus for getting deals done, but it’s going to follow
the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
William D. Cohan in New York at
 wdcohan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  