-- 
U.S. Commodities Day Ahead: Raw Materials Climb for a Second Day

-- B y   S t u a r t   W a l l a c e
-- 
2011-09-27T11:34:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-commodities-day-ahead-raw-materials-climb-for-a-second-day.html
The following are the top stories
on metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Commodities Advance for Second Day as Copper Climbs, Oil Gains  Commodities rose for a second day, the best run this month,
as copper rebounded from a 14-month low and oil rose on
speculation that European policy makers will intensify efforts
to contain the region’s debt crisis.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Record Tire Sales Rally Rubber on China-Japan Trend: Commodities  Record demand for autos in  China , the world’s largest
market, and the biggest increase in Japanese vehicle production
in three decades means tiremakers will make the most sales ever,
reigniting a rally in rubber prices.  U.S. Gasoline Supplies Rise as Demand Declines: Energy Markets  U.S. gasoline inventories climbed last week to the highest
level in two months as consumption declined with the slowing
economy and the end of the summer driving season, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  Vattenfall CEO Says Energy Prices, Margins Are ‘Under Pressure’  Vattenfall AB, the biggest Nordic utility, is seeing
continued pressure on energy prices and margins, said Chief
Executive Officer Oystein Loseth.  Kudrin Exit Exacerbates Bond Slump Fueled by Oil:  Russia  Credit  Russian bonds are sliding to record lows as Finance
Minister Alexei Kudrin’s ouster undermines confidence in the
world’s largest energy exporter among investors already rattled
by falling oil prices and slowing economic growth.  Fukushima Desolation Worst Since Nagasaki as Residents Flee (2)  Beyond the police roadblocks that mark the no-go zone
around Japan’s wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant, six-foot tall
weeds invade rice paddies and vines gone wild strangle road
signs along empty streets.  Gazprom Seeks Strategic Asset Swap to Expand Sakhalin-2 LNG  OAO Gazprom may seek an asset swap with a foreign partner
before committing reserves off Sakhalin Island for the expansion
of Russia’s only liquefied natural-gas plant, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Alexander Medvedev said.  TMK May Spend $3 Billion on Pipe Production in U.S., Russia (1)  OAO TMK, the world’s largest maker of oil and gas pipes by
output, may spend as much as $3 billion this decade on projects
in Russia,  Romania  and the U.S. as rising profit drives
technology upgrades and growth.  Ship Owner Losses Persist on Glut as Mine Profits Boom: Freight  Ship owners may face losses until 2015 even with mining
companies poised to increase global iron-ore supplies by almost
as much as China imports in a year.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Rebounds as Investors Close out Bets on Lower Prices  Copper rebounded in London on speculation investors were
buying the metal, used in tubing and wiring, to close out bets
on lower prices.  Tin Surges as Indonesia Plans Shipment Halt to Counter Rout (3)  Indonesia, the biggest exporter of tin, plans to halt
overseas shipments from Oct. 1 to support prices after a slump,
said Johan Murod, director at PT Bangka Belitung Timah
Sejahtera, a group of smelters. Futures rallied.  MINING:  Palmer’s Australasian May Raise $1.1 Billion for Ore Mine (3)  Australasian Resources Ltd., an iron ore developer
controlled by billionaire  Clive Palmer , is in talks to raise
about $1.1 billion to build a mine in Western Australia. The
shares rose the most in more than four years.  Australian State to Restrict New Coal Mines on Farm Land (2)  The Queensland government is set to introduce laws
restricting development of new open-cut coal mines on protected
agricultural land in Australia’s eastern state, the biggest
exporter of steelmaking coal.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Gains as Biggest Three-Day Drop Since 2008 Spurs Buying  Gold gained for the first time in five days in London as
the biggest three-day drop since October 2008 spurred some
investors to buy the metal on concern about economic growth and
debt crises.  Gold Physical Demand Is ‘Exceptionally Strong,’ UBS Says  Physical demand for gold is “exceptionally strong,” UBS
AG said.  Gold Price Slump Stokes Jewelry, Investment Demand in  India  (1)  A slump in gold prices from a record will fuel demand for
the precious metal before a festival season in India, the
world’s largest consumer, according to the nation’s biggest
jewelry retailer.  AGRICULTURE:  Palm Oil  Gains on  Europe  Debt Crisis Optimism, Spurring Demand  Palm oil gained for the first time in five days on
speculation that European leaders may be closer to agreeing ways
to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, stoking demand
for commodities.  Indian Sugar Mills Ask Government to Build 2-Million Ton Reserve  India, the second-biggest sugar producer, should stockpile
2 million metric tons of sweetener and allow more exports to
prevent a decline in prices as output surges to a five-year
high, a producers’ group said.  Bangladesh Invites Bids to Import 50,000 Tons of Wheat  Bangladesh is seeking to import 50,000 metric tons of
wheat, the Directorate General of Food said on its website.  Corn, Wheat Gain for Second Day as Price Declines Spur Demand  Corn and wheat advanced for a second day on speculation
that price declines last week increased demand for the crops.
Soybeans also gained.  Sugar Climbs as Lower Prices May Spur Demand; Coffee Advances  Sugar climbed for a second day in  London  on speculation
lower prices have spurred buying interest. Coffee advanced as
commodities gained.  ECONOMIES:  Property Bonds Plunge Most Since 2008 on Curbs: China Credit  China’s property company bonds are delivering the biggest
losses in the world among developers this quarter amid
speculation the banking regulator may close another avenue of
funding.  China’s Developers Face More ‘Severe’ Credit Outlook, S&P Says  Chinese developers face an “increasingly severe” credit
outlook, which may force them to cut prices and turn to costlier
funding sources as sales weaken,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  China’s Industrial Profits Rise 28.2% for January-to-August (1)  Chinese industrial companies’ profits rose 28.2 percent in
the first eight months of 2011 from a year earlier, aiding the
expansion of the world’s second- biggest economy.  Hong Kong’s Tsang Sees ‘Soft Landing’ for Property, Backs Peg  Hong Kong Financial Secretary  John Tsang  predicted a “soft
landing” for the  property market  and said the city will keep
its currency peg to the  U.S. dollar , blamed for helping drive
home values up about 70 percent.  Merkel Shifts Her Stance as Crisis Destroys Taboos: Euro Credit  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has stepped up her defense
of the euro and toned down calls to punish Greece for its fiscal
sins as the region’s debt crisis spread to Europe’s biggest
economies.  Geithner Predicts Europe Will Step Up on Crisis After Chiding  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that
European governments will step up their response to their
region’s debt crisis after a chiding from counterparts around
the world.  OTHER MARKETS:  Stocks, Metals Gain on European Crisis Outlook; Treasuries Fall  Stocks gained for a third day and commodities rallied, with
copper snapping a seven-day slump, on optimism European leaders
will solve the region’s debt crisis. Treasuries and bunds
declined.  Dollar, Yen Decline Against High-Yielders on European Optimism  The dollar and yen weakened against higher-yielding
currencies as stocks rallied around the world on optimism
European leaders are nearing an agreement to contain the debt
crisis, damping demand for refuge assets.  Asian Stocks Surge by Most Since ‘09 Bull Run on Europe Optimism  Asian stocks rebounded from a 16- month low, sending the
benchmark regional index to its biggest advance since April
2009, amid optimism that European leaders may agree on ways to
tame the region’s credit crisis.  Freeport May Adjust Wage Offer in Indonesia Labor Dispute (1)  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. said it may adjust its
wage offer to help end a strike at its Grasberg mine in
Indonesia’s Papua province.  Obama Attacks Republicans on Taxes in Hollywood Fundraising Trip  President  Barack Obama , in a fundraising foray to Hollywood
and the West Coast, attacked Republicans for favoring the
wealthy and stepped up a campaign- style drive to win support
for his $447 billion jobs package.  Kudrin May Head Central Bank in Putin’s Return, Kostin Says (1)  Former Russian Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin, ousted by
President  Dmitry Medvedev  for insubordination, may regain policy
influence as chairman of the central bank in a Vladimir Putin
administration, VTB Group chief  Andrei Kostin  said.  Oil Gains for a Second Day on Bets Europe Will Tame Debt Crisis  Oil rose for a second day in  New York  on speculation
European governments will contain their sovereign-debt crisis,
limiting its impact on the global economy and demand for raw
materials.  SPORTS:  UBS-From-Plumber Career Helps Brooklynite Earn Rugby Slot (1)  Mike Petri juggled jobs at UBS AG and his family’s plumbing
business to help seal a spot on the U.S.  Rugby World Cup  squad.
The Eagles’ vice-captain is now making his mark at the global
championship.  Italy Beats U.S. 27-10,  Japan  and Canada Tie at Rugby World Cup  Italy beat the U.S. 27-10 at the Rugby World Cup to cut the
gap to Pool C leader Ireland to three points before they meet in
the final group game. Canada and Japan drew 23-23, the third tie
in tournament history.  Wigan, Portsmouth Vie to Sign Diouf, Guardian Says: Roundup  The following is a roundup of soccer stories from U.K.
newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace in London at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  