-- 
U.S. Stimulus Needs Housing Effort, New York Fed’s Tracy Says

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-27T17:21:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-stimulus-needs-housing-effort-new-york-fed-s-tracy-says.html
Any success for government efforts
to stimulate the economy will be limited unless policies are
combined with steps to aid the housing market, according to
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  economist Joseph Tracy.  “We need to fold in some pretty serious housing policies
at the same time, not just to get housing going, but to get the
full benefit of all these policies,” Tracy said today at a
conference hosted by the New York State Society of Certified
Public Accountants. “That would be very complementary.”  The housing market is still a drag on the economy even as
the Fed has kept its target rate for overnight loans between
banks at a record low since December 2008 and plans to extend
the maturities of its $2.64 trillion of securities holdings to
tamp down longer-term borrowing costs. President  Barack Obama 
has proposed a $447 billion plan that includes infrastructure
spending and payroll tax cuts to reduce the 9.1 percent
unemployment rate.  “If you leave housing alone, that’s going to limit the
scope for these other policies to have their full benefit,”
Tracy said. Following the financial crisis, policy makers
“didn’t completely understand the headwinds that the housing
sector was generating, and so should have directed more
attention to trying to assist the healing in housing.”  Refinancing Pace  Stimulus through mortgage refinancing, which can lower
borrowing costs for homeowers, has been stymied in part by the
declines in  home prices  relative to the outstanding loan
balances and higher rates of unemployment.  While U.S. mortgage-refinancing applications have climbed
71 percent from this year’s low in February, depressed home
prices and tougher loan standards have limited refinancings to
57 percent below the record in 2003, according to Mortgage
Bankers Association data. The average rate on a typical 30-year
fixed loan fell to an all-time low 4.09 percent for each of last
two weeks, compared with as low as 5.21 percent in 2003, Freddie
Mac data show.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4.1 percent in July from a year earlier, compared with a
revised 4.4 percent drop in the 12 months to June, the group
said today in New York.  “The enormous supply overhang of existing homes,
particularly factoring in all those in foreclosure or soon to
be, promises to keep pressure on prices for some time,”  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in
New York, said in a note to clients. “We look for further
declines to be registered in the quarters ahead, although in all
likelihood the rate of deterioration will be nowhere near as
steep as that recorded earlier.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  