-- 
U.S. Says Sunken Transocean Rig May Be Source of Oil Sheen

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-09-27T21:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-says-deepwater-horizon-wreckage-may-be-source-of-oil-sheen.html
The U.S. Coast Guard said the
wreckage of  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s Deepwater Horizon drilling rig may
be the source of an oily sheen on the surface of the Gulf of
Mexico.  The Coast Guard notified Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean today that it may be held responsible for the
pollution.  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well, which erupted in April 2010
off the Louisiana coast and destroyed the rig, is not suspected
as a source of the sheen, the Coast Guard said on its website.  The sheen was sighted in the same area of the Gulf that
includes the Macondo well, a region known as Mississippi Canyon
Block 252. The disaster killed 11 rig workers, injured 17, sank
the $365 million rig and shut vast swaths of the Gulf to fishing
and tourism for months.  By the time BP cut off the flow of crude from the well
after 87 days, more than 4 million barrels of crude had spewed
into the sea to make the catastrophe the worst U.S. maritime oil
spill. In today’s announcement, the Coast Guard said  video shot
on the seafloor  by a remotely operated vehicle indicated the
sheen didn’t emanate from the Macondo wellhead.  Brian Kennedy , a Transocean spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that any oil or other fluids that may have leaked from
the crumpled pipe that connected Macondo to the rig emanated
from the well. As such, BP is responsible because the London-
based company was operator of the well, he said.  The pipe, known as a riser, had a capacity to hold 200
barrels of crude before it was mangled, bent and snapped as the
rig sank, Kennedy said. Transocean already has agreed to accept
responsibility for any diesel or other onboard fluids that may
have spilled during the disaster, he said.  Transocean dropped as much as 3.1 percent minutes after the
Coast Guard’s announcement. The shares fell 73 cents, or 1.4
percent, to $51.74, at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. The stock has lost 44 percent of its value
since the disaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  