-- 
Iraq Makes First Payment to U.S. for 18 Lockheed F-16 Jets

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-09-27T21:31:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-has-received-first-iraq-payment-for-18-lockheed-f-16s.html
Iraq moved ahead with its plan to
buy 18  Lockheed-Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighter jets, making its first
payment on a $3 billion program that would help the new
government maintain security after the U.S. military leaves.  “A long-term strategic relationship with Iraq is
important,” Pentagon spokesman George Little said. “We seek to
find ways to enable the Iraqis to provide for their own security
and to add to greater stability in the region.”  The base value of Iraq’s jet order is about $3 billion,
Little told reporters at the Pentagon today. With all options
for equipment and services, the total value of the agreement may
reach $4.2 billion.  The program, outlined in a September 2010 Defense
Department notice to Congress, includes 18 F-16 Block 52 variant
jets.  Iraq ’s air force was largely destroyed in the wars in 1991
and 2003 and during the years between when the U.S. enforced a
no-fly zone.  “The first batch will arrive in the country and fit into
place in early 2014,” Iraqi Staff Lieutenant General Anwar
Ahmed said in an interview with Bloomberg News.  Iraqi and U.S. officials have expressed concern that the
country won’t be able to defend its borders without a properly
functioning air force, now that U.S. forces are pulling out.  Troop Withdrawal  The U.S. and Iraq also are discussing whether some American
military personnel may stay in the country past the end of the
year, to support continued training and development of the
country’s security forces.  ‘We expect foreign military sales, including items such as
F-16 aircraft, to serve as a cornerstone of our future
cooperation,” Little said.  Major General  Russ Handy , the senior U.S. Air Force officer
in Iraq, said on Sept. 14 that Iraq ultimately may buy a total
of 36 F-16s.  The transaction follows a U.S. decision announced last week
to sell Taiwan $5.3 billion in upgrades for its F-16 fighter
jets, rather than allow the island nation to buy new versions of
the aircraft. Lockheed, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , has said
that the Taiwan sale would help keep the  production line  in  Fort
Worth ,  Texas , open past 2013. The company also is awaiting a
decision by Oman to buy F-16s.  Lockheed is pleased with the sale, which makes Iraq the
26th country to operate the F-16, spokeswoman Laura Siebert
said.  Lockheed rose 49 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $74.27
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares have gained 6.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  