-- U.S. State, Local Tax Revenue Climbed 4.1% in Q3
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2011-12-20T16:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-state-local-government-taxes-rise-6-9-in-second-quarter.html
U.S. state and local-government tax
revenue rose 4.1 percent in the third quarter, for the eighth
consecutive gain, the Census Bureau said.  The collections climbed to $292 billion from $280.5 billion
a year earlier, the bureau said today. The increase was driven
by property, sales and personal-income taxes. Corporate-income
levies fell for the first time since the third quarter of 2010.  The revenue gains mark the longest stretch of growth since
2008. The improvement is easing pressure on governments that
have struggled with budget deficits since the 18-month recession
began four years ago. Rising collections may leave states with
extra cash and avert the need for more spending cuts, barring
new setbacks to the  U.S. economy .  “There’s good reason to be optimistic about what’s
occurring,” said Chris Mier, a managing director at  Chicago ’s
Loop Capital Markets LLC who follows the municipal  bond market .
“The consistency of the growth and the magnitude of the growth
are encouraging.”  The collections for the July-through-September quarter, the
first three months of the budget year for most states, outpaced
forecasts officials assumed when drawing up their spending
plans.  State revenue rose by $9.4 billion, or 5.6 percent, to
$178.2 billion. That exceeds the 1.6 percent annual gains that
states are forecasting for the current budget year,  according  to
the  National Association of State Budget Officers .  Mid-Year Deficits  With more money flowing in, fewer states are facing budget
deficits this year. Only four --  California ,  New York , Missouri
and Washington -- are reporting such shortfalls, compared with
15 a year ago, according to the  National Conference of State
Legislatures .  The improvement has helped fuel a rally in the $3.7
trillion municipal bond market, where speculation about defaults
diminished as public officials took steps to rein in budget
shortfalls. Municipal bonds have returned 10.6 percent this
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Last week,  Fitch Ratings  said it lifted the negative
outlook it put on U.S. state bond ratings, in part because of
the lower deficits projected for next year.  The increase in property-tax levies also marked an
improvement for local governments, whose revenues were
diminished by tumbling home values. Property-tax collections
rose 1 percent in the quarter after falling during the previous
three quarters, the bureau said.  Risk Reduced  Even with the tax gains, the financial struggles of state
and local governments haven’t gone away. Both states and
localities continue to fire workers to save money, exerting a
drag on the economy. State revenue for the 12 months through
September was $764.6 billion, below the $782 billion peak hit
three years earlier, and capitals face budget deficits of about
$40 billion next year, according to the budget officers’ group.  Those shortfalls are still less than half the $95 billion
state officials faced in the current year.  “The risk at the state level -- for most states --- is
substantially reduced from what it was a few years ago based on
the improvements,” Mier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  