-- 
U.S. East Coast May Cool in Early October, Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-09-27T12:42:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-east-coast-may-cool-in-early-october-forecasters-say.html
The U.S. East Coast will cool
through the first week in October before warming up again later
in the month, according to forecasters.  Low temperatures in the large Northeastern cities will
probably hover in the 40-degree to 50-degree Fahrenheit (4.4 to
10 Celsius) range, according to  MDA EarthSat Weather  in
Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “The chill will slowly fade as the period moves on, though
most areas should stay below normal,” according to an MDA note
to clients.  MDA,  Commodity Weather Group LLC , and the U.S. Climate
Prediction Center agree that the East, the Southeast and
southern  New England  will be cooler than normal Oct. 2 to Oct.
6, according to their 6- to 10-day outlooks.  “Over the past few weeks, upper-level low-pressures have
caused considerable trouble with forecast details and in many
cases, warmer trends were thwarted,” CWG President  Matt Rogers 
said in a note to clients today from Bethesda, Maryland.  There is a chance for another upper-level low to stall over
the region, bringing more clouds and cooler weather for the 6-
to 15-day period, said Rogers.  Natural gas futures gained yesterday for the first time in
five days in  New York  as warmer-than-normal weather increased
demand for the power-plant fuel.  Traders Watch  Traders use long-range temperature predictions to gauge
energy use and market fluctuations. Hot or cold weather can
increase demand for heating and cooling, and  power plants  use
about 30 percent of the nation’s gas supplies, according to
Energy Department data.  While the eastern U.S. is cooler, all three forecasts call
for the northern Great Plains to be warmer than normal. The  U.S.
Climate Prediction Center  says the warming will include the
 Rocky Mountains , the Southwest and  Texas , a much larger
footprint than the commercial forecasters expect.  In their 11- to 15-day outlooks, MDA and CWG agree the
Pacific Northwest will be cooler. Commodity Weather carries the
cooling into  California  Oct. 7 to Oct. 11, while MDA calls for
most of the state to be seasonal.  The climate center, which uses a slightly different
timeframe for its forecast, calls for cooler weather to cover
the Pacific Northwest and California from Oct. 6 to Oct. 10.  The three outlooks call for the eastern U.S. to warm or be
near normal through the same periods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  