-- 
U.S. Should Welcome Crude From Canada’s Dirty Oil Sands: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-27T00:00:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-should-welcome-the-flow-of-crude-from-canada-s-dirty-oil-sands-view.html
On first look, it might seem wrong
to allow TransCanada Corp. to build the 1,700-mile Keystone XL
pipeline to carry oil from  Alberta , Canada, to the U.S. Gulf
Coast.  After all, if such a pipeline were to ever leak, as
pipelines do, there is some risk it could pollute the Ogallala
Aquifer under  Nebraska ’s Sandhills, which supplies 80 percent of
that state’s drinking water.  What’s more, a new conduit would seem to only encourage the
further development of the Athabascan oil sands in Alberta. This
is a dirty business, to be sure: Vast tracts of spruce and fir
are cleared to make way for open-pit mines, from which deposits
of sticky black sand are shoveled out and then rinsed to yield
viscous tar. For deeper deposits, steam is shot hundreds of feet
into the earth to melt the tar enough that it can be pumped to
the surface. Then there are the emissions associated with mining
Canadian  oil sands : It produces two and a half times as much
carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases as oil drilling in,
say,  Saudi Arabia  or west Texas.  So perhaps the U.S. State Department, which has the
authority to approve the Keystone XL pipeline, should simply say
no. That’s what many citizens and environmental groups will
argue at a series of public hearings in Great Plains states this
week.  Oil and Jobs  A closer look, however, reveals that blocking the  $7
billion pipeline  would do more harm than good. Consider, first
of all, that the Canadian oil sands contain more than 173
billion barrels of recoverable crude, second only to Saudi
Arabia’s 264 billion barrels. Extracting it means almost half a
million  new jobs  for  Canada  and, for both Canada and the U.S., a
sizable supply of oil that is safe from interruption by
unfriendly governments.  Pipeline opponents have implied that if the U.S. doesn’t
buy Canada’s oil, then companies will be discouraged from
developing the oil sands. But it’s unrealistic to assume that
the oil couldn’t be sold elsewhere. Yes, today’s business plan
calls for sending most of it south -- some 700,000 barrels a day
through Keystone XL. If the U.S. blocks that conduit, though, we
can reasonably expect that another pipeline would be built to
Canada’s west coast, where the oil could be sent by tanker to
 China  and elsewhere.  Although it’s true that oil sands crude accounts for
relatively large amounts of emissions during extraction, in the
well-to-wheels life cycle of the oil, its emissions are only
about 17 percent greater than those of other kinds of oil.
That’s because most of oil’s  emissions  come not from extraction
but from use.  And it’s  Canada , not the U.S., that must account for rising
emissions from the oil sands (as well as monitor the quality of
its nearby water). By 2020, the government agency Environment
Canada has reported, emissions from oil sands development will
increase by one-third and account for almost 12 percent of the
country’s total emissions. This will boost Canada’s contribution
to global greenhouse gas emissions from 2 percent to 2.1 percent
-- an increase that, under United Nations agreements, the
country will need to offset with technological improvements in
oil sands extraction, improved  energy efficiency  or  emissions
trading , for example.  Given that the U.S. contributes more than 18 percent of the
world’s emissions, and unlike its northern neighbor hasn’t
signed the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , it has enough to do to deal with
its greenhouse gas problem.  Safety Matters  In deciding whether to allow Keystone XL to run through six
American states, the only relevant question is whether it would
be safe. The State Department, with help from the Environmental
Protection Agency, has studied the risks. It has determined
that, as long as TransCanada complies with all laws and
regulations, builds Keystone XL properly and operates it safely
(although some minor spills would be expected), the pipeline
would have “no significant impacts” on wetlands, water
supplies or wildlife along its route.  Keep in mind, the U.S. is  crisscrossed  by thousands of
miles of pipelines carrying crude oil, liquid petroleum and
natural gas. One of these is the Keystone 1 pipeline, which
already carries crude from the oil sands. Yes, these pipes
sometimes leak -- spectacularly last year when almost 850,000
gallons of oil spilled from a ruptured pipe in  Michigan . Far
more often, when leaks occur, they are small and self-contained.  After the public hearings, the U.S. should give TransCanada
the green light -- and then make sure the company manages
pipeline design and construction with care.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 