-- 
U.S., Europeans Drop Syria Sanctions to Gain Votes at UN

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-27T20:55:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-europeans-drop-syria-sanctions-to-gain-un-council-votes.html
The U.S. and its European allies
dropped their bid to impose  United Nations  sanctions on  Syria  in
order to win votes for a Security Council resolution that
condemns repression of anti-government protesters and demands an
end to the violence.  A draft resolution will be circulated today to the Security
Council’s 15 members, Indian and South African envoys said. The
text doesn’t include sanctions proposed last month,  South
Africa ’s Ambassador Baso Sangqu said, and has a “reasonably
good chance” of being adopted,  India ’s Ambassador Hardeep Singh Puri said.  The proposal last month to impose an arms embargo on Syria,
and freeze the assets and ban the travel of Syria’s President
Bashar al-Assad and top government officials didn’t get the
support of  Security Council  members  Brazil ,  China , India, Russia
and South Africa.  The  Security Council  will hold talks on the revised text
tomorrow, Puri said.  Russia won’t support the resolution, Interfax said today,
citing Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and holding open the
prospect that Russia wouldn’t use its veto to block adoption.  ‘Vigilance’ on Arms  The new resolution “expresses the intent in the event
Syria doesn’t comply to adopt targeted measures, including
sanctions.” It calls on UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to
report on compliance within 15 days and every 30 days
thereafter.  The Security Council would demand that Syria provide
“unhindered access” to human rights monitors and, rather than
impose an arms embargo, ask all nations to exercise
“vigilance” in limiting arms supplies to Syria.  Syrian security forces killed at least 47 people over the
three-day period that ended yesterday and arrested hundreds more
in a crackdown on protests against Assad’s government, a human
rights activist said.  The killings in the central governorates of Homs and Hama,
the northern province of Idlib and the suburbs of Damascus
follow the deaths of more than 100 people last week, Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights, said by
phone today.  The protests that began in mid-March are part of the wave
of unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa that unseated
governments in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya.  This year’s crackdown on dissent has left more than 3,600
civilians dead, according to Ammar Qurabi of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria. About 30,000 people have
been detained and 13,000 are still being held, according to
estimates from Qurabi and Merhi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  