-- 
Default Swaps on U.S. Companies Fall as Greece Aid Progresses

-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 
2011-09-27T21:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-corporate-credit-risk-falls-for-third-day-on-europe-outlook.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
credit risk fell for a third day as  Greece ’s parliament passed a
tax that may help it secure more foreign aid.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
typically falls as investor confidence improves and rises as it
deteriorates, declined 0.6 basis points to a mid-price of 136.3
basis points as of 5:05 p.m. in New York, according to index
administrator Markit Group Ltd.  Traders pushed the index lower as Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  won a vote on a new property tax in the
parliament, improving the country’s chances of receiving
additional bailout funds. The swaps measure, which earlier fell
as much as 4.6 basis points, pared the decline after the
Financial Times reported that some European leaders are
demanding that bondholders should take bigger losses on Greek
debt.  “We’re a step further away from going back into recession
with the European authorities acting,”  Andrew Wilkinson , chief
economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co. LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “All the strains are emanating from
 Europe .”  Papandreou’s Socialist Pasok party won the vote in  Athens 
by 155 to 142 after Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told
Greeks they face economic collapse if they don’t plug a budget
gap that is exceeding the target set in a bailout.  Private Creditors  The Financial Times reported that as many as seven of the
17 nations using the euro believe private creditors should
absorb bigger losses on their Greek bond holdings, a division
that may threaten an agreement reached with private investors in
July. The paper cited unnamed senior European officials.  The credit-swaps index, which investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, has decreased from 140.7 on Sept. 23. A new
version of the index was created on Sept. 20, when six companies
were replaced. The prior series traded as high as 135.9 on Sept.
12, which was the highest level since July 2009.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  