-- 
Treasuries Drop for Third Day on Bets Europe Will Contain Crisis

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-09-27T15:28:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-30-year-treasuries-decline-for-third-day-as-equities-advance-in-asia.html
Treasuries fell, extending the
advance of 10-year note yields from a record low, as speculation
Europe’s leaders are moving toward agreement on measures to
counter the region’s debt crisis sapped refuge demand.  Thirty-year bonds led the market lower and slid for a third
consecutive day in the longest losing streak in a month as
Germany’s Chancellor  Angela Merkel  urged lawmakers to support an
enhancement of the euro rescue fund two days before a vote on
the proposal. U.S. two-year notes dropped before the $35 billion
auction of the securities today.  “Europe is no longer a problem for this hour, for today,”
said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital
Markets America Inc., which as one of the 20 primary dealers is
obliged to participate in auctions. “That may change tomorrow.
The market will get a little cheaper into supply. You are in the
beginning of auctions.”  Yields on 30-year bonds increased eight basis points, or
0.08 percentage point, to 3.08 percent at 11:23 a.m. in New
York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.75
percent maturities due in August 2041 slid 1 25/32, or $17.81
per $1,000 face amount, to 113 2/32. The last time bonds fell
for three straight days was the period that ended Aug. 24.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 2.4 percent after
gaining 2.3 percent yesterday. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
climbed 3.5 percent. The euro rose 0.6 percent to $1.3644.  Ten-Year Yields  Benchmark 10-year note yields increased eight basis points
to 1.98 percent after touching 2 percent, the highest level
since Sept. 19. They rose for a third day after falling last
week to a record low 1.6714 percent.  Treasuries have rallied on demand for a refuge from
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and a stalled American economy.
U.S. debt securities have returned 6.3 percent this quarter, the
most since depths of the financial crisis in the fourth quarter
of 2008, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
They have gained 1.6 percent in September.  Yields on 30-year bonds fell last week the most in almost
three years and two-year note yields rose after the  Federal
Reserve  announced it would buy $400 billion of bonds with
maturities of six to 30 years through June while selling an
equal amount of debt maturing in three years or less to support
growth under what is known as Operation Twist.  The central bank will also reinvest maturing mortgage debt
into mortgage-backed securities instead of Treasuries in an
attempt to spur housing and refinancing.  Home Prices  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S.
cities decreased 4.1 percent in July from a year earlier in a
10th month of year-on-year declines, a report showed today. The
median forecast of 28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for 4.4 percent reduction.  The central bank acquired $500 million of Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities maturing from July 2013 to
February 2041 under its policy of continuing to reinvest the
proceeds of maturing assets on its balance sheet to keep
borrowing costs low.  Yields on existing two-year debt touched 0.25 percent, the
highest level since Aug. 9, as the Treasury Department prepared
sell the securities in the first of three note auctions this
week totaling $99 billion.  “Today’s two-year will be an interesting test of the
auction in this new Twist environment,” said  Ian Lyngen , a
government bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “It certainly put upward pressure on yields and
suggests the auction may require more of an accommodation than
we have priced in.”  Pre-Auction Trading  The two-year notes on offer yielded 0.250 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 0.222 percent at the prior
sale Aug. 23, which was a record low. Investors bid for 3.44
times the amount for sale in August, the most since May.  Indirect bidders, the category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 31.6 percent of the notes, the
highest level since April.  Following the auction of two-year notes, the government
will sell $35 billion of five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion
of seven-year securities on Sept. 29.  U.S. government debt securities dropped today as Merkel
said at an industry federation event in Berlin that  Germany  will
provide all the help it can to stabilize  Greece . The priority is
that markets regain confidence, she said.  Optimism on Europe  “We have some optimism coming out of Europe overnight that
weighed on the market,” Lyngen of CRT said. “The market is
trading more like it is reversing the flight to quality.”  Euro-region finance chiefs from the Group of 20 nations,
meeting in  Washington  on Sept. 22, committed to boost the
flexibility of their rescue fund and “maximize its impact” by
the time of the next G-20 meeting Oct. 3.  “Europeans finally get it,”  Mohamed A. El-Erian , chief
executive officer at Pacific Investment Management Co., the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds, said in a radio interview
today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with
 Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “They recognize they have deep
problems, and they recognize they need to do something about it.
And now they are going back and will try to do something about
it. This was a very important wake-up call for Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  