-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance, Trimming Gains in Final Hour, on Greece

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-27T20:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/u-s-stock-index-futures-climb-s-p-500-may-gain-for-third-day.html
U.S. stocks rose, with benchmark
indexes weathering a final-hour selloff, after  Greece  made
progress in meeting requirements for more international aid and
 Germany  vowed continued support for the country.  All 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose as
gains were led by commodity and industrial shares.  Dow Chemical
Co. (DOW)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  climbed at least 2.2 percent
to pace a rally in companies most-tied to the economy. Financial
stocks pared gains as the Financial Times reported that some
euro-area countries are demanding private creditors take bigger
writedowns on their Greek bond holdings.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
reversed a 3.8 percent advance, falling 1.8 percent.  The S&P 500 increased 1.1 percent to 1,175.38 at 4 p.m.  New
York  time, rising 4.1 percent in three days, the biggest gain
over that same period since Aug. 30. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  rose 146.83 points, or 1.3 percent, to 11,190.69 today.  “The chorus is getting louder that  Europe  needs to do
something,” James Dunigan, who helps oversee $109 billion as
chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth
Management, said in a telephone interview. “If we step away
from the edge and avoid a recession, then there’s no doubt
there’s value there.”  A four-day rout last week erased $1 trillion from U.S.
equities amid concern Greek insolvency is inevitable and Europe
can’t contain the damage. The decline left the  S&P 500  trading
at 12.4 times earnings in the past 12 months, 4.4 percent below
its average valuation at the lowest point during the last nine
bear markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Hospital Patient’  “Think of Europe as a hospital patient,”  David Sowerby , a
Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-based portfolio manager at Loomis
Sayles & Co., which oversees $150 billion, said in a phone
interview. “There are lots of doctors in the room, but no
clear-cut remedy.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index rallied 2.9 percent.
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Greece is ready to fulfill
the conditions laid down by the so-called troika assessing Greek
progress at meeting the terms of its international rescue. Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won parliamentary backing for a
property tax to meet deficit-reduction targets required to avoid
default.  European leaders “finally get it,” Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said in a radio interview with
 Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt on “Bloomberg Surveillance.” “Let’s
not underestimate both the political challenges and the
engineering challenges.”  Absorb Bigger Losses  The Financial Times reported that as many as seven of the
17 nations using the euro believe private creditors should
absorb bigger losses on their Greek bond holdings, a division
that may threaten an agreement reached with private investors in
July. The paper cited unnamed senior European officials.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to
the economy added 2.2 percent. The Dow Jones Transportation
Average, a proxy for the economy, gained 1.6 percent. Dow
Chemical rose 4.4 percent to $25.59. United Technologies climbed
2.2 percent to $73.15.  PulteGroup Inc., the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue,
added 1.2 percent to $4.16, as a report showed that  home prices 
in the U.S. fell less than forecast. The S&P/Case-Shiller index
of property values in 20 cities fell 4.1 percent in July from
the same month in 2010, after a revised 4.4 percent drop in the
12 months to June. The median forecast of 28 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News projected a 4.4 percent drop.  Bank of America  Financial shares in the S&P 500 pared a gain of as much as
3.2 percent, rising 0.4 percent. The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  lost 0.1
percent, reversing an advance of 3.3 percent. Bank of America
declined 1.8 percent, the most in the Dow, to $6.48.  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  lost 0.3 percent to $31.57 after rallying as much as
4.7 percent.  The S&P 500 has climbed 5.5 percent since falling as low as
1,114.22 on Sept. 22, the first time this month it slipped below
its closing level of 1,119.46 on Aug. 8. The index is within 3.5
percent of erasing its 6.5 percent loss for last week, the
biggest since the period ended Aug. 5, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Stocks rose today even as a report showed that confidence
among U.S. consumers stagnated in September near a two-year low
as the share of households saying it was difficult to find a job
climbed to the highest level in almost three decades.  Most advanced economies are lapsing back into recession
while the U.S. is already in the throes of an economic
contraction, according to Nouriel Roubini, co-founder and
chairman of Roubini Global Economics LLC.  ‘Hard and Soft’  “The way I see the global economy, I think we’re entering
into a recession again in most advanced economies,” Roubini
said in a panel discussion today at the Bloomberg Dealmakers
Summit in New York. “I think we’re already into one in the U.S.
based on the hard and soft data -- same with most of the euro
zone, same with the United Kingdom.”  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  slumped 6.3 percent, the most in the S&P 500,
to $33.77. The largest U.S. drugstore chain said failure to
renew a contract to provide prescriptions for  Express Scripts
Inc. (ESRX) ’s customers will reduce its fiscal 2012 earnings. The
company said it’s made “no substantial progress” in negotiating
a renewal of the contract with  Express Scripts , a manager of
drug benefits. The contract, worth more than $5 billion in
annual drug sales, expires at the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  