-- 
Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Narrows First-Half Loss to $320 Million

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-09-27T15:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/mubadala-posts-first-half-comprehensive-profit-of-54-million.html
Mubadala Development Co., an  Abu
Dhabi  state-owned investor with stakes in  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  Carlyle Group , said first-half loss narrowed to 1.18 billion
dirhams ($320 million) from 1.39 billion dirhams a year ago.  Operating income rose to 14 billion dirhams from 6.46
billion dirhams a year earlier, the company said in a statement
today distributed through the Regulatory News Service. Total
comprehensive income attributable to the equity holders amounted
to 198 million dirhams after a loss of 4.4 billion dirhams in
the same period last year, Mubadala said. Revenue increased 70
percent to 13.6 billion dirhams and total assets rose 67 percent
to 169.7 billion dirhams.  Mubadala plans to increase spending to about 60 billion
dirhams this year as it directs funds to companies such as
Advanced Technology Investment Co., Mubadala  GE Capital  and its
Masdar project. The group spent an average 16.4 billion dirhams
over the last three years, according to the company’s bond
prospectus in April.  ’’The consolidation of ATIC adds further diversification to
our revenues and underlines Mubadala’s strategic intent to
create globally competitive industry platforms that both
accelerate the development of Abu Dhabi’s economy and deliver
socio-economic benefits to its citizens,’’ Chief Executive
Officer Khaldoon al-Mubarak said in an e-mailed statement.  Abu Dhabi, home to more than 7 percent of the world’s
proven crude oil reserves, is seeking to diversify away from
energy by investing in industries such as property and
aerospace. Capital contributions of as much as 37.8 billion
dirhams have been approved by the government for this year,
Mubadala said in the prospectus.  Mubadala expects to invest $500 million in the Ruby natural
gas field in  Indonesia  along with partners, according to today’s
statement. Emirates Aluminium Co., owned by Mubadala and Dubai
Aluminium Co., reached its full phase I production capacity and
a $4.5 billion investment for phase II has been approved, the
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Abu Dhabi at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  