-- 
UBS Sues Highland Crusader for $686 Million in New York

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-09-27T23:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ubs-sues-highland-crusader-for-686-million-in-new-york-court.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  sued Highland Crusader
Holding Corp. in  New York  seeking damages of more than
$686 million for alleged fraudulent conveyances and tortious
interference.  UBS, in a complaint filed today in state court in
Manhattan, said Highland Crusader Holding Corp. is a wholly
owned subsidiary of Highland Crusader Offshore Partners LP,
which is an affiliate of Highland Capital Management LP.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender, sued Highland Capital
Management in New York in June 2010, claiming the investment
firm founded by James Dondero and Mark Okada “fraudulently
induced” UBS to restructure a collateralized debt obligation
transaction in 2008. That suit followed a complaint filed by UBS
against Highland Capital Management in February 2009.  “Once Highland Capital and the fund counterparties
succeeded in misleading UBS into restructuring the original
transaction, Highland Capital and its affiliates, including
defendant Crusader Holding Corp., made it impossible for the
fund counterparties to meet their obligations to UBS,” lawyers
for the Zurich-based bank said in the complaint.  Highland Capital, founded by Dondero and Okada in  Dallas  in
1993, announced plans in October 2008 to close its flagship
Crusader Fund and the Highland Credit Strategies Fund over a
three-year period after suffering losses on high-yield, high-
risk loans and other types of debt.  “After numerous decisions in Highland Capital Management’s
favor, this is yet another baseless attempt to rehash identical
claims that have already been filed and heard by the courts,”
Stefan Prelog, an outside spokesman for Highland Capital, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We are disappointed and surprised
that UBS continues to pursue these frivolous actions despite
their continued setbacks.”  The case is UBS Securities LLC v. Highland Crusader Holding
Corp., 652646/2011, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  