-- 
UBS Says Investment Bank Important for Tapping Wealth in Asia

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-09-27T12:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ubs-says-investment-bank-important-for-tapping-wealth-in-asia.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  said its investment-banking
unit is key as the firm’s wealth-management business targets the
“enormous” growth potential of the Asia-Pacific region.  “Its very important that we have the investment-banking
platform to support our clients,” said Allen Lo, the bank’s
head of wealth management in Hong Kong. “Asia-Pacific offers
enormous long-term growth opportunities.”  The investment bank will help UBS differentiate itself from
rivals as it bids to lure rich Asians that currently hold many
of their assets outside the wealth-management system, Lo said
today in an interview in Zurich.  Chairman Kaspar Villiger said on Sept. 24, following the
resignation of Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel , that UBS
will reduce risk at the investment bank and align it more
closely with wealth management.  Sergio Ermotti , appointed as
interim CEO three days ago, has a “credible track record” and
will steer UBS through “a challenging time,” Lo said.  UBS, which managed 162 billion Swiss francs ($179 billion)
for clients in  Asia  at the end of June, has the scale to
shoulder increasing costs associated with regulatory compliance
and the competition for hiring private bankers, said Lo. Asia-
Pacific millionaires outnumbered those in Europe for the first
time in 2010, according to a survey by Capgemini SA and Bank of
America Corp.  “The ambition is to grow faster than the market rate,” he
said. “A large chunk of assets is still outside the system.”  UBS is targeting “young and demanding” entrepreneurs,
especially in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore , Lo said, as Switzerland’s
biggest bank rebuilds after clients withdrew 198.7 billion
francs from the wealth business in nine quarters through June
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly in Paris at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  