-- 
Uganda Tells Sugar Companies to Stop Supplying ‘Speculators’

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-27T16:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/uganda-tells-sugar-companies-to-stop-supplying-speculators-1-.html
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni
ordered sugar producers in the East African country to stop
selling to “politicians or any other individuals” to curb
speculation, amid a shortage of the sweetener.  “The sugar producers should use their own trusted agents
who will, faithfully, reflect the genuine market prices, not the
extortionate ones,” Museveni said in a statement issued from
 New Delhi , where he is on a visit, and e-mailed by his office in
the capital, Kampala.  Uganda’s sugar output this year may fall 20 percent from a
February forecast of about 350,500 metric tons after a drought
cut cane yields, according to the Uganda Sugar Cane
Technologists  Association . Drought reduced output at the
nation’s three top sugar facilities, Jim Kabeho, the
association’s chairman, said today by phone from  Brazil  where he
is attending a seminar.  Kakira Sugar Works Ltd. , the country’s biggest producer and
owned by Madhvani Group, was initially projected to produce
165,000 tons this year, according to the agency.  Kinyara Sugar Works Ltd., which is 51 percent-owned by Rai
Group, a Kenyan and Mauritius-based agro-forest company, had
projected 126,380 tons, while Sugar Corp. of  Uganda  Ltd.,
wholly owned by the Mumbai-based Mehta Group, had projected
54,000 tons, the agency said April 5.  “We shall have a shortage of 20 percent because a drought
affected production at Kakira, Kinyara and even SCOUL,” Kabeho
said. A shortage of the sweetener in the country was worsened by
demand from Kenya, Rwanda and South Sudan, he said. The  finance
ministry  waived all taxes on sugar imports for the six months
that started Aug. 5 to allow the country to import 40,000 metric
tons.  The nation’s consumption of the sweeter was 346,000 tons
last year with imports of 130,000 tons, of which 67,000 tons
were re-exported, according to the association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net 
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  