-- 
Uganda Steps Up Security on Expectations of Opposition Protests

-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n   a n d   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-09-27T13:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/uganda-steps-up-security-on-expectations-of-opposition-protests.html
Uganda’s authorities stepped up
security amid plans by opposition supporters to stage protests
in coming weeks, the East African nation’s police chief said.  The Activists for Change group, known as A4C, “intends to
begin another spate of disruptive activities” in various cities
including  Kampala , Major-General Kale Kayihura, the inspector-
general of police, said in an e-mailed statement today.  The A4C is “a sinister project that must be shunned,
because if allowed to be implemented, it will undermine the
current efforts to solve the problems of the country and plunge
the country into chaos,” he said. “The police and the other
security agencies will not allow that to happen.”  Protests erupted in Uganda in April and May after inflation
surged to a 17-year high amid rising costs of food and fuel. At
least 11 people died and more than 480 were injured in violence
during the demonstrations, Catherine Ntabadde, a spokeswoman for
the  Uganda  Red Cross, said in a phone interview today.  A4C, which backed the protests, is a “non-violent and
peaceful platform to dismantle authoritarianism and build
democracy in Uganda,” according to its website.  “As long as we want to hold a rally which is lawful, we
shall do it because we don’t have to ask for permission from the
IGP,” Mathias Mpuga, the coordinator of A4C, said in a phone
interview today.  Municipal Election  Police will be deployed in Entebbe, on the outskirts of
Kampala, on Sept. 29 during a municipal by-election after the
authorities received information that “some groups” plan to
cause violence during the vote, Kayihura said.  Extra security will also be present at a soccer match
between Kenyan and Ugandan teams on Oct. 8 in Kampala, a trade
fair planned for Oct. 3 through Oct. 10, and during celebrations
on Oct. 9 to mark the 49th anniversary of independence from
Britain, he said.  The security measures are being taken after the police
received reports that Uganda has been infiltrated by “youths
trained in terror tactics” in  Afghanistan  who plan to carry out
“disruptive and destructive activities,” Kayihura said. He
didn’t provide further details.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Ojambo in Kampala via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 