-- 
Ukrainian Central Bank to Keep Hryvnia Stable, Official Says

-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-09-27T14:56:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/ukrainian-central-bank-to-keep-hryvnia-stable-shcherbakova-says.html
Ukraine’s central bank will keep
the hryvnia stable as the sovereign debt crisis in Europe
worsens, said Olena Shcherbakova, the head of the institution’s
monetary policy department.  “We are on the market almost every day, selling” foreign
currency, Shcherbakova told reporters today in Kiev, declining
to give any details. “Should more massive interventions be
needed, we will do them.”  Ukraine’s central bank controls the hryvnia’s exchange rate
by buying and selling foreign currency on the  interbank market .
The  International Monetary Fund , which approved a $15.6 billion
loan to Ukraine last year, demands greater exchange-rate
flexibility. Central bank Governor Serhiy Arbuzov said last
month the bank will allow the hryvnia to fluctuate as much as
2.5 percentage points a year to comply with the loan terms.  “The situation we have now on foreign markets is prompting
the central bank to be cautious,” Shcherbakova said. “Today,
there are many loans denominated in foreign currency and we
would not like to see any turbulence as it will cause panic. We
need to develop the stock market before we can speak about a
hryvnia corridor.”  Shcherbakova said pressure on the hryvnia comes from the
cash market. The central bank changed regulations on Sept. 23 so
residents have to provide lenders copies of their passports if
they want to buy or sell foreign currency to fight the shadow
economy and ease hryvnia pressure, she said.  Demand for foreign currency was $222 million on the cash
market on Sept. 22 before the regulation took effect, she said.
The next day, demand shrank to $98 million.’’  Shcherbakova said cash foreign currency outside the banking
system amounts to about $70 billion.  The hryvnia has lost 0.34 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of this year, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  