-- 
UN Showdown Ushers in Critical Period for U.S. Middle East Peace Efforts

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-09-27T04:01:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/un-showdown-ushers-in-critical-period-for-u-s-middle-east-peace-efforts.html
The Palestinians’ bid for statehood
at the  United Nations  has shaken up Mideast peace efforts,
fueling a sense of crisis among Israeli and Palestinian allies
that the U.S. says can drive a return to direct peace talks.  “We know that there’s a trust deficit that needs to be
overcome,”  Michael Hammer , acting assistant secretary of state
for public affairs, said yesterday. The two sides “have an
opportunity here that we hope they will seize.”  A 30-day clock began ticking Sept. 23, when the U.S., the
UN, the European Union and  Russia  -- the so-called Quartet for
Middle East Peace -- called on both sides to meet within a
month, submit comprehensive proposals within three months and
commit to a peace deal by the end of 2012.  The Obama administration is portraying the Quartet
statement as giving both sides political cover to step back from
hardened positions and resume peace talks that broke down a year
ago.  “We all have a shared and common objective of having two
states living side by side in peace and security,” Hammer said.
“The question is, how can we get there: Are the leaders of each
country willing to take the personal, political risks to achieve
peace. We’re going to be very much working in the coming days to
try to bring that about.”  The UN Security Council tomorrow plans to begin
consultations on Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas’s
application for UN membership for an independent state
comprising the  West Bank , the  Gaza Strip  and Israeli-annexed
east  Jerusalem  -- territory Israel captured in the 1967 Six-Day
War.  U.S. Veto  The prospects for the request are dim because the U.S.
plans to veto the resolution if necessary, an action that could
strengthen Palestinian militants.  Abbas says the Palestinians, lacking statehood, are at a
disadvantage in any talks with the State of Israel. The U.S. and
Israel say the statehood issue should follow direct talks to
settle borders, security and other disputes.  While both sides say they favor peace talks, Abbas has said
Israel must freeze settlement construction and hold talks based
on 1967 boundaries, as has been the basis for previous
negotiations. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  wants
the Palestinians to recognize Israel as “a Jewish state.”  The Quartet statement didn’t resolve those issues. It
declared that talks should resume without preconditions.  Doubts About Progress  Two U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity
acknowledged that the Quartet statement may not have provided
detailed enough terms for the two sides.  The Palestinians object to recognizing Israel as a Jewish
state because they say that would undermine Israeli Arab
citizens as well as rights they assert for Palestinian refugees.
Netanyahu, in his address to the UN General Assembly on Sept.
23, said a return to 1967 borders would endanger Israeli
security.  One positive outcome from the Palestinians’ UN bid was
restoring a sense of urgency to the  peace process , overshadowed
by Arab Spring uprisings.  “In many ways, more good has come out of it than bad,”
said Shibley Telhami, a nonresident fellow at the  Brookings
Institution , a  Washington  research institute, and a former
adviser to the U.S. mission to the UN. “It has created a
diplomatic crisis that once again put this issue of Israeli-
Palestinian peace at the top of the international agenda where
it belongs.”  ‘Short-Lived Celebration’  The appeal of statehood among Palestinians boosted the
waning popularity of Abbas and his secular nationalist Fatah
Party and put rival militant group Hamas, which espouses
Israel’s destruction, on the defensive, Telhami said. The U.S.,
Israel and the European Union regard Hamas as a terrorist group.  Still, for Palestinians “it’ll be a short-lived
celebration because nothing concrete was accomplished,”
cautioned Leslie Campbell, director of Middle East programs for
the Washington-based National Democratic Institute, a non-
government organization that supports democratic institutions.  The aftermath of the Palestinians’ UN bid is an uncertain
period, said  David Makovsky , director of the Middle East Peace
program at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.  By laying out their arguments in high-profile UN speeches,
both Abbas and Netanyahu may have “gained the political cover
they need” to restart serious talks, he said.  Palestinian Aid  “The question is: Do they use the popularity they’ve each
accrued by pivoting to meaningful talks?” he said.  It’s significant that the Quartet statement recognized
“the achievements of the  Palestinian Authority  in preparing
institutions for statehood” and promised an international
donors’ conference to give them “full and sustained support,”
said Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow at the American Task Force
on  Palestine , a Washington group that advocates a two-state
solution.  The U.S. was the largest single donor to the Palestinian
Authority last year, providing $740 million directly and through
organizations including UN aid agencies, according to the State
Department.  Israel’s allies in Congress who have threatened to cut off
U.S. aid to the Palestinian Authority fail to realize that
undermining moderate Palestinian leaders, who advocate peace
with Israel, “will wreck their credibility and could create a
backlash of anger and violence” and “a political and security
nightmare for  Israel ,” Ibish said.  Underlying Disputes  The drama at the UN hasn’t changed any of the underlying
disputes that divide the two sides nor laid out principles of
how to solve them, said  Aaron David Miller , a former U.S.
negotiator for Middle East peace.  Bidding for UN recognition was “a paradigm shift” on the
part of Palestinians, who were trying to break the gridlock of
decades of failed talks, said Miller, a fellow at the Woodrow
Wilson Center for International Scholars in Washington.  The Quartet’s response was “designed to kick the can down
the road and defer consideration of Abbas’s bid for UN
membership,” Miller said. “It can’t become a basis for
sustainable negotiations, because it doesn’t address the
problems impeding those negotiations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in New York at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  