-- 
Hungarian Shares Jump Most in 14 Months on OTP, Court

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-09-27T16:48:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/hungarian-shares-rebound-from-two-year-low-as-banks-mol-rally.html
(Corrects scope of index jump from first paragraph.)  Hungarian shares rose the most in
14 months as a ruling from  Hungary ’s top court on banks and
comments from the head of the country’s largest lender added to
a global stocks rally. The forint strengthened.  The BUX equity gauge jumped 4.5 percent to 15,600.7 as of
the 5 p.m. end of trade in Budapest, the biggest jump on a
closing basis since July 2010, after losing 8.6 percent in the
previous four sessions. OTP Bank Nyrt., accounting for 25
percent of the BUX weightings, rose 14.8 percent to 3,259 forint
after a suspension for breaching the 10 percent trading limit
and marking its biggest rally since May 2010.  Hungary’s Supreme Court today struck down a lower-court
decision barring the increase of household loan rates to recoup
higher costs. The nation’s top court invalidated an appellate
court verdict that interest-rate and other fee and commission
changes in credit agreements by a local savings bank to cover
funding expenses were “unethical.”  “There is positive correction on global markets,” said
Peter Fazekas, analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt. “OTP was
also helped by the Supreme Court ruling,” Fazekas said in a
telephone interview.  The court decision eases concerns that banks would face
lawsuits from consumers already struggling to repay foreign-
currency loans.  “The ruling removes that source of risk for the banking
sector and OTP,” Fazekas said.  OTP To ‘Stay Stable’  A separate law that enters into force this week allows the
early repayment of foreign currency mortgages at below market
exchange rates. The repayments won’t destabilize OTP,
Privatbankar.hu reported, citing comments by Chief Executive
Officer Sandor Csanyi. OTP’s Tier 1 capital ratio would “stay
stable” and would be 13 percent if all of the foreign-currency
mortgages were converted into forint, Csanyi said, according to
Privatbankar.hu.  Banks led European stocks higher as policy makers increased
efforts to contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis, boosting
investor demand for riskier assets worldwide.  The forint appreciated 1.5 percent to 286.2 per euro.
Hungary’s benchmark 10-year government bonds rallied, cutting
the yield 28 basis points to 7.82 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  