-- 
Pachinko Maker Targets $2 Billion Revenue From Philippine Casino Project

-- B y   M i y u k i   S e g u c h i   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-09-28T11:01:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/universal-entertainment-to-invest-2-3-billion-in-casino-project.html
Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) , the
Japanese pachinko company that is a part owner of Wynn Resorts
Ltd., is targeting 150 billion yen ($2 billion) in revenue for
its Manila casino project in 2014, the first year of operation.  Universal Entertainment plans to open two casinos and three
hotels in the Philippine capital by December 2013 and will
decide by 2015 whether to build more gambling venues in Asia,
Chairman Kazuo Okada said in an interview yesterday. The company
plans to spend $2.3 billion on the Manila project.  The maker of pinball-like machines used in pachinko
parlors, where customers play for prizes, plans to make more
money from operating casinos, Okada said. Bettors in  Asia  are
fueling industry growth in  Singapore  and in  Macau , where casino
revenue was four times that of the Las Vegas Strip last year.
Okada’s first-year sales target for the Manila project is more
than triple his company’s sales in the 12 months ended March.  “The sales will start to increase faster after a point in
the period of 2014 to 2015, as Asia’s economy will build up,”
Okada said in  Tokyo . “It will benefit the casino market.”  The pachinko machine maker is also interested in operating
casinos in Japan, should the government lift a ban, Okada said.
It may be more likely casinos will be allowed to operate in the
country because the revenue they generate may help fund
reconstruction after the March 11 earthquake, he said.  ‘No Clear Picture’  Okada said casinos may be allowed to operate in  Japan 
between 2014 and 2016. Las Vegas Sands Corp. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Sheldon Adelson earlier this month said he
expects either Japan or  South Korea  to decide to allow
integrated resorts, which include casinos and convention space,
next year.  Universal Entertainment declined 4.4 percent to 2,442 yen
at the 3:10 p.m. close of trading in  Osaka . That trimmed the
stock’s gain this year to 2.9 percent, compared with a 16
percent decline for the Topix index.  The company needs to raise funds for the project and
“there is no clear picture” of how that will be done, Takashi
Oka, a Tokyo-based analyst at TIW Inc., said today. The revenue
target for the  Manila  casino “won’t be easy to achieve” if
another financial crisis breaks out, he said.  The Tokyo-based company gets 95 percent of its revenue from
the sale of pachislot and pachinko machines, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We will be expanding our casino business to be the No. 1
business for our company,” Okada said.  Interested Investors  Universal Entertainment will invest $1.6 billion to build
the casino and hotel complex, and another $350 million on a
residential project, the company said.  The company is in talks with investors to raise funds for
the Manila project, Okada said.  “Some investors have already approached us, proposing to
join our project,” said Okada, declining to name them before a
contract is concluded.  The company has secured or already invested the equivalent
of 55 percent of the project cost and may seek additional
funding by borrowing, Okada said, declining to provide more
details.  The project will include three hotels, with casinos in two
of them, and a shopping mall, the company said. The casinos will
have 500 tables and 3,000 slot machines, it said.  ‘Getting Better’  “The business environment in the Philippines and the
economy are getting better,” Okada said. The Southeast Asian
country reported a budget surplus in August, helped by higher
tax revenue, narrowing the eight-month deficit to 15 percent of
the level a year earlier.  Philippine President Benigno Aquino won credit-rating
upgrades in June from  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service as he chased tax evaders and corrupt officials to narrow
the  budget deficit  to 2.6 percent of gross domestic product, or
about 286 billion pesos ($6.6 billion).  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  may invest at least $1
billion in a Manila casino project, Cristino Naguiat, chairman
of the Philippine Amusement & Gaming Corp., the nation’s
gambling regulator, said in a Sept. 2 interview in  Shanghai .
Melco Crown is a venture between Australian billionaire  James
Packer  and Lawrence Ho, son of Macau gambling magnate  Stanley
Ho .  Michelin Star  The Philippines awarded four licenses in 2008 and 2009 to
operate casinos in a gambling and entertainment complex the
government plans to build in Manila.  Each Philippine licensee agreed to invest $1 billion over
five years, Naguiat said at that time. Three of the four that
were given licenses in 2008 to 2009 were a venture between
Genting Malaysia Bhd and Alliance Global Group Inc., Philippine
property developer  Belle Corp. (BEL) , and Philippine ports magnate
Enrique Razon’s Bloombury Investments Holding Inc.  Universal Entertainment is the biggest shareholder of the
casino operator founded by billionaire  Stephen Wynn , with a 19.7
percent stake.  The company plans to open a dining facility with three
restaurants and a lounge in  Hong Kong  in February.  “We aim to win a Michelin star at our restaurants in Hong
Kong and bring the star restaurants to the Philippines, since
high-end casino players are gourmets,” Okada said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miyuki Seguchi in Tokyo at 
 mseguchi@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  