-- 
Turkish Bonds Gain for First Day in Five as Europe Leaders Meet on Crisis

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-09-27T14:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/turkish-bonds-gain-1st-day-in-5-as-europe-leaders-meet-on-crisis.html
Turkish bonds advanced the most in
a week, snapping a four-day losing streak, and the lira gained
on speculation that European leaders will take steps to contain
the region’s debt crisis.  Yields on the two-year benchmark bond fell 24 basis points,
or 0.24 percentage point, to 8.43 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
Istanbul, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark Bond Index.
Yields had increased 64 basis points in the previous four days.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel hosts Greek Prime Minister
George Papandreou for talks in Berlin today as the leaders face
mounting pressure to agree on a rescue deal. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  predicted that European
governments will use more force to resolve the region’s crisis
after they heard the concerns of global finance officials during
meetings in  Washington  last weekend.  “Everyone is optimistic in general,” and “the markets
are thinking that they mean business,” Suha Yaygin, deputy
chief of emerging-markets at Toronto-Dominion Bank in  London ,
said in e-mailed comments, citing today’s meeting between Merkel
and Papandreou. “ Greece  is making a lot of effort and the
International Monetary Fund delegation is in the country and the
Greeks will probably take the loan tranche next week.”  The lira strengthened as much as 0.8 percent and was 0.4
percent higher at 1.8454 per dollar. The central bank sold $280
million today, the second-highest amount offered since it
embarked on foreign-exchange auctions on Aug. 5.  The lira is world’s worst-performing emerging-market
currency this year, depreciating 16 percent against the dollar,
as a widening current-account deficit and worsening debt crisis
in  Europe  hurt investor confidence in the country’s financial
stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  