-- 
As Muslim World Frays, UN Obsesses Over Israel: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-09-27T00:00:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/muslim-world-frays-un-obsessed-by-israel-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Last week,  Susan Rice , the U.S.
ambassador to the  United Nations , shared with me a list of the
diverse steps the country has taken to protect Israel from what
she and President Barack Obama consider to be scapegoating by
the world body.  The list includes U.S. opposition to the “dozens of biased
resolutions” directed against Israel in the General Assembly,
and also notes the number of times the U.S. has fought for the
appointment of Israelis to various posts within the UN, from
which they are, as a matter of course, excluded.  It also offers a good illustration of the lengths the U.S.
must go to in fighting the UN’s pathological, detestable and
intermittently comical obsession with  Israel  -- one that
prevents it from forcefully addressing many of the more dire
problems confronting the Arab world.  At times, the list reads like satire. There is, for
instance, this item: “The  United States  continues to call for
the resignation of the UN Special Rapporteur on the Human Rights
Situation in the Occupied  Palestinian Territories , Richard Falk.
The United States has strongly condemned his anti-Semitic
statements and web postings, as well as his deeply offensive
statements in support of 9/11 conspiracy theories.”  The UN doesn’t consider it overly troubling that a top
human-rights official has trafficked in anti-Semitic propaganda
and is a Sept. 11 “truther.”  Then there was this uplifting episode, brought to us
courtesy of  Syria : “At the  Human Rights Council , the United
States forcefully opposed 2010 statements by a Syrian official
that Israeli children are taught to sing songs about drinking
the blood of Arabs. The United States worked with the HRC
President to make clear that such language is outrageous and
offensive and has no place in UN bodies.”  A Singular Focus  There is nothing new about the UN’s singular focus -- half
of the 10  emergency special sessions  called in the General
Assembly since the UN’s founding have involved Israel, and
Israel is the target of more condemnatory resolutions than any
other nation. Of the UN’s 193 members, nearly 50 are Muslim-
majority states, and one has a Jewish majority. So one of the
issues here is mathematics.  A note, before I proceed: I support the creation of a
Palestinian state on the  West Bank  and in Gaza, with a capital
in East Jerusalem, and have for many years. I believe it’s in
Israel’s best interest to have an independent Palestinian state
as a neighbor, and I also support Palestinian statehood because
Palestinians define themselves as a nation and have the right to
live free and unmolested in their own country.  But the Palestinian cause isn’t the world’s only such
cause. (Those watching the General Assembly meeting last week
could be forgiven for thinking otherwise.) Many groups not lucky
enough to have Jewish adversaries are seeking independence as
well, and many more groups, and individuals, are seeking freedom
and dignity within independent states. They can’t seem to get
anyone’s attention.  Other Problems  A quick scan of the news out of the Muslim world over the
past week or so suggests a number of suitable topics for
intensive discussion at the General Assembly, apart from the
matter of  Palestine .  In Syria -- whose government lately has been paying less
attention to the diabolical nature of Israeli children’s songs
and more attention to torturing and killing its own citizens --
the death toll in the popular uprising now exceeds 2,700.
Included in that number are at least 100 children.  In  Pakistan , 26 Shiite pilgrims were ordered off a bus and
 gunned down , in the latest incident of Muslim-on-Muslim violence
there. In  Indonesia , a suicide bomber detonated himself in a
church, wounding more than 20 worshippers, in the latest
incident of Muslim-on-Christian violence that is a considerable
problem in several Muslim-majority states, including  Egypt .  In Somalia, al-Shabaab, an Islamist terrorist group, is
refusing to allow food donations to reach drought-stricken
areas. Aid groups estimate that 300,000 children may die if
supplies don’t reach them soon. In  Turkey , a bomb attack in
Ankara killed three people and wounded more than 30. The bombers
were probably Kurdish terrorists, seeking to free their homeland
from the hold of the central government.  In Yemen, more than 70 people were killed by security
forces while protesting the dictatorial rule of Ali Abdullah Saleh. In  Libya , rebels discovered a mass grave holding the
bodies of 1,270 prison inmates massacred in 1996. And, of
course, Burhanuddin Rabbani, a former president of  Afghanistan 
and head of the country’s High Peace Council, was assassinated
Sept. 20.  This is a partial list.  There is a reason Israelis don’t trust the UN: It spends
comparatively little time examining the various sins and
shortcomings of Arab and Muslim states, including many
autocracies led by thoroughgoing sadists, and a disproportionate
amount of time sitting in judgment of Israel. And there is a
reason Israelis trust the U.S. as the only possible broker for
peace negotiations: It has consistently fought the demonization
of the world’s only Jewish state.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 