-- 
Vietcombank Says Mizuho to Buy 15% Stake for $570 Million

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-27T07:22:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/vietcombank-says-mizuho-to-buy-15-stake-for-570-million-1-.html
Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for
Foreign Trade of Vietnam, the state-owned lender known as
Vietcombank, said it will sell a 15 percent stake to  Mizuho
Financial Group Inc. (8411)  for about $570 million.  The central bank approved the sale, Chairman Nguyen Hoa
Binh said by telephone today. Vietcombank will issue about 347
million new shares for the stake, said Chief Executive Officer
Nguyen Phuoc Thanh, who gave the value for the deal. Masako Shiono, a spokeswoman for Mizuho in  Tokyo , declined to comment.  Mizuho,  Japan ’s third-biggest lender by market value, is
expanding elsewhere in Asia as bank lending declines at home.
Vietcombank, Vietnam’s fourth-biggest bank by assets, first sold
shares to outside investors in 2007, and said the same year that
it sought a “foreign strategic investor” before the plans were
derailed, in part by the global economic crisis.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  are among foreign banks that have
bought shares in Vietnamese banks and opened branches in the
Southeast Asian country, bidding to tap into a consumer market
that Credit Suisse Group AG describes as “under-banked.”  Foreign investor interest in Vietnamese banks is positive
for the country’s financial industry, Moody’s Investors Service
said this month in a report that also warned about weakening
earnings and deteriorating asset quality amid high inflation.  “Most banks will need fresh capital in the coming one to
three years, and expect some capital support to be forthcoming
from the foreign shareholders, if necessary,” wrote Karolyn Seet, a Singapore-based assistant vice president at Moody’s.  Shares of Vietcombank, which listed on the  Ho Chi Minh City 
Stock Exchange in 2009, rose 0.8 percent today to close at
26,600 dong. Mizuho gained 1.8 percent in Tokyo to 113 yen.  Mizuho’s investment will reduce the state’s shareholding in
Vietcombank, which is held through the central bank, to about 77
percent, according to CEO Thanh.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City and Nguyen Kieu Giang and
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. With assistance from Takako Taniguchi
in Tokyo. Editors: Russell Ward, Linus Chua  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  