-- 
Wal-Mart Stores Losing Top Two Executives at Online Division

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-09-27T20:19:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/wal-mart-losing-top-two-online-executives.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is losing the
two executives in charge of its online business as the world’s
largest retailer works to win shoppers that are making more
purchases over the Internet.  Eduardo Castro-Wright, a Wal-Mart vice chairman who ran
global sourcing operations along with the online business, will
retire in July, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart said today
in a statement. Wan Ling Martello, Wal-Mart’s executive vice
president of e-commerce, will replace Jim Singh as chief
financial officer of  Nestle SA (NESN) , the food company said in a
statement.  “It’s a serious loss of leadership in the e-commerce
business,”  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, said in an interview. “Eduardo had the internal
firepower to make things happen.”  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has focused on improving
the company’s Internet unit as more shoppers migrate to the Web
and same-store sales at U.S. stores decline. Wal-Mart bought
Silicon Valley e-commerce startup Kosmix and created
@WalmartLabs to speed up innovation. The company also is testing
home delivery of fresh groceries ordered online.  Wal-Mart rose 20 cents to $52.03 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 3.5
percent this year.  Castro-Wright  Castro-Wright, 56, previously ran Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores
division, which accounts for about two-thirds of total revenue.
He moved to  California  to assume his current positions in June
2010 as his wife recovered from heart surgery. He joined the
company in 2001 in  Mexico .  Martello joined Wal-Mart in 2005 and previously served as
head of finance and strategy for Wal-Mart’s international
business. Her replacement hasn’t been named, according to
company spokesman Lorenzo Lopez. New leaders for the units
Castro-Wright led will be in place by the end of January, Wal-
Mart said.  The departures follow those of two other online executives,
Raul Vazquez and Steve Nave, who left for personal reasons last
month, the company said. At the time, Wal-Mart said dot-com
leaders in markets such as the U.S. and U.K. would now report
directly to the heads of stores in those countries, and not to
Castro-Wright.  Wal-Mart doesn’t disclose its online sales. Analysts at
Wells Fargo Securities LLC estimate that Walmart.com has revenue
of about $6 billion a year, less than 2 percent of total sales.
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest Internet retailer,
increased sales 40 percent to $34.2 billion in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  