-- 
WaMu Noteholders Appeal Judge’s Rejection of Reorganization

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-09-28T19:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/wamu-noteholders-appeal-judge-s-decision-to-reject-reorganization-plan.html
Noteholders of  Washington Mutual
Inc. (WAMUQ) , the former owner of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, is
seeking a court ruling to overturn a judge’s rejection of a
reorganization plan that would pay them billions of dollars.  The noteholders, four hedge funds that helped negotiate the
plan, also seek to reverse a decision by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Mary Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware , that may force them to
face a lawsuit accusing them of  insider trading . The hedge funds
filed papers yesterday asking Walrath to allow their appeals to
go forward while they attend court-ordered mediation.  “You do not need to be a lawyer to recognize from the
motion that the WaMu decision is appalling -- a radical
departure from binding precedent,” Aurelius Capital Management
LP Chairman  Mark Brodsky  said in a letter to investors obtained
by Bloomberg News. The decision “will, until overturned, impede
consensual plan negotiations and even the formation of ad hoc
creditor committees,” he wrote.  Walrath rejected WaMu’s reorganization plan for the second
time on Sept. 14, in part because she said the plan pays a
higher  interest rate  than is legally allowed to some WaMu
noteholders, including the hedge funds. Walrath also allowed
shareholders, including those who are getting nothing under the
plan, to try to prove their allegations of insider trading in a
lawsuit that she authorized them to file.  Bank Takeover  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank had more than 2,200 branches and $188
billion in deposits.  The hedge funds that hold different sets of WaMu bonds and
convertible securities, shareholders and other creditors fought
throughout the case over how to divide the cash, tax refunds and
new stock to be issued in the only part of WaMu that will
survive bankruptcy, a small reinsurance company.  WaMu has $4 billion in cash and more than $3 billion in tax
refunds and other assets to distribute to creditors if the
company rewrites its plan and wins Walrath’s approval, or if a
higher court overturns her rejection of the current plan.  The four  hedge funds  accused by shareholders of receiving
inside information are Aurelius Capital Management, Centerbridge
Partners LP, Appaloosa Management LP and Owl Creek Asset
Management LP. All four have denied using any material, non-
public information to buy or sell WaMu securities.  Mediation Ordered  Walrath granted a request by a committee of shareholders to
sue the hedge funds for their conduct during the bankruptcy. She
said that potential lawsuit can’t immediately go forward,
ordering shareholders and supporters of the rejected plan to
mediation.  She rejected allegations that the hedge funds, known as the
settlement noteholders, controlled WaMu and that the entire plan
was proposed in bad faith. She also upheld the settlement among
JPMorgan, WaMu and the hedge funds that serves as the foundation
for the reorganization plan.  The company, the shareholders and the hedge funds will
return to court next month to talk about how to proceed with
mediation.  WaMu’s 5 percent notes due next year climbed nearly 9
percent today to 110.5 cents on the dollar, according to
information on the Bloomberg Terminal.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc., 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  