-- 
SEC Sued Over 1998 Policy of Purging Files Linked to Probes

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-28T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/watchdog-group-sues-u-s-sec-over-document-destruction-policies.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission was accused in a lawsuit by a government watchdog of
illegally destroying documents from probes of Bernard Madoff,
Bank of America Corp. and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in  Washington 
yesterday asked a federal judge in Washington to order the
commission and its chairman,  Mary Schapiro , to preserve
investigative records and attempt to recover files that were
destroyed.  “The public deserves to know all the messy details about
how these investigations were conducted, and why they were
closed at such an early stage without taking any action against
the Bernie Madoffs of the world,” Anne Weismann, the group’s
chief counsel, said in a statement.  The SEC’s data policy came under scrutiny after Darcy
Flynn, a 13-year SEC employee, claimed in a letter to U.S.
Senator Charles Grassley that the agency destroyed documents
including materials related to Goldman Sachs’ trades of American
International Group Inc. credit-default swaps in 2009, insider-
trading probes of Deutsche Bank AG,  Lehman Brothers  and SAC
Capital Advisors LP, and investigations of possible financial
fraud at Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America in 2007 and 2008.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on the
suit.  Preservation of Records  The lawsuit seeks preservation of records of so-called
Matters Under Investigation, which under a policy dating back to
1998, aren’t stored as official files of the SEC, according to a
Sept. 14 letter to Grassley from SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami .  While the agency didn’t retain documents such as publicly
available news articles or company filings related to closed
preliminary investigations, it kept an electronic record of each
matter, including the source of the case, the general subject
matter and a list of staff and other parties involved, Khuzami
wrote.  In light of Grassley’s questions and continuing discussions
with the  National Archives  and Records Administration, the SEC
halted the policy, requiring all documents created or received
for all enforcement matters to be retained until the agency is
certain that the policies meet federal standards, according to
Khuzami’s letter.  The case is Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
Washington v. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 11-cv-
01732, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 