-- 
Wigan, Portsmouth Vie to Sign Free Agent Diouf, Guardian Says: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-09-27T09:34:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/wigan-portsmouth-vie-to-sign-free-agent-diouf-guardian-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Diouf’s Future  Wigan and Portsmouth are among clubs interested in signing
former Blackburn forward El Hadji Diouf,  the Guardian said.   The striker is a free agent after his contract was canceled
because of a disagreement with manager  Steve Kean  after the
Senegal player failed to report back to training on time, the
newspaper said.  He trained with Wigan, and Doncaster Rovers are also
interested in bringing him in, the newspaper said.  Berbatov Role  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  says  Dimitar Berbatov  still has a place to play with the team even though he
hasn’t scored in a European match in three years,  the Sun said.   Mame Diouf, Federico Macheda and Michael Owen also aren’t
playing regularly, and Ferguson said Berbatov will get into
matches, the newspaper said. He last scored in the  Champions
League  in October 2008 against Celtic at Old Trafford.  Tempting Vertonghen  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  will use Gunners defender
Thomas Vermaelen’s friendship with Belgian teammate Jan Vertonghen to try to lure the Ajax player to  London ,  the Daily
Star said.   Liverpool Target  Liverpool may beat out Tottenham to sign Brazilian striker
Leandro Damiao,  the Mirror  reported.  The Reds have monitored the Internacional player at six
games recently, and assistant manager Steve Clarke was at the
London match where the 22-year-old scored against Ghana earlier
this month, the newspaper added.  Shelvey Loan?  Liverpool may send midfielder Jonjo Shelvey out on loan in
an effort to revive his Anfield career, the  Daily Mail  reported.  Cardiff, Coventry and Hull are among the clubs interested
in the 19-year-old, the newspaper said  SWP Recall?  Fabio Capello is ready to recall Shaun Wright-Phillips to
the England squad after the winger’s bright start at newly
promoted Queens Park Rangers, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Capello was at QPR to see Wright-Phillips play in the 1-1
draw with Aston Villa two days ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 