-- 
Wilbur Ross: Ship Deals to Accelerate After Slump

-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n ,   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 
2011-09-27T17:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/wilbur-ross-ship-deals-to-accelerate-after-slump.html
Wilbur Ross , the billionaire
chairman of private-equity firm WL Ross & Co., said he expects
transactions in shipping to accelerate after charter rates
slumped because of a supply glut.  The 73-year-old is part of a group of investors that bought
a fleet of 30 ships hauling gasoline, diesel and other refined
products for about $900 million. The transaction was completed
last night at midnight, Ross said at Bloomberg Link’s Dealmakers
Summit in  New York  today.  “You’re going to see more transactions in shipping,” Ross
told the summit. “Shipping is a very capital-intensive
industry, a global industry, but highly fragmented.”  Owners of supertankers ordered the most vessels in about
three decades in 2007 and 2008, when charter rates rose as high
as $289,000 a day, just as the world economy entered its worst
recession since World War II. The vessels, which haul about 20
percent of the world’s oil, are now making $393, according to
data from Poten & Partners, a New York-based consultant.
Frontline Ltd., the biggest operator of the ships, says it needs
$29,800 to break even.  Ross said in an interview last month that shipping was
probably “relatively close” to the bottom of the cycle. His
investment of about $300 million is in Diamond S Shipping of
Greenwich,  Connecticut . The company was founded in 2007 by First
Reserve Corp., a private equity company, and Craig H. Stevenson,
the former chairman and chief executive officer of OMI Corp., a
shipping company sold in 2007.  “We’ll have altogether 38 tankers between crude tankers
and petroleum-product tankers,” Ross said today. “That’s one
of the larger fleets that there is, and yet there are thousands
of vessels on the water. That’s one of the problems of the
industry. It’s too fragmented.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Winkler  in New York at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net 
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  