-- 
Myer Holdings Chief Says Consumer Confidence ‘Worst in 30 Years’

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-09-27T08:39:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/myer-holdings-chief-says-consumer-confidence-worst-in-30-years-.html
Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR) ,  Australia ’s
biggest department-store chain, sees  consumer confidence  at a
three-decade low and doesn’t expect any improvement in at least
six months, Chief Executive Officer Bernie Brookes said.  “The poor consumers are being bludgeoned,” Brookes said
in an interview at the World Retail Congress in Berlin today.
Confidence is “probably the worst we’ve seen it in 30 years”
as Australians are forced to pay new taxes on carbon use and
funding reconstruction from floods while confronting rising
unemployment and higher medical, energy and borrowing costs.  Australia’s fragile political environment is adding to
consumer woes, and households may take another 6 to 12 months
before resuming spending, Brookes said. “It’s very hard to get
definite action and leadership and unfortunately that’s not
contributing anything to it at all,” he said.  Sales during the Australian winter slumped as much as
5 percent, the CEO said. Christmas will be a “bit better” this
year after being “so bad last year.”  Myer’s online sales may jump to account for 5 percent of
revenue “very quickly,” from 0.2 percent now, as the pace of
growth has tripled from a year earlier, Brookes said on
Sept. 18. As consumers move to making purchases over the
Internet, Melbourne-based Myer may operate fewer stores, the CEO
said today.  The cost of setting up the online system and fulfillment
means so-called starting profits will be held back, but volume
growth will be “significant” once the network is set up, and
lower rents and wages at the unit will boost earnings, he said.  “Not in the next five to 10 years but I think going
forward, the model will change so the answer might be two or
three stores less,” the CEO said. Should online operations
account for 5 percent to 10 percent of business, the number of
stores may be cut by that amount, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in Berlin via 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  