-- 
Typhoon Nesat Crosses Philippines, Cutting Manila’s Power

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-09-27T12:36:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/typhoon-nesat-forces-thousands-to-flee-across-philippines-shuts-markets.html
Typhoon Nesat killed at least seven
people in the  Philippines , shut financial markets, flooded
streets and cut power supplies before weakening as it crossed
the Sierra Madre mountains on the most populous island of  Luzon .  Nesat was 70 kilometers northwest of Baguio City with
maximum sustained winds of 120 kilometers per hour and gusts of
as much as 150 kph, according to the  Philippine Atmospheric ,
Geophysical & Astronomical Services Administration’s 4 p.m.
bulletin on its  website . That’s down from winds of 140 kph when
it made landfall at 4 a.m. today in the northern provinces of
Aurora and Isabela.  Four people died when a wall collapsed in Valenzuela City
while a one-year-old boy was killed in Catanduanes province when
he fell into a creek, according to the disaster  risk agency .
More than 3,000 passengers were stranded in ports and more than
19,000 were in evacuation centers or staying with relatives and
friends, the risk agency said. The government had ordered
evacuation of more than 111,000 people.  The Philippines gets hit by an average of 20 cyclones each
year that form over the  Pacific Ocean  to the east. In September
2009, Tropical Storm Ketsana submerged most of the nation’s
capital after dumping 41 centimeters (16 inches) of rain in six
hours, killing more than 300 people.  Landslides were monitored in Camarines Sur and Catanduanes
provinces east of Manila while a tornado was spotted in Isabela,
the risk agency said. Floods rose above the knees of people in
front of the U.S. Embassy and Manila Hotel in the capital, GMA
News TV footage showed.  Wind toppled trees and in at least two cases, knocked down
shanties and killed residents, according to police reports.
Instances of flying rooftops and billboards injured four people
in Manila and Makati cities, police said. Felled trees and power
posts contributed to a widespread outage earlier today,  Manila
Electric Co. (MER)  said.  Malaysia ,  Vietnam   Nesat is forecast to move west-northwest at 19 kph on a
track that will take it across the island into the  South China
Sea  over the next two days, according to the weather agency. The
public storm alert has been lowered in some provinces, including
in the capital.  Tail winds from Typhoon Nesat also uprooted trees and blew
off rooftops in Philippine neighbor Malaysia’s eastern Sabah
state, the Star  reported  online. Some 15,000 people were
affected when electricity and telephone lines were cut, it said.  “We have issued a warning for gusty conditions until
October 1,” Mohammad Mukrim, Meteorological Officer at Sabah
 State Meteorological  Department, said by phone in Kota Kinabalu
today. “Waves could reach 3.5 meters to 4.5 meters high. We
expect the typhoon will move towards northern Vietnam.”  Philippines President  Benigno Aquino , who’s in  Japan  for
courtesy calls and investor meetings, said he’s monitoring the
situation and is in constant touch with his cabinet. Aquino is
scheduled to arrive in Manila tomorrow.  Manila Electric  About 1 million customers of the nation’s biggest power
retailer are still without electricity as of 6 p.m., Manila
Electric Co. said in its latest bulletin. That’s about 21
percent of its 4.9 million customers, compared with 44 percent
that were without power at midday and 38 percent at 2 p.m.  In the northern province of Cagayan, a bus from Manila fell
off the road after the driver lost control, killing one
passenger and injuring the driver and five others, Senior
Superintendent Mao Aplasca of the provincial police said in a
mobile phone message. In Ifugao, home to the Banaue rice
terraces, a bridge collapsed, according to provincial police.  Four dams nearing full capacity have spilled water, the
disaster risk agency said.  Offices, Markets Shut  Government offices and schools in the capital and nearby
provinces were shut, Aquino’s spokesman, Edwin Lacierda, said in
a mobile phone message earlier today. The Philippine stock
exchange didn’t open for trading, while the government postponed
a treasury bond auction set for 1 p.m.  Manila  time to tomorrow.
Trading of  government bonds  and currencies was suspended,
Central Bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo said.  More than 50 domestic flights were cancelled, ABS-CBN News
reported, citing data from Manila International Airport
Authority.  Manila’s three main commuter railway lines suspended
operations today because of power shortages, GMA News TV
reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Evans at 
 revans6@bloomberg.net  