-- 
Yuan Advances on Speculation Policy Makers Will Tolerate Gains

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-09-27T02:19:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/yuan-advances-on-speculation-policy-makers-will-tolerate-gains.html
China ’s yuan gained, snapping a
three-day drop, on speculation policy makers will allow currency
gains to tame inflation in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The nation should maintain a proactive fiscal policy along
with prudent monetary policy because it helps curb inflation,
Jia Kang, head of the research institute for fiscal science
under the ministry of finance, wrote in a commentary in the
People’s Daily today. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index
gained on optimism European leaders will consider restarting
purchases of covered bonds to ease monetary conditions.  “Investors are buying into the market as European
political leaders seem to be acting to stabilize the
situation,” said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based economist at CCB
International Securities Ltd. “Even if global economic growth
falls sharply, China will continue to let the yuan gain to lower
the cost of imports.”  The yuan strengthened 0.12 percent to 6.3927 per dollar as
of 9:58 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The People Bank’s of China set its daily
 reference rate  0.04 percent weaker at 6.3760.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan rose 0.31 percent
to 6.4600 per dollar, extending the week’s gain to 0.8 percent,
Bloomberg data show. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards
advanced 0.28 percent to 6.3819, a 0.2 percent premium to the
onshore rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China must “quickly” implement a more flexible exchange-
rate policy, Financial Times Deutschland reported yesterday,
citing International Monetary Fund Deputy Managing Director Zhu Min as saying in an interview.  Consumer prices in China rose 6.2 percent in August from a
year earlier after having climbed 6.5 percent the previous
month. The increase in July was the most in three years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in  Hong Kong  at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  