-- 
Zambian Tax Agency Resolves Mining Industry Payments Dispute

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   A n t h o n y   M u k w i t a
-- 
2011-09-27T11:58:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/zambian-tax-agency-resolves-mining-industry-payments-dispute.html
Zambia’s tax agency settled a
dispute with some unidentified mining companies on outstanding
taxes last month, said Wisdom Nekairo, director-general of the
country’s Revenue Authority.  The payments will probably boost total revenue to 16
trillion kwacha ($3.29 billion) this financial year from 11.4
trillion kwacha in 2010, Nekairo said in an interview on Sept.
19 in Lusaka, the capital.  “We have reached an agreement with mining companies that
were in arrears and they’ve already paid 1.5 trillion Zambian
kwacha this year,” he said, without disclosing which companies
had made payments. Some mining companies had disputed the amount
the tax agency claimed they owed, Nekairo said.  Zambia is  Africa ’s biggest copper producer with foreign
companies including  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ,  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FM)  and Glencore International Plc operating in the
country. Authorities said in February there may have been
“irregularities” in the tax submissions from Glencore’s Mopani
Copper Mines unit for the 2008 fiscal year. Glencore said the
audit was “factually incorrect.”  Zambia plans to bring informal traders and unregistered
businesses into the tax net to help boost revenue, Nekairo said.  Michael Sata  won Zambia’s presidency last week, defeating
incumbent Rupiah Banda, after pledging to extract more money
from mining companies. Miners “shouldn’t lose sleep” about
their investments because Sata won’t change taxes without
consulting them, spokesman Miles Sampa said Sept. 24.  Zambia’s kwacha strengthened the most in 10 months today
and was at 4,860 per dollar by 1:45 p.m. in Lusaka, extending a
recovery since the election result on Sept. 23 to 5.8 percent
and paring losses last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Mukwita in Lusaka at 
 amukwita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  