-- 
Zloty Gains Versus Euro as European Leaders Meet on Debt Crisis

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-27T09:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-27/zloty-gains-versus-euro-as-european-debt-crisis-seen-contained.html
The Polish zloty strengthened
against the euro as European leaders increased efforts to
contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The zloty appreciated 0.9 percent to 4.3928 per euro as of
10:23 a.m. in Warsaw for the second-biggest jump among 10
emerging-market currencies in  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa
region tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on bonds maturing in
October 2021 fell 4 basis points to 5.92 percent, a third day of
declines.  German Chancellor Angela Merkel hosts Greek Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  for talks in Berlin today as credit-default
swaps show a more than 90 percent chance that  Greece  won’t meet
its debt commitments. Italy and the Netherlands hold debt
auctions and Greek lawmakers prepare to vote on a property tax,
crucial to securing the nation’s next aid installment.  “The situation on the zloty will be dictated by a global
mood, especially by events in the euro area,” Bank Millennium
SA economists in Warsaw led by  Grzegorz Maliszewski  wrote in an
e-mailed report to clients. “The recent central bank activity
should ensure that the euro will limit its gains to a level seen
during the intervention.”  The zloty has appreciated 2.7 percent since the central
bank on Sept. 23 said it sold foreign currencies on the market
after the currency plunged to its weakest in almost 27 months.
State-owned Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego also sold euros and
dollars for zloty on the market and bought  government bonds ,
said two traders involved in the transaction who declined to be
named because the information isn’t public.  Joint action by the central bank and BGK sent an
“important signal” to investors and has stopped speculation
against the zloty, Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski said today
in an interview on Radio RMF FM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  