-- Maze Wins St. Moritz, Extends Overall Lead Over Vonn
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-08T18:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/maze-wins-st-moritz-extends-overall-lead-over-vonn.html
Lindsey Vonn  of the U.S. won her
second straight Super-G race to move into third place in the
World Cup skiing season standings.  Vonn, a four-time overall champion, finished in a time of 1
minute, 2.71 seconds in St. Moritz,  Switzerland , to beat
Slovenia’s  Tina Maze  by 0.37 second.  Julia Mancuso  of the U.S.
was 1.01 seconds behind in third place.  Maze leads the standings after nine races with 577 points,
163 more than Germany’s Maria Hoefl-Riesch. Vonn, who was
hospitalized by a stomach infection last month, won 100 points
today to jump over Austria’s Kathrin Zettel into third place
with 410.  Vonn won last week’s season-opening Super-G in  Canada  and
now has 20 career titles in the discipline, in which she is the
four-time defending champion. The 28-year-old didn’t finish
yesterday’s super-combined race after missing a turn.  “I was definitely disappointed after yesterday’s race,”
Vonn, who has four race wins this season, said on the U.S. Ski
Team’s website. “Today I came out charging. I knew that it was
going to be really difficult to win.”  Vonn now has 57 career  World Cup  victories to move within
five of Austrian Annemarie Moser-Proell for most all-time by a
woman.  France’s Alexis Pinturault won the men’s slalom for his
second career World Cup victory.  Pinturault beat Germany’s Felix Neureuther by 0.55 seconds
over two runs in Val d’Isere, France. The 21-year-old was sixth
after the first pass and had a time of 47.33 seconds in his
second run to take the title.  Marcel Hirscher of Austria finished third to move within 10
points of Sweden’s Andre Myhrer, who was fourth, in the slalom
standings. Norway’s Aksel Lund Svindal didn’t race today and
continues to top the overall standings.  The women will run a giant slalom in St. Moritz tomorrow,
with the men’s giant slalom in Val d’Isere.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  