-- Blood Thinner From Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Blocks Leg Clots
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-12-08T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/blood-thinner-from-pfizer-bristol-myers-blocks-leg-clots.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY) ’s experimental drug Eliquis prevented blood clots in the
legs and lungs and kept them from recurring, a study found.  Patients who took the medicine were 81 percent less likely
to have symptoms of a clot or die than those who got a placebo,
according to the  study  published today in the New England
Journal of Medicine. The data is also being presented at the
American Society of Hematology meeting in Atlanta.  U.S. regulators in June rejected Eliquis as a treatment to
reduce the risk of stroke in people with a type of heart
arrhythmia. The New York-based companies are expected to hear by
March whether the agency will approve the drug. Should Eliquis
gain clearance it may generate sales of $4.18 billion for
Bristol-Myers by 2018, according  estimates  from three analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  “People are really waiting for a new drug that is able to
have the same effect as warfarin without monitoring, without the
same interaction with food, without the interactions with other
drugs,” said Giancarlo Agnelli, a professor of internal
medicine at Italy’s University of Perugia who led the study.
Pfizer and Bristol-Myers sponsored the research.  Warfarin, a drug used for more than 50 years, requires
regular blood tests to ensure the proper dose for patients. Two
new competing therapies, Pradaxa, by Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH,
and Xarelto, by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN) , are approved for
use against types of deep vein clots.  Attack Lungs  Venous thromboembolisms occur when clots form in blood
vessels, which can break off and travel to the lungs. Those
pulmonary embolisms kill about 300,000 people a year in the
U.S., according to the Cleveland Clinic’s website. Blood
thinners such as warfarin can prevent the clots from forming.  Patients with lung clots typically are treated with the
fast-acting injected drug enoxaparin. After 5 to 10 days, they
begin taking warfarin to prevent future blood clots.  Eliquis, Pradaxa and Xarelto offer a new generation of
alternatives in part because they require no monitoring. The new
drugs “will take away some of the management of warfarin, which
can be time-consuming for a physician,” said  John Bartholomew ,
a physician and director of the Thrombosis Center at the
 Cleveland Clinic . “There’s definitely a future.”  In the clinical trial, researchers assigned three groups of
about 800 patients to receive either a placebo, a 2.5-milligram
dose of Eliquis, or a 5-milligram dose of the drug for a year.
Of patients getting the placebo, 8.8 percent had a recurrent
venous thromboembolism event or died, compared with 1.7 percent
taking either dose of the experimental medicine.  Bleeding Effects  Serious bleeding can be a side effect of blood thinners,
including hemorrhaging in the brain or stomach bleeding. Of
patients taking the placebo, 2.7 percent had a bleeding event,
compared with 4.3 percent of patients on the 5-milligram dose of
Eliquis and 3.2 percent of patients on the 2.5-milligram dose.  A previous trial of Eliquis showed it to have lower
bleeding rates than warfarin.  Agnelli, who ran the trial, said he’d be inclined to
prescribe the lower dose, even though the study showed little
difference between the two. “As a clinician, I wouldn’t have
any doubt, I would go for the lower dose,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  