-- Canadian Dollar Rises to Monthly High on November Jobs Growth
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-12-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/canadian-dollar-rises-to-monthly-high-on-november-jobs-growth.html
The Canadian dollar rose to the
highest level in a month versus its U.S. counterpart as
employers added almost six times as many jobs as forecast in
November, countering recent signs of an economic slowdown.  The currency strengthened versus the majority of its 16
most-traded peers after Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  kept
his bias to raise  interest rates , saying economic growth will
accelerate next year. Canada’s dollar extended gains late
yesterday after Canada approved  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion
takeover of  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  and Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s C$5.2
billion ($5.2 billion) takeover of  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ)  The policy-setting U.S. Federal Open Market Committee is
forecast to increase asset purchases at their final meeting of
the year, Dec. 11-12 in Washington.  “A defiant loonie strengthened against an otherwise
stronger greenback,”  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in
Washington at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
 Western Union Co. (WU) , wrote in a note to clients. “Expectations
for an eventual rate rise were justified. Risk sentiment could
overshadow a sparse slate of local economic data to set the
course for the loonie in the coming week.”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.6 percent to
98.84 cents per  U.S. dollar  this week in Toronto. It touched
98.77 cents yesterday, strongest since Nov. 7. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0117.  The loonie traded between 99.62 and 99.06 cents the prior
week, the narrowest range since September 1996.  Employment Gains  Canadian government  bonds  fell after rising the most in two
months last week, with 10-year  bond yields  gaining one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.71 percent. The 2.75
percent security maturing in June 2022 declined 11 cents to
C$109.08.  The currency strengthened as  Canadian employment  increased
59,300 and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 7.2 percent from 7.4
percent, the  first decline  in five months,  Statistics Canada 
said yesterday in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
projected a 10,000 gain in jobs and 7.4 percent unemployment,
according to the median forecasts.  Carney said on Dec. 4 that economic growth will accelerate
next year after temporary disruptions in energy output and weak
global demand curbed the country’s expansion. The central bank
kept the benchmark rate on overnight loans between commercial
banks at 1 percent, where it’s been for more than two years.  ‘Hawkish Bias’  “They held onto their hawkish bias, which was definitely a
positive for the Canadian dollar,” Sireen Harajli, a foreign-
exchange strategist in New York at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , said in a
telephone interview. The Bank of Canada’s comments were “in
line with expectations and continued to reiterate the fact that
the central bank might have to raise rates at some point.”  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called  net longs  -- was
57,071 on Dec. 4, compared with net longs of 62,379 a week
earlier.  The Canadian economy has shown signs of slowing, with  gross
domestic product  for the third quarter growing at a 0.6 percent
annualized pace, down from 1.7 percent the prior month and
lagging behind the 0.8 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of 26 economists. The country’s current account deficit
widened to the second largest on record from July through
September as exports fell faster than imports and manufacturing
slowed.  ‘Quite Modestly’  The jobs report “was a positive for the Canadian economy,
but it may be an overreaction,” said  Adrian Miller , director of
fixed-income strategies at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “The number doesn’t change the fact
the Canadian economy is still likely to grow quite modestly due
to a slump in commodity demand and an interest-rate hike is
still sometime away, despite what Carney wants.”  The loonie rose as employment in the U.S., Canada’s largest
trade partner, climbed by 146,000 following a revised 138,000
gain in October that was less than initially estimated, Labor
Department figures showed yesterday in Washington. The median
estimate of 91 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
gain of 85,000. The unemployment rate fell to 7.7 percent, the
lowest since December 2008, as size of the  labor force  shrank.  ‘Worst Fears’  “The data was better than worst fears,” Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York, wrote in a note to clients. “The
market is reacting positively.”  The loonie also rose as a few dozen Republicans joined a
bipartisan push to break an impasse between U.S. President
 Barack Obama  and House Speaker  John Boehner  over taxes for the
highest-earning Americans, signing a letter calling for openness
to “all options.”  Lawmakers are attempting to avert a so-called fiscal cliff
of more than $600 billion in tax increases and federal spending
cuts scheduled to take effect in January 2013 that threaten to
drag the  U.S. economy  into recession.  Canada’s currency has gained 1.4 percent this year versus
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The greenback has dropped 2.2 percent and the
yen has been the biggest loser, tumbling 9.5 percent. New
Zealand’s dollar leads gainers, up 5.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  