-- Canada Approves Cnooc, Petronas Bids for Nexen, Progress Energy
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-12-09T18:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/canada-approves-cnooc-petronas-bids-for-nexen-progress-energy.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper approved  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion takeover of  Nexen
Inc. (NXY) , the largest-ever foreign acquisition by a Chinese company,
and Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s C$5.2 billion ($5.26 billion)
takeover of  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)   The deal by Beijing-based Cnooc gives the state-owned
company a stake in Canada’s largest oil-sands project and the
biggest position in the Buzzard oil field in the U.K. North Sea.  “The talk around town was that these deals would get
done,” said Dan Cheng, a fund manager at Matco Financial Inc.,
which oversees about C$370 million in assets, including Progress
Energy. “It would have been a surprise if they weren’t
approved.”  China  is securing global reserves to feed demand in the
world’s second-largest economy, which accounted for half of the
world’s oil consumption growth in 2011, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration. Harper, who has touted  Canada 
as an emerging “energy superpower,” has called it a national
priority to diversify energy exports, sending less to the U.S.
and more to Asia.  “It’s important to have clarity on this, not just for
Canada’s foreign relations with certain superpower nations but
also to ensure timely development of these very important
resources,” said Robert G. Gill, portfolio manager at Toronto-
based Aston Hill Financial, which has more than C$6 billion in
assets under management.  Tested Ability  The two bids, approved on Dec. 7, tested Harper’s ability
to balance the need to bolster economic relations with Asian
economies without letting them gain too much influence over the
world’s third-largest pool of oil reserves.  Industry Minister Christian Paradis said on yesterday’s
CTV’s “Question Period” program that it was important to make
sure Cnooc provided “significant undertakings” for governance,
transparency, disclosure, and compliance.  “We made sure that we would have the best deal that we
could to provide a net benefit to Canada,” Paradis said.
“After that, what was important was to go out and clarify the
rules for the future, because what we see is a trend: The state-
owned enterprises now are getting more and more in the business
of the oil-sands.”  Canada’s government decided it was time to send “a clear
message” on its position of oil-sands ownership by foreign
state-owned companies, Paradis said.  ‘Economic Benefits’  “I express my appreciation for Canada’s welcome of our
investment,” Wang Yilin, chairman of Cnooc, said in a Dec. 8
statement. The deal “recognizes the long-term economic benefits
for Calgary, for Alberta and for Canada. Our company will also
benefit by adding Nexen’s impressive assets and outstanding
employees to our worldwide operations.”  While allowing the takeovers, Harper said Canada won’t
approve state-owned companies taking controlling interests in
any more oil-sands projects, except in “exceptional
circumstances.”  Harper told reporters on Dec. 7 that these were “difficult
decisions” that reflect “the broad views” of Canadians.
Canada relies on exports for a third of economic output and
counts on energy products for almost a quarter of those
shipments.  Canada is effectively “grandfathering the Cnooc and
Petronas deals,” Stephen Wortley, a partner at McMillan LLP and
chairman of the Canadian law firm’s Hong Kong office, said in an
e-mail. “At the same time, the government is signaling that
tougher standards will be forthcoming especially in the oil
sands, where there is a concern about the potential for
concentration” of foreign state-owned companies, he said.  ‘Perfect Solution’  “From a perspective of industry this is the perfect
solution,” said John Stephenson, who helps manage C$2.7 billion
at First Asset Management Inc. in a telephone interview from
Toronto. “You get the benefit of patient capital servicing
value for investors and you don’t give up control, which is
really the issue most Canadians feel passionately about.”  Shares (NXY)  of Calgary-based Nexen rallied 15 percent to $26.94
in U.S. trading on Dec. 7 after exchanges closed, 2 percent
below Cnooc’s $27.50 offer. The Canadian dollar strengthened,
rising 0.3 percent to 98.84 cents per U.S. dollar as the
announcements were made.  The Cnooc-Nexen deal is the biggest foreign takeover by a
Chinese company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
transaction is the biggest in Canada since Calgary-based  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU)  bought Petro-Canada in August 2009 for about $18
billion. Through its C$2.1 billion takeover of Opti Canada Ltd.
last year, Cnooc already owns 35 percent of the Long Lake oil-
sands project operated by Nexen. It would gain Nexen’s 20
percent interest in the Usan offshore Nigerian project operated
by a unit of Total SA.  ‘Important Milestone’  “This is an important milestone in the process and
confirms our belief that this transaction provides a number of
significant benefits to Canada and to Nexen,” Kevin Reinhart,
Nexen’s interim president and CEO, said in a statement. “We
remain focused on working with Cnooc to bring this transaction
to a close.”  Progress shares, which surged 74 percent on the day the
first bid by Petronas was announced June 28, closed at C$19.35
in Toronto. Petronas offered C$22 a share.  “We’re obviously quite pleased with the decision,” said
Michael Culbert, chief executive officer of Calgary-based
Progress, by telephone. “We know that this has been a difficult
decision to make and we don’t take that lightly.”  Natural Gas  The acquisition of Progress by Petronas gives the Malaysian
state-owned company gas reserves to build a liquefied natural
gas export facility along the British Columbia coast at a cost
of C$9 billion to C$11 billion, the companies said last week.
The deal is the third-biggest foreign takeover in Canada this
year.  Azman Ibrahim, a spokesman for Petronas in Kuala Lumpur,
declined to comment.  Petronas has the world’s largest LNG-producing site in
Sarawak,  Malaysia , according to its website, and also operates
the world’s largest LNG carrier fleet.  The Canadian decisions came on the same day  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ’s C$6.1 billion takeover of  Viterra Inc. (VT) ,
Canada’s largest grain handler, received Chinese regulatory
approval. The acquisition is the second largest in the country
this year.  Investment by Chinese state-owned companies in Canada’s
energy industry has become a contentious issue, and the deals
represent the end of state-owned companies buying Canadian oil-
sands interests, not the beginning, Harper said.  Investment Catalyst  Still, the decision “will serve as a catalyst for inbound
investment by Chinese private concerns into the Canadian market
place,” said Wortley at McMillan. “We are already seeing
significant activity in this area.”  Fifty-eight percent of Canadians wanted the government to
block the Nexen takeover, according to an online poll of 1,000
people taken Oct. 10 to Oct. 11 by Angus Reid Public Opinion.  The opposition New Democratic Party called the Cnooc
approval “irresponsible” because most Canadians oppose the
purchase.  “This is a farce,” Peter Julian, the NDP’s spokesman on
natural resources, said in  a statement . “While Conservatives
admit that under the new rules this transaction is not a net
benefit to Canadians, they have approved it anyway.”  Resource Projects  Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver has said the
country’s biggest resource projects will require almost C$650
billion of investment to develop in the next decade.  “In Canada alone, the biggest source of foreign capital is
probably state-owned Chinese capital,” Richard Elliott, a
partner in the competition and foreign investment review
practice at Davies Ward Phillips & Vineberg LLP, said in a
telephone interview. “If they’re going to largely cut off that
source of capital, what’s that going to mean?”  Harper said Canada will  raise the threshold  for foreign-
takeover reviews by private investors to C$1 billion in
enterprise value as earlier planned, while the existing
threshold of C$330 million in asset value will continue to apply
to state-owned enterprises. Canada’s industry minister also will
have the ability to extend the review period to take national
security analyses into account, Harper said.  Foreign state-owned businesses will still be welcome to
acquire minority stakes and enter into joint ventures with
Canadian businesses, Harper said.  European Union  Cnooc, which received approval from the European Union
Dec. 7 for the deal, hasn’t said whether U.S. authorities have
approved its takeover of Nexen’s assets in the U.S. Gulf of
 Mexico , where the Calgary company gets 8 percent of its
production.  Natalie Earnest, a spokeswoman at the U.S. Department of
the Treasury that oversees the Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., declined to comment in an e-mail, citing
confidentiality rules.  Scrutiny of foreign takeovers has stymied deals in North
America before. Cnooc was forced in 2005 to abandon a
$19 billion hostile bid for El Segundo, California-based Unocal
Corp. after U.S. lawmakers proposed legislation to block it.  Cnooc had already made several commitments to Canada to win
support for the Nexen sale. These include listing its shares on
the  Toronto Stock Exchange (SPTSX) , establishing Calgary as its base for
North and Central America and maintaining Nexen’s employment
levels and capital spending program.  Accepts Conditions  Cnooc accepted management and employment conditions set by
the Canadian government, two people familiar with the matter
said Nov. 20.  The deal will also benefit Cnooc’s domestic operations,
allowing it to “transfer some of the shale gas and deepwater
expertise back into China,”  Gordon Kwan , head of energy
research at Mirae Asset Securities HK Ltd., said by telephone.
“Nexen’s Gulf of Mexico assets will help Cnooc further develop
South China Sea reserves.”  Approval of the Petronas bid came after Paradis blocked the
bid on Oct. 19 and gave the companies 30 days to make additional
concessions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  