-- Cellcom Cheapens to Partner on Outlook: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-12-09T07:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/cellcom-cheapens-to-partner-on-outlook-israel-overnight.html
Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  slumped in New
York to trade at the widest discount in two years versus its
chief competitor on concern  Israel ’s biggest mobile-phone
service provider is lacking growth engines as competition
intensifies.  Cellcom sank 4.6 percent to $9.45 in New York last week,
while its shares in Tel Aviv posted the biggest retreat since
August. The decline sent valuations to 7.1 times estimated
earnings, a 13 percent discount to competitor  Partner
Communications Co. (PTNR)  and the biggest gap since June 2010. The
 Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New-York traded
Israeli stocks posted its first drop in three weeks.  While both Cellcom and Partner, Israel’s second-biggest
mobile provider, have reported deteriorating revenue as new
entrants  Hot Telecommunication System Ltd. (HOT)  and Golan Telecom
Ltd. cut prices to attract new customers, Partner is benefiting
from billionaire Haim Saban’s buyout offer. Cellcom, the  worst-
performing stock  on Tel Aviv’s TA-25 Index this year, is
indirectly held by IDB Holding Corp., which is struggling to
meet payments on about 2 billion shekels ($523 million) of debt.  The divergence in Cellcom and Partner’s stocks last week
was “caused by rotation into Partner, which was boosted by the
deal to buy control,” Gil Dattner, an analyst at  Bank Leumi Le-
Israel Ltd. (LUMI)  who rates Cellcom and Partner the equivalent of
hold, said by e-mail from Tel Aviv on Dec. 7. “There’s still a
lot of uncertainty around both these companies because this is
still an industry in a trend of secular revenue decline.”  The  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  added 0.4 percent at 9:49 a.m. in Israel.
Cellcom, based in Netanya, Israel, today gained 2.5 percent to
36.19 shekels, or the equivalent of $9.45.  Saban’s Acquisition  American depositary receipts of Partner posted a third week
of gains, rising 0.5 percent to $6.43. The Rosh Ha’Ayin, Israel-
based company added 1.4 percent in Tel Aviv today to 24.62
shekels, or $6.43.  Partner, which trades for 8.1 times estimated earnings,
said on Nov. 30 that Saban Capital Group Inc. had agreed to buy
a 30.73 percent stake in the company from  Scailex Corp. (SCIX)  Saban
will pay 250 million shekels ($65.5 million) in cash and assume
the $300 million debt that Scailex owes to Hong Kong’s  Hutchison
Whampoa Ltd. (13) , according to a  filing  to the Tel Aviv Stock
Exchange.  Investors expect Saban, who made his fortune with the Power
Rangers franchise, to cut costs and accelerate efforts to
explore new revenue sources such as television services, Bank
Leumi’s Dattner said.  ‘Control Pricing’  The emergence of low-cost mobile providers in Israel may
reduce  Cellcom’s (CEL)  sales this year by 15 percent to $1.5 billion,
according to the mean of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Partner’s 2012 sales will fall 24 percent to $1.48
billion, according to the average of six predictions.  “There’s not much the incumbents can do at this point to
control pricing,” Dattner said. “Their task is to cut costs,
hold onto current customers and over time, if there is
consolidation, which is quite likely, then they can turn their
attention to the revenue side.”  Bank Leumi owns a 4.99 percent  stake  in Partner through its
Leumi Partners Ltd. unit.  Israel, which has a population of similar size to
Switzerland’s, has 54 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China .
The nation is also home to more startup companies per capita
than the U.S.  Teva Meeting  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, rallied 5.1 percent last week to $42.42,
the highest level in seven months. Teva’s shares in Tel Aviv
rose today for the fourth day in five, adding 2.9 percent
advance to 162 shekels, or the equivalent of $42.31.  The Petach Tikva, Israel-based company’s Chief Executive
Officer Jeremy Levin will announce on Dec. 11 in an investor
meeting in New York his plan for new revenue sources after 2013
sales and profit outlook missed analysts’ estimates.  Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT) , which helps wireless carriers
manage traffic, tumbled 11 percent last week to $19.44 in New
York on concern mobile service providers including  AT&T Inc. (T)  may
reduce wireless spending in early 2013. The Hod Hasharon,
Israel-based company today lost 3.1 percent to 77.26 shekels in
Tel Aviv, or $19.55.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  