-- Chelsea Beats Sunderland for Benitez’s First Premier League Win
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-08T17:38:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/chelsea-beats-sunderland-for-benitez-s-first-premier-league-win.html
Chelsea beat Sunderland 3-1 to give
 Rafael Benitez  his first Premier League victory as Blues
manager, while Queens Park Rangers remained winless.  Fernando Torres  scored twice for Chelsea, which had two
draws and a loss in the league since Benitez was named manager
for the rest of the season after Roberto Di Matteo was fired
Nov. 21.  QPR’s winless run to start the season extended to 16 games
after a 2-2 draw at Wigan, while Arsenal beat West Brom 2-0,
Southampton defeated Reading 1-0, Norwich held on for a 4-3 win
at Swansea and  Aston Villa  and Stoke finished 0-0.  Juan Mata  also scored as Chelsea ended a seven-match
winless run in the league and consigned Sunderland into the
three relegation places at the bottom of the standings.  “The team was focused; you could see the commitment was
there,” Benitez told Sky Sports. “Little by little, we are
adjusting to things.”  Torres opened the scoring in the 11th minute by volleying
in Eden Hazard’s cross, and added a penalty kick in injury time
after  Sebastian Larsson  fouled Ramires. Mata made it 3-0 early
in the second half when he put in the rebound after Torres hit
the post.  Adam Johnson  got a consolation goal for Sunderland, which
fell to 18th in the 20-team league, two points behind Wigan
above it.  It was Benitez’s second straight win in all competitions
after the Blues beat Nordsjaelland 6-1 in the Champions League
three days ago.  Drawn Three  Wigan’s James McCarthy scored his second goal of the game
in the 74th minute to deny QPR its first victory. It came just
three minutes after Djibril Cisse gave QPR a 2-1 lead.  McCarthy had given Wigan the lead in the 19th minute and
 Ryan Nelsen  tied the score with a header seven minutes later.
QPR has drawn three of the four games since manager  Harry Redknapp  replaced the fired Mark Hughes last month.  Mikel Arteta scored twice with penalty kicks to give
Arsenal its first win in four league matches.  The goal came in the 26th minute after Santi Cazorla went
down near Steven Reid, though television replays showed the
Spaniard appeared to dive.  Arteta struck again from the spot in the second half after
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain was taken down by Chris Brunt. West Brom
lost its third straight game to drop one spot to fifth place.  Jason Puncheon’s goal in the second half lifted Southampton
past Reading and out of the relegation zone three spots up to
15th place.  Season Total  Norwich held on to win at Swansea and extend its unbeaten
league run to nine games. Steven Whittaker,  Sebastien Bassong ,
 Grant Holt  and Robert Snodgrass scored as the Canaries won their
first away match in the league.  Miguel Michu scored twice for Swansea, pushing his season
total to a league-best 12 goals.  Stoke extended its unbeaten run to six matches with the
goalless draw at Aston Villa. Potters defender Ryan Shotton was
sent off in second-half stoppage time for a second yellow card.  Premier League leader Manchester United visits second-place
Manchester City, Everton hosts Tottenham and Liverpool is at
West Ham tomorrow, with Fulham home for Newcastle in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 