-- Cohen Gains, Paulson Loses as Fiscal Policy Roils Markets
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-12-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/cohen-gains-paulson-loses-as-fiscal-policy-roils-markets.html
Steven A. Cohen  and Ken Griffin
posted gains in their  hedge funds  in November, a month marked by
market volatility following the U.S. elections and fiscal policy
talks in the U.S. and  Europe .  John Paulson  lost money in most of
his funds.  Cohen gained 1.1 percent in his SAC Capital International
fund in November and the main funds of Griffin’s Citadel LLC
rose 2 percent, according to people briefed on the returns who
asked not to be named because the information is private.
Paulson lost 6.5 percent last month in the Advantage Plus Fund
and 12 percent in the Gold Fund, according to another person, as
the price of gold fell.  The $2.2 trillion hedge funds industry climbed 0.2 percent
in November, as stock markets fell following the re-election of
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and the prospect of automatic
spending cuts and tax increases set to be triggered in January,
then reversed losses amid reports showing the housing market is
improving. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  rose 1.3 percent
last month and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of big U.S.
stocks advanced 0.6 percent, besting hedge funds.  “As a result of the fiscal cliff situation, people got
short,” said Peter Rup, chief investment officer at  New York- 
based Artemis Wealth Advisors LLC, which oversees $570 million
for high-net-worth families. “They got hurt when the market
reversed itself.”  Below Peak  The Bloomberg Hedge Funds Aggregate Index is up 1.4 percent
this year, though it’s still down 11 percent from its July 2007
peak. The main Bloomberg hedge fund  index (BBHFUNDS)  is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,768 funds, 1,257 of which have
reported returns for November.  Event-driven (BBHFMERG)  merger arbitrage funds, or those that try to
predict triggers for stocks and bonds such as corporate
restructurings, acquisitions, management changes and share
sales, climbed 0.4 percent last month and 2 percent this year.  Macro (BBHFMCRO)  funds, which make investment decisions based on their
reading of economic and political events, fell 0.5 percent last
month and 1.4 percent in this year’s first 11 months.  Losses at Paulson’s $19 billion Paulson & Co. left the
Advantage Plus fund down 22 percent this year. The Gold fund has
lost 21 percent since the start of 2012, according to the
person. The Recovery Fund, which invests in assets Paulson
believes will benefit from a long-term economic rebound such as
financial services, hotels and real estate companies, fell 2.3
percent last month and rose 0.2 percent in 2012.  Credit Fund  Gold fell to a four-week low on Dec. 5 as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said the metal’s longest winning streak in at least
nine decades will peak next year amid accelerating U.S. growth.  Paulson’s credit and merger-arbitrage strategies gained.
Paulson Partners Enhanced, which invests in the shares of
companies that are involved in mergers, rose 2.5 percent in
November and 12 percent this year. Paulson’s Credit
Opportunities Fund rose 0.1 percent in November and 5.6 percent
this year.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co., declined to
comment on the returns.  Moore Capital Management LLC, the $13.5 billion fund in  New
York  run by Louis Moore Bacon, fell 0.1 percent in November in
its Moore Global Investments fund, paring gains this year to 4.1
percent, according to a person briefed on the returns. The
firm’s Moore Macro Managers fund rose 1.3 percent last month and
5.2 percent this year, the person said.  Patrick Clifford , a
spokesman for Moore, declined to comment on the returns.  Long-short equity funds , whose managers can bet on and
against stocks, advanced 0.2 percent for the month and 2.9
percent in 2012. Multistrategy funds fell 1 percent in November
and 5.7 percent in 2012.  Cohen’s Woes  Cohen’s SAC Capital International rose 9.6 percent this
year. The fund is run by SAC Capital Advisors, the $14 billion
 Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund that was notified last
month by the Securities and Exchange Commission that it may be
sued for insider-trading fraud. Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman
for SAC, declined to comment on the returns.  Cohen told investors on a conference call last week that he
acted appropriately when trading shares of Elan Corp. and Wyeth
LLC, according to a person on the call.  Citadel, the $13 billion Chicago-based firm founded by  Ken Griffin , rose 21 percent in 2012 in its main Kensington and
Wellington funds, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Katie Spring , a spokeswoman for Citadel, declined to
comment on the returns.  Managed futures  funds, which can use derivatives contracts
in their trading strategy, lost 0.2 percent last month and 4.6
percent this year.  Winton, Ackman  Winton Capital Management LLC, the $26.2 billion London-
based managed futures hedge fund started by David Winton Harding, advanced 0.7 percent last month through Nov. 28 in its
$10 billion Winton Futures fund, paring yearly losses to 5.1
percent, according to a person familiar with the matter. The
firm’s $100 million Evolution fund fell 2.8 percent last month
and 9.8 percent in 2012, the person said. Robin Eggar, a
spokesman for Winton, declined to comment on the returns.  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP fell 1.2 percent in
November in its $6 billion Pershing Square International Ltd.
fund, trimming yearly gains to 6.2 percent, according to a
person familiar with the matter. Pershing Square is the $10.8
billion New York-based firm run by  Bill Ackman , who is known for
investing in companies to press for changes and who declined to
comment on the returns.  Hedge fund assets grew 3.6 percent to a record $2.19
trillion in the third quarter, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. Investors deposited $10.6 billion during the
period, the firm said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  