-- Cowboys’ Josh Brent Charged in Teammate’s Death, Police Say
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-12-08T21:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/cowboys-josh-brent-charged-in-teammate-s-death-police-say.html
Dallas Cowboys defensive tackle Josh
Brent was charged with intoxication manslaughter after a one-car
accident in which  Jerry Brown , a member of the National Football
League team’s practice squad, was killed, police said.  The accident happened at 2:21 a.m. local time today in the
Dallas suburb of Irving, Texas, police spokesman John Argumaniz
said in a statement.  Brent, 24, was driving at a high speed when the vehicle hit
a curb and flipped at least once. Police found Brown, 25,
unresponsive at the scene and he was taken to the hospital,
where he died, Argumaniz said.  Officers conducted a field sobriety test on Brent and he
was arrested for driving while intoxicated, said Argumaniz, of
the Irving police. Brent was booked at the Irving City Jail on
the intoxication manslaughter charge upon Brown’s death.  “We are deeply saddened by the news of this accident and
the passing of Jerry Brown,” Cowboys owner  Jerry Jones  said in
a statement. “At this time, our hearts and prayers and deepest
sympathies are with the members of Jerry’s family and all of
those who knew him and loved him.”  Brent appeared in all 12 of Dallas’s games this season,
starting five, recording 35 tackles and 1½ sacks. He was in his
third NFL season from the  University of Illinois .  Dallas signed Brown, who also went to the University of
Illinois, to its practice squad on Oct. 24. He’d yet to appear
on the active roster.  The Cowboys play at the  Cincinnati Bengals  tomorrow. Dallas
(6-6) and Washington are tied for second place in the National
Football Conference’s East Division, one game behind the  New
York Giants .  The accident happened a week after Kansas City Chiefs
linebacker Jovan Belcher killed his girlfriend and then
committed suicide on Dec. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 