-- Egypt’s Mursi Reverses Nov. 22 Decree on Judicial Appeals
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   A b d   A l h a m i d   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-12-08T23:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/egypt-s-mursi-reverses-his-nov-22-decree-on-appeals-correct-.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi
revoked a Nov. 22 decree that had increased his powers and Vice
President Mahmoud Mekki said the army has been mobilized to
maintain security.  The reversal of the November decree, which had exempted
Mursi’s decisions from judicial review, was announced by Mohamed
Salim El Awa, a former presidential candidate, who read a
televised statement from a legal committee empaneled to review
Mursi’s action last month.  A Dec. 15 referendum on a new constitution won’t be
postponed, according to the televised statement. If the document
is rejected, a new constitutional committee would be seated
within three months to draft a new constitution, according to
the statement.  Mekki announced the army’s mobilization in a statement
televised by  Al Arabiya .  Egypt ’s Cabinet approved a measure
allowing the army to use the force “necessary to perform their
duty” to maintain security and protect vital state
institutions, Cairo-based Al Ahram newspaper said yesterday.  Opposition supporters yesterday began a third week of
rallies outside the presidential palace to protest both a draft
constitution, which they say is biased toward Mursi’s Islamist
supporters, and the Nov. 22 decree that gives him powers
unchecked by the courts.  ‘Dictatorial Rule’  Mursi is “seeking to re-establish dictatorial rule in
Egypt” by using the military to promote a political stance,
Gamal Eid, a lawyer who heads the Arab Network for Human Rights
Information, said by telephone from Cairo. The activist likened
Mursi to former President  Hosni Mubarak , whose February 2011
ouster was the result of an uprising that included the Muslim
Brotherhood, of which Mursi was a member before assuming the
presidency.  “The decree gives the army the right to arrest civilians,
a right previously reserved for police officers alone, and that
means that Mursi is seeking the army’s help against his
opponents, which means more blood and more violence,” Eid said.  Politicians were among public figures arriving at the
palace yesterday for talks the government said were an attempt
to resolve the crisis, according to state television. Opposition
groups followed through on a pledge to boycott the gathering.  The National Salvation Front, the al-Wafd Party and the
April 6 youth movement had rejected the president’s Dec. 6 offer
of “comprehensive” discussions about the proposed
constitution. Secular activists and other opposition groups say
the constitution was hijacked by Islamists, and are demanding
that Mursi abandon the referendum.  Escalating Violence  Protests against Mursi and escalating violence threaten to
derail Egypt’s efforts to establish a democracy after last
year’s uprising and to revive an economy that has stalled as the
upheaval has kept investors and tourists away.  Mekki had said yesterday that Mursi may be willing to delay
the public vote on the constitution. The government delayed
yesterday’s scheduled start of voting in the referendum by
expatriate Egyptians to Dec. 12, according to Ahram Online.  Mohamed Badie, the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood’s spiritual
leader, called yesterday for voters to decide on the referendum.  “Why not use the ballot as the referee?” he said during a
press conference in Cairo.  ‘National Compromise’  Former United Nations nuclear-agency chief  Mohamed ElBaradei , leader of National Salvation Front, urged Mursi to
rescind the Nov. 22 decree and to postpone the referendum
“until we reach a national compromise,” while speaking Dec. 7
on Egyptian satellite broadcaster ONtv.  Prime Minister Hisham Qandil had called on opposition
leaders Dec. 7 to agree to talks with Mursi, saying the current
situation will hurt the country’s economy.  Protests and renewed violence have sent Egyptian stocks
plunging. The benchmark  EGX 30 index  slumped 4.6 percent Dec. 6,
extending its loss since Mursi’s decree to 11 percent. Markets
in Egypt were closed Dec. 7. The cost of insuring Egypt’s bonds
through five-year credit-default swaps jumped to a two-month
high and the pound weakened to an eight-year low.  On Dec. 7, there were protests by supporters and opponents
and attacks against government buildings and Muslim Brotherhood
offices. At least 110 people were hurt in clashes around the
country, the Health Ministry said, according to the Middle East
 News Agency . Six people were killed on Dec. 4 and at least 700
injured, the ministry said.  “It’s too late for a dialogue now,” Ayman Abdellatif, a
member of the opposition Popular Current Party, said in an
interview in Cairo yesterday. “Mursi has issued a dictatorial
decree and ignored the opposition’s legitimate calls to revoke
it until the country reached a level of division and a point of
no return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  