-- Mexico’s Pena Nieto Proposes Balanced Budget for His First Year
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-12-08T06:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/mexico-s-pena-nieto-proposes-balanced-budget-for-his-first-year.html
Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto
proposed a balanced budget for his first year in office, seeking
to offset a 2.3 percent increase in spending with higher tax
collection and oil revenue.  The  Finance Ministry  yesterday asked Congress to approve
3.58 trillion pesos ($279 billion) in spending for next year,
which is balanced by revenues when 326 billion pesos of
investment in  Petroleos Mexicanos  is excluded. The government
wants to keep the top income tax rate for high-earning
individuals and companies at 30 percent rather than allowing a
previously-scheduled reduction to 29 percent to take effect,
Finance Minister Luis Videgaray told reporters yesterday.  The plan would return the deficit to zero after Congress
approved shortfalls in recent years, overriding Mexican law
requiring a balanced budget, as the nation sought to recover
from the 2009 recession and global financial crisis. The  budget ,
which must be passed by Congress by Dec. 31, calls for
increasing total revenue by 150 billion pesos from this year, or
4.4 percent in real terms. That includes a 2 percent boost for
revenue from domestic oil sales by state-owned Pemex.  “They are definitely going to preserve healthy public
finances,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief economist at Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. With the budget plan and a proposed fiscal reform,
“we must see in the next few weeks some credit-ratings agencies
either making positive comments about the country or even
changing the outlook from stable to positive,” he said after
the proposal was submitted to lawmakers.  Fiscal Responsibility  Pena Nieto’s inauguration on Dec. 1 returned the
 Institutional Revolutionary Party  to power after a 12-year
hiatus from seven decades of uninterrupted rule. Erasing the
deficit shows his commitment to keeping public finances in check
as he seeks to lift economic growth to 6 percent from the 3.8
percent median economist forecast for growth this year, said
Mario Correa, chief  Mexico  economist at Bank of  Nova Scotia .  “Stability in and of itself isn’t the objective,”
Videgaray said yesterday. “But in order to have economic growth
and job creation we need stability, and stability is created
through fiscal responsibility.”  Videgaray said Pena Nieto signed yesterday an austerity
package that will cut costs in all areas of government, such as
8 billion pesos in the finance and interior ministries. The
austerity plan will be published in the nation’s gazette Dec.
10, according to Videgaray.  ‘Very Controversial’  Mexico’s economy will probably expand 3.5 percent in 2013
with annual inflation averaging 3 percent, in line with the
central bank’s target, Videgaray said.  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy is projected to expand 3.9 percent this year,
according to the proposal. The Finance Ministry forecast an
 exchange rate  for next year of 12.9 pesos per  U.S. dollar  and an
average 13.2 pesos per U.S. dollar for this year.  Although the proposal to keep the maximum income tax rate
at 30 percent rather than let it drop to 29 percent will bring
in around 23 billion pesos in revenue, it will be “very
controversial,” said Jose Isabel Trejo, a lawmaker from the
opposition  National Action Party , or PAN, who heads the lower
house’s finance committee.  “You’re hitting all business operations,” Trejo told
reporters in Mexico City. “That’s 23 billion pesos in the
public coffers, but it’s also 23 billion pesos less in the
pockets of individuals.”  Energy Projections  Trejo said the proposal also postpones previously approved
tax reductions on other items, such as liquor.  On projections for energy revenue, the Finance Ministry
estimates oil production will average 2.6 million barrels per
day next year, Videgaray said.  Calculations for the budget were made with the assumption
Pemex will export 1.183 million barrels a day with an average
price of $84.90 per barrel, according to the proposal.  Mexican law prohibits budgetary shortfalls, while allowing
for exceptions to be approved by Congress. Lawmakers had
originally agreed to eliminate the deficit by 2012 and later
approved an extension until 2013. They passed a 2012 budget with
a deficit of 0.4 percent of gross domestic product.  The government would post a deficit of 2 percent of GDP
when investment in Pemex is included, said  Miguel Messmacher ,
the deputy finance minister for revenue. Pena Nieto has promised
legislation to open the oil industry to more private investment
as Pemex seeks to reverse seven years of declining crude
production.  The nation’s debt to GDP would decline to 37 percent next
year from 37.5 percent in 2012 under the budget’s proposal,
Messmacher said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  