-- Fidelity Seeks SEC Approval for Actively Run ETF Lineup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-12-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/fidelity-seeks-sec-approval-for-actively-run-etf-lineup.html
Fidelity Investments , the firm that
lost its position as the biggest U.S. funds provider after
ignoring exchange-traded products for years, is seeking to open
an actively run ETF lineup starting with a corporate bond fund.  The company, based in Boston, wants approval for a series
of exchange-traded funds that would be eligible to invest in
stocks, bonds or other assets, including mutual funds or ETFs,
according to a filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The initial fund, with no introduction date
listed, would invest mainly in investment-grade corporate debt.  Fidelity could yet become the first major mutual-fund firm
to introduce ETFs run by active stock pickers. Once known for
its top-ranked equity managers such as Magellan Fund’s  Peter
Lynch , Fidelity was passed by Vanguard Group Inc. in fund assets
two years ago as the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based manager
attracted clients to its index-based mutual funds and ETFs.  U.S. investors poured $368 billion into ETFs from the start
of 2010 through this October while pulling $362 billion from
actively managed stock mutual funds, according to data from the
 Investment Company Institute .  Fidelity had been working toward opening a series of
actively managed ETFs modeled on its Select lineup of industry-
focused stock funds, a person familiar with the matter said in
July. The firm hired Anthony Rochte from  State Street Corp. (STT) ’s
money-management unit in March to head its Denver-based Fidelity
Select Co. unit.  Transparency Danger  ETFs hold about $1.8 trillion worldwide, most of it in
products that track an index, according to  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the
industry’s largest provider. The market for active ETFs is $13.1
billion. Active versions of the funds seek to combine the skill
of a manager selecting investments with the trading flexibility,
lower fees and tax advantages of ETFs.  Most stock pickers have resisted offering ETF versions of
their mutual-fund products because the structure requires
revealing almost all holdings every day.  Other firms including BlackRock have asked the SEC for
permission to create actively managed ETFs that don’t have to
disclose holdings daily. The agency, concerned that the lack of
transparency would disrupt the proper pricing of ETFs, hasn’t
approved any of those requests.  Fidelity’s active ETFs would be fully transparent,
according to the filing.  ETFs disclose holdings daily in order to keep their share
price in line with the market value of their holdings. When
those values diverge, market makers profit on the difference by
creating or redeeming shares in large blocks, which moves a
fund’s share price back in line with assets. To do that, market
makers need to know a fund’s holdings.  Pimco’s Lineup  Transparency is seen as less a threat to fixed-income funds
because it’s more difficult to replicate or front-run managers
in the over-the-counter  bond market , moves that can eat into
profits.  Pacific Investment Management Co., whose Pimco Total Return
run by  Bill Gross  is the world’s largest bond fund, is the
leading provider of actively run ETFs. The firm, based in
 Newport Beach ,  California , has $7.1 billion in nine active
fixed-income funds in the U.S. and Europe, including Gross’s
$3.8 billion  Total Return ETF (BOND) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Fidelity manages $39 billion in 60 industry-focused mutual
funds in its Select series, according to Sophie Launay, a
spokeswoman.  The firm’s largest industry fund with direct ETF rivals,
the $2.7 billion  Select Biotechnology Fund (FBIOX) , returned an annual
average of 23 percent, after fees, in the three years through
yesterday. That beat the returns of BlackRock’s iShares Nasdaq
Biotechnology Index ETF by more than 2.4 percentage points a
year, and State Street’s SPDR S&P Biotech ETF by 3.2 percentage
points a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in  Boston  at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  