-- Gaza Rally Draws Thousands to Mark 25 Years of Hamas
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-12-08T15:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/gaza-rally-draws-thousands-to-mark-25-years-of-hamas.html
Thousands of Palestinians wearing the
green scarves of Hamas rallied in the  Gaza Strip  to mark the
25th anniversary of the Islamic group’s founding with calls for
military action as the only way to achieve statehood.  “The legal, diplomatic, and political struggle to gain
liberation and regain lost rights is useless without armed
resistance,” said the militant movement’s political chief,
 Khaled Mashaal , who is on his first visit to the Hamas-ruled
Mediterranean enclave.  He spoke from a stage with a backdrop depicting a damaged
house with a rocket sticking out of it, a reference to an attack
launched from Gaza on  Jerusalem  during the recent eight-day
military conflict between Hamas and  Israel . Hamas is considered
to be a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union.  The bloodshed ended Nov. 21 with a cease-fire brokered by
 Egypt  and the U.S. The following week, the  United Nations
General Assembly  voted to recognize  Palestine  as a non-member
observer state, approving a bid led by Mahmoud Abbas, head of
the  Palestinian Authority , Hamas’s rival. The two groups have
pledged to seek reconciliation.  “It is time to turn the page of division and open a new
page of Palestinian unity,” Mashaal said. “I call on Abbas and
the Palestinian Authority to come for real reconciliation that
will soon be sponsored by Egypt.”  Palestinian Unity  Saeb Erekat, a senior Palestinian Authority official and
negotiator with Israel, said Abbas has made Palestinian unity a
priority.  “Mr. Mashaal has to convince his colleagues in Gaza that
the only way to reconciliation is to implement what was agreed
on,” he said by phone from Doha. The two groups reached an
agreement in February to form an interim government, after an
accord signed eight months earlier was never implemented.  “Hamas and Mashaal know the political positions of the
Palestinian Authority and  Mahmoud Abbas , that the only struggle
and resistance is an unarmed and peaceful one,” Erekat said.  About 500,000 people attended the rally, among them 2,500
members of Islamic delegations from Indonesia, Mauritania,
Egypt,  Algeria ,  Tunisia , Turkey, Libya and Jordan, according to
Hamas.  “Huge crowds came to attend today because Hamas achieved a
victory in the last war on the Gaza Strip and forced Israel to
accept the terms of the Palestinian resistance groups,” As’aad
Abu Sharkh, a political analyst at Gaza’s al-Azhar University,
said by phone. “By this victory, Hamas shows its way is
successful, the way of armed resistance.”  Syrians, Hezbollah  Hamas said it was the largest turnout for such an event
since the group was founded in 1987. Members of the rebel Free
Army of  Syria  attended, Hamas said, as did a representative of
the Lebanon-based armed Islamic group Hezbollah.  Hamas seized control of Gaza in 2007, ending a partnership
government with Abbas a year after winning parliamentary
elections. Hamas refuses to recognize or negotiate with Israel.  Abbas, who has held peace talks with Israel in the past,
controls the West Bank from the city of  Ramallah . Direct
negotiations between the Palestinian Authority and Israel ceased
completely in September 2010 after Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  refused to extend a 10-month moratorium on
building more settlements in the West Bank. Abbas said he
wouldn’t resume talks without a total freeze.  ‘Death Foretold’  More than 160 Palestinians and six Israelis were killed
during last month’s conflict, as Israel carried out an aerial
and naval bombardment of Gaza and Palestinian militants fired
rockets and mortar shells.  “I bless the hands of the men of the armed resistance who
struck Tel Aviv with rockets,” Mashaal said. “This is the only
way to liberate our occupied lands. It is our only choice.”  A masked senior member of the Izzadine al-Qassam Brigades,
the military wing of Hamas, told the crowd that the movement was
preparing an army that would include troops from the  West Bank ,
Tunis, Egypt, Tehran and Ankara that would force Israelis to
evacuate their homes and hand back land to the Palestinians.  “With these latest statements celebrating death and
violence, Mashaal provides a sobering reminder of what Hamas is
all about: holy war as the only plan, martyrdom as the desired
future,” Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman said today by text
message. “Those who provide Hamas with support and
understanding share responsibility for this chronicle of deaths
foretold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza City at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  