-- Ghana President Has Narrow Lead as Second Day of Voting Finishes
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-12-08T20:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/ghana-president-has-narrow-lead-as-second-day-of-voting-finishes.html
Ghana ’s president, John Dramani Mahama, held a narrow lead in provisional results as people
finished casting ballots after the process was extended to a
second day because of malfunctioning voter-identification
machines.  Mahama had 50.2 percent of votes cast from 155 of the
country’s 275 constituencies, according to figures on the
website of Accra-based, closely held Citi FM. Nana Akufo-Addo,
the main opposition candidate, had 48.7 percent, the data show.
A runoff will be held if no candidate gets at least 50 percent.  Ghana’s election was peaceful and transparent even with the
“logistical challenges that caused undue delays in completing
the electoral process,” an observer mission from the Economic
Community of West African States said in a statement handed to
reporters in Accra, the capital, today.  Equipment to scan fingerprints failed in 18 percent of the
country’s voting centers, according to the Coalition of Domestic
Election Observers, which had 4,500 poll-watchers. Half of the
centers were open 15 minutes after the scheduled start yesterday
because of delays in providing voting materials, the group said
in an e-mailed statement. There were 413 stations open today, or
1.6 percent of the total, according to the Electoral Commission.
Polls closed at 5 p.m.  Mahama, 54, of the National Democratic Congress is
contesting New Patriotic Party leader Akufo-Addo, 68, for the
presidency. Six others are also vying for the position. Mahama
came to office in July after the death of John Atta Mills, who
defeated Akufo-Addo by less than one percentage point in 2008.  Oil Production  The winner will face mounting calls from Ghanaians to
spread wealth from oil production that began in 2010. Spending
promises made during the campaign may be hindered by a widening
budget deficit and slowing economic growth in a nation where 18
percent of the population has formal employment.  Both Mahama and Akufo-Addo pledged to build schools, roads
and housing, and use money from oil exports to boost the
country’s manufacturing industries and create jobs, according to
their manifestos.  After expanding 14.4 percent in 2011, the fastest pace in
 Africa , Ghana’s economy is projected to grow 8.2 percent this
year and 7.8 percent in 2013, according to the International
Monetary Fund. In the nine months through September, the fiscal
gap widened to 7.3 percent of gross domestic product from 1.9
percent a year earlier, according to the Bank of Ghana.  Provisional results showed Mahama’s NDC winning 65 of the
275 Parliament seats, with the NPP taking 62, according to
Accra-based broadcaster Joy FM’s website.  Cocoa, Gold  Ghana is the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, after
Ivory Coast, and Africa’s second-largest gold miner, following
South Africa.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Newmont Mining Corp.
mine gold in the country while Cargill Inc. and Barry Callebaut
AG process the chocolate ingredient.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  said oil production at the Jubilee field,
the country’s lone source of crude exports, slowed to an average
of 63,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the first half of
this year, according to the central bank. Production is expected
to increase to 90,000 barrels by the end of this year from
78,200 barrels in 2011, according to London-based Tullow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  