-- Ghana Extends Election to Second Day After Polling Delays
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2012-12-08T10:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/ghana-extends-election-to-second-day-after-polling-delays.html
Ghanaian President John Dramani Mahama had an early lead in provisional election results as some
voters returned to polls today after breakdowns of machines used
to verify identities led to long lines and delays.  Mahama had 55 percent, or 747,000 votes, from 32 of  Ghana ’s
275 constituencies, according figures on the website of the
state-owned Daily Graphic newspaper. Opposition candidate Nana Akufo-Addo had 43.8 percent, or 595,000 votes, the data from
yesterday’s election show.  Equipment to scan fingerprints failed in 18 percent of the
country’s voting centers, according to the Coalition of Domestic
Election Observers, which had 4,500 poll-watchers. There were
169 stations open today in Accra, or 4.1 percent of the total,
Alex Poku, the election commission’s Accra regional director,
said by phone.  The electoral commission halted voting at stations where
people “could not vote as a result of the broken verification
machines,” commission spokesman Christian Owusu-Pare said by
phone yesterday. Voters delayed by late arrival of election
materials at their stations can also return, according to the
commission’s website. Polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m.  Mahama, 54, of the National Democratic Congress is
contesting Akufo-Addo, 68, for the presidency. Six others are
also vying for the position. Mahama came to office in July
following the death of John Atta Mills, who defeated Akufo-Addo
by less than 1 percentage point in 2008.  Oil Production  The winner will face mounting calls from Ghanaians to
spread wealth from oil production that began in 2010. Spending
promises made during the campaign may be hindered by a widening
budget deficit and slowing economic growth in a nation where 18
percent of the population has formal employment.  Both Mahama and Akufo-Addo pledged to build schools, roads
and housing, and use money from oil exports to boost the
country’s manufacturing industries and create jobs, according to
their manifestos.  After expanding 14.4 percent in 2011, the fastest pace in
 Africa , Ghana’s economy is projected to grow 8.2 percent this
year and 7.8 percent in 2013, according to the  International
Monetary Fund . In the nine months through September, the fiscal
gap widened to 7.3 percent of gross domestic product from 1.9
percent a year earlier, according to the  Bank of Ghana .  Mahama, a former communications minister who was Mills’s
deputy, urged people to be patient after he voted at his
constituency in Ghana’s Northern region.  Leading Democracy  “This election is going to consolidate Ghana’s democratic
credentials once and for all,” he said according to remarks
broadcast on radio. “There will be no doubt, no question, about
the fact that Ghana is the leading democracy in Africa.”  After voting in the Eastern region, former foreign minister
and attorney general Akufo-Addo said Ghanaians were “comporting
themselves in the best of manners.”  Ameya David, a 24-year-old worker at a plastics factory,
said his friends wouldn’t let him discuss the election because
he hadn’t been able to vote.  “I was really upset and disappointed yesterday,” he said
as he lined up to vote today with about 100 other people in the
Accra suburb of Nungua. “I am happy I had the chance to vote
now. I expect my president to make education affordable so poor
ones can afford it.”  The yield on Ghana’s $750 million of Eurobonds eased for a
sixth day, declining less than 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 4.97 percent yesterday in Accra. The country’s markets
were closed for a public holiday.  Ghana is the world’s second-biggest cocoa producer, after
 Ivory Coast , and Africa’s second-largest gold miner, following
 South Africa .  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Newmont Mining Corp.
mine gold in the country while Cargill Inc. and  Barry Callebaut
AG (BARN)  process the chocolate ingredient.  Tullow Oil Plc said oil production at the Jubilee field,
the country’s lone source of crude exports, slowed to an average
of 63,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in the first half of
this year, according to the central bank. Production is expected
to increase to 90,000 barrels by the end of this year from
78,200 barrels in 2011, according to London-based Tullow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net ;
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  