-- Ex-IndyMac Executives Found Liable for Negligent Loans
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-12-08T05:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/indymac-executives-found-liable-for-negligent-loans.html
Three former IndyMac Bancorp Inc.
executives must pay $169 million in damages to federal
regulators for making negligent loans to homebuilders as the
real estate market was deteriorating, a jury decided.  The federal court jury in Los Angeles issued the verdict
against Scott Van Dellen, the former chief executive officer of
IndyMac’s Homebuilder Division; Richard Koon, the unit’s former
chief lending officer; and Kenneth Shellem, the former chief
credit officer. Jurors yesterday found them liable for
negligence and breach of fiduciary duty.  The jury awarded the damages to the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., which brought the lawsuit in 2010.  The FDIC, which took over the failed subprime mortgage
lender in 2008, alleged the men caused $500 million in losses at
the homebuilders unit by continuing to push for growth in loan
production without regard for  credit quality  and despite being
aware a downturn in the real estate market was imminent.  The agency said the executives made loans to homebuilders
that weren’t creditworthy or didn’t provide sufficient
collateral.  “Today’s verdict is the result of a deliberate effort by
the government to scapegoat a few men for the impact that the
unforeseen and unprecedented housing collapse in 2007 had at
IndyMac,” Kirby Behre, a lawyer for Shellem and Koon, said in
an e-mailed statement after yesterday’s verdict.  “Mr. Shellem and Mr. Koon used the utmost care in making
loan decisions, and there is no doubt that all of the loans at
issue would have been repaid except for the housing crash,”
Behre said.  Robert Corbin, a lawyer for Van Dellen, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office yesterday after regular business
hours seeking comment on the verdict.  The verdict was reported earlier by the  Los Angeles  Daily
Journal.  The case is FDIC v. Van Dellen, 10-04915, U.S. District
Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  