-- Italian Bonds Decline as Berlusconi Threatens Government
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-12-08T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/italian-bonds-decline-as-berlusconi-threatens-government.html
Italian 10-year  government bonds 
posted their first weekly drop in four after former Premier
 Silvio Berlusconi  threatened to withdraw his party’s support for
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s coalition government.  Declines yesterday pushed the yield to the most since Nov.
28 as Berlusconi’s top political deputy called for an “orderly
end” to Monti’s government, saying the administration failed to
develop a strategy to halt the  recession .  Germany ’s two-year
notes advanced amid speculation the  European Central Bank  will
cut  interest rates  after a report yesterday showed the country’s
industrial production declined in October. Finnish and Dutch
two-year yields fell below zero yesterday.  The drop in Italian bonds “gives us a good clue as to how
much the market doesn’t like the idea of the politicians being
back in power,” said  Marc Ostwald , a rates strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . There may be “a drift
higher in yields,” he said.  Italian 10-year yields rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.53 percent at 5 p.m. London time
yesterday, after being as high as 4.65 percent. The 5.5 percent
bond due November 2022 dropped 0.23, or 2.30 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,294) face amount, to 108.11.  German yields fell as three officials with knowledge of ECB
deliberations said a majority of policy makers were open to a
rate cut. The central bank lowered growth forecasts this week.  Negative Yields  Two-year note  yields slid nine basis points to minus 0.077
percent, the first weekly drop since Nov. 16. The rate dropped
to minus 0.085 percent, the  least  since Aug. 2, when it reached
an all-time low of minus 0.097 percent. A negative yield means
investors who hold the security until it matures will receive
less than they paid to buy it.  German 10-year  yields  fell nine basis points this week to
1.30 percent, after dropping to 1.28 percent, the lowest level
since Aug. 3.  The outlook from the ECB “scared some market participants,
and we’ve seen another leg lower in bund yields,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich. “Yields could stay low for the next few weeks.”  A report next week may show euro-area industrial production
stagnated in October, after dropping the most in more than three
years in a month earlier. Output was unchanged from September,
when it fell 2.5 percent, the European Union’s statistics office
in Luxembourg will say on Dec. 12, according to the median
prediction of 34 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The ECB’s decision on Dec. 6 to keep its  main refinancing
rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent was in line with the median
estimate of 61 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  German bonds returned 4.3 percent this year through Dec. 6,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish debt gained
4.7 percent and Italy’s bonds earned 20 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  