-- Job Gains Bolster Economy’s Resilience to U.S. Fiscal Tightening
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/job-gains-bolster-economy-s-resilience-to-u-s-fiscal-tightening.html
Better-than-forecast employment gains
in November indicate the  U.S. economy  is on better footing to
face the fiscal tightening that may take effect next year.  The 146,000 increase in payrolls reported yesterday by the
Labor Department in  Washington  exceeded all estimates in a
Bloomberg survey of economists, who had projected superstorm
Sandy would depress the reading. The  jobless rate  unexpectedly
fell to 7.7 percent, the lowest level since December 2008, from
7.9 percent in the prior month.  “The economy has been showing solid momentum,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist in  New York  for Barclays Plc. “We’re
seeing moderate job growth that’s strong enough to push the
 unemployment rate  lower. This puts us in a better position going
into the fiscal cliff than if things had been deteriorating.”  The improvement in the labor market is the latest piece of
“encouraging” data, including a housing rebound, rising auto
 sales  and healthier consumer finances, according to Maki, No. 2
among U.S. economic forecasters ranked by Bloomberg. The country
may need the extra cushion as lawmakers negotiate to avert more
than $600 billion in automatic tax increases and spending cuts
next year that the  Congressional Budget Office  has said will
trigger a recession.  The job market last month withstood the damage from Sandy,
the worst Atlantic storm to ever hit the U.S., yesterday’s
report showed. The median forecast of 91 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a payroll gain of 85,000. Projections
ranged from 15,000 to 145,000.  Projected Impact  Analysts at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New
York projected Sandy would reduce employment growth by 45,000,
while UBS Securities LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. put
the fallout at 150,000.  An early Thanksgiving may have lifted payrolls as companies
took on extra staff sooner than normal. Retail employment
climbed by 1 percent from September through November, the most
since the three months to July 1996, the Labor Department report
showed.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain, has said it would add about 2,000 more seasonal workers
than the 78,000 it hired last year. Toys ‘R’ Us Inc., the
world’s largest toy retailer, reported plans to employ 45,000
temporary staff, up 5,000 from the 2011 season.  Yesterday’s report “supports what retailers are saying,
that the holiday season will be good,” said Ellen Zentner,
senior U.S. economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in
New York.  Share Prices  Stocks rose yesterday on the jobs numbers, lifting the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 0.3 percent to 1,418.07. The yield
on the 10-year Treasury note climbed to 1.62 percent from 1.59
percent the day before.  A strengthening housing market also is bolstering the
outlook. Valerie Epps of Atlanta, who lost a part-time retail
job in November, said she is “optimistic” she can return to
her prior career in real estate and insurance now that the
housing market is improving in the area.  “In the past, the market wasn’t very good in real estate
or insurance, and they are so tied together,” said Epps, 45.
“It’s all now building back up. You can see a turnaround. I do
see companies hiring, slowly.”  Rising home values driven by higher sales and record-low
 mortgage rates  are helping to improve the finances of both
households and banks, easing the flow of credit and encouraging
consumers to sustain their spending.  Household net worth climbed by $1.72 trillion in the third
quarter, reflecting increases in stock values and  home prices ,
figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed this week.  Residential Construction  Residential construction may add to economic growth this
year for the first time since 2005, boosting gross domestic
product by 0.3 percentage point, according to  Joseph LaVorgna ,
chief U.S. economist for Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New
York. He estimates the contribution may reach 1 percentage point
next year when taking into account the multiplier effect of the
boost to wealth and higher sales in industries like furnishings
and remodeling.  “We have a sense of much more positive momentum heading
into next year than we did at this time last year,” Alan Cole,
president of Martinsville, Virginia-based  Hooker Furniture Corp. (HOFT) 
said on a Dec. 5 conference call with analysts. “We’ve expanded
our workforce by about 5 percent to date and anticipate another
5 percent expansion in the coming months.”  Auto Sales  Demand for automobiles also will remain a bright spot for
the economy, spurring production and employment. Industrywide
sales of cars and light trucks rose to 15.5 million at an annual
rate in November, the best pace since February 2008, according
to Ward’s Automotive Group.  Manufacturing may also be stabilizing. Orders for business
equipment such as machinery and communications gear rebounded in
October more than previously estimated, figures from the
Commerce Department showed this week. The gain is a sign
business investment will improve next year after slumping in the
second half of 2012.  In the budget battles in Washington, President  Barack Obama 
is pushing for higher tax rates for the top 2 percent of
earners, a proposal Republicans reject while pressing for deeper
cuts in entitlement programs. Failure to come to an agreement
would trigger automatic federal tax increases and spending cuts
next year.  The improving economy “doesn’t shield us from the fiscal
cliff, which could still push the U.S. into a recession if it’s
allowed to persist all of 2013,” Barclays’ Maki said. Even so,
it helps that the U.S. “is doing better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  