-- Kyoto Deal Blocks Carbon Market Access for Some Nations
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-12-08T19:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/kyoto-deal-blocks-carbon-market-access-for-some-nations.html
The deal to extend pollution limits
under the  Kyoto Protocol  restricts the ability of  Japan , Russia,
 Canada  and  New Zealand  to take advantage of carbon market
mechanisms under the United Nations treaty.  The pact endorsed today by ministers from more than 190
nations in Doha sets binding emissions caps for 37 so-called
Annex B nations beginning in 2013. Those nations that renounced
a second round of commitments when the first ones finish this
year won’t be able to buy Certified Emissions Reductions.  The decision “will prove disappointing to market
participants in those jurisdictions,” the International
Emissions Trading Association said in a statement e-mailed after
the decision.  CERs, also known as offsets, represent emissions reductions
made by investments in clean-technology projects in  developing
countries . They can be used by Annex B countries that are mostly
industrial nations to meet limits on their greenhouse-gas
discharges.  Prices for CERs have dropped 88 percent in the past year as
the economic crisis in  Europe  has cut industrial output,
reducing in turn the demand for European Union carbon permits
and UN CERs.  The second period of Kyoto restrictions, which will cover
about 15 percent of global emissions, will start in January and
last through 2020. It enables the EU to synchronize its cap-and-
trade system with a global market that may come into effect at
that time.  ‘Milestone’  “Today’s agreement marks a major milestone for the UNFCCC
and carbon markets worldwide,” IETA said.  Envoys also decided to ask Annex B countries with Kyoto
goals to review their targets and inform the UN by the end of
April 2014 about plans to step up those ambitions.  Negotiators at the talks in Doha decided to allow countries
with excess emissions permits to bank these into the second
Kyoto period. They also imposed a limit on the use of those
permits, according to the text.  These Assigned Amount Units, handed out to nations with
binding Kyoto targets, represent a cap on those countries’
emissions. Countries that exceed their pollution limits may buy
AAUs from those that enact deeper emission cuts to cover
discharges.  As of 2013, countries will be allowed to purchase AAUs
equivalent to 2 percent of their cap for the first period. That
would limit the risk of trading surplus permits, which
environment lobbies including Greenpeace dubbed “hot air,”
saying they threaten environmental integrity of a future climate
deal by allowing countries to pollute more.  AAU Supply  Supply of surplus AAUs comes mainly from  Russia , Ukraine
and eastern EU member states, where a slump in industrial output
following the fall of communism led to a decline in emissions.
Demand is set to shrink as the EU’s 27 nations,  Australia ,
Japan,  Liechtenstein ,  Monaco ,  Norway  and  Switzerland  said at the
meeting they won’t buy permits carried over from the first five-
year period.  “While it is important that countries receive recognition
for overachieving on their targets, the volume of AAUs carried
over to the second commitment period could be as high as 7
billion units,” Mark Dreyfus, the head of the Australian
delegation, said at the meeting. “The oversupply risks
meaningful climate change efforts for 2020.”  Countries approved decisions to explore new market
structures for the post-2020 treaty, which may include a
sectoral trading system proposed by the EU.  “We’re delighted that markets are at the core of the Doha
Climate Gateway,” Dirk Forrister, president of IETA, said in an
e-mailed statement. “While we’d hoped to see more detail on the
new market mechanism, the essential elements are there, and we
can work with the process to complete them next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in Doha at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at  lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  