-- Monti to Meet Italy President as Parties Push for Electio
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-12-08T14:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/monti-to-meet-italy-president-as-parties-push-for-election-date.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
will meet President Giorgio Napolitano today as the head of
state mediates a parliamentary dispute on when to dissolve the
government and call elections.  Monti’s government, which loses its mandate in April, is
facing an early collapse after the People of Liberty party,
Monti’s biggest backer in parliament, said this week it was
seeking an orderly end to the emergency administration. Former
Italian Prime Minister and leader of the People of Liberty
Silvio Berlusconi, 76, will stand in the election, news service
Ansa said today.  Napolitano will take “constructive and appropriate steps”
to respect the will of lawmakers and protect  Italy ’s
international image, the president’s office said late yesterday
in a statement. Napolitano and Monti will discuss “all of the
implications,” according to the statement.  Monti is losing control as the rival parties in his
coalition seek to distance themselves from his record of tax
increases and budget cuts. Italian newspaper  Corriere della Sera 
reported elections may be called for March 10, while daily
Repubblica said Italy’s  Democratic Party , or PD, was pushing for
a vote on Feb. 24.  Monti, an unelected technocrat, became prime minister 13
months ago with an emergency mandate to implement an austerity
program and shield Italy from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.
While he succeeded in slashing government borrowing costs, the
budget rigor deepened the recession. As the election nears,
People of Liberty and PD, Monti’s second biggest supporter, are
blaming each other for the economic slump.  Monti’s Policies  People of Liberty voted for Monti’s policies in the last
year out of a sense of duty and not because it agreed with them,
party General Secretary Angelino Alfano said yesterday. PD,
which has reiterated its backing for Monti, is pressing
Napolitano for a February vote because it is concerned People of
Liberty will gain support among the electorate as it disowns
responsibility for Monti’s agenda, Repubblica said.  Monti told reporters before a speech in Cannes today that
populism in  Europe  was a threat to be taken into consideration.
Europe must “remain vigilant against all forms of nationalism
and populism,” he said.  People of Liberty will support Monti’s budget law while
making no promises about other bills pending in parliament,
according to the statement from the president.  “The experience of Monti’s government has concluded in our
estimation,” Alfano told parliament yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  