-- Pharmacyclics Blood-Cancer Drug Controls Disease in Study
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-12-08T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/pharmacyclics-blood-cancer-drug-controls-disease-in-study.html
Pharmacyclics Inc. (PCYC) ’s experimental
treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, a blood cancer that
affects adults 50 and older, slowed progression of the disease
when used alone and with another drug, studies showed.  In a study of 116 patients, the medicine, called ibrutinib,
helped control the malignancy in 68 percent who hadn’t been
previously treated for the blood cancer and in 71 percent of
those who had relapsed or were at risk for relapse, Sunnyvale,
California-based Pharmacyclics said today in a statement.  Ibrutinib is from a new class of medicines for chronic
lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, a cancer that  strikes  about 16,000
Americans a year at a median age of about 72. The goal is to use
the drug without chemotherapy, a standard treatment that can be
too toxic for some elderly patients. The drug may generate as
much as $5 billion a year if approved for CLL and other blood
cancers, said  Michael Yee , an RBC Capital Markets analyst.  “We are very encouraged that these results with ibrutinib
continue to support the possibility that we can address some of
the critical unmet needs,”  John Byrd , leukemia research
professor at Ohio State University Medical Center and lead study
author, said in the statement.  Results also showed that 96 percent of patients in the
previously untreated group, and 75 percent of those at high
risk, lived 26 months without the disease worsening. The most
common side effects were diarrhea, fatigue, nausea and rash. The
findings showed no evidence of cumulative toxicity or long-term
safety concerns, according to the statement.  Blood Malignancy  CLL originates from white blood cells in bone marrow and
can spread to the liver, lymph nodes and spleen, according to
the  American Cancer Society . The disease may spread for years
without any symptoms, and many patients aren’t treated.  In a second study of 40 patients, ibrutinib worked in
combination with  Roche Holding AG’s (ROG)  Rituxan. The drug helped
control the cancer in 83 percent.  Thirty-eight of the 40
patients continued on the therapy without their disease
worsening at a follow-up of three to six months. Results from
the studies will be formerly presented tomorrow at the  American
Society of Hematology  meeting in Atlanta.  Ibrutinib is designed to go after an enzyme within the so-
called Bruton’s tyrosine kinase pathway that enables abnormal
white blood cells to proliferate. It is currently being tested
in last of three phases of trials typically required for U.S.
approval. Pharmacyclics is developing the drug with  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
biggest health-care products company.  Slow-Growing  Because one form of CLL is slow growing, doctors typically
don’t treat these patients, Pharmacyclics said in the statement.
Others who have a more aggressive form are given a three-drug
combination of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and Rituxan.  This can be toxic for elderly patients, attacking cancerous
and healthy cells,  Jan Burger , an associate professor at The
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, said
in an interview.  “We always hoped we’d find something that’s more targeted
that damages the leukemia cells but not the patient,” Burger, a
consultant to Pharmacyclics who authored one of the company’s
studies presented at the meeting. “And ibrutinib is one of
these very promising new drugs.”  Pharmacyclics shares gained $1.01, or 1.8 percent, to close
at $56.02 yesterday in  New York . The share have more than
 tripled  this year on the drug’s prospects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  