-- Pollution Limits Renewed With UN Push for Climate Aid
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-12-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/pollution-limits-extended-in-un-global-warming-pact.html
The international effort to curb
global warming inched forward with an agreement that extends
pollution limits under the Kyoto Protocol and calls for work on
a mechanism that would pay aid for climate-related disasters.  The deal endorsed by ministers from more than 190 nations
in Doha yesterday restrains fossil fuel emissions from the
European Union to  Australia . It also for the first time suggests
a channel for richer countries to compensate poorer ones for
“loss and damage” from rising sea levels and drought.  The biggest accomplishment of the annual United Nations
conference was to streamline the discussions, paving the way for
a global treaty by 2015 that would cut  greenhouse gases  from
2020. Both diplomats who negotiated the pact and environmental
groups expressed frustration it won’t have an immediate impact
on the atmosphere.  “The results aren’t in keeping with what’s happening on
the planet,” said Delphine Batho, the ecology minister of
 France , which has offered to host the 2015 meeting. “The
impacts of global warming are accelerating. The deal here might
appear derisory, but it’s better to have an agreement than none
at all. It’s one more stage.”  Streamlined Process  This year’s gathering involving some 17,000 delegates was
characterized by the UN as a housekeeping session to tie up
loose strands from three parallel sets of discussions and focus
on the one due to culminate in three years.  The complexity of the talks almost derailed the conference,
with envoys working 27 hours past their deadline. Some
negotiators left Qatar before the conclusion.  Marring the talks were rifts over the reluctance of
developed nations to say how they’ll ramp up aid to the $100
billion a year they’ve pledged for climate projects by 2020.
Recipient countries failed to get the roadmap they sought to
generate $60 billion over the three years through 2015.  Instead, European Union donors promised at least 8.3
billion euros ($10.7 billion) by 2015. That’s above the 7.2
billion paid out in the three years through 2012 as the bloc’s
contribution to $30 billion of so-called fast-start finance.
Envoys agreed to work on details by the end of 2013 on how the
aid will be scaled up.  ``The major problem from my judgment was finance,'' Evans
Njewa, a diplomat from Malawi who is lead negotiator for the
group of least developed countries, said in an interview. The
text was ``very weak in terms of commitments.''  Rising Temperatures  Scientists say greenhouse gases from burning oil and coal
are likely to hit a record this year. Without action, the
temperature may rise 4 degrees Celsius (7.2 degrees Fahrenheit)
by the end of the century, according to the World Bank.  That’s the most since the end of the last ice age and
double the UN target. Arctic sea ice shrank to its lowest on
record this summer, and ocean levels may rise 1 meter (3 feet)
by the end of the century, the Potsdam Institute for Climate
Impact Research says.  “The opportunity to keep below the 2-degree objective is
closing fast,” European Union Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said. “This is definitely not perfect, but it is a
modest and important step in the right direction.”  This year’s gathering didn’t contemplate pollution limits
for countries beyond those in the 1997  Kyoto accord , which aimed
to limit greenhouse gases in industrial nations through the end
of this year.  Kyoto Renewed  Kyoto now covers about 15 percent of emissions worldwide.
 Canada ,  Japan ,  New Zealand  and  Russia  renounced obligations
under a second commitment period beginning in 2013. The U.S.
never ratified the pact, and developing nations from  China  to
 India  were never set binding goals. Developing countries see it
as an important step by rich nations most responsible for global
warming move first toward a solution.  “The  Kyoto Protocol  is the standard of environmental
integrity,” said Brazilian Environment Minister Izabella Teixeira, lamenting “the lack of ambition” among industrial
nations on global warming. “They are not leading. They are
shifting the burden.”  The Doha meeting established rules for the second round of
commitments for 37 nations and preserves the Kyoto framework
until 2020, when the next agreement would come into force.  For carbon markets, 33 countries mostly in the EU ruled out
buying excess UN pollution credits left over from the first
Kyoto period to meet targets in the second. The so-called
Assigned Amount Units were handed to countries with binding
Kyoto targets and represent a cap on their pollution.  Carbon Markets  Russia and Ukraine led eastern European nations in building
up surpluses after economic slumps closed factories and curbed
emissions. They retained the right to bank their unused permits.  Environmental groups led by Greenpeace dubbed the surplus
in AAUs “hot air” that undermines climate protection rules.
Abdullah Bin Hamad Al-Attiyah, the Qatari diplomat presiding
over the talks, gaveled the decisions with such speed that he
overlooked an objection from Russia, prompting cheers and
applause from hundreds of delegates.  “We do not think that the strength of the voice and the
gavel is a dignified way to carry out such a high level
meeting,” said Oleg Shamanov, the envoy from Russia.  The deal also tightens restrictions on the purchase of
Certified Emission Reductions, which are generated by projects
that reduce pollution in developing nations. Countries that
didn’t sign up for new Kyoto restrictions can’t use those
permits to offset their own emissions. CERs made about $25
billion of the $176 billion-a-year global carbon market in 2011
and AAUs accounted for $318 million, the  World Bank  says.  ‘Continuity’  “This package offers improved continuity from existing
carbon markets to the new markets of the future,” said Dirk
Forrister, president of the International Emissions Trading
Association. “It still won’t inspire action at the scale
commensurate with the objective of limiting warming to 2
degrees. For that, we need much more clarity around a robust
market mechanism that can deliver at scale.”  The four-page decision on loss-and-damage may be the most
far-reaching step outlined in the agreement. It’s the first time
in more than two decades of pressure from island nations that a
proposal for the mechanism has been framed in the text from
these talks, which are aiming at enshrining language into a
treaty that would be binding on all nations.  Damage Insurance  The U.S. and EU resisted the measure out of concern it
could leave them with unlimited legal and financial liabilities
from disasters in developing nations. Islands pushed it as a way
to prod donors past their $100 billion aid target. Compromise
language allows loss-and-damage relief to be folded into current
aid goals while granting the UN authority to work on the
insurance mechanism island nations wanted.  “The package before us is deeply deficient,” said Kieren
Keke of Nauru, who leads the 43-nation Association of Small
Island States. “The outcome provides little more than a gateway
to a long path. There is a fork in that path. We need to take
the correct turn when we reach that fork or this process will
collapse and our nations will disappear.”  Envoys from  developing countries  criticized President
 Barack Obama  for his decision to seek $60 billion from the  U.S.
Congress  to help states devastated by superstorm Sandy while
refusing to detail climate-aid plans past this year. Typhoon
Bopha, which killed more than 400 people in the  Philippines ,
provided a focal point for anger about the issue.  “Are we really talking about a lot of money when we talk
about $100 billion?” said Ronald Jameau, a diplomat from the
Seychelles.  Complexity Debate  For the negotiators, simplifying the talks in future years
marks the biggest change to the UN process since 2007. Then,
work to produce a treaty replacing Kyoto was divided into two
parallel strands of discussion, which often met simultaneously
to go over the same issues. A third track opened last year when
the conference was held in Durban,  South Africa .  The complexity of maintaining three tracks strains smaller
nations that must send representatives to each meeting. Even so,
closing the two older tracks and concentrating on the so-called
Durban Platform was a delicate task. It required the most
controversial issues not yet resolved to be transferred to the
new track, with the U.S. and EU resisting.  Lightning-rod topics included the principles of equity and
“common but differentiated responsibilities.” Those concepts
seek to ensure that all nations are treated fairly in reining in
greenhouse gases, taking into account their wealth and
historical pollution rates. Richer countries are concerned that
developing countries use the words to avoid fossil-fuel
reductions.  American Concern  References to those ideas in the Doha agreement “cannot
and will not be the basis upon which the U.S. will engage” in
the negotiations for a treaty in 2015, said Todd Stern, the U.S.
State Department’s lead envoy on climate.  “It wasn’t pretty, but Doha delivered just enough to keep
the process moving forward,” said Jennifer Morgan, director of
climate at the World Resources Institute, a research group
monitoring the talks. “Much more remains to be done. Getting on
the right track will take a greater sense of urgency than we saw
here in Doha.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in Doha at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Doha at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  