-- Qatar Proposes Climate Finance to Break UN Deadlock
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-12-08T07:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/qatar-proposes-climate-finance-conclusions-to-break-un-deadlock.html
(Corrects spelling of name in first paragraph.)  Abdullah Bin Hamad Al-Attiyah, the
Qatari diplomat chairing United Nations climate treaty talks in
Doha, proposed a set of decisions to break a deadlock on
discussions about climate aid and damages payments.  The proposals included an extension to the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol  and a call for industrial nations to channel at least
as much annual aid for climate-related projects in  developing
countries  as the average for the past three years. It suggests
work next year on a mechanism that would insure against
conditions that developing nations say they can’t adapt to,
including rising seas and droughts.  “I see this package as a gateway to the future: the Doha
climate gateway,” Al-Attiya said. “In my judgment they make a
balanced package. We must not make the search for the better an
enemy of the good. This should make us equally happy or
unhappy.” He gave delegates 90 minutes to consider the
proposals, calling the next meeting for 10 a.m. local time.  Envoys from 194 nations are in Doha to streamline the
complex UN negotiations from three parallel strands of
discussions into one, focusing on crafting by 2015 a new deal
that would be legally-binding on all nations from 2020. The
talks have run through the night the past three days as
negotiators clashed over a $100 billion aid pledge and the call
by island nations for a so-called loss-and-damage mechanism.  ‘Long Way’  “We’re quite a long way from a result,” Canadian
Environment Minister Peter Kent said in an interview late
yesterday, before today’s proposals were made. “Nothing’s been
finalized.”  Al-Attiya’s plans were detailed in a series of  documents 
posted today on the website of the UN Framework Convention on
 Climate Change . The suggested aid level is half of what
developing countries have been calling for in Doha, and the
loss-and-damage proposal has been opposed by the U.S.  This year’s meeting has been dominated by demands from
developing nations for a road map charting how industrial
nations plan to deliver the $100 billion a year of aid promised
by 2020. The funds are for projects that reduce emissions and
protect against the effects of climate change.  Clarity on future funding is important because a three-year
period of “fast-start finance” totaling more than $30 billion
ends this year. Developing nations want security that the flow
of aid will continue. Today’s text on finance calls for support
to continue at least at the rate of the fast-start period, with
industrial nations urged to provide more clarity on how they’ll
ramp up to $100 billion.  Industrial and developing nations have also clashed over
the loss-and-damage proposal, with the U.S. rejecting any new
system that might imply liability.  The loss-and-damage text proposed today would decide to
create “institutional arrangements, such as an international
mechanism,” to address the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in Doha at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  