-- Qatar LNG Spot Sales to Fall 40% by 2014, QNB Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-12-08T14:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/qatar-lng-spot-sales-to-fall-40-by-2014-qnb-says.html
Qatar, the world’s biggest producer
of liquefied natural gas, will reduce spot-market sales of the
fuel by at least 40 percent by 2014, curbing supplies available
for  Europe , state-controlled  Qatar National Bank (QNBK)  said.  Spot volumes available for sale will drop to about 27
percent of total output this year from 28 percent, and to 16
percent by 2014 as long-term supply agreements go into effect
and new ones are signed, the bank’s QNB Group said in a report.  “These new contracts are mainly to Asia Pacific and South
America, meaning that Europe’s share of Qatar LNG exports is
likely to fall,” according to today’s report.  A drop in Qatari LNG sales to Europe may boost dependence
on Russian pipeline gas and push up prices on the continent
nearer to Asian fees. Japanese LNG prices averaged $17 per
million British thermal units this year, 16 percent higher than
last year, the bank said. European prices rose 8 percent to $11.  “This provides a price incentive for spot-market
deliveries to be exported to the Asia Pacific, in addition to
the rising number of long-term” agreements, the bank said.  Asian demand for LNG, which is gas cooled to a liquid for
transport by tanker, has grown as nations seek more fuel for
power generation.  Japan  has increased purchases since shutting
almost all its nuclear capacity following the Fukushima reactor
disaster in 2011, while U.S. imports have dropped amid a boom in
domestic shale-gas output.  Japanese Demand  Japan, the world’s biggest LNG buyer, will have to purchase
at least 21 million metric tons on the spot market this year,
according to data from Tri-Zen International Inc. The country
paid an average of $16.84 per million Btus in September, down
from $18.07 in July, which was the highest price since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 2006.  Qatar, which can produce 77 million tons of LNG a year, is
diversifying its customer base, increasing its shipments of the
fuel to 23 countries last year from eight in 2007, the bank
said. The country is planning its first LNG delivery to
 Singapore  and is reported to have signed a sales agreement with
 Thailand , the bank said. Jordan is also seeking to buy LNG from
Qatar, which is helping it build a re-gasification terminal.  Qatar exported 47 percent of its supplies to Asia last
year, with Japan purchasing 12 million tons, India 10 million
and South Korea 8 million, according to the report.  Europe bought 42 percent of Qatari production, with the
U.K. being the single largest buyer. Britain has a long-term
agreement for an annual 12 million tons and purchased 4 million
tons on the spot market, the bank said. Italy bought 6.1 million
tons, Spain 4.8 million tons and France 3.2 million tons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  