-- Treasuries Trade in Tightest Range Since July on Fed Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-12-08T05:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/treasuries-trade-in-tightest-range-since-july-on-fed-speculation.html
Treasury 10-year note yields traded
within a quarter-percentage point of a record low as stronger-
than-forecast job growth failed to blunt speculation the Federal
Reserve will announce another round of bond purchases.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose from the least in
more than two weeks yesterday after Labor Department figures
showed the U.S. added 146,000 jobs in November and the
 unemployment rate  fell to 7.7 percent. Fed officials, who said
after September’s policy meeting that they will buy bonds
until the job market improves substantially, gather for the
final time this year Dec. 11-12.  The Fed “easing is going to continue,” Mohamed El-Erian,
chief executive officer at  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., the world’s biggest manager
of bond funds, said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “We will see more
balance-sheet operations and maybe even see a tweak to the
communications. The Fed will remain hyper active.”  Ten-year note yields rose less than one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.62 percent this week, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.625 percent notes
maturing in November 2022 fell 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face
value, to 100.  The yield traded within a range of 9.3 basis points this
week, the narrowest amount since the five days ended July 20.
The yield, which dropped to a record low of 1.38 percent July
25, touched 1.56 percent on Dec. 6.  Futures Bets  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
net-long positions in 10-year note futures in the week ending
Dec. 4, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data released yesterday.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 202,691 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, compared with 187,654 in the previous week. Net-
long positions rose by 15,037 contracts, or 8 percent, from a
week earlier, the Washington-based commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report.  Volatility in Treasuries dropped this week to the least in
five years. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which
measures price swings based on options, touched 51 basis points
on Dec. 3, the lowest level of price swings since April 1988. It
hit a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15. Volatility
climbed to 264.6 basis points in October 2008 as the financial
crisis intensified.  Fed Meeting  The yield difference between 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, which
represents traders’ outlook for the rate of inflation over the
life of the securities, touched 2.5 percentage points yesterday,
the widest since Nov. 7. The average over the past decade is
2.18 percentage points.  Primary dealers are forecasting Fed policy makers may
announce more monetary accommodation as Operation Twist, as the
maturity-extension program is known, expires this month. A
“number” of Fed officials said at their policy meeting in
October that additional monthly purchases of bonds may be
warranted next year, according to the minutes of the  Federal
Open Market Committee .  “The Fed is on a campaign and they will continue to buy
next year,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading in
 New York  at Bank of  Nova Scotia , one of the 21 primary dealers
that trade with the central bank. “They are easing.”  Fiscal Cliff  The Fed is trying to sustain growth with President  Barack
Obama  and Republican leaders in Congress unable to agree on a
plan to avert the so-called fiscal cliff, or $600 billion in
spending cuts and tax increases for 2013 that will start to take
effect in January. The  Congressional Budget Office  has warned
that if lawmakers don’t avoid the so-called fiscal cliff, the
economy might slip into recession.  “The prolonged fiscal-cliff uncertainty and the
expectation of further accommodation by the  Federal Reserve  is
keeping a lid on how high yields can rise,” said Donald Ellenberger, who oversees about $10 billion as co-head of
government and mortgage-backed securities at Federated Investors
Inc. in Pittsburgh.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury and
mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
purchases, known as quantitative easing, or QE.  Hurricane Sandy  The employment  report , released just over a month after
 Hurricane Sandy  devastated the East Coast, was forecast to show
the U.S. added 85,000 jobs, according to 91 economists in a
Bloomberg News Survey. The jobless rate had stayed above 8
percent since February 2009 until it broke the trend in
September.  “The data is not gangbusters, but the gains are decent,”
said  David Ader , head of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There’s a slight
increased risk that they don’t do as much as the market was
pricing in. There’s no renewed sense of urgency. We can back up
a bit. We have supply next week.”  The U.S. will sell Treasuries on three consecutive days
beginning Dec. 11, including $32 billion in three-year debt, $21
billion in 10-year notes and $13 billion in 30-year bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  