-- SAC Capital’s InterMune Trades Said to Be Probed by FBI
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-12-08T16:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/sac-capital-s-intermune-trades-said-to-be-probed-by-u-s-.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP’s trading in
 InterMune Inc. (ITMN)  in 2010 as well as trades in  Weight Watchers
International Inc. (WTW)  last year are being investigated by the U.S.,
a person familiar with the matter said.  The trades by the $14 billion fund owned by  Steven A. Cohen 
are under scrutiny by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the matter wasn’t public.  The government is looking at trades that SAC made in
Brisbane, California-based InterMune in the first half of 2010,
the person said. Some of those InterMune transactions were
handled by Nikej Shah, the person familiar with the matter said.
Shah, a former SAC portfolio manager, declined to comment on the
probe.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for $14 billion SAC, said
yesterday the firm wasn’t aware of any investigation involving
trades of Weight Watchers or InterMune.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , and John Nestor, a spokesman for the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, declined to comment on
the case.  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the FBI’s New York
office, declined to comment on the probes.  InterMune Trades  SAC bought 1.9 million shares of InterMune in the first
quarter of 2010, after holding none in the prior two quarters,
and held 10,983 shares at the end of the second quarter of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  InterMune’s stock soared in the first week of March after
the drugmaker’s experimental medicine for a deadly  lung disease 
was reviewed more favorably by U.S. regulators than analysts had
expected. Two months later, the stock slumped after the
company’s application for a potential $1-billion-a-year lung
treatment was rejected by regulators.  Trading records also show SAC held Weight Watchers during a
period when the price doubled.  Last month, former SAC fund manager Mathew Martoma was
charged with  insider trading  for using nonpublic information to
trade the stocks of drugmakers  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC, earning
$276 million for the fund.  Owner’s Sale  SAC’s owner sold the stocks after speaking with Martoma,
according to prosecutors and an SEC complaint, which was the
first time they had linked him to trades at the center of an
insider case. Another person familiar with the matter said Cohen
is the person identified in the criminal complaint as “Hedge
Fund Owner” and in the SEC’s suit as “Investment Advisor A.”  Cohen hasn’t been charged with a crime.  SAC held 2.1 million shares of Weight Watchers at the end
of the first quarter of 2011 compared with 7,951 shares in the
previous quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Weight Watchers surged in February 2011 after forecasting full-
year earnings that beat analyst estimates.  The hedge fund cut its holdings in the second quarter of
2011, holding 77,857 shares as of June 30, 2011. The stock
slumped in the first week of August after the firm increased
spending on advertising and technology during the second
quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  