-- SADC Nations Seek to Raise $100 Million for Congo Force
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-12-08T19:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/sadc-nations-seek-to-raise-100-million-for-congo-force.html
 The  Southern African Development
Community  said it’s seeking to raise $100 million toward the
deployment of an international “neutral force” in the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo, where the eastern city of Goma was
under the control of rebels until last week.  “DRC has already deposited a contribution, and we urge other
members to contribute too,” Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete
told reporters today in his country’s commercial capital,  Dar es
Salaam , after SADC leaders held a summit meeting there. He said
the group is also open to contributions from the international
community.  SADC aims to activate a standby brigade by Dec. 14 that will
join the Congo force. It will include units from all nations in
the group, according to Kikwete. Tanzania has already committed
a battalion to the force, while South Africa has pledged
logistical support such as moving troops, he said.  The leaders also discussed the political crisis in
Madagascar, urging former President  Marc Ravalomanana  and
current leader Andry Rajoelina not to run for the presidency,
according to a statement.   They urged authorities in Madagascar to ensure the
presidential election is held as planned on May 8 and that
parliamentary elections take place on July 23. The summit urged
the transitional government in Madagascar to draft legislation
to guarantee privileges for former heads of state before the
elections, and repeal laws that exclude some citizens from
voting, according to the SADC statement.  The SADC leaders also urged members to contribute to a $10
million fund to support the electoral process in Madagascar.  Zimbabwe Constitution  On Zimbabwe, SADC called for the completion of the process
to draft a new constitution, and conduct a referendum on the
document before elections next year.  Those attending the summit include the current SADC
chairman, President Armando Guebuza of Mozambique, along with
South African President  Jacob Zuma , President  Joseph Kabila  of
the Democratic Republic of Congo and Namibian President
Hifikepunye Pohamba. Ugandan President  Yoweri Museveni , who is
chairman of the International Conference of the Great Lakes
Region, also attended to brief SADC on what the conference has
done so far to try to resolve the crisis in Congo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam at 
 dmalingha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Langan at 
 hlangan@bloomberg.net  