-- Saudi Shares Rise to 3-Week High on Safco, Mobily Announcements
-- B y   D e e m a   A l m a s h a b i
-- 2012-12-08T16:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/saudi-shares-climb-to-3-week-high-on-safco-mobily-announcements.html
Saudi Arabian shares rose to the
highest level in almost three weeks, led by petrochemicals and
telecommunication stocks responding to company announcements and
after U.S. job growth exceeded forecasts.  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC) , the country’s second-largest
telecommunications operator, advanced to a six-year high.  Saudi
Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO) , owned 43 percent by Saudi Basic
Industries Corp., rose to the most in more than four years.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.7 percent to 6778.09
at the 3:30 p.m. end of trading in Riyadh, the highest close
since Nov. 17. The Arab world’s biggest stock exchange has
gained 5.6 percent this year.  U.S. stocks advanced for a third week, with the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  posting its longest winning streak since
August. American employers hired 146,000 workers in November and
the jobless rate fell to an almost four-year low of 7.7 percent.  Oil posted its first weekly decline since early November
and the dollar strengthened against the euro after the U.S. job
data. Crude for January delivery dropped 33 cents to $85.93 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday. Saudi
Arabia is content with current prices, Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi
said yesterday.  Raise Capital  Saudi Arabian Fertilizer, or Safco, rose 4 percent to 156
riyals after publishing a plan to increase its capital by a
third. Etihad Etisalat, known as Mobily, climbed 2.7 percent to
77 riyals after saying it would resume sales to new subscribers
on prepaid sim cards. It reached 77.25 riyals, the highest since
September 2006.  Safco’s announcement it would raise capital to 3.3 billion
riyals ($880 million) and “Mobily announcing the resumption of
sim-card sales, which constitute 60 percent of their revenue,
definitely has had a huge positive effect on trading today,”
said Mohammed Al-Omran, financial analyst and president of the
Gulf Center for Financial Consultancy in  Riyadh .  Saudi Arabia’s stock exchange is the only Persian gulf
bourse operating Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Deema Almashabi in Riyadh at 
 dalmashabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  