-- U.S. Stocks Cap Longest Weekly Gain Since August on Jobs
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-12-08T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/u-s-stocks-cap-longest-weekly-gain-since-august-on-jobs.html
U.S. stocks rose a third week, giving
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its longest winning streak since
August, as employment growth topped forecasts and investors
weighed prospects for a budget agreement in Washington.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  surged 8.9 percent on plans to cut more than
11,000 jobs and scale back in some emerging markets to drive
down costs.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  jumped 5.2 percent after the online
video service signed a multi-year agreement with Walt Disney Co.
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sank 8.9 percent, the most since 2010, on concern the
company will lose ground in smartphones to  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  in China
and give up market share to Google Inc. in tablets.  The  S&P 500 (SPXL1)  increased 0.1 percent to 1,418.07 for the  week .
The benchmark measure for American equities extended its advance
from a three-month low on Nov. 15 to 4.8 percent and finished at
the highest level since Election Day. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  added 129.55 points, or 1 percent, to 13,155.13.  “The market took the jobs report as an encouraging sign,”
said Brad Sorensen, director of market and sector analysis at
San Francisco-based Charles Schwab Corp. His firm has $1.9
trillion in client assets. “There’s also a bit of Washington
fatigue. It seems like Congress and the administration have
managed to come through with a deal at the last minute multiple
times before. We’re relatively neutral at this point in time.”  The S&P 500 is down 0.7 percent since President Barack Obama was re-elected on Nov. 6 as he seeks a deal with
Republican lawmakers to prevent more than $600 billion of
automatic tax increases and spending cuts from coming into
effect next year.  Budget Talks  Stocks started the week lower as House Republicans,
rejecting Obama’s demand for tax rate increases, proposed $1.4
trillion in spending cuts and $800 billion in new revenue by
limiting tax breaks and capping deductions for top earners. A
day later, Obama told Bloomberg Television that the Republican
offer doesn’t go far enough and won’t raise the revenue needed
to shrink the deficit by $4 trillion over the next decade.  On Dec. 5, Obama told a business group that “nobody wants
to get this done more than me” and lawmakers probably could
solve the budget debate in about a week if Republicans move.
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said on Dec. 7 “there’s no
progress to report” on talks.  Investors also watched economic reports. Employment climbed
by 146,000 in November and the jobless rate declined to an
almost four-year low of 7.7 percent. Orders for equipment such
as computers and electrical gear climbed in October by the most
in eight months. Service industries in the U.S. unexpectedly
grew at a faster pace in November. Confidence among consumers
fell more than forecast in December.  Mixed Data  “We’ll be on this wait-and-see mode,” said Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $208 billion as chief equity
strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls,
Wisconsin. “We’ve had a decent jobs report, but a really bad
consumer sentiment report. What we should expect going forward
is this mixed bag of data. Perhaps after we get past this fiscal
cliff issue we could see a pick-up in confidence.”  Financial shares had the biggest gain in the  S&P 500  among
10 industries, adding 1.7 percent. Measures of commodity and
technology shares in the index dropped at least 1.4 percent.  Citigroup surged 8.9 percent to $37.64. The lender will
take a $1 billion charge this quarter to cover the 4.2 percent
workforce reduction, which includes 1,900 jobs in trading,
investment banking and transaction services. The bank said it
wants to improve productivity in markets businesses such as cash
equities where profit is lagging.  Banks Rally  The KBW Bank Index of 24 stocks rose 1.6 percent. The
measure has surged 25 percent so far this year, compared with a
13 percent gain for the S&P 500.  Bank of America Corp.  jumped
7.9 percent to $10.64.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  added 3.6 percent to
$42.56.  Dell Inc. advanced 8.5 percent to $10.46. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. upgraded the stock to buy and said the company’s net
cash balance could present an opportunity for a leveraged
buyout.  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  increased 6 percent to $38.82
after forging a deal with  AT&T Inc. (T)  to provide the carrier’s
business customers with content-delivery services.  Netflix climbed 5.2 percent to $85.98. The Disney agreement
starts with movies released in 2016, the companies said in a
statement. Financial terms weren’t revealed. The accord includes
new direct-to-video releases and older classics such as
“Dumbo.”  Travelers Cos. (TRV)  rose 3.6 percent to $73.39. The lone insurer
in the Dow average said it is resuming share buybacks after
projecting that superstorm Sandy will cost the company about
$650 million. The stock advanced to a record on Dec. 5.  Apple Tumbles  Apple tumbled 8.9 percent to $533.25.  China Mobile Ltd. (941) 
agreed to carry the Lumia 920T, a device based on  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 8 software, the companies said. China
Mobile said that Apple, which has agreements with  China Telecom
Corp. (728)  and China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. to sell iPhones in the
world’s largest mobile-phone market, must further discuss
details about benefit sharing before a deal can be reached on
offering the handset.  The stock’s slide also may be the result of traders
predicting a drop after the shares failed to sustain a recent
rally, a “classic technical breakdown,” according to  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  Munster said new margin rules also may have been put in
place for some investors that could limit how many Apple shares
a firm can own. Investors may also be disappointed Apple isn’t
issuing a special dividend like  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and other U.S. companies, he said.  $9 Billion  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  plunged 19 percent to
$31.70. The world’s largest publicly traded copper producer
agreed to  buy   Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP)  and  McMoRan
Exploration Co. (MMR)  for about $9 billion as the company returns to
its roots in energy.  The move was criticized by BlackRock Inc., one of its
largest investors, and Dan Rohr, an analyst at Morningstar
Investment Service, for failing to create any obvious cost
savings. Freeport said the deals will help it to keep expanding.  Gap Inc. (GPS)  dropped 7.7 percent to $31.81 amid speculation the
biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer won’t follow rivals such
as American Eagle Outfitters Inc. and Coach Inc. in paying
special  dividends  or accelerating payments this year.  Darden Restaurants Inc. (DRI)  slumped 12 percent to $46.66. The
owner of the Red Lobster and Olive Garden chains reported
preliminary fiscal second-quarter profit that trailed estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  