-- Mursi May Authorize Army to Maintain Order in Egypt
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-08T20:35:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-08/mursi-may-authorize-army-to-maintain-order-in-egypt.html
President Mohamed Mursi may authorize
Egypt’s armed forces to help the police maintain order, a state-
owned newspaper reported, as Prime Minister Hisham Qandil
separately said Mursi may amend a controversial decree that
increased his powers and may postpone a Dec. 15 constitutional
referendum.  The Cabinet approved a decree allowing the army to use the
force “necessary to perform their duty” to maintain security
and protect vital state institutions, Cairo-based  Al Ahram
newspaper  said today. The  Defense Ministry  will determine the
scope of the military’s role, the paper said. The army called
today on all political parties to engage in national dialogue,
the state-run  Middle East News Agency  said.  Later in the day, Prime Minister Hisham Qandil said a new
decree regarding the powers of the president may be released
“within hours” that aims to end the demonstrations and political
deadlock that followed Mursi’s Nov. 22 decree that placed his
decisions above judicial review. Qandil speaking on Mehwar TV
said Mursi may delay the constitutional referendum scheduled to
take place in one week, a key opposition demand.  Opposition supporters today began a third week of rallies
outside the presidential palace to protest both a draft
constitution, which they say is biased toward Mursi’s Islamist
supporters, and the Nov. 22 decree that gives him powers
unchecked by the courts. The protests, which have prompted
clashes with police, have persisted even after Mursi’s office
said he may delay the referendum.  ‘Emergency Law’  Today’s decree on the role of the military “is worse than
the emergency law imposed under Mubarak,” Gamal Eid, a lawyer
who heads the Arab Network for Human Rights Information, said by
telephone from Cairo. “The decree gives the army the right to
arrest civilians, a right previously reserved for police
officers alone, and that means that Mursi is seeking the army’s
help against his opponents, which means more blood and more
violence.”  Eid said Mursi is “seeking to re-establish dictatorial
rule in Egypt” by using the military to promote a political
stance. The activist likened Mursi to former President  Hosni Mubarak , whose February 2011 ouster was the result of an
uprising that included the Muslim Brotherhood, of which Mursi
was a member before assuming the presidency.  Palace Meeting  Politicians were among public figures arriving at the
palace today for talks that the government said were aimed at
resolving the crisis, according to state television. Opposition
groups followed through on a pledge to boycott the gathering.  The National Salvation Front, the al-Wafd Party and the
April 6 youth movement had rejected the president’s Dec. 6 offer
of “comprehensive” discussion about the proposed constitution.
Secular activists and other opposition groups say the
constitution was hijacked by Islamists, and are demanding that
Mursi abandon the referendum.  At the meeting with Mursi, those who did attend agreed to
form a new legal committee that will rewrite the Nov. 22
presidential decree in a way that will end the current discord,
Qandil said in his Mehwar TV interview. The committee also may
issue a law postponing the constitutional referendum, he said.  The protests against Mursi and the escalating violence
threaten to derail  Egypt ’s efforts to establish a democracy
after last year’s uprising and to revive an economy that has
stalled as the upheaval has kept investors and tourists away.  Referendum Delay?  Vice President Mahmoud Mekki said yesterday Mursi is
willing to delay the public vote on the constitution subject to
conditions, including that the opposition agree to talks and
refrain from using the courts to get a further delay of the
referendum.  Officials said the government delayed the start of voting
in the referendum by expatriate Egyptians from today to Dec. 12,
according to Ahram Online.  The president has refused to withdraw the Nov. 22 decree
that exempts his decisions from judicial review and extends
similar protection to the Islamist-dominated panel that drafted
the constitution. Mursi has offered to amend aspects of his
decree, not rescind it.  Mohamed Badie, the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood’s spiritual
leader, called today for the voters to decide on the referendum.  “Why not use the ballot as the referee?” he said during a
press conference in Cairo.”  ‘National Compromise’  Former United Nations nuclear-agency chief  Mohamed ElBaradei , leader of National Salvation Front, urged Mursi to
rescind the Nov. 22 decree immediately and to postpone the
referendum “until we reach a national compromise,” speaking
yesterday on Egyptian satellite broadcaster ONtv.  Qandil called on opposition leaders yesterday to agree to
talks with Mursi, saying the current situation will hurt the
country’s economy.  The protests and renewed violence have sent Egyptian stocks
plunging. The benchmark  EGX 30 index  slumped 4.6 percent Dec. 6,
extending its loss since Mursi’s decree to 11 percent. Markets
in Egypt were closed on Friday, Dec. 7. The cost of insuring
Egypt’s bonds through five-year credit-default swaps jumped to a
two-month high and the pound weakened to an eight-year low.  Mursi’s presidential statement yesterday followed a day of
protest by supporters and opponents, and attacks against
government buildings and Muslim Brotherhood offices. At least
110 people were hurt in clashes around the country, the Health
Ministry said, according to the Middle East  News Agency . No
deaths were reported. Six people were killed on Dec. 4 and at
least 700 injured, the ministry said.  “It’s too late for a dialogue now,” Ayman Abdellatif, a
member of the opposition Popular Current Party, said in an
interview in Cairo today. “Mursi has issued a dictatorial
decree and ignored the opposition’s legitimate calls to revoke
it until the country reached a level of division and a point of
no return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  