-- 
‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Policy in Military Restored by Court During Appeal

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   M i c h a e l   H y t h a
-- 
2011-07-16T19:49:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-can-be-kept-during-appeal-court-says.html
The Obama administration won a court
decision allowing it to keep the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”
policy on gays and lesbians serving in the military in place
while a ruling overturning the law is appealed.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco  reversed its
July 6 decision that granted a request by the Log Cabin
Republicans to block further enforcement of “Don’t Ask, Don’t
Tell.” The group, which filed the suit to overturn the law,
promotes equal rights for gays and lesbians.  The appeals court, in yesterday’s decision, said the
government had provided additional information on its steps to
repeal the policy. During the appeal, the military is barred
from “investigating, penalizing or discharging anyone from the
military pursuant to the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy,” the
three-member appeals panel said.  On Sept. 9, U.S. District Judge Virginia Phillips in
Riverside,  California , ruled that “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”
violates constitutionally protected due process and free speech
rights.  President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 22 signed a law lifting the
1993 policy, which prohibits gays and lesbians from serving
openly in the military. The government argued that the repeal is
not effective until 60 days after the president, secretary of
defense and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff certify
the military has prepared for it.  The White House said in December that it would take months
for new rules to be put in place. On July 6, Marine Colonel Dave
Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman, said in an e-mail that
certification of the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” --
required for the law to take effect -- was just “weeks away.”  The case is  Log Cabin Republicans  v. U.S., 10-56634, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  