-- 
Aeon Sold Beef From Cattle Fed Cesium-Tainted Straw

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-07-16T08:11:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/aeon-says-its-supermarkets-sold-radiation-tainted-beef-to-customers.html
(Corrects beef export figure in sixth paragraph.)  Aeon Co., Japan’s biggest
supermarket chain, said beef from cattle contaminated by
radiation was sold to customers at 14 of its stores in  Tokyo  and
four other prefectures.  The meat was from cattle in Fukushima that ate straw
tainted with cesium exceeding government safety standards,
according to an e-mailed statement by the Chiba prefecture-based
retailer.  Aeon sold the beef from late-April through mid-June at
stores in Tokyo, Ishikawa, Kanagawa, Chiba and Shizuoka
prefectures. The retailer said it will safeguard customers’
health by improving its system for checking beef for radioactive
contamination.  Reports last week that contaminated beef entered Japan’s
food supply deepened concern about  food safety  prompted after
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
plant began emitting radiation. As many as 84 cattle that ate
tainted straw were shipped to market, Fukushima prefecture said
today in an e-mailed release.  Japan ’s government may ban beef shipments from Fukushima
prefecture as early as July 19, according to reports in local
media including the Mainichi newspaper.  Fukushima Beef  Fukushima is the 10th biggest cattle-producing region in
Japan, representing 2.7 percent of the total. The nation
exported 541 metric tons of beef worth 3.4 billion yen ($42.8
million) last year, including premium wagyu meat.  Cattle at a farm about 60 kilometers from the plant were
fed with straw containing 97,000 becquerels per kilogram of
cesium, compared with a government standard of 300 becquerels,
Hidenori Ohtani, at the livestock division of the Fukushima
prefectural government, said yesterday. Tests showed beef from
that farm, which shipped 42 cattle to market, contained 650
becquerels of cesium per kilogram, exceeding the official
standard of 500, said Kazuyuki Hashimoto at the food-monitoring
division of the Tokyo government office.  Miyagi prefecture  yesterday found about triple the safe
levels of cesium in rice straw at cattle farms, the Asahi
newspaper reported today. It asked farmers to refrain from
shipping cattle that ate straw collected after March 11, the
report said.  There’s no centralized system to check for radioactive
contamination of food in Japan as voluntary tests are conducted
by prefectural governments in cooperation with local farmers.  The agriculture ministry is discussing with the health
ministry and the Fukushima government if it is feasible to test
all cattle in the prefecture for radiation to prevent the
shipment of tainted meat to the market, Yasuo Sasaki, senior
press counselor for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries, said yesterday in Tokyo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  