-- 
Asian Currencies Decline, Led by Indian Rupee, on Global Slowdown Concern

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m   a n d   S u r y a n i   O m a r
-- 
2011-07-16T01:43:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/asian-currencies-decline-led-by-indian-rupee-on-global-slowdown-concern.html
Asian currencies declined this week,
led by  India ’s rupee and Malaysia’s ringgit, on concern  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis and a faltering U.S. economic recovery
will hurt exports and deter investment in emerging markets.  Overseas investors pulled $1.85 billion from shares in
 South Korea  and Taiwan over the last five days, exchange data
show.  Greece  will default on its debt and Portugal and Ireland
are likely to suffer the same fate, Martin Feldstein, former
president of the U.S.-based National Bureau of Economic Research,
said July 14. Data this week showed American consumers are the
least confident in more than two years and retail sales in the
world’s biggest economy stagnated in June.  “There’s negative sentiment from what’s happening in the
euro zone and the U.S.,” said Ho Woei Chen, a Singapore-based
economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. “Concern about government
debt in the euro zone will continue to crop up.”  The rupee fell 0.4 percent this week to 44.52 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit
weakened 0.5 percent to 3.0063. The Philippine peso slid 0.45
percent to 42.938, the  Taiwan  dollar lost 0.4 percent to
NT$28.897 and Indonesia’s rupiah retreated 0.3 percent to 8,544.  Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis spread to some of the
region’s larger economies this week, with Italy and Spain’s 10-
year bond yields climbing to their highest levels in at least a
decade. Moody’s Investors Service slashed debt ratings for
Portugal and Ireland to below investment grade, or so-called
junk, in the past two weeks.  Foreign Selling  Taiwan’s dollar retreated for a second week as global funds
sold $1.2 billion more of the island’s shares than they bought.  “Investors are still concerned recoveries in the U.S. and
Europe are not going well,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income
trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “Foreign funds have
sold a lot of stocks recently, dragging down the  Taiwan
dollar .”  The peso fell for the first week in four after exports
unexpectedly declined in May. Exports dropped 3.2 percent from a
year earlier, compared with the median forecast for a 4.3
percent gain in a Bloomberg survey of economists, data showed
July 12.  The Bank of  Korea  lowered its economic growth forecast for
this year on an expected slowdown in domestic demand. South
Korea’s economy will expand 4.3 percent, compared with the 4.5
percent growth estimated in April, the central bank said
yesterday. The won lost 0.1 percent over the week to close at
1,057.95 per dollar in Seoul.  Elsewhere, Singapore’s dollar and  China ’s yuan were little
changed at S$1.2192 and 6.4650, respectively. Thailand’s baht
strengthened 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net ;
Suryani Omar in Jakarta at 
 somar6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  