-- 
Barclays Is Said to Plan Cutting 50 of Its Corporate Banking Jobs in India

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-16T13:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/barclays-is-said-to-plan-cutting-50-of-its-corporate-banking-jobs-in-india.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-
largest bank by assets, plans to eliminate about 50 jobs in
India as it narrows its focus on large companies in the nation,
said two people with direct knowledge of the situation.  The bank cut 25 jobs this week and will reduce a similar
number of positions in the next few months, the people said,
declining to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak on the matter.  Barclays Capital, the  investment banking  unit of the U.K.-
based lender, and the company’s commercial banking division are
combining the teams that focus on servicing corporate clients in
the South Asian nation, said Clare Williams, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman for Barclays. She declined to comment on the number
of jobs being eliminated. The bank may sell the 500 million
pounds ($807 million) of loans it made to small and medium-sized
companies in  India , one of the people said.  “There will regrettably be a small reduction in the number
of corporate coverage and product bankers at Barclays,”
Williams said in an e-mail response. “This recognizes the close
alignment between these two businesses as they focus on serving
the needs of India’s largest companies, multinationals and
financial institutions.”  Karan Bhagat, managing director and country head for
Barclays Corporate, the commercial banking unit, will also leave
the firm, Williams said. Jaideep Khanna, managing director and
head of investment banking, will lead the merged team, she said.
Bhagat didn’t answer two calls made to his mobile phone.  Clients, Loans  Barclays is offering employees who have been asked to leave
three months of salary and another month of remuneration for
every year of service, one of the people said. The bank is also
asking recruitment firms to help the affected employees, the
person said. Barclays has 5,000 workers in India, Williams said.  Barclays’ Indian unit had outstanding loans of 76 billion
rupees ($1.7 billion) as of March 31, 2010, according to Crisil
Ltd., a credit assessor controlled by Standard Poor’s.  Barclays
Capital  has been operating in India for the past three decades,
while Barclays Corporate started its commercial bank operations
in November 2006 and  consumer banking  in May 2007.  The bank has 2,000 commercial clients including large
Indian corporates, small and medium enterprises and Indian
companies looking to grow overseas, according to its website.  Barclays in India “has now significantly curtailed its
retail growth following a sharp rise in delinquencies in 2008-
09,” Crisil said in the  report  on March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  