-- 
Canada Dollar Gains Versus Greenback as Europe, U.S. Battle Debt Problems

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-16T04:00:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/canadian-dollar-advances-as-europe-u-s-battle-debt-problems.html
Canada ’s dollar rose to a two-month
high against its American counterpart on concern Europe’s debt
crisis is worsening and on signs growth in the U.S. is slowing,
supporting demand for Canadian assets.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rose against most
of its major counterparts this week after Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. under review for a
credit downgrade. The currency also appreciated against the
euro, which fell after eight banks failed European Union stress
tests and Moody’s downgraded Ireland to below investment grade.
The Bank of Canada likely won’t raise  interest rates  next week.  “In the environment of concern about financial-sector
strength, the Canadian dollar is a fairly attractive currency
relative to its peers,” said  David Watt , senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit in
Toronto.  The Canadian currency rose 1 percent to 95.32 cents per
U.S. dollar in Toronto, compared with 96.27 cents July 8.
Yesterday it touched 95.20, the strongest since May 11. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0491.  The loonie strengthened 1.8 percent to C$1.3498 per euro,
from C$1.3745 last week.  Euro Stress  Canada’s government bonds rose, pushing the 10-year yield
lower by nine basis points to 2.87 percent, as the price of the
3.25 percent security due in June 2021 gained 76 cents to
C$103.22. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The nation’s sovereign securities have returned 1.4 percent
this month and are up 3.2 percent in 2011, according to the Bank
of America Merrill Lynch data.  The eight banks that failed the EU stress tests had a
combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion),
regulators said. All banks tested in  Italy ,  Germany ,  France , the
U.K. and Ireland passed, the lenders said yesterday.  The assessments are the first by the European Banking
Authority since it was set up earlier this year. Last year’s
tests by its predecessor were criticized for being
insufficiently tough because banks were shown to need only 3.5
billion euros more capital, a 10th of the lowest analyst
estimate. Banks that fail the stress test must present a plan to
raise more capital within three months.  Attractive Alternative  Moody’s cut Ireland’s sovereign debt rating to junk July
12, making it the third euro-area country after Greece and
 Portugal  to be rated below investment grade.  “The flare-up in this market tension hasn’t been so extreme
that we’ve seen a flight to safety and a type of environment
that would be damaging to the Canadian dollar,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
 New York . “We’ve still got a lot going on in Europe. We don’t
have a resolution on the Greek austerity package.”  The  U.S. dollar  dropped this week against 10 of its 16
major peers after Moody’s put the U.S. under review for a credit
downgrade and S&P put the nation on Creditwatch negative,
meaning there’s a one-in-two chance they may be cut in the next
90 days. The U.S. has the top investment rating from both
companies -- Aaa at Moody’s and AAA at S&P. Canada has stable,
top ratings from both companies.  The Canadian dollar’s rally this week was buoyed by rising
commodity prices. Gold reached a record of $1,594.90 an ounce
July 14 and crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 1.1 percent
to $97.24 a barrel.  Less Stress  “Canada is still looking like a relatively attractive
destination for foreign investors,” said  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto. “The
stress tests add to the impression that  Europe  is bumbling along
here and heading to a potential day of reckoning.”  The loonie’s strength was tempered after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  curbed speculation the central bank
will debase the currency by buying additional assets. Bernanke
spoke July 14 at a Senate Banking Committee hearing and said the
increase in inflation this year is one reason why the Fed won’t
immediately embark on a third round of bond-buying.  “We’re not prepared at this point to take further
action,” he said.  The day before, Bernanke had signaled the central bank has
more tools for monetary easing should the economy weaken and
stymie efforts to generate jobs.  Central Banks  The Fed has kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low of zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008. During that
time, the  Bank of Canada  has raised interest rate three times,
to 1 percent. The disparity in the rates spurs investors seeking
higher yields to buy Canadian assets instead of those
denominated in dollars.  Canada’s central bank meets July 19 and will keep its
benchmark interest rate at 1 percent, according to the median
estimate of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. BOC policy
makers in May said they will “eventually” raise rates as the
economy recovers.  The nation’s trade deficit narrowed to C$814 million ($854
million) in May, from a revised C$857 million a month earlier,
 Statistics Canada  said July 12. The figure was in line with the
C$800 million shortfall forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 23
economists.  The loonie has weakened 0.7 percent this year versus the
currencies of nine other developed nations, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  