-- 
Chavez Delegates Powers to Rule From Cuba

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-07-16T21:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/chavez-delegates-some-authority-to-ministers-during-his-cancer-treatment.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
delegated some powers to the country’s ministers while rejecting
demands he cede the presidency as he undergoes chemotherapy in
Cuba, starting tomorrow.  Technology will allow him to communicate with his
government from the communist island, Chavez said, while
demonstrating on state television how he plans to sign laws
electronically using a program on a laptop computer. Vice
President Elias Jaua was given temporary oversight of ministry
budgets, and the power to appoint deputy ministers and
expropriate property, while Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  was
given the authority to grant tax exemptions, Chavez said.  Opponents “think we’re in the Venezuela of the 16th
century and that I’m going to get on a sailboat and spend five
days getting to  Havana  without being able to communicate,”
Chavez said in the televised remarks. “We live in another
world, what some call a global village,” Chavez said in a
meeting with ministers.  Venezuela’s  National Assembly  today unanimously approved
Chavez’s request to be granted permission to travel to Cuba to
receive cancer treatment. Chavez, who has led  South America ’s
largest oil producer since 1999, has said Cuban doctors removed
a baseball-sized tumor from his pelvic area June 20 after an
initial operation to remove a pelvic abscess on June 11.  Chavez said today he plans to return “soon” from Cuba,
and has been in full control of the nation’s government even
while undergoing two operations.  Constitutionally Illegal  Opposition lawmakers, while voting in favor of allowing
Chavez to return to Cuba to seek treatment, demanded more
information about Chavez’s illness and said it is
constitutionally illegal to govern from Cuba.  “In the case that I should feel for some reason that I had
diminished capacities to carry out this task the people have
given me, I would be the first to do what the constitution says
and announce a temporary or absolute absence,” Chavez said.  Speaking to members of his party before departing for Cuba,
Chavez said there are “cancerous tumors” in his government
seeking to create divisions and called on his allies to unite
while he undergoes chemotherapy.  Chavez also today said he would ask  Venezuela ’s judicial
system to show clemency on prisoners that share his illness.  Afiuni Case  The socialist leader may have been referring to Maria
Lourdes Afiuni, a judge in Caracas, who was arrested in December
2009, for ordering the conditional release of banker Luis Cedeno, accused of fraudulently obtaining dollars from the
government in 2003. She was held in a women’s prison until
February and was granted leave to be held at home after doctors
said she required an operation for cancer. Afiuni had ruled that
prosecutors had exceeded the time limit to bring Cedeno’s case
to court.  Chavez has pared his sometimes seven-hour speeches and said
he’s kicked a coffee addiction of as many as 40 cups a day as
his illness unfolded.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charlie Devereux at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  