-- 
Chavez Chooses Cuba for Chemotherapy

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-07-16T16:34:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/chavez-chooses-cuba-over-brazil-for-chemotherapy-cancer-fight.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he’ll return to Cuba today to receive chemotherapy, ending
rumors he was considering  Brazil  as an alternative venue for
cancer treatment.  “I’m going to begin the second stage of this slow and
complex process of recuperation,” Chavez, 56, said yesterday on
state television. “The second stage will start with
chemotherapy that has already been planned in scientific
detail.”  Chavez, who has led  South America ’s largest oil producer
since 1999, was operated on June 20 in Cuba for an undisclosed
form of cancer after an initial operation to remove a pelvic
abscess on June 11. The self-declared socialist said July 13
that doctors removed a baseball-sized tumor from his pelvic
area. Chavez said modern technology will allow him to continue
to lead his government from Cuba.  “We live in another world - of so many communicational
revolutions - and they talk of the global village,” Chavez said
today. “Some of those spokesmen of the right think we’re in the
Venezuela of the 16th century and that I’m going to get on a
sailboat and spend five days getting to  Havana 
without being able to communicate.”  Congress voted unanimously today to approve Chavez’s plan
to depart for Cuba at 3:30 pm New York time.  ‘State Secret’  The president’s announcement quashes reports that he would
go to Brazil for treatment after an offer by Brazilian President
 Dilma Rousseff , who herself was treated for a lymphoma in 2009
at a hospital in  Sao Paulo .  Cuba was chosen over Brazil because it will be easier for
Chavez to keep his exact prognosis a secret, said Jose Vicente
Carrasquero, a political analyst at the Central University of
Venezuela in Caracas.  “In Brazil, it would be very difficult to keep people in
the dark about what’s going on because public opinion would
demand answers and the Brazilian media would investigate,”
Carrasquero said in a phone interview. “In Cuba, the
president’s health will be handled like a state secret.”  Opposition, Transition  Chavez and his government have repeatedly rejected
opposition demands that he hand over power temporarily to Vice
President Elias Jaua while he undergoes treatment. The
opposition’s push for a political transition on the premise that
he’s “finished” due to cancer will fail, the president said
July 14.  “The opposition is pushing for a transition and saying
that Chavez is finished, that he’s chopped up into 20 pieces,”
Chavez said. “The only transition here is from capitalism to
socialism.”  The Venezuelan constitution is vague about the legality of
a president absenting himself from duties while he seeks medical
treatment abroad, said Carrasquero. Chavez is unlikely to cede
power unless his health deteriorates significantly, he said.  “The president has never left a delegate behind and he’s
not going to do it now,” Carrasquero said. “He considers it a
weakness to leave someone in charge.”  Hiram Gaviria, an opposition lawmaker, said that while
Chavez’s opponents in the National Assembly will vote today in
favor of granting him leave to seek treatment in Cuba,
Venezuelan law demands that the president cede power to Jaua
while out of the country.  Constitutional Dispute  “The constitution says that during the president’s absence
no legislation can be done from Cuba, it must be done in
 Venezuela , and the vice president must be in charge, who from
today holds the power of head of state,” Gaviria said in
comments carried on state television.  Patients are treated with chemotherapy or radiation even
after a tumor is successfully removed to prevent the cancer from
recurring, said Jeffrey Meyerhardt, a gastrointestinal
oncologist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in  Boston .  While radiation is sometimes easier to tolerate than
chemotherapy when targeted to specific areas of the body, both
cause fatigue and nausea. Even so, many patients in high profile
jobs are able to work full time through treatment sessions that
can last several weeks, Meyerhardt said.  Chavez’s health problems have overshadowed the economic
challenges he faces to secure re-election, which include the
highest inflation rate in the hemisphere, food shortages,
violent crime and a housing shortage of more than 2 million
units.  Debt Yields  The yield on Venezuela’s 9.25 percent benchmark bond due in
2027 has fallen 82 basis points, or 0.82 percentage points, to
12.98 percent since June 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price has risen 4.24 cents on the dollar to
75.025 cents.  The cost of protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps has fallen 135 basis
points to 994 yesterday in that same period, according to data
compiled by CMA in  New York .  Before his health crisis, the president hosted his own
 television show  most Sundays that lasted up to seven hours
without commercial breaks and sometimes featured spontaneous
expropriations of businesses after followers complained of
exploitation.  His improvised speeches have ranged over philosophy,
baseball and diatribes against the U.S. “empire.”  Now the former paratrooper has altered what he described as
a “lifestyle of death” and is waking up at 5 a.m. to undergo
rehabilitation with his team of doctors, take medical exams and
return to bed early. Chavez said he has cut down his coffee
intake from 40 cups a day to just one or two cups and has taken
up painting again to relax.  “I have faith in God, medical science and our Cuban and
Venezuelan doctors and finally in my own will to live -- to live
for my people, for my daughters and grandchildren and myself --
that we will continue along the path to recovery,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  