-- 
Clinton in Istanbul Praises Syrian Opposition

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-07-16T19:21:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/clinton-praises-syrian-opposition-as-groups-meet-in-istanbul.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
praised the efforts of Syrian opposition groups gathered in
Istanbul to seek the global community’s help in ousting
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  “We’re encouraged by what we see the Syrian people doing
for themselves, not anything the  United States  or any other
country is doing,” said Clinton, who is also in the Turkish
city. “It’s what the Syrians are doing, trying to form an
opposition that can provide a pathway, hopefully in peaceful
cooperation with the government.”  A leader of  Syria ’s Muslim Brotherhood movement, Ali Sadr-
al-Din al-Bayanuni, said the opposition could overthrow Assad’s
regime. “What is required of the international community and
Arab countries is to withdraw support from this regime, which
has lost its legitimacy, and to boycott it on both the
international and diplomatic levels,” he said today on  Al
Jazeera  television.  The Syrian government “has become a criminal against its
own people,” said al-Bayayuni, according to a transcript
published by the BBC Mideast service.  Tens of thousands of Syrians took to the streets to protest
yesterday. At least 32 demonstrators were killed around the
country, including about 20 in the capital, Damascus, Al Jazeera
reported. Activists report that five have been killed today.  Government ‘Brutality’  Clinton said yesterday’s protests were “the largest
demonstrations to date in Syria, an effort to try to convey
directly to the government the pent-up desire of the Syrian
people for the kind of reforms they have been promised.” She
said that Syrian government “brutality” against peaceful
protests continued.  Clinton made her remarks in an appearance with Turkey’s
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  at the end of a two-day visit
for international talks on  Libya  and meetings today on Turkey.  The Obama administration has increasingly relied on Turkey
as an ally and an example to other Middle Eastern countries as
unrest has swept the region. Today, Clinton pointed to Turkey as
the kind of democracy protesters should call for.  “People across the Middle East, and North Africa
particularly, are seeking to draw lessons from Turkey’s
experience,” Clinton said. “It is vital that they learn the
lessons that Turkey has learned and is putting into practice
every day.”  Cultural Bridge  As a geographic and cultural bridge between Muslim nations
world and  Europe  and  North America , Turkey is also in a position
to help the U.S. on strategic issues. In the decade since the
country was denied immediate membership in the European Union,
it has worked at becoming a regional power among Muslim nations.
It has mediated between Iraqi factions, increased trade and
investment from North Africa to the  Middle East , and normalized
ties with Syria.  The U.S. itself has little influence over Syria, where the
Alawite minority that controls the regime has yet to quell
protests by the Sunni Muslim majority since they began four
months ago.  Clinton said the seriousness of the strategic issues that
Turkey and the U.S. confront together sometimes means economic
issues are overlooked. Still, trade has risen more than 50
percent this year, she said.  “That means more jobs and greater prosperity in both
countries,” Clinton said. “But we see even greater potential
ahead, and we are committed to further expanding trade and
investment.”  Differences  Clinton said earlier in the day that the U.S. and  Turkey  do
have some differences. The U.S. administration expressed concern
when Turkey joined  Brazil  to negotiate a nuclear-fuel swap with
 Iran  a year ago, just as the U.S. was pushing for tighter United
Nations sanctions against Iran.  Today she criticized Turkey’s arrest of journalists and
restrictions on Internet freedom. Authorities there have jailed
reporters and columnists in recent months under antiterror laws.
A government proposal set for August would filter the Internet
that could allow monitoring of household Web use.  Speaking on  CNN ’s Turkish language channel today, Clinton
said that while the countries differ on how to get things done,
the U.S. and Turkey “share this strategic vision about where we
would like to see the world go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  