-- 
State of New York, Public Employees Union Agree to Labor Contract

-- B y   P e t e   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-07-16T17:42:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/cuomo-new-york-public-employees-union-agree-on-contract.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
reached a contract agreement with the state’s second-largest
public employee union that freezes wages for three years,
increases worker health-care contributions and averts 700
firings scheduled to begin next week.  The accord with the white-collar  Public Employees
Federation  mirrors a tentative pact with the  Civil Service
Employees Association , the state’s biggest public union,
according to a statement today from Cuomo’s office. Members of
that union will start voting on their accord next week.  Cuomo, a 53-year-old Democrat, is seeking to cut public-
employee wage-and-pension costs by increasing the  retirement age 
for new employees to 65 from 62 and boosting worker
contributions. Such a move would save taxpayers $93 billion over
30 years, the governor has said.  “This agreement reflects the financial reality of the
times,” Cuomo said in the statement. “I am pleased that we
could avoid these layoffs, protect the workforce and the
taxpayer.”  PEF workers will receive a 2 percent annual wage increase
starting in 2014, after three years of no raises. The deal will
save $75 million this fiscal year, $92 million next year, and
almost $400 million over the life of the contract, Cuomo said.  Jobs in Peril  Dismissal notices were sent to about 700 PEF workers, with
firings scheduled to take effect July 22 if an agreement wasn’t
reached, said Darcy Wells, a union spokeswoman, before today’s
announcement.  “This was a difficult agreement to reach, but with our
members’ jobs in peril and the state’s fiscal hardship we’ve
stepped up and made the necessary sacrifices,” PEF President
Ken Brynien said in the statement from the governor’s office.
“This is the best agreement that could be negotiated in the
current environment.”  Cuomo’s $132.5 billion budget, passed by lawmakers in
March, cut total spending by 2 percent and closed a $10 billion
gap with no new taxes. It was the first drop in spending since
at least 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pete Young in  San Francisco  at 
 pyoung13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  