-- 
Clarke Leads Going Into British Open Final Round

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-17T11:50:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/darren-clarke-dustin-johnson-share-british-open-lead-at-5-strokes-under.html
Darren Clarke  of Northern Ireland
takes a one-stroke lead over  Dustin Johnson  of the U.S. into
today’s final round of golf’s British Open, where high winds
have made things difficult for those already on the course.  Clarke, who shared the lead with  Lucas Glover  entering
yesterday’s play, shot 1-under-par 69 to get to 5-under at Royal
St. George’s in Sandwich, England. Johnson tied  Rickie Fowler 
for the low round of the day with 68 to move into second place.  Gusting winds up to 35 miles (56 kilometers per hour) for a
second consecutive day have led to high scores for those
starting early.  South Korea’s Hwang Jung-Gon shot 9-over 79 and sits last
at 24-over. Joost Luiten of the Netherlands shot 75, while
Edoardo Molinari of Italy is 7-over through 13 holes. American
Spencer Levin did shoot 69, a day after an 80, one of only seven
current under-par rounds. Spain’s  Sergio Garcia  is 3-under
through five holes to reach 1-over for the tournament.  Players faced similar winds and rain early yesterday before
conditions calmed in mid-afternoon. Clarke, Johnson and Fowler
played in the afternoon and posted the only under-par scores.  “Obviously if somebody had given me 69 before I was going
out to play, I would have bitten their hand off for it,” Clarke
said after his third round. “Saying that, we did get very
fortunate with the draw. Sometimes to win any tournament, the
draw can make a big difference, but in the Open Championship it
makes a huge difference.”  Clark and Johnson will tee off at 2:10 p.m. local time.  Fowler is tied for third at 2-under with Denmark’s  Thomas Bjorn , who finished with 71. Glover and Spain’s  Miguel Angel Jimenez  are the only other golfers below par at 1-under. Glover
shot 73 and Jimenez had a 72.  20th Open  Both Clarke and Johnson are seeking their first major
title. Clarke is playing in his 20th open.  “The Open is the biggest and best tournament in the
world,” he said. “Nineteen times I’ve failed to try and lift
the Claret Jug.”  Clarke’s best finish at a major is a tie for second at the
1997 Open. Johnson played in the final group at two majors last
year, losing a three-shot lead at the U.S. Open and incurring a
penalty with a one-shot lead on the final hole at the U.S. PGA
Championship which cost him a place in a playoff.  “It doesn’t matter to me whether you’re chasing or you’ve
got the lead,” Johnson said in a news conference. “Obviously I
would rather have the lead because it’s one less shot to make
up. I’m still going to have to play aggressive when I can and
then play smart when I have to.”  There are 10 Americans among the top 16 players on the
leader board. Non-U.S. golfers have won the past five majors,
their longest run in history.  “They’ve played well in the last five majors, but I don’t
think there’s anything wrong with American guys or American
golf,” Johnson said. “We’ve got a good shot at getting one”
today.  Four-time major champion  Phil Mickelson , seeking his first
Open title, is one of six golfers at even-par after shooting 71.  “There’s nothing more exciting than on Sunday having a
chance in a major,” he told reporters. “I know that I’m not
leading, but I’m also right there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Royal St. George’s at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  