-- 
News Corp. Hacking Scandal Claims Hinton, Brooks as Investigations Widen

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   J u s t i n   B l u m   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-07-16T21:06:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/dow-jones-ceo-steps-down-amid-hacking-fallout.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s phone-hacking crisis
claimed two top newspaper executives as Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch defended his handling of the scandal and the FBI
began a U.S. probe of the company.  Les Hinton, chairman of News International in the years the
alleged hacking occurred, stepped down as head of the Dow Jones
division yesterday. That followed the exit of News International
CEO Rebekah Brooks. She was editor of the News of the World, the
newspaper implicated in the scandal, from 2000 to 2003.  The spotlight will shift back to Murdoch and his son,
James, the deputy chief operating officer, on July 19 when they
testify about the phone-hacking scandal before the U.K.
Parliament. With the FBI involved and the company facing civil
litigation in the U.S., the scandal is likely to grow, said  Nell Minow , a board member at GovernanceMetrics, a corporate
governance research company.  “There is going to be a constant drip, drip, drip of more
information coming out that is simply going to get worse and
worse,” Minow said in an interview. “I have no reason to
believe that we’ve seen the worst yet.” Murdoch “has to go,”
she said.  In a statement announcing Hinton’s departure, the 80-year-
old CEO downplayed his own importance to the company he built
from two inherited Australian newspapers.  “News Corp. is not Rupert Murdoch,” he said in the
statement. “It is the collective creativity and effort of many
thousands of people around the world, and few individuals have
given more to this company than  Les Hinton .”  FBI Role  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , prodded by members of
Congress, began looking into whether News Corp. employees may
have targeted the phones of victims of the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks.  U.S. Representative  Peter King , the Republican chairman of
the House Committee on  Homeland Security , asked FBI Director
Robert Mueller in a July 13 letter to investigate whether News
of the World employees tried to access voicemails belonging to
the victims through bribery and illegal wiretapping.  “We’re aware of certain allegations pertaining to a
possible hacking by News Corp. personnel and we’re looking into
those charges,”  Jim Margolin , a spokesman for the Federal
Bureau of Investigation’s New York office, said in a phone
interview this week.  Hiring Counsel  News Corp. has hired criminal defense lawyer Brendan V. Sullivan Jr. of the Washington law firm Williams & Connolly LLP,
the  New York  Times reported. Sullivan’s clients have included
former Alaska Senator Ted Stevens, ex-New York Stock Exchange
Chairman Richard Grasso and Reagan White House aide Oliver North. Sullivan didn’t return a phone and e-mail messages from
Bloomberg News seeking comment.  Julie Henderson , a News Corp. spokeswoman, didn’t return
phone and e-mail messages yesterday seeking comment. Bloomberg
LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units
in providing financial news and information.  Murdoch, in an interview with the News Corp.-owned Wall
Street Journal, said the company has handled the crisis
“extremely well,” with “minor mistakes.”  The Dow Jones Special Committee said today in a statement
it didn’t see any relationship between Hinton’s resignation and
his tenure at Dow Jones or the Journal, where he was the
publisher. The committee was formed in 2007 to monitor
journalistic integrity and independence at the newspaper.  ‘We Are Sorry’  Yesterday, Murdoch met with the parents of Milly Dowler, a
murdered schoolgirl whose voicemails were hacked by News of the
World in 2002.  “I said I was appalled to find out what happened,”
Murdoch said after meeting the family. “I apologized and I have
nothing else to say.”  Murdoch has been in  London  since last weekend as the
scandal escalated and politicians of all parties called on him
and James, 38, to take responsibility. News Corp. published an
apology in all national newspapers in Britain today, saying “We
are sorry” and signed by Rupert Murdoch.  The now-defunct News of the World tabloid is accused of
hacking hundreds of voice mails, including those of murder and
terrorism victims, and bribing police for confidential
information. Last week, News Corp. closed the 168-year-old
newspaper. London police have made at least nine arrests as part
of their investigation.  Share Performance  The scandal led News Corp. to abandon its $12.6 billion
(7.8 billion-pound) bid for full control of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   News Corp. rose 21 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $15.64
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading in New York. The Class
A shares have fallen about 13 percent since the first reports on
July 4 that News of the World had hacked Milly Dowler’s voice
mail.  The resignation of Brooks marked a U-turn for Murdoch, who
had stood with the newspaper executive and said she would stay
on. Murdoch this week backed his son and heir apparent, saying
James had acted “as fast as he could, the moment he could.”  Brooks may receive 3.5 million pounds ($5.7 million) in
severance pay, the Independent reported, citing unidentified
senior colleagues.  Family Holdings  The Murdochs must “cooperate fully” with inquiries into
the phone-hacking scandal, Kingdom Holding Co.’s Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Al Saud said in a July 14 BBC interview.  “We hope as this unfolds that the truth will come out,”
said Alwaleed, who has a 7 percent voting stake in News Corp.
and had called for Brooks’s removal. “The facts will come out
imminently.”  Murdoch controls News Corp. through a 38 percent stake in
the company’s Class B voting shares, according to company
filings and data compiled by Bloomberg. Those shares represent a
12 percent economic interest in the company, when nonvoting
shares are counted as well.  In addition to  Rupert Murdoch , News Corp.’s board members
include his son Lachlan, 39, as well as James. Murdoch’s
daughter Elisabeth, 42, was expected to become a director after
selling her Shine Group TV production outfit to News Corp. for
$673 million in February.  King’s request to Mueller was one of several by elected
officials and media watchdog groups to investigate News Corp.
King, who represents part of New York’s  Long Island , said in the
letter that his district lost 150 people in the attacks.  Justice Department   In a July 13 letter, New Jersey senator   Frank Lautenberg 
asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and SEC Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro to investigate whether News Corp. or its
subsidiaries breached the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The act makes it a crime for a U.S.-based company, such as
News Corp., to pay foreign officials to get or keep business.  Holder yesterday confirmed the existence of a U.S. probe in
public comments he made while in Sydney.  “There have been members of Congress in the  United States 
who have asked us to investigate the same allegations, and we
are progressing in that regard using the appropriate federal law
enforcement agencies in the U.S.,” Holder told a group of
Australian justice officials, according to  Laura Sweeney , a
spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice Department.  In his interview with the Journal, Rupert Murdoch said the
company isn’t separating its newspaper assets, which also
include U.K. tabloid the Sun, the Times of London and the New
York Post. The company will establish a “protocol for
behavior” for reporters across the company, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Blum in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  