-- 
Euro Declines Versus Dollar on Italian Yield Surge, Ireland’s Rating Cut

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-16T04:00:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/euro-falls-versus-dollar-on-italian-yield-surge-ireland-rating.html
The euro weakened against the dollar
after Irish debt was downgraded to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service and yields surged in Italy, drawing the euro zone’s
largest debtor further into the region’s financial crisis.  The Swiss franc and yen were the top performers against the
greenback as investors sought safety amid warnings from ratings
companies about the U.S. and Europe. The dollar advanced after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress inflation
has moved higher, boosting speculation the central bank won’t
take further steps to support the  U.S. economy . A report next
week will update global demand for U.S. Treasuries.  “The European debt crisis is continuing to rear its ugly
head; the debt crisis is far from over,” said  John Doyle , a
strategist in Washington at currency-trading firm Tempus
Consulting Inc. “Ireland was cut to junk, everyone started to
worry about a possible default for Italy -- overall that’s the
main story.”  The euro fell 0.8 percent to $1.4157 in New York, from
$1.4265 on July 8, its second straight weekly decline. The yen
strengthened 2.6 percent against the euro to 112.02, the biggest
five-day gain since May 6. The dollar weakened 1.9 percent to
79.13 yen from 80.64.  Swiss Strength  The franc rose against all its major counterparts and
reached records versus the dollar and euro on July 14. It gained
2.6 percent versus the dollar to 81.52 centimes, from 83.66,
touching 80.83.  Switzerland ’s currency surged 3.3 percent
against the euro to 1.15384, from 1.19320, climbing to a record
1.14945.  The  Swiss National Bank  is “monitoring the euro-franc
 exchange rate  very closely,” central bank Vice President Thomas Jordan said July 14. The franc has gained 8.5 percent against
the euro this year.  Gold rose to records in  London  and New York as investors
sought a reprieve from volatility. Implied volatility among
currencies of the Group of Seven nations jumped 9.8 percent, the
biggest increase on a weekly basis since March 18, according to
a JP Morgan Chase & Co. index.  “If you look at the gold market it has had significant
moves and is at record highs as the  currency markets  are trying
to balance out huge risks in both the U.S. and  Europe ,” said
 Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova Scotia
in Toronto.  Yen Concern  Japanese Finance Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  expressed concern
about the “one-sided” moves of the yen this week, which was
the second-best performer against the dollar. The yen
strengthened to 78.47 against the dollar, the best level since
March 17.  Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yukio Edano  echoed Noda’s comments,
saying rapid foreign-exchange moves weren’t “desirable.” Group
of Seven nations jointly sold Japan’s currency on March 18 after
it surged to a postwar record of 76.25 per dollar the previous
day, threatening the nation’s recovery from the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  Yields on Italian two-year debt reached a record 4.815
percent on July 12 amid investor concern the region’s debt
crisis will spread.  Italy  is the euro region’s biggest sovereign
debt market, with 1.8 trillion euros ($2.6 trillion) of
outstanding debt as of Dec. 31, compared with 1.1 trillion euros
of German debt outstanding on March 31, according to websites
from the nations’ debt agencies.  Irish Debt  Moody’s cut Ireland to Ba1 from Baa3 on July 12 and S&P
said it may lower the U.S.’s long-term rating by one or more
levels on July 14.  The euro has fallen 1.5 percent in the past month among 10
developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar is down 1.4 percent and
the yen is up 1.2 percent.  The dollar was supported after Bernanke told Congress July
14 that inflation is “higher” and “closer” to the central
bank’s informal target than was the case in August 2010, damping
speculation the Fed will take additional action to spur the
economy.  “Comments coming out from Bernanke saying inflation is
higher now than it was last year is being taken as the Fed is
not yet ready for action,” said Mary Nicola, a New York-based
currency strategist at BNP Parisbas SA.  Kiwi Rises  New Zealand’s currency rose against all its major
counterparts excluding the franc, the yen and the Canadian
dollar after the nation’s economy expanded 0.8 percent in the
three months ended March 31 from the previous quarter, the
government statistics agency said in Wellington on July 14. The
central bank forecast growth of 0.3 percent.  “The GDP figure that came out during the week was quite a
strong number and a big boost for the currency,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
 New York . “The strength of the  New Zealand dollar  is a
reflection of the strength of the economic recovery and rebound
following the earthquake earlier this year.”  The kiwi rose 0.9 percent to 84.54 U.S. cents after
reaching 85.07 on July 14th, the strongest since it was freely
floated in 1985.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  