-- 
Gilts Rise as Concern Over Euro-Debt Crisis Spur Safety Demand

-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 
2011-07-16T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/gilts-rise-as-concern-over-euro-debt-crisis-spur-safety-demand.html
U.K. 10-year government bonds rose
for a second week, sending yields to the lowest level since
October, as concern that the European sovereign-debt crisis may
engulf the region’s larger economies stoked demand for safety.  Gilts also advanced as reports showed U.K. inflation
unexpectedly slowed in June. Sterling strengthened against the
euro for a second week as signs the debt crisis is spreading
spurred buying of alternatives to the shared European currency.
Spanish and Italian 10-year yields rose to euro-era records as
 Fitch Ratings  cut  Greece ’s credit ranking to CCC, while Moody’s
Investors Service lowered Ireland’s to Ba1.  Gilts’ strength is “down to what’s going on in the
eurozone,” said  Sam Hill , a gilt strategist at  RBC Capital
Markets  in London. “The gilt market is at the mercy of risk
sentiment on eurozone debt. We’re in risk-on, risk-off mode.”  Ten-year gilt yields sank 12 basis points in the week to
3.08 percent as of 5:03 p.m. yesterday in London, after reaching
2.93 percent on July 12, the least since Oct. 26. Yields on two-
year notes fell six basis points to 0.70 percent. They reached
0.62 percent on July 12, the least since Oct. 25.  Gilts returned 1.7 percent from the end of June through
July 14, compared with a 4.1 percent loss by Italian bonds,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish bonds handed
investors a 1.9 percent loss, the indexes show.  Pound Gains  Sterling gained 1.2 percent this week to 87.74 pence per
euro. It reached 87.49 pence on July 12, the strongest since
June 16. The pound gained 0.6 percent to $1.6158. It rose to
$1.6194 on July 14, the most since June 22. It lost 1.4 percent
to 127.68 yen.  U.K. consumer prices rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier,
the  Office for National Statistics  said July 12. Economists had
expected the gauge to stay at 4.5 percent, according to the
median of 30 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  The report prompted investors to reduce bets that the  bank
of England  will increase  interest rates  from a record low, even
as inflation runs at more than twice its 2 percent target.  “The downside surprise in CPI this month is consistent
with the Bank of England being on hold,” Hill said.  Investors are now betting that the Bank of England won’t
raise borrowing costs until after June next year, data from
Tullett Prebon Plc on forward contracts for the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, show. As recently as
February, the data indicated traders were betting on a rate
increase this May.  ‘No Rush’  “The market has accepted that the Bank of England is
clearly in no rush to raise rates because it is focused on soft
domestic demand,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist
at Rabobank International in  London . “The U.K. fundamentals
look very poor.”  Britain’s currency has weakened 2 percent this year against
a basket of nine developed-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Gilts may rise next week should Bank of England meeting
minutes due July 20 show fewer monetary policy committee members
voted to increase interest rates this month. Members voted 7-2
in June in favor of holding the central bank’s benchmark rate at
0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Jenkins in London at 
 Kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  