-- 
Governors Raising Petition Seeking Congressional Debt-Limit Deal

-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-17T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/governors-may-tell-congress-to-make-debt-limit-deal-with-obama.html
 U.S. governors from both major
parties circulated a letter at their national meeting urging
Congress to raise the federal debt ceiling rather than put the
nation’s credit -- and their own states -- at risk.  The bipartisan letter was being drafted by the  National
Governors Association ’s staff after Moody’s Investors Service
warned that state bond ratings would be damaged by a U.S.
default, Maryland Governor  Martin O’Malley  said yesterday.  “I’m hoping that we may be able to provide some welcome
relief to the debilitating partisanship that is threatening to
drive our country into default for no good reason,” said
O’Malley, the chairman of the Democratic Governors Association.  President  Barack Obama  and Republicans in Congress are at
an impasse over raising the legal debt ceiling. Unless it is
lifted, the U.S. will reach the limit of its borrowing authority
and begin to default on Aug. 2, according to the Treasury
Department.  “They just started talking about it,” Wisconsin Governor
 Scott Walker  said in an interview when asked about the letter.  “I do believe they need to reach an agreement” on the
debt limit, Walker, a Republican, said of Obama and
congressional leaders. “Longer-term, they need to do in
Washington what we have done in our state -- balance the
budget.”  Walker said the letter was circulated by Washington
Governor Christine Gregoire, a Democrat who is the chair of the
governors, and by Nebraska Governor Dave Heineman, a Republican
who is scheduled to succeed her as the organization’s leader.  Neither Gregoire or Heineman were available for immediate
comment. Krista Zaharias, a spokeswoman for the NGA, said she
wasn’t able to confirm the letter’s existence. Jen Rae Hein, a
spokeswoman for Heineman, declined to comment.  ‘Fairly Moderate’  Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, said he
was told that the letter was a “fairly moderate” document
aimed at gaining bipartisan support. He said he hadn’t seen it
and couldn’t say whether he would sign.  Hickenlooper said he supports lifting the debt ceiling.  “The notion that you can walk up to the end of a precipice
and ignore the risk you could lose your footing is foolhardy,”
he said of the impasse in  Washington . Not lifting the debt limit
would “exacerbate every other fiscal issue we have,” he said.  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican who is a frequent
critic of the Obama administration, said partisanship should be
set aside to avoid a U.S. default.  ‘Slash and Burn’  “It is much easier to say, ‘Just slash and burn,’ but you
can’t do that because it would turn our country upside down,”
Brewer said in an interview. “It would be absolutely
devastating. We have to take a position that is reasonable and
productive in the long run to save this great country of ours.
We have to do it.”  Matthew Benson, a spokesman for the governor, said Brewer
hadn’t seen the letter.  “Do your responsibility, get this done, settle the
markets, get as long a deal as is politically palatable with the
parties that are at the table and let’s move on to ultimately
more important issues,” Missouri Governor Jay Nixon, a
Democrat, said in an interview.  “They’re going to get a deal,” Nixon predicted.  Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee, an Independent, was
less optimistic.  “I anticipate continued chilling of the economy as a
result of inaction in Washington,” Chafee said in an interview.
“There’s just such a lack of confidence in our political
leadership in Washington, which is going to affect the national
economy.”  Aaa Credit Rating  Should the U.S. government lose its top Aaa credit rating
following a default, at least 7,000 top-rated municipal credits
would have their ratings cut, Moody’s said in a report last
week. Top-rated securities with no direct links to the national
government would also be reviewed for similar action, the New
York-based company said.  An “automatic” downgrade affecting $130 billion in
municipal debt directly linked to the U.S. would follow any
reduction in the federal level, Moody’s said.  U.S. states “are in a fragile state of recovery” and
“can ill-afford” the effects of a default, Gregoire said on
July 15.  “It’s time to put this issue behind us and get on with the
issue confronting every American, which is, ‘Do I have a job and
will I have a job tomorrow,’” Gregoire said in a press
conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda Crawford in  Salt Lake City  at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Salt Lake City at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  