-- 
Greenhill Sees Departures as Advisers Are Paid in Sliding Stock

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-07-16T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/greenhill-sees-departures-as-advisers-are-paid-in-sliding-stock.html
Greenhill & Co., the investment bank
founded by Robert Greenhill, is facing an increase in departures
of top advisers after it boosted the share of compensation paid
in company stock, which is down 43 percent this year.  Greenhill’s stock dropped 12 percent yesterday, the most
since the company went public, after it lost its third managing
director since early June. Chief Executive Officer Scott Bok,
52, said in February the firm is making a more “permanent”
shift toward paying employees stock instead of cash. Members of
senior management didn’t take cash bonuses for 2010, according
to a Greenhill statement in January.  Greenhill, whose founder formed the mergers and
acquisitions department at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , added managing
directors during Wall Street’s credit crisis, taking advantage
as larger rivals reduced staff and pay. After Greenhill had its
first loss in 2 1/2 years during 2011’s first quarter, the stock
is sliding and the firm may be less able to retain talent while
competitors strengthen.  “The boutiques were beautifully positioned a couple of
years ago: They didn’t seem to have the problems that other
people had, the uncertainty of the larger institutions,” said
 Michael Holland , who oversees more than $4 billion at New York-
based Holland & Co. “At this point, the cloud’s disappearing a
little bit. It’s time for people to look beyond.”  Timothy M. George, a member of the management committee at
Greenhill who has advised on some of the firm’s biggest deals,
is taking a job with Hamilton, Bermuda-based  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Borrows, Przygoda  Simon Borrows, chairman of Greenhill & Co. International
LLP and founder of the firm’s European operations, is leaving to
join 3i Group Plc, the London-based private-equity firm.  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  hired Greenhill’s Alejandro Przygoda in June as
global co-head of financial institutions investment banking.  Greenhill dropped $6.46, or 12 percent, to $46.50 yesterday
in regular New York Stock Exchange composite trading for the
biggest decline in the 982-company  Russell 1000 Index. (RIY)   Lazard, the largest independent merger adviser, declined 15
percent this year through yesterday, and  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) ,
the New York-based investment bank founded by former U.S. Deputy
Treasury Secretary  Roger Altman , fell 8 percent.  Greenhill’s personnel expenses surged to 75 percent of
revenue in this year’s first three months after the firm boosted
the number of managing directors 63 percent since 2007. The firm
posted a net loss of $1.58 million in the first quarter.
Greenhill ranks 15th among advisers on deals announced this
year, sliding from 13th in 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  M&A Rebound  Bok said in a June interview that Greenhill is poised to
take advantage of a rebound in mergers and acquisitions.  “The problem is exacerbated when Wall Street reacts and
the stock moves too much,” said  Susan Stehlik , a professor at
New York University’s Stern School of Business. “That stock
ticker can be as dramatic as an EKG or cholesterol test for some
people.”  Only a “handful” of managing directors have left in the
past few years, according to a Greenhill statement last month,
in which it also disclosed its average annual departures.  “Over the course of our history, we have had a few
retirements, sometimes we ask people to leave, sometimes
separation is a mutual decision, and least common are cases
where we simply lose a valuable asset to a competitor,” Bok
said in an e-mailed statement following George’s exit. “It is
extremely rare when the departure of an MD from our firm has any
meaningful impact on our business.”  Greenhill Departures  It isn’t appropriate to categorize or comment on every
person who leaves, he said.  Greenhill has six  associates  in the  New York  office,
compared with 26 managing directors, a more senior position,
listed on its website, excluding George. About half of the
firm’s New York-based associates have left in the past year,
according to a person familiar with the moves.  Small and mid-sized investment banks such as Lazard and
Moelis & Co. typically have three to five associates, analysts
and other junior-level employees for each managing director,
according to people familiar with staffing levels at such firms.  Greenhill has 20 vice presidents worldwide, three fewer
than at the end of last year and nine fewer than at the end of
2009, according to its annual reports.  Following Przygoda to Credit Suisse are George Matsuzaka, a
principal at Greenhill, and Carlos Marque, a vice president,
said a person with knowledge of the matter. Both of them joined
Greenhill from  UBS AG (UBSN)  along with Przygoda in 2009.  Employee Headcount  “Our employee headcount is down by a single-digit
percentage in the year to date, which is consistent with our
stated objective of regaining the market-leading profit margins
we achieved for six of our seven years as a public company,”
Bok said in the statement.  Robert Greenhill founded the firm after a Wall Street
career spanning more than three decades. He joined Morgan
Stanley in 1962 and rose to become its president. In 1993, he
left to be CEO of Smith Barney Inc.  Greenhill’s offices on New York’s Park Avenue occupy five
floors. The firm has about 70 managing directors stationed
around the globe. Locations include London, Sydney, Tokyo and
 Frankfurt , according to its website.  Talent was “very expensive” in 2006 and 2007 before the
credit crisis, Bok said at an investor conference in February.
Greenhill’s hiring surged in 2008 through 2010 as talent on  Wall
Street  became cheaper and people were more willing to switch
firms, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 