-- 
ECB’s Liikanen Says Indebted Nations Must Balance Budgets to Avert Crisis

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 
2011-07-16T13:34:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/indebted-nations-must-cut-to-thwart-crisis-ecb-s-liikanen-says.html
Developed nations with unsustainable
debt must balance their budgets to prevent the outbreak of a new
financial crisis, European Central Bank Governing Council member
Erkki Liikanen said.  “Government debt is a problem for all developed
countries,” Liikanen, who began his second term as governor of
the Bank of  Finland  this week, said at a seminar in Kokkola,
western Finland, today. “We must stop it from coming to a head,
to prevent the financial crisis starting again. All countries
need a credible program to balance public finances to help
stabilize the situation gradually.”  Europe ’s debt crisis has entered a new phase and requires a
clear policy response to prevent contagion from threatening the
single currency, ECB incoming President  Mario Draghi  said in a
speech on July 13 in Rome. Both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service warned this week they may lower the U.S.’s
top-level credit rating amid the absence of an agreement to lift
the nation’s debt ceiling.  Investors are concerned that indebted developed countries
can no longer drive economic growth by boosting public spending,
Liikanen said. The only choice for nations with unsustainable
debt burdens is to balance their budgets, he added.  Rating Downgrades  Ireland’s credit rating was cut to junk this week by
Moody’s and  Italy ’s 10-year bond yields soared to a euro-era
record, fueling concern the region’s debt crisis will spread.
 Greece , which with Ireland and Portugal has received a European
Union-led rescue, was downgraded to CCC by  Fitch Ratings , the
lowest grade for any country.  European political leaders are at odds with one another and
with the ECB over demands by Germany and Finland that private
investors bear some of the burden for a second Greek bailout.
Euro-area leaders will hold a special summit on July 21 to
discuss the crisis and future financing for Greece, European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said yesterday.  “The crisis cannot be resolved in an economically or
morally sustainable way without the participation of all those
involved,” Finnish Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said at
the seminar today. “Making taxpayers liable for debts that they
haven’t decided to take is causing the formation of a new
crisis.”  Finland, one of the euro area’s six AAA-rated countries,
will not take part in any future bailouts unless it receives
collateral for the loans, Urpilainen added, reiterating the
government’s stance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net . 