-- 
Italian President Welcomes Austerity Plan, Urges Faster Growth

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-07-16T11:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/italian-president-welcomes-austerity-plan-urges-faster-growth.html
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano
welcomed the approval of the government’s austerity plan, saying
political parties must now overcome their differences by working
to cut debt and speed economic growth.  Parliament’s passage this week of the deficit-reduction
plan “was an extraordinary show of understanding and national
cohesion, boosting the confidence of European institutions and
financial markets in  Italy ,” Napolitano said late yesterday in
an e-mailed statement. Opposing parties must “come together
openly and conclusively on what needs to be done to break the
bite of high debt and slow growth that’s choking Italy.”  Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s package, which aims to
balance the budget by 2014, won final approval yesterday from
the Chamber of Deputies following its passage in the Senate.
Berlusconi had staked his government’s future on the measure,
surviving confidence motions in both houses of Parliament.  The premier pushed for its quick passage after investors
began dumping Italian securities on concern that the country,
with the region’s second-highest debt, would become the next
casualty of  Europe ’s sovereign crisis. The selloff pushed the
10-year bond yield to a 14-year high 6.02 percent on July 12 and
sent the benchmark  stock index  to the lowest since July 2009.  The yield premium that investors demand to hold Italian
debt over German bunds rose 17 basis points yesterday to 306 and
the 10-year yield gained 12 basis points to 5.76 percent.  The version of the package passed by Parliament totals 48
billion euros ($68 billion), compared with a previously reported
40 billion euros, newspapers including  Corriere della Sera  said
today. Most of its measures, including an extended freeze on
civil-servant wages, will be implemented in 2013 and 2014, when
a new government is due to be in office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at   jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 