-- 
Obama Says Congress Should Be Willing to Raise Revenue to Reduce Deficit

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-07-16T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/obama-says-congress-should-be-willing-to-compromise-on-taxes.html
President  Barack Obama  said
Republican lawmakers should agree to raising revenue in any
deficit-cutting deal, noting he has agreed to consider cuts to
entitlement programs such as Medicare.  “I’m willing to do what it takes to solve this problem,
even if it’s not politically popular,” Obama said in his weekly
radio and  Internet address . “I expect leaders in Congress to
show that same willingness to compromise.”  Obama said revenue increases should accompany cuts to
domestic programs, defense spending and changes to entitlement
programs in a deal to increase the government’s $14.3 trillion
debt limit. The administration has said the nation’s ability to
pay all of its bills will run out Aug. 2 without an increase in
the debt ceiling.  Obama has been trying to break an impasse over whether to
include cuts in entitlement programs and tax increases in the
deal. He has proposed revenue increases by closing tax loopholes
for oil and gas companies and ending some deductions for the
wealthiest Americans.  In his weekly address, Obama said politicians have reached
bipartisan deficit-cutting agreements before. He cited deals
forged between former Republican President  Ronald Reagan  and
then-House Speaker Tip O’Neill, a Massachusetts Democrat, and
between former Democratic President  Bill Clinton  and then-
Speaker of the House  Newt Gingrich , a Georgia Republican.  Working Together  “Nobody ever got everything they wanted. But they worked
together,” Obama said.  Time is running out as talks carry into another week, with
House Republicans planning to vote July 19 on legislation to
limit spending and tie a $2.4 trillion increase in the debt
ceiling to a constitutional amendment to balance the budget. The
plan stands little chance in the Democratic-controlled Senate.  While daily talks that Obama has held with congressional
leaders are on hold, House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, and Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, huddled privately at the Capitol yesterday with
White House Chief of Staff  William Daley  and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  in search of a compromise, according to
officials in both parties who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “You can’t solve our deficit without cutting spending,”
Obama said in his radio address. “You also can’t solve it
without asking the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share
-- or without taking on loopholes that give special interests
and big corporations tax breaks that middle-class Americans
don’t get.”  Constitutional Amendment  As for a constitutional amendment on a balanced budget, the
measure would require two-thirds approval in the House and
Senate, and then ratification by three-fourths of the 50 states.
It would eventually cap spending at 18 percent of gross domestic
product.  At a news conferences yesterday, Obama said “we don’t need
a constitutional amendment” to balance the budget. “If we’re
going to ask seniors, or students, or middle-class Americans to
sacrifice, then we have to ask corporations and the wealthiest
Americans to share in that sacrifice.”  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah said in the Republicans’  weekly
address  that all 47 senators in his party support the balanced-
budget amendment he is co-sponsoring. Hatch said the proposal is
the “only long-term solution” to the nation’s rising debt.  “A balanced budget amendment is essential for our economy,
and our debt is definitely a constitutional issue,” he said.
“The only reason this administration doesn’t want a
constitutional amendment is because they want to keep spending
the American people’s money.”  Hatch said the president “refuses to reform our near
bankrupt entitlement programs -- all while pushing job-killing
tax hikes. The solution to a spending crisis is not tax
increases.”  Hatch said the nation wouldn’t be facing a debt crisis if a
balanced budget amendment that he proposed in 1997 had been
passed.  “We haven’t seen spending levels this high since World War
II,” Hatch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in New York at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  