-- 
Treasuries Rise as Europe Debt Crisis Intensifies, Fuels Investor Safety

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-07-16T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/treasuries-rise-as-europe-debt-crisis-intensifies-fuels-investor-safety.html
Treasuries gained, pushing 10-year
note yields to the lowest level since December, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsened and the Federal Reserve squelched speculation it
would provide more stimulus while the economic recovery slowed.  Rates on one- and three-month bills turned negative as
investors sought a refuge in the world’s safest securities. The
Treasury attracted higher-than average-demand at this week’s
three note and bond auctions even after Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s  said the U.S. may lose its top
credit ratings as deficit reduction talks stall. Republican
lawmakers plan a vote on raising the debt limit next week.  “We’re seeing  risk aversion ,” said Dan Mulholland, a
trader in New York at Royal Bank of Canada, one of the 20-
primary dealers that bid on Treasury auctions. “There’s still a
lot of uncertainty surrounding  Greece  and  Italy  and how those
situations will pan out.”  The 10-year note yield fell 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, this week to 2.91 percent, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield dropped as low as 2.81
percent on July 12, the least since Dec. 1. The price of the
3.125 percent security due in May 2021 rose 1 1/32, or $10.31
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 27/32.  Rates on one- and three-month bills closed the week at
0.005 percent as investors were willing to forgo returns in
order to preserve their principal.  Crisis Intensifies  Treasuries rose for a second consecutive week as Moody’s
lowered Ireland’s credit rating to junk, fueling concern that
the European sovereign-debt crisis will spread beyond the three
nations that already receive bailouts and damp investors’
appetite for higher-risk assets. Greece was downgraded to CCC by
 Fitch Ratings , the lowest grade for any country, and three steps
above default.  The 10-year borrowing costs for Italy and  Spain  surged this
week to the highest since the introduction of the euro in 1999.
Italian notes rose as high as 6.02 percent and Spanish bonds
climbed to 6.31 percent. The cost of insuring Irish and
Portuguese government bonds also hit records this week, implying
a 60 percent chance of default.  “Given the uncertainty about what’s going on in Washington
and Europe,” investors want to hold Treasuries, said Bulent Baygun, head of interest-rate strategy in New York at BNP
Paribas SA, one of 20 primary dealers that trade directly with
 Federal Reserve . “There’s a very strong backdrop for lower
rates.”  House Vote  Treasuries dropped briefly yesterday after Standard & Poor’s
followed Moody’s Investors Service in saying it may cut the AAA
rating of the U.S. as lawmakers hold debt reduction talks. The
U.S. House plans a vote next week on a measure that would raise
the government’s debt limit by $2.4 trillion, cut spending, cap
government expenditures and propose a balanced-budget
constitutional amendment, Republican lawmakers Sean Duffy and
Billy Long said.  “To the extent that the U.S. is downgraded, to the extent
we don’t see a $4 trillion package, then it’s the long-end
that’s going to get hurt the most,” Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond
fund, said on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance Midday”
during an interview with  Tom Keene . “Ultimately the U.S. has a
big, big problem.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , during semi-annual testimony
before Congress, tempered expectations that the central bank
will resume buying bonds as criticism from Republican senators
highlighted the potential backlash to additional monetary
stimulus.  Debt Ceiling  The Fed completed $600 billion in purchases of Treasuries
on June 30. Policy makers continue to reinvest proceeds from
interest payments and maturing securities back into Treasuries
to maintain the level of cash in the banking system.  The U.S. government has said it has until Aug. 2 before its
ability to make payment on $14.3 trillion of debt expires.  The debt ceiling dispute and weaker-than-forecast economic
data pushed Treasuries higher even as the U.S. sold $66 billion
in debt this week, starting with $32 billion in three-year notes
on July 12, $21 billion in 10-year notes the next day and $13
billion 30-year bonds on July 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  