-- 
Sabathia Becomes First to Get 14 Wins as Yankees Defeat Blue Jays 4-1

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-07-16T23:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/sabathia-becomes-first-to-get-14-wins-as-yankees-defeat-blue-jays-4-1.html
CC Sabathia became the first Major
League Baseball pitcher to earn 14 victories when the  New York
Yankees  defeated the Toronto Blue Jays 4-1.  Sabathia (14-4), who tallied his seventh straight win,
pitched eight innings, allowing three hits and one run while
striking out eight at Rogers Centre in Toronto.  Mariano Rivera 
threw a two-hit ninth inning for his 23rd save this season.  “To not win for a week, and that’s what it felt like
because we hadn’t played for a few days, you need a win,”
Yankee manager Joe Girardi said. “CC went out and got one for
us.”  The four-game series between the Yankees and the Blue Jays,
which ends tomorrow, started July 14 after the All-Star break.
Toronto won the first two games 16-7 and 7-1.  Sabathia has won 11 of his last 12 starts, losing to  Boston 
on June 9.  “His slider was good today,” Girardi said. “I thought
all his stuff was good. His velocity was great, his changeup was
very good. He just knows how to pitch.”  Yunel Escobar singled to center in the first inning to
drive in Rajai Davis to end Sabathia’s career-long streak of 23
2/3 scoreless innings.  Andruw Jones hit a one-run single in the second to tie the
score and  Eduardo Nunez  sent Jones home on a ground-out to third
for a 2-1 lead.  Curtis Granderson scored in the third on a wild pitch by
loser Ricky Romero, and  Brett Gardner  added the fourth run in
the fourth inning on an infield single by  Derek Jeter .  Gardner told reporters that Sabathia “is great. He is
every time. You guys keep asking me how he is and it seems like
every time I tell you the same thing: he’s just dominant.”  Romero (7-9) surrendered six hits and all four Yankee runs
in five innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  