-- 
Saudi Shares Climb, Reversing Earlier Loss

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-07-16T14:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/saudi-shares-drop-on-low-volumes.html
Saudi Arabian shares advanced for a
second day, reversing earlier losses, amid low volumes even as
concern mounted that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will spread
to Italy and Spain.  Al Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s largest publicly traded lender
by market value, and  Etihad Etisalat Co. (EEC) , Saudi Arabia’s second-
largest phone operator known as Mobily, climbed.  The  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  rose 0.2 percent to 6,523.01 at
the 3:30 p.m. close in Riyadh, erasing losses of as much as 0.4
percent. The gauge has retreated 0.8 percent so far this month.  “Investors are locking in gains from last week’s sessions
as volumes drop ahead of Ramadan,” said Asim Bukhtiar, an
equity analyst at Riyad Capital. “Today’s session is mostly an
adjustment of positions with limited net new buyers.”  Trading volumes were low today, two weeks before Ramadan,
the Islamic holy month when Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset
and business slows. Almost 85 million shares traded today, the
fewest since Nov. 30, compared with the six-month daily average
of 211 million shares.  The European Banking Authority published its assessment of
the region’s lenders yesterday. Eight banks in  Greece , Austria
and Spain failed the tests with a combined capital shortfall of
2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion), according to the EBA.  U.S. Debt Rating  Standard & Poor’s said on July 14, while the Saudi stock
market was closed, it will lower the U.S.’s AAA rating if it
concludes that Congress and President Barack Obama’s
administration haven’t found a credible solution to the
government’s rising debt burden and aren’t likely to do so in
the foreseeable future.  Al Rajhi  climbed 0.7 percent to 75 riyals, the stock’s
largest gain in almost a week. Mobily gained 0.9 percent to
54.25 riyals.  Saudi Electricity Co. (SECO)  rose 0.7 percent to 13.55 riyals, its
largest gain in a month, after the state-controlled power
producer posted a 25 percent increase in second-quarter profit
to 1.34 billion riyals ($357 million), compared with the year-
earlier period. The Saudi government increased electricity
tariffs, while energy demand in the Arab world’s biggest economy
mounted.  Saudi Arabia ’s stock exchange is the only Gulf Arab bourse
open on Saturdays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  