-- 
SodaStream Options Signal Drop After Eight-Month Rally: Israel Overnight

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-07-17T14:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/sodastream-options-signal-retreat-after-rally-israel-overnight.html
Options traders are boosting bets
that  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  shares will fall after an
eight-month rally in the Israeli producer of homemade soda
machines pushed valuations to seven times the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The ratio of outstanding puts to sell versus calls to buy
is near the record 1.27-to-1 level reached on July 8, the
highest since they began trading, and up from 0.63 on June 28.
Traders are betting the stock will tumble 6 percent to below $70
before next month’s contracts expire in five weeks.  Buying SodaStream at current levels “is somewhat dangerous
in a market that’s volatile,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief
executive officer and founder of YCMNet Advisors, which manages
$1.1 billion in Walnut Creek,  California . “It’s hard to see how
one can believe this price unless the company will have
explosive earnings. They’re just selling a regular product.”  Shares of the Airport City, Israel-based company posted
their first weekly decline in a month, falling 1.6 percent last
week to $74.44 compared with a 3.1 percent loss for the
Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index. SodaStream, up 269 percent since
its Nov. 2 initial public offering on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market,
trades at 108 times reported profit while stocks in the  S&P 500
Index (SPX)  fetch an average 15 times earnings. The company is the
latest among 58 listings from  Israel  on Nasdaq, the most from
any country after the U.S. and  China .  Tel Aviv  Stocks  “The company doesn’t comment on stock volatility issues,”
SodaStream said in an e-mailed message.  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index of the biggest Israeli
companies traded in the U.S. dropped 0.6 percent to 604.74 on
July 15 as the measure capped its biggest weekly decline since
April 22 on concern the global recovery is stalling. The measure
is down 3.9 percent this year.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 Index fell less than 0.1 percent
to 1,251.14 at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv. The Tel Aviv
benchmark measure has lost 5.7 percent this year, or 2.7 percent
in dollar terms. The shekel weakened 0.4 percent to 3.4380 per
 U.S. dollar  on July 15.  ‘Dangerous’  Cellcom Israel Ltd. (CEL)  had the largest weekly tumble in seven
months on concern the country’s biggest mobile-phone operator
faces increased competition as the government looks to add new
players to the industry. Cellcom fell 5.5 percent in  New York 
last week to $26.23, the biggest drop since the five-day period
ending Dec. 17. The Tel Aviv-shares sank 2.5 percent last week
to 91.70 shekels, or the equivalent of $26.23, and lost 0.9
percent today to 90.90 shekels.  Partner Communications Co., the second-largest mobile
operator, retreated 6.7 percent to $14.84 last week. Rosh
Ha’ayin-based Partner shares in Israel fell 2.8 percent during
that period to 52 shekels, or the equivalent of $15.18 and
dropped 0.9 percent to 51.52 shekels today.  Israel’s Ministry of Communications is planning to open up
Israel’s 30-billion shekel ($8.74 billion) telecommunications
market to competition in order to reduce prices for customers.  “The impact of pricing competition still makes us
cautious,” David Kaplan, a Tel Aviv-based analyst at Barclays
Plc, wrote in an e-mailed report dated July 15. Kaplan lowered
his price estimate on Cellcom shares to 101 shekels from 111
shekels and Partner’s shares to 72 shekels from 80 shekels.  Stolen Car  Ituran Location and Control Ltd. (ITRN) , the Azur, Israel-based
maker of systems used to locate stolen vehicles, gained 1
percent to $14.13. The shares in Tel Aviv added 0.4 percent to
48.55 shekels.  Ituran began a mobile application that will help Android
smart phone users to manage their vehicles and assets directly
from their mobile devices, the company said on July 15 in a
Business Wire statement.  “Whether your car is stolen, you need to locate your
driver or technician, or you are trying to retrieve your asset,
you can now do it from anywhere,” Efrat Bogoslavsky, Ituran’s
national sales and marketing director, said in the statement.  SodaStream shares are up 36 percent this month, compared
with a 0.3 percent drop in the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index. The
advance is the biggest among 164 companies that had IPOs since
SodaStream, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies
that sold stock for the first time in the U.S. in the last eight
months recorded an average increase of 8.4 percent.  Sales rose 48 percent in the first quarter from the same
period last year to $61.75 million as demand for SodaStream’s
do-it-yourself appliances that can turn tap water into more than
100 flavors of soda in refillable bottles spread to 4.5 million
homes in 41 countries.  ‘Sexy Product’  “This company has a very sexy product,” said Josef Schuster, the founder of IPOX Schuster LLC, which purchased
SodaStream shares in the IPO. “If you hit a nerve in the U.S.
customer market, that’s a huge market. It’s a great concept.”  Open interest for the August $70 puts on SodaStream shares
rose to 2,401 contracts as of the last close from zero before
July 5, increasing more than every other option on the stock
this month. The contracts are on U.S. options exchanges when the
underlying shares are non-U.S. companies.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall.  “There are a lot of shorts,” said  Ryan Detrick , senior
technical strategist at Schaeffer’s Investment Research in
Cincinnati. “That can be dangerous with the more illiquid
stocks.”  Israel, whose population of 7.7 million is similar to
 Switzerland ’s, is home to the largest number of startup
companies per capita in the world.  Stock Rally  SodaStream was among the companies that raised $127 billion
globally in IPOs in the fourth quarter of 2010, more than in all
of 2009, helped by a stock market rally that lifted the MSCI
World Index as much as 86 percent above its March 2009 low. The
three-month period ending December 2010 was the busiest quarter
ever for new share issuance.  While U.S. companies raised $31.6 billion in initial
offerings this year, only six companies went public in Israel,
including Carasso Motors Ltd., a wholesale distributer of new
and used motor vehicles whose $73.5 million sale on the Tel Aviv
Stock Exchange on June 12 was the biggest offering in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Israel’s stock market was upgraded to developed market
status by MSCI Inc. in May 2010, the same month the 63-year-old
country was accepted to the Organization for Economic
Cooperation.  *T Members of the Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index:  Allot Communications Ltd. Alon Holdings Blue Square Israel Ltd.
Cellcom Israel Ltd. Ceragon Networks Ltd. Check Point Software
Technologies Ltd. ClickSoftware Technologies Ltd. Elbit Systems
Ltd. EZchip Semiconductor Ltd. Fundtech Ltd. Given Imaging Ltd.
Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd.  Ituran Location and Control Ltd. (ITRN) 
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. Ness Technologies Inc. Nice Systems
Ltd. Orbotech Ltd. Partner Communications Company Ltd. Prolor
Biotech Inc. Protalix BioTherapeutics Inc. Radware Ltd. Retalix
Ltd. SodaStream International Ltd. Syneron Medical Ltd. Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. Tower Semiconductor Ltd. 