-- 
Syrian Deaths Mount; Yemenis Protest Killings; Libya’s Rebels Enter Brega

-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h ,   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-07-17T01:37:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/syrian-deaths-mount-yemenis-protest-killings.html
Syrian forces killed one and wounded
five yesterday in protests seeking to oust President Bashar al- Assad,  Al Jazeera  reported, citing activists.  In Yemen, thousands rallied in Taiz to condemn violence a
day earlier against pro-democracy demonstrators, and Libyan
rebels attacked pro-government forces in the oil city of Brega.  Syrian protesters set fire to a police station and court
building in the border town of Albu Kamal, news agency SANA
reported. Government forces fired on them, killing one and
wounding others, Arabiya said, citing a local sheikh. Two police
officers were also shot dead, Syrian television said.  “Patrols of the Syrian forces stormed the square of Albu
Kamal and opened fire randomly,” Adel Othman, an activist, told
Al Jazeera via telephone. “Hospitals in Albu Kamal are in need
of blood donors.”  More than 1.7 million people rallied July 14 in the largest
Syrian protest since mid-March, Arabiya reported, citing
activists. Deaths that day totaled 41, including 21 in Damascus,
the National Organization for Human Rights said.  “We’re encouraged by what we see the Syrian people doing
for themselves,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
at a news conference in Istanbul. Syrians are “trying to form
an opposition that can provide a pathway, hopefully, in peaceful
cooperation with the government.”  Accord Unlikely  An accord with the government is becoming unlikely, Razan
Zaitoneh, a Syrian activist, told the Kuwaiti Alrai newspaper
yesterday. She said 1,970 protesters have been killed and 15,000
detained since the uprising began four months ago.  “We wouldn’t accept less than toppling the regime, which
recognized that it is too late to start any kind of political
reforms,” she said.  The opposition needs outside support, Ali Sadr-al-Din al-
Bayanuni, a leader of  Syria ’s Muslim Brotherhood movement, said
on Al Jazeera television.  “What is required of the international community and Arab
countries is to withdraw support from this regime, which has
lost its legitimacy, and to boycott it on both the international
and diplomatic levels,” he said.  In Yemen, protests yesterday seeking to end the 33-year
rule of President Ali Abdullah Saleh were centered in the
southern city of Taiz, Ammar al-Kinani, an activist, said in a
telephone interview.  A security official was ambushed and killed and four of his
guards wounded, SABA reported, citing a military spokesman.
Seven civilians were killed July 14 and 30 were wounded in
shelling of Taiz by Yemeni forces, witnesses said.  Workers Blocked  In Aden, four people demanding jobs were injured when
police fired to disperse a crowd blocking workers from entering
the  Aden Refinery Co. , Fawaz Sharabi, a witness, said.  Hundreds in Yemen have died since January in clashes
between government forces and activists. The discord is part of
revolts sweeping the Arab world this year that toppled the
leaders of Tunisia and  Egypt .  The Organizing Committee of Popular Youth Revolution said
yesterday it had established a transitional presidential council
for Yemen with 17 members. Major General Abdullah Ali Olaiwah, a
former defense minister, was named commander of the armed forces,
the group said at a news conference in the capital, Sana’a.  Brega Fighting  In  Libya , rebel forces entered Brega and confronted forces
loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi , Arabiya said. A Libyan medical
official, Mohammed Idris, said 10 rebel fighters had been killed
and 172 wounded,  Al Jazeera reported .  NATO headquarters in Naples,  Italy , said it conducted 115
air strikes in Libya July 14 in which a tank, five armored
vehicles and a rocket launcher were destroyed near Brega. Libyan
television reported NATO aircraft raiding Tajoura, an eastern
suburb of the capital, Tripoli, early today, the  Associated
Press  said. The television report said civilian and military
targets were hit, according to AP.  Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf accepted the
resignation of Foreign Minister Mohammed El-Orabi, the Cabinet
announced yesterday. Sharaf named two new deputies and will
reshuffle cabinet posts today, said Mohammed Hegaz, a government
spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zaid Sabah in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net 
Nicole Gaouette in Istanbul at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net 
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  