-- 
Yemenis Rally as Syrian Death Toll Rises

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-07-16T15:29:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-16/yemenis-rally-as-syrian-death-toll-rises.html
Tens of thousands of people rallied
in the southern Yemen city of Taiz today to condemn the use of
force against pro-democracy demonstrators, Ammar al-Kinani, a
protest activist, said in a telephone interview.  Seven civilians were killed and 30 others wounded in
shelling by Yemeni forces on Taiz, residents and witnesses said
yesterday. A security official was ambushed and killed and four
of his guards wounded, SABA reported, citing a military
spokesman.  Hundreds of people have died in clashes since January
between government forces and activists seeking to end the 33-
year rule of President Ali Abdullah Saleh.  A Yemeni youth movement said today it established a
transitional presidential council with 17 members and appointed
Major General Abdullah Ali Olaiwah, a former defense minister,
as commander of the armed forces.  Fahim Mohsen was appointed head of the judicial council,
the Organizing Committee of Popular Youth Revolution said at a
news conference in the capital, Sana’a.  In Aden, four people were injured when police fired to
disperse a crowd blocking workers from entering the  Aden
Refinery Co. , Fawaz Sharabi, a witness, said. The protesters
were demanding more jobs, he said.  In  Syria , deaths from yesterday’s protest for the ouster of
President Bashar al-Assad rose to 41, including 21 in Damascus,
said the National Organization for Human Rights.  12 Killed  Gunmen killed 12 civilians and police yesterday and 35
police were wounded, SANA said. More than 1.7 million people
rallied in Syria yesterday in the largest protest since mid-
March, Arabiya reported, citing activists.  Syrian forces today opened fire on protesters in Albu
Kamal, killing one and wounding dozens, Arabiya reported, citing
a local sheikh.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. was
hopeful over efforts by the Syrian opposition to establish
popular rule.  “We’re encouraged by what we see the Syrian people doing
for themselves,” Clinton said at a news conference in Istanbul
with Turkish foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu .  In  Libya , rebel forces entered the oil city of Brega and
confronted forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi , Arabiya reported. A
Libyan medical official, Mohammed Idris, said today that 10
rebel fighters had been killed and 172 wounded,  Al Jazeera
reported . They captured four government soldiers,  Al Jazeera 
said.  NATO Strikes  NATO headquarters in Naples,  Italy , said today it conducted
115 air strikes in Libya yesterday, destroying a tank, five
armored vehicles and a rocket launcher near Brega. It also took
out a radar station and missile launcher near Tripoli, it said
in a statement.  In  Iraq , five people died and 35 others were injured in two
separate bomb attacks, the  Associated Press  said, citing
officials.  The first blast, near Shiite pilgrims headed to the holy
city of Karbala, killed two people and wounded 26, the  news
agency  reported. In Baghdad, a bomb in a minibus parked outside
a restaurant in the Karradah area killed three passers-by and
wounded at least nine, AP said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a, Yemen, at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net 
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  