-- Major League Baseball Playoffs to Expand to 10 Teams This Year From Eight
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/major-league-baseball-playoffs-to-expand-to-10-teams-this-year-from-eight.html
Major League Baseball ’s postseason
will expand to 10 teams from eight starting this year by adding
a one-game wild-card playoff in each league.  An extra tier of playoffs had been agreed upon in
baseball’s labor contract approved in December, meaning one-
third of the sport’s 30 teams now will qualify for the
postseason. Under the new format, five teams each from the
American and National leagues make the postseason.  It’s the first change to baseball’s postseason format since
1994. The first playoffs played under that format took place in
1995.  “The enthusiasm for the 10-team structure among our clubs,
fans and partners has been overwhelming,” Commissioner  Bud Selig  said yesterday in a statement released by MLB. “This
change increases the rewards of a division championship and
allows two additional markets to experience playoff baseball
each year, all while maintaining the most exclusive postseason
in professional sports.”  Twelve of the 32 teams in the  National Football League 
reach the postseason. Sixteen of the 30 teams in the  National
Basketball Association  and the  National Hockey League  make the
playoffs each season.  The 2012 baseball schedule was set prior to the extra
playoff round being agreed upon when the owners and players
announced a new collective bargaining agreement on Nov. 22,
making it difficult to fit the changes into the upcoming season
without pushing it deeper into the autumn. After lengthy
discussions between baseball’s owners and players,
accommodations were made for just the 2012 campaign.  First-Round Byes  The three division winners in each baseball league will get
a first-round bye, while the two non-division winners with the
best records will meet to decide the final spot in each league.  The five-game division series in 2012 will begin with two
home contests for the lower seeds and then up to three home
games for the higher seeds, eliminating the need for a travel
day prior to a possible Game 5. The previous format of having
two home games for the higher seed followed by two for the lower
seed and a decisive Game 5 at the higher seed’s stadium will
return in 2013.  “It took a lot of hard work for both sides to try to
figure out a way to make it happen,”  Michael Weiner , executive
director of the players’ union, said on a conference call. “A
bunch of players and a bunch of people on the owners’ side put
their heads together and figured out a way, mutually, to solve a
problem.”  Playoffs Within Division  In a departure from past postseason rules, the winner of
the one-game wild-card playoff will advance to face the league’s
top team regardless of whether those two teams play in the same
division, Weiner said. Previous rules prohibited wild-card
winners from playing within their own division to open the
playoffs.  The postseason format goes into place before baseball’s
realignment in 2013, when the Houston Astros move to the AL
after 51 years in the NL. The shift will balance the number of
teams in each league at 15 and set up three five-team divisions
in each league.  “By moving to 15-team leagues and more importantly five-
team divisions, players wanted to enhance the importance of
winning the division and this structure does that,” Weiner
said.  If the new format had been in place last season, the  Boston
Red Sox  would have made the playoffs as the No. 5 team in the AL
behind the  Tampa Bay Rays  and the three division winners: the
 New York Yankees ,  Detroit Tigers  and  Texas Rangers .  The Rays and  Red Sox  would have played a one-game playoff
to determine the AL’s fourth division series representative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net 
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  