-- Manchester City Extends Premier League Lead as Arsenal Beats Liverpool 2-1
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-03T17:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/manchester-city-extends-premier-league-lead-as-arsenal-beats-liverpool-2-1.html
Robin van Persie ’s goal in stoppage
time gave Arsenal a 2-1 win over Liverpool in English soccer’s
Premier League, while  Manchester City  extended its lead at the
top of the standings.  Van Persie scored both Arsenal goals to hand Liverpool its
first loss in 13 league home games this season. The win moves
the Gunners three points above Chelsea, which lost today, in the
race for fourth place and the final Champions League spot.  “I don’t think we really deserved it, to be honest,
because Liverpool played better,” van Persie, who leads the
league with 25 goals, told  Sky Sports . “It’s a big win; a
massive win.”  Manchester City beat Bolton 2-0, West Brom defeated Chelsea
1-0, Stoke beat Norwich 1-0, Swansea won 2-0 at Wigan, Blackburn
and Aston Villa tied 1-1 and QPR drew 1-1 with Everton.  Liverpool missed a penalty and hit the post twice to extend
its winless run in home league games with Arsenal to five.  “We were beaten because we didn’t score enough goals,”
Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  said. “Van Persie’s a
fantastic footballer, no doubt about that. But we did enough to
win that game.”  After Arsenal’s Wojciech Szczesny saved Dirk Kuyt’s penalty
in the 19th minute, Liverpool took the lead when  Laurent
Koscielny  turned  Jordan Henderson ’s cross in for an own goal.  Suarez hit the post moments later and Van Persie headed in
Bacary Sagna’s cross in the 31st minute. Kuyt then hit the post
in first-half stoppage time.  Collision  There was a lengthy delay early in the second half as
Arsenal’s Mikel Arteta was stretchered off the field following a
collision with Henderson. Arsenal won the game in the second of
the eight added minutes as van Persie volleyed  Alex Song ’s cross
past Reina at the near post.  Manchester City continued its home form, moving five points
ahead of  Manchester United , which visits Tottenham tomorrow.  Gretar Steinsson’s own goal and a score from  Mario Balotelli  gave City the victory over Bolton, which remains next-
to-last in the 20-team league. City has won all 14 league games
at Etihad Stadium this season by a combined 42-6 score.  Gareth McAuley scored with eight minutes left to lift West
Brom past Chelsea. It was the Blues’ first loss in 12 Premier
League matches with the Baggies and will keep the pressure on
manager Andre Villas-Boas with the team in fifth place.  Gylfi Sigurdsson scored both goals as Swansea extended
bottom-of-the-table Wigan’s home winless streak to 12 home
league games. Swansea’s Nathan Dyer was red-carded in the 61st
minute for a challenge on Jordi Gomez.  Matthew Etherington scored as Stoke beat Norwich, while
Bobby Zamora’s goal earned QPR the home draw with Everton.
Blackburn used an 85th- minute score from David Dunn to tie
 Aston Villa , but remains in the three relegation places at the
bottom of the standings.  Fulham visits Wolverhampton Wanderers and Sunderland hosts
Newcastle in tomorrow’s other matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  