-- Yakubu Urges Blackburn Fans to Support Team
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-03T11:14:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/blackburn-rovers-yakubu-calls-on-protesting-fans-to-support-team.html
Blackburn Rovers  top scorer Yakubu
called on fans to get behind the team and not protest its Indian
owners ahead of today’s game against  Aston Villa .  BRFC Action Group plans three simultaneous marches an hour
before today’s match at  Ewood Park  in protest at Venky’s, the
Indian poultry company that owns the team, and manager  Steve Kean . Fans have called for Kean to be fired several times this
season. Blackburn is 18th of 20 teams, a position that would
lead to demotion to the second tier at the end of the season.  “We don’t want to see things like that,” Yakubu, who has
netted 13 goals in 17 league games, said in an interview in
Kigali,  Rwanda , after representing  Nigeria  in a match there this
week. “When a club is like this nobody is happy. They have to
stick together with the team.”  Blackburn Rovers was one of the founding members of the
English football league in the late 19th century and more
recently was the 1995 Premier League champion after being taken
over by local businessman Jack Walker. Since then, a series of
relegations and promotions has seen the club battling more for
top flight survival than honors.  Venky’s became the first Indian owners when they completed
a 23 million-pound ($36.8 million) purchase in November 2010.
The supporters group said in a statement this week “there is no
alternative than to actively seek new ownership.”  Backed by Yak  Yakubu said he backed them to succeed at Blackburn, a town
25 miles (40 kilometers) north of Manchester, where United and
City are competing for this year’s Premier League title.  “People like to judge you when they don’t know you,” the
28-year-old striker said. “I know the owners and they know me.
I know what the owners can do. They always believe in the
players. They want the club to achieve something and to stay in
the Premier League.”  Kean was a surprise choice to replace  Sam Allardyce , who
was fired shortly after Venky’s takeover. He was the assistant
manager before taking over the top role, a move that was met
with criticism by large section of Blackburn supporters.
Allardyce since was hired by second-tier West Ham United.  Some fans have verbally abused the Scotsman as he’s coached
his team from the sidelines. Yakubu said Kean, who has won 14 of
his 54 games in charge, remains popular with the players.  “It’s hard for the manager and it’s hard for us too,” he
said. “He never puts us as players under pressure. He always
believes in us. He wants to go on the pitch and perform the way
we do in training. He makes you believe you can play football as
a player you need that kind of manager in your team.”  Blackburn has lost 16 of its 26 games this season,
including nine at home and 7-1 loss at Arsenal. Yet, it’s also
managed to claim a victory at record 19-time champion  Manchester
United  and took a point off Liverpool at Anfield.  “Nobody believed we’d get a point in Liverpool and beat
Man U,” Yakubu said. “For me you don’t need to be down. You
have to think about the next game. We lost 7-1 against Arsenal
but then went and won 3-2 against QPR. It’s normal when you’re
not playing well in the Premier League you’re going to lose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  