-- BP Reaches Estimated $7.8 Billion Deal With Gulf Spill Victims
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s ,   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-03T06:32:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/bp-reaches-settlement-agreement-with-victims-of-2010-gulf-of-mexico-spill.html
BP Plc (BP\)  said it reached a
$7.8 billion settlement with businesses and individuals over the
2010 Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster, removing one of three
major litigation fronts facing the company over the biggest
offshore spill in U.S. history.  BP said yesterday in a statement that the settlement will
be paid out of a $20 billion trust set up to compensate spill
victims. Lawyers for the plaintiffs said in a separate statement
that settlement will resolve most private claims for economic
loss, property damage and medical injuries. Plaintiffs lawyers
said there wasn’t a cap on the total damages BP has to pay.  “This settlement will provide a full measure of
compensation to hundreds of thousands,” Stephen J. Herman and
James P. Roy, the plaintiffs’ co-liaison counsel, said in their
statement. “It does the greatest amount of good for the
greatest number of people.”  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans yesterday
ordered the adjournment of a trial scheduled to start March 5 to
determine which companies were liable for the explosion aboard
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s Deepwater Horizon rig off the coast of
 Louisiana  and the resulting spill.  The proposed settlement terms will be submitted to the
court for approval, the judge said. Barbier said in his order
that he will schedule a status conference with lawyers to
discuss issues raised by the settlement and set a new trial
date.  ‘Realignment’  “Such a settlement would likely result in a realignment of
the parties in this litigation and require substantial changes
to the current Phase 1 trial plan,” Barbier said in the one-
page order, which didn’t disclose terms of the agreement.  If “definitive and fully documented agreements” aren’t
reached within 45 days, either side has the right to terminate
the proposed settlement, according to BP’s statement. The
settlement will allow victims who aren’t satisfied with the deal
to “opt out,” according to BP.  BP said in its statement that the proposed settlement won’t
increase the $37.2 billion charge it previously recorded in its
financial statements for spill costs. That figure includes the
$20 billion BP has set aside for the trust fund, which will be
used to pay spill damage claims and medical injury claims as
well as “state and local government claims, state and local
response costs, natural resources damages and related claims,”
BP said.  BP’s Costs  So far, BP says it has spent more than $22 billion on the
spill, which breaks down to $8.1 billion to individuals,
businesses and government entities and $14 billion on
 operational  response.  The proposed settlement, costing BP an estimated
$7.8 billion in addition to those amounts, includes $2.3 billion
earmarked for economic losses related to the seafood industry in
the  Gulf of Mexico , the company said.  The proposed settlement, according to BP, doesn’t include
claims against the London-based company by the U.S.  Justice
Department  for Clean Water Act violations or natural resource
damages under the Oil Pollution Act.  The settlement also “excludes certain other claims against
BP, such as securities and shareholder claims” pending in
separate litigation consolidated in federal court in Houston.  The agreement will provide for a transition from the Gulf
Coast Claims Facility trust, through which BP has paid about
$6.1 billion for more than 220,000  claims  from individuals and
businesses, the company said.  Direct Payments  “It is not possible at this time to determine whether the
$20 billion trust will be sufficient to satisfy all of these
claims as well as those under the proposed settlement,” BP
said. “Should the trust not be sufficient, payments under the
proposed settlement would be made by BP directly.”  BP was in talks with lawyers for the spill victims over a
$14 billion proposal to be funded with money set aside for out-
of-court settlements, three people familiar with the matter
previously said. Under that plan, BP would close the trust and
shift the remaining funds to plaintiffs, said the people, who
declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly.  11 Killed  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout destroyed the Deepwater
Horizon, killed 11 workers and sent more than 4 million barrels
of oil spewing into the Gulf of Mexico over three months. It
spawned hundreds of suits against BP, Vernier, Switzerland-based
Transocean, owner and operator of the rig, and Houston-based
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , provider of cementing services on site.  On Feb. 26, the day before trial in the case was to begin,
Barbier delayed the case by a week so settlement talks could
continue.  BP has also been in settlement talks with the federal
government and the partner companies that also face liability
for the spill, people familiar with those discussions have said.  The U.S. Clean Water Act lets the U.S. seek fines of as
much as $1,100 for each barrel of oil spilled as a result of
simple negligence, often described as a failure to exercise
ordinary care. The maximum increases to $4,300 a barrel for
gross negligence, or a conscious act or omission, leaving BP
liable for as much as $17.6 billion in fines.  BP set aside $3.5 billion to pay Clean Water Act fines
based on its own lower estimate of barrels spilled and no
finding of gross negligence.  U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Feb. 28 that the
U.S. has a “strong” case over liability for the explosion
aboard the Deepwater Horizon.  “We are prepared to go to trial, we were ready to go to
trial yesterday,” Holder said during testimony before a U.S.
House Appropriations subcommittee in  Washington .  ‘Swift’ Compensation  “We are hopeful that the resolution of the private
plaintiffs’ lawsuit will provide swift and sure compensation to
those harmed by the Deepwater Horizon  oil spill ,”  Wyn
Hornbuckle , a Justice Department spokesman, said yesterday in an
e-mail.  Barbier, who will preside over any trial, would decide
whether BP can demand other companies involved in the spill pick
up some of the estimated $26 billion in costs spawned by the
destruction of the Deepwater Horizon.  “Delays or deals made by other players do not change the
facts of this case and we are fully prepared to argue the merits
of our case based on those facts,” Lou Colasuonno, a Transocean
spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement about the
settlement.  BP’s trust was set up to make emergency and other types of
payments to spill victims under the U.S. Oil Pollution Act to
speed up assistance and cut down on the number of claims filed
in court.  ‘Coercive Tactics’  Attorneys for some victims argued in court filings that
officials of the fund, run by Washington-based lawyer  Kenneth
Feinberg , used “coercive tactics” to force business and
property owners to accept inadequate payments for their claims
and give up their rights to sue.  While lawyers for plaintiffs whose cases have been
consolidated before Barbier proposed the settlement, attorneys
for other spill victims may oppose it.  Brent Coon , a Houston-based lawyer representing spill
victims both in federal and state courts, said in a Feb. 27
interview that he worried the $14 billion remaining in BP’s
 trust fund  wouldn’t provide enough compensation for those harmed
in the disaster.  Plaintiffs’ lawyers and the companies still haven’t been
able to pin down the total number of claims tied to the spill
because filing deadlines don’t expire for a year, he said.  Claims May ‘Double’  “The total claims could double from where they are now,”
Coon said.  Another problem with the settlement proposal is lawyers for
the steering committee don’t represent the majority of victims
in the case, Coon said, which he said raises questions about
their ability to act in the best interests of all claimants.  “A very small minority of lawyers are negotiating a deal
that leaves them in control of the purse strings and let’s them
dole it out,” he said. “I know a number of lawyers who are
extraordinarily hostile to that idea.”  BP agreed in October to a $4 billion settlement with
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , which owned a 25 percent stake in the
Macondo well. It also agreed to drop claims against drilling
fluid provider M-I Swaco, a unit of Houston-based  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB)   Flawed Tests  Transocean officials alleged in a Feb. 24 court filing that
BP officials overseeing the well ignored questions about whether
safety tests done hours before the blast were flawed.  Donald Vidrine , the senior BP manager on the Deepwater
Horizon on April 20, 2010, talked with an engineer about
unsatisfactory well tests less than an hour before the
explosion, Transocean’s attorneys said.  While Mark Hafle, a Houston-based BP drilling engineer,
warned Vidrine in a phone call that stability tests on the well
might be flawed, “neither man stopped work” at the facility,
Transocean said.  The BP officials allowed crews to continue displacing
drilling fluid in the well with seawater, the attorneys for oil-
drilling company said. Experts who reviewed the companies’
handling of the well noted that once the fluid was removed, the
lighter seawater couldn’t stop natural gas from leaking into the
well and causing an explosion.  Vidrine has refused to testify, citing medical-related
problems and Hafle has invoked his constitutional protection
against self-incrimination for refusing to testify.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Jef Feeley in New Orleans at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at    mhytha@bloomberg.net  