-- Brazil’s Spat With FIFA Worsens Over World Cup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-03T16:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/brazilian-spat-with-fifa-worsens-over-world-cup.html
The Brazilian government is severing
relations with FIFA’s top administrator after he criticized the
country’s preparations for the 2014 soccer  World Cup .  The organizers of sports most-watched event needed a “kick
up the ass,” General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  said yesterday at
a meeting in England. Brazilian Sports Minister Aldo Rebelo
today labeled the comments as “unacceptable” and said the
government will cease to recognize Valcke.  “The government can no longer have the secretary general
as a representative,” Rebelo, a former congressman for the
government-aligned Communist party, told reporters in Brasilia.
“We need a representative who has the ability to understand the
level of responsibilities required for this type of
relationship,” he said.  Relations between FIFA and the Brazilian government became
strained as the country failed to ratify legislation on hosting
the tournament.  Brazil  had committed to passing the bill when it
was awarded the right to stage the $5 billion event five years
ago. FIFA has also complained about delays in building stadiums
and other infrastructure needed.  Rebelo said he would communicate the government’s decision
to cut ties with Valcke with FIFA President  Sepp Blatter .
Brazil, the record five-time winner of the tournament, will host
the World Cup in 2014 for the first time in 64 years.  Understanding  “We need a representative who has the ability to
understand the level of responsibilities required for this type
of relationship,” Rebelo said. He said the special law would be
voted on by a congressional committee next week and that its
approval was taking place at a “reasonable pace.”  Valcke, a Frenchman, said he was surprised by Rebelo’s
reaction and dismissed it as childish.  “I made one comment saying things are not working well and
I for once say exactly what is happening in Brazil,” Valcke
told reporters after a meeting in Bagshot,  England , today. “If
the result is they don’t want to talk to me anymore, I’m not the
guy they want to work with, then that’s a bit puerile.”  Valcke, in England for a meeting of soccer’s lawmakers, the
 International Football Association Board , has been vocal about
the lack of preparedness in Brazil for the past year. He said he
had no intention of backing away from heading FIFA’s efforts to
organize the tournament and would travel to Brazil to meet with
event planners in two weeks.  Valcke yesterday said he was frustrated with the “endless
discussions” in congress about the proposed World Cup law.  He said FIFA had made concessions to get the bill passed,
like accepting demands for reduced priced tickets for senior
citizens and changing the wording of what it required in
government guarantees. The two sides have yet to agree on the
sale of alcohol in stadiums, illegal in Brazil. FIFA’s demands
for sponsor protection have also sparked criticism.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Bagshot, England, at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  