-- CBOE Joins Bats Among Exchange Owners Receiving SEC Inquiries
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-03-03T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/cboe-joins-bats-among-exchange-owners-receiving-sec-inquiries.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  became the second
exchange operator in a week to report contact from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The owner of the country’s biggest options venue said
regulators are investigating whether it is complying with the
obligations of a self-regulatory organization.  Bats Global
Markets Inc. (BATS) , another U.S. exchange operator, said Feb. 23 that
the SEC asked for information about the development of types of
orders customers use on its venues.  CBOE owns the  Chicago Board Options Exchange , founded in
1973 as the first U.S. market for equity derivatives. As self-
regulatory organizations, American exchanges are required to
write rules for their markets, monitor trading and ensure that
they and their customers aren’t breaking securities laws.  “SROs have the responsibility to devise their own rules
and regulations,” James Overdahl, a vice president at NERA
Economic Consulting and a former chief economist at the SEC and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, said in a phone interview.
“The SEC comes in behind the SRO to make sure they’re enforcing
those rules and regulations that are on their books.”  The disclosure was made in Chicago-based CBOE’s annual
report from Feb. 28.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to
provide further information. Gail Osten, a spokeswoman for CBOE
Holdings Inc., declined to comment.  Internal Review  “The SEC is investigating CBOE’s compliance with its
obligations as a self-regulatory organization under the federal
securities laws,” CBOE said in the filing. “The company is
cooperating with the investigation, which is ongoing, and is
conducting its own review of its compliance.”  CBOE’s statement could refer to anything from technology
glitches to monitoring trading and overseeing its member firms,
James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown University ’s
business school in Washington, said in a phone interview. It
could also relate to “dodgy” activity by a floor trader or how
well the exchange monitors trading on its electronic platform,
he said.  “It could mean almost anything,” Angel said. “Something
at the CBOE has caught the SEC’s attention.”  Bats Global (BATS)  in Lenexa,  Kansas , said Feb. 23 that the SEC
asked for information about the development of order types. The
next day, Daniel Hawke, who runs the SEC enforcement division’s
market-abuse unit, said the commission is examining equity
trading practices that became dominant in the past decade amid a
shift to automation.  Routine, Special  The SEC faulted Direct Edge Holdings LLC and two electronic
venues it operates for having weak controls that led to about
$2.8 million in trading losses and a systems outage, the agency
said in October. An untested change to a computer code caused
Direct Edge’s two exchanges to execute more orders from three
members than what they wanted, totaling about $773 million in
unwanted transactions, the SEC said.  The SEC’s  Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations 
conducts “routine and special inspections” of self-regulatory
organizations, the Government Accountability Office said in a
November 2007  report . Most are examined every one to four years
and larger ones more frequently, the report said. OCIE inspects
the adequacy of the organizations’ surveillance, investigative
and disciplinary programs and how well they comply with their
own policies, GAO said.  If OCIE finds that an SRO hasn’t complied with its rules or
federal securities laws, it may refer the matter to the SEC’s
enforcement division, the GAO report said.  Bigger Role  Exchanges used to have a bigger self-regulatory role. A
decade ago NYSE and the National Association of Securities
Dealers were the primary SROs overseeing trading and the
activities of brokers. Changes to SEC rules that increased
competition for the NYSE and Nasdaq Stock Market, which NASD
formed in 1971, forced both companies to separate some of the
regulatory functions from their marketplaces.  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority was created in
2007 through the combination of NYSE Regulation and NASD. It
oversees almost 4,500 brokers.  The shift toward outsourcing certain member oversight
responsibilities was also driven by the conversion of member-
owned organizations like NYSE Euronext to for-profit public
companies. NYSE Euronext and Nasdaq OMX Group Inc., both based
in New York, are publicly traded. Bats plans to have an initial
offering.  “We are at the crossroads with respect to the status of
self regulation,” SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher said at a
conference in  Washington  on Jan. 12.  The SEC raised issues in a 2004 paper about whether the
responsibilities of SROs should be altered. While that
discussion needs updating after the “consolidations,
demutualizations and IPOs of various SROs,” the regulatory
topics remain the same, Gallagher  said . He added that the SEC
should “reconsider” the topics raised in 2004.  “The facts on the ground have changed and the SRO model in
the U.S. is now nothing but a  Hamburger Helper  to stretch the
SEC budget,” Angel said. “The SEC can never get enough money
out of Congress to do its job. By deputizing the exchanges, they
leverage their scarce resources.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  