-- China’s Wukan Village Elects New Leader After Land Protests
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-03T23:21:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/china-s-wukan-village-votes-for-new-leaders-after-protests-1-.html
The southern Chinese village of
Wukan elected a new leader after officials were ousted last year
during a standoff that drew attention to growing social unrest,
Xinhua News Agency reported.  The new village head was chosen late yesterday, the state-
run news agency reported without identifying the official.
Thousands of people voted in the election after 22 candidates
gave speeches on Feb. 29, Xinhua reported earlier. Two deputy
chiefs and four members of a village committee were also being
chosen, it said yesterday.  The elections were the third and final round of voting
agreed to under a deal with Guangdong province Communist Party
leaders to end the December standoff. The decision to negotiate
rather than quash the protest underscored the party’s priority
of trying to ease social unrest as it heads into a leadership
transition later this year.  “The government has surely taken a conciliatory approach
because using force will not pacify social unrest,” Xiong Wei,
founder of the Beijing New Enlightenment Research Center, a
nongovernmental organization that advises villages on local
elections, said by phone from Wukan on March 2. “The cost will
be too huge; it will trigger too much public anger.”  The number of protests in  China  including strikes and
demonstrations rose to at least 180,000 in 2010, double the
number four years earlier, according to Sun Liping, a sociology
professor at  Tsinghua University . Prime Minister  Wen Jiabao  and
other party leaders have said repeatedly the government must
address social unrest.  Model for Disputes  The party’s concessions over Wukan, worked out with the
approval of Guangdong Communist Party Secretary Wang Yang, led
to speculation that it would serve as a model to end similar
disputes that periodically break out across China. Regional
leaders said the residents’ demands were “reasonable” and
local party leaders abused power when they seized land.  The Communist Party will tighten oversight of village
officials and impose harsher punishments on those who violate
the rules, the party’s Central Commission for Discipline
Inspection said on Feb. 28, according to Xinhua.  The commission said the party will investigate officials
who violate laws on land usage, committee elections and public-
property management, according to Xinhua.  Almost 36,000 government officials were punished in 2011
for legal violations, the Ministry of Supervision said the same
day, according to a separate Xinhua report. In a statement, the
ministry cited an official it didn’t identify as saying that
corruption should be addressed “without mercy.”  While the Communist Party decided not to crack down on
Wukan, it has done so in other places. The state-run Global
Times reported Feb. 17 that unrest in Panhe was quelled after
several protesters were arrested. A Dutch freelance journalist,
Remko Tanis, who went to report on the incident, told the Global
Times he was beaten and ordered to leave.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Nicholas
Wadhams in Beijing at 
 nwadhams@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  