-- European Stocks Gain on ECB Bank Loans, U.S. Confidence; Veolia, C&W Surge
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-03-03T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/european-stocks-post-weekly-gain-as-ecb-disburses-loans-to-banks.html
European (UKX)  stocks climbed this past
week as the  European Central Bank  lent to the region’s banks and
consumer confidence and jobless claims in the U.S. added to
optimism that the world’s largest economy continues to recover.  Veolia Environnement SA, the world’s biggest water utility,
jumped 22 percent after saying it’s in exclusive talks to sell
its Transdev mass-transit unit. Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc
soared 20 percent as Tata Communications Ltd. said it may make a
cash offer for the company.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.9 percent this past
week to 267.21. The benchmark measure climbed 3.9 percent last
month and  rose 8.1 percent  from the beginning of the year
through the end of last month. That was the biggest January-
February increase since 1998 as investors speculated that the
euro area will contain its sovereign-debt crisis and as U.S.
economic reports beat estimates.  “The global backdrop is improving with the ECB’s action
coming in the context of a wide range of easing moves from other
central banks around the world,” said  Trevor Greetham , the head
of  asset allocation  at Fidelity Worldwide Investment which
manages 135.3 billion pounds ($214.5 billion). “There are
increasing signs that stimulus is starting to take effect and a
U.S.-led upswing in global growth is underway.”  Euro-area finance ministers this week authorized the
region’s bailout fund to issue bonds for Greece’s debt
restructuring, the first step toward the Mediterranean nation
drawing funds from its 130 billion-euro rescue package.  “We saw today that Greece has made a lot of effort and has
made a lot of progress,” Germany’s Finance Minister,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , told reporters after the meeting on March 1. “We
were able to make a fundamentally positive decision.”  U.S. Consumer Confidence  Confidence (CONCCONF)  among U.S. consumers rose in February to the
highest level in a year, showing households may sustain spending
and drive the economy.  Initial jobless claims  fell last week to
a level matching a four-year low, a Labor Department report
showed.  Utilities posted the largest gains among the 19 industry
groups in the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  as Veolia and Suez Environnement
rallied. Technology shares posted the biggest weekly decline.  Veolia soared 22 percent, its biggest weekly rally since
2002. Veolia has held exclusive talks with an unidentified
investor for the sale of Transdev, the mass-transit unit it owns
with Caisse des Depots et Consignations, Chief Executive Officer
Antoine Frerot said on March 1.  Les Echos  reported on March 2
that the utility has held talks with Natixis SA’s Cube
Infrastructure Fund. The French newspaper did not say where it
got the information.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide  Cable & Wireless  Worldwide rallied 20 percent as Tata said
it may compete with Vodafone Group Plc to acquire the owner of
the U.K.’s largest business fiber network. Mumbai-based Tata
said it will decide whether to make an offer by March 29.
Vodafone, which said last month it was evaluating a bid, has
until March 12 to announce whether it will make a formal offer
for London-based Cable & Wireless.  ITV Plc climbed 9.2 percent as the U.K.’s biggest
terrestrial commercial broadcaster reported 2011 profit that
beat analysts’ estimates after expanding services that rely less
on advertising.  SBM Offshore NV (SBMO) , the world’s biggest supplier of floating
oil and gas platforms, rose 15 percent on the company’s order
portfolio growth and  sales forecast  for 2012.  Vivendi SA (VIV)  tumbled 13 percent after  predicting  that its
profit will slump through 2013 as its SFR unit competes with
Iliad SA, France’s new mobile-phone operator.  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) , an Indian power producer and oil refiner
traded in London, slumped 9.7 percent after posting a  loss of
$568.2 million  in 2011, compared with a profit of $248.3 million
in 2010. The  Supreme Court  of India ruled in January that the
energy producer’s Essar Oil unit pay 63 billion rupees ($1.3
billion) in  sales tax , overturning a judgment from a lower court
that had allowed it to defer the levy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  