-- Euro Declines After ECB Approves Record Loans as Dollar Climbs Versus Yen
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/euro-declines-after-ecb-approves-record-loans-dollar-gains-versus-yen.html
The euro fell against most of its
major counterparts after a liquidity injection by the  European
Central Bank  failed to convince investors that the region’s
crisis is abating.  The 17-nation currency weakened this week as 800 financial
institutions borrowed a record amount of three-year loans from
the ECB, which is expected to leave its benchmark interest rate
unchanged March 8. The dollar rose to a nine-month high versus
the yen after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cast
doubt on a third round of asset purchases. Canada’s dollar and
 Mexico ’s peso rallied as oil surged to a 10-month high.  “The euro is now more vulnerable to selling against some
of the higher-yielding currencies,” said  Omer Esiner , chief
market analyst in  Washington  at the currency brokerage
Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc. “Bernanke didn’t comment
much about policy easing and that’s been interpreted as a subtle
sign that continued improvement in the data may prompt the Fed
to adopt a more neutral policy stance. That would be good for
the dollar.”  The euro dropped 1.9 percent to $1.3198 and reached $1.3187
yesterday, matching a low from Feb. 21. The shared currency lost
1.1 percent to 107.97 yen after Feb. 27 touching 109.93, the
highest since Oct. 31. The dollar strengthened 0.8 percent to
81.81 yen, rising for a fourth straight week in its longest such
stretch since November 2010.  Canada ’s dollar and Mexico’s peso were boosted as the
nations’ largest export, crude oil, rallied. Oil for April
delivery reached $110.55 a barrel March 1, the highest level
since May.  Manufacturing Expands  The Canadian dollar advanced 1 percent to 83.97 cents per
 U.S. dollar  and the Mexican peso appreciated 1.1 percent to
12.7599 against the greenback, the biggest gainer among the 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  South Africa ’s rand and the Australian dollar rallied after
reports showed manufacturing from China to the U.S. expanded in
February, increasing speculation that global growth is on the
mend.  South Africa’s rand strengthened 1 percent to 7.5208 per
dollar. The Aussie added 0.4 percent to $1.0733.  China ’s purchasing managers’ index rose for a third month
in February, increasing to 51 from 50.5 in January, the
statistics bureau and logistics federation said this week.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
fell to 52.4 in February from 54.1 in the prior month, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed March 1. Readings above
50 signal growth.  ‘Sugar Rush’  The ECB on Feb. 29 awarded 529.5 billion euros ($705
billion) in a second round of three-year loans to banks,
increasing the supply of euros in the market. The euro weakened
3.6 percent in December, during which the central bank held its
first three-year refinancing operation, lending 489 billion
euros to 523 banks.  “Markets have pulled back after the sugar rush we’ve had
from the second longer-term refinancing operation,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce in  London , said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “There is still a great deal of
uncertainty, which has been highlighted by the market as we
start to see the euro under pressure again.”  German Retail Sales  Germany ’s statistics bureau said retail sales adjusted for
inflation and seasonal swings fell 1.6 percent in January. Euro-
area  retail sales  dropped for a third month in January, the
European Union’s statistics office will say on March 5, another
Bloomberg survey showed.  The ECB will keep its benchmark interest rate at a record
low 1 percent on March 8, according to a separate survey.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s  Dollar Index (DXY) , used to
track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, gained 1.3 percent to 79.449. The increase is
the biggest since the five days ended Dec. 16 and came after
Bernanke’s comments in a Congressional testimony damped
speculation the Fed will introduce another round of asset
purchases.  “We have seen some positive developments in the labor
market,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee in Washington. He said keeping
monetary stimulus is warranted even as the  unemployment rate 
falls.  The Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing from December 2008 until June
2011. Central bank officials at their January meeting were
keeping open the option of a third round of bond purchases in
case the economy weakens or inflation falls too low.  ‘Highly Accommodative’  The central bank has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
between zero and 0.25 percent since 2008.  “Bernanke described policy as highly accommodative,” Jane Foley, a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International in
London, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday. The dollar, she
wrote, “is benefiting on speculation that the Fed may not
proceed with additional QE.”  U.S. employers added 210,000 jobs in February, according to
the median estimate of 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Labor Department’s report March 9. The  unemployment
rate  dropped to a three-year low of 8.3 percent in January.  Brazil ’s real fell by the most since Dec. 16 after the
nation extended a foreign investment tax this week to try and
curb the currency’s strength.  Brazil said the 6 percent tax, which has been extended to
foreign loans and bonds that mature in three years or less,
takes effect immediately in a government effort to stem a 7.9
percent gain this year in the currency. The tax was previously
applied to foreign borrowing of as long as two years.  The real weakened 1.2 percent to 1.7304 per dollar after
reaching 1.6890 Feb. 29, the strongest level since Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  