-- Floods Spread in Australia’s New South Wales State Prompting Evacuations
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-05T04:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/floods-spread-in-australia-s-new-south-wales-causing-evacuations.html
More than 4,000 people have fled or
been ordered to leave their homes as floodwaters rise in
 Australia ’s most-populous state, with more rain forecast later
this week, according to  emergency services .  About 75 percent of New South Wales is flooded or under
threat and another weather system is expected to cross the coast
north of Sydney as soon as March 7, according to Steve Pearce,
deputy commissioner of the NSW  State Emergency Service .  “We still can’t discount further evacuations from other
towns,” Pearce told  Sky News  today. Television images showed
torrents of muddy water surging through streets, forcing
emergency personnel to rescue residents from their homes by
boat. Mechanical diggers moved mounds of earth to prevent rivers
from bursting their banks and people stacked sandbags to protect
their properties from the floodwaters.  Flooding in northern New South Wales last month damaged
homes and ruined cotton crops, one year after natural disasters
cost the Australian economy A$9 billion ($9.6 billion).    About
2,000 people in the Riverina, a farming region about 500
kilometers (310 miles) south of Sydney, were ordered to evacuate
early yesterday and 1,000 others were put on notice as downpours
hit the area, according to the SES.  Winter Crops  Winter crop producers need dry weather to allow the ground
to firm ahead of the autumn planting period,  Luke Mathews , a
commodity strategist at  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) , wrote in
an e-mailed report today. Dairy output in southern New South
Wales and central Victoria may be affected in the near-term
because waterlogged fields prevent farmers from milking, while
horticulture industry, including wine grape growers, may produce
less and it will be of lower quality, he said.  The Murrumbidgee River is expected to peak near 10.6 meters
tomorrow at Wagga Wagga, a town of more than 40,000 people about
460 kilometers southwest of Sydney, the SES said on its  website .  Residents in low lying areas of Gundagai have been ordered
to evacuate today after the Murrumbidgee River rose above 10.7
meters at the town, the SES said.  Police found the body of a 43-year-old man yesterday after
he and two others were swept away when their vehicle was stuck
in flood waters late on March 3 in the state’s Southern
Tablelands, according to a statement on the NSW Police Force
website. The survivors were found by rescuers downstream soon
after the incident.  Flood warnings are also in place in neighboring Victoria
state to the south and northeastern Queensland state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net  