-- Geely’s Li Says He Supports Government Purchasing Only Chinese Brand Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-03T09:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/geely-s-li-says-he-supports-government-using-chinese-car-brands.html
Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. (GEELZ) 
Chairman Li Shufu said he “enthusiastically” supports the
Chinese government’s plan to limit its car purchases to only
domestic brands.  At the same time, Li said he hoped the opportunity that
this policy provides won’t stop Chinese carmakers from working
to improve the quality of their vehicles.  “Domestic carmakers cannot always rely on government
incentives to boost sales,” Li told reporters today at the
start of annual meetings in Beijing of the  Chinese People’s
Political Consultative Conference , of which he’s a member.
“They have to invest in research and development and improve
their technology.”  The government plans to include 19 Geely models on its list
of approved cars for government purchases. A preliminary list of
412 approved models issued last month included only domestic
brands, threatening to lock out  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi and other foreign rivals from an estimated
$13 billion segment of the world’s biggest car market.  Geely was part of a Chinese consortium that acquired Volvo
Car Corp. from Ford Motor Co. in August 2010 for $1.8 billion,
giving the Chinese company a 51 percent stake in the carmaker
based in Gothenburg,  Sweden .  Volvo said last month it’s forming a venture with Geely to
produce cars in  China . Under current Chinese rules, Volvo is
still considered a foreign carmaker, meaning it must have a
local partner before it can begin manufacturing.  Li said Geely and Volvo are still waiting for authorities
to approve the venture. Volvo is also seeking government
permission for an engine factory, Li said.  He declined to comment on how limits on government
purchases of foreign cars might affect Volvo.  Geely’s vehicle sales rose 4 percent last year to about
432,800 units, according to the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  