-- Iranian President’s Sister Loses Bid to Win Parliament Seat as Rivals Lead
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-03-03T08:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/iranian-president-s-sister-loses-bid-to-win-parliament-seat-as-rivals-lead.html
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s sister failed
to win a parliamentary seat in their hometown as the early
election results showed a lead for opponents of the Iranian
president, state media reported.  Parvin Ahmadinejad, a member of Tehran’s city council, lost
her race in Garmsar, southeast of the capital, the state-run
 Mehr  news agency reported today. Early counts showed a lead for
the United Principlist Front, the state-run Press TV news
channel reported. The group, which includes current members of
the parliament, has criticized Ahmadinejad’s economic
management.  Yesterday’s parliamentary election was Iran’s first contest
since the disputed presidential race of 2009 that sparked mass
protests. The opposition movement that challenged Ahmadinejad
then was absent from this election, narrowing the range of
candidates to those who favor strict adherence to the tenets of
the country’s Islamic Republic.  Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  had urged a
high turnout for the ballot, calling for a show of unity against
external pressure and threats. The vote took place as the U.S.
and European Union apply growing pressure, with sanctions
targeting  Iran ’s oil sales and central bank, in a bid to halt
what they say is Tehran’s drive to build an atomic bomb.  Turnout was about 65 percent nationwide and close to 45
percent in Tehran, the state-run  Fars  news agency said today.
Polling stations closed at 11:00 p.m. local time yesterday after
officials extended voting time by five hours,  Press TV  said.  About 48 million Iranians were eligible to cast ballots for
more than 3,400 candidates cleared to compete by the Guardian
Council, a body of jurists and clerics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  