-- Ahmadinejad’s Rivals Lead Amid High Turnout
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-03-03T13:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/iran-hails-turnout-as-president-ahmadinejad-s-rivals-lead-in-early-count.html
Iran  commended the “epic” voter
turnout in a parliamentary election that may strengthen the hand
of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei against allies of
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .  “The Iranian nation proved to the world that it’s pursuing
its path steadfastly and disappointed the enemies that aimed to
poison the climate of the elections,” Interior Minister Mostafa Mohammad-Najjar said today in comments broadcast live on state
television.  Khamenei had called for a high turnout as a show of unity
against external pressure and threats. The vote took place as
the U.S. and European Union apply sanctions targeting Iran’s oil
sales and central bank in a bid to halt what they say is
Tehran’s drive to build an atomic bomb. Iran says its nuclear
program is solely civilian.  Based on early returns, turnout was 64.2 percent nationwide
and close to 48 percent in Tehran, Mohammad-Najjar said. About
60 percent of eligible voters cast ballots in legislative
elections four years ago.  Early results showed the United Principlist Front leading,
the state-run Press TV news channel reported. The group, which
includes members of the parliament, has criticized Ahmadinejad
for poor economic management and failing to show sufficient
allegiance to Khamenei.  Ahmadinejad’s sister, Parvin, lost her race in their
hometown of Garmsar, southeast of the capital, the state-run
 Mehr  news agency reported. Parvin Ahmadinejad is a member of
Tehran’s city council.  Conservatism  The election was Iran’s first contest since the disputed
presidential race of 2009 that sparked mass protests. The
opposition movement that challenged Ahmadinejad then was absent
from this election, narrowing the range of candidates to those
who favor strict adherence to the tenets of the country’s
Islamic Republic.  Voters chose “between two brands of hardline conservatism
-- a mainly religious strand personified by followers of Supreme
Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  and a more nationalist strand
advocated by supporters of Ahmadinejad,”  David Hartwell , Middle
East analyst with IHS Global Insight, said in an e-mailed note.  The election probably won’t affect the country’s nuclear
stance because Iran’s parliament doesn’t control foreign policy.
It may give an indication of political trends before the
presidential vote next year, when Ahmadinejad is not eligible to
seek re-election.  Final results will be announced 48 to 72 hours after
polling ended at 11 p.m. yesterday, Mohammad-Najjar said. About
48 million Iranians were eligible to cast ballots for more than
3,400 candidates cleared to compete by the Guardian Council, a
body of jurists and clerics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  