-- Noda Says Deal Possible With Japan’s Opposition to Double Consumption Tax
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2012-03-04T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/japan-s-noda-says-deal-with-opposition-to-double-consumption-tax-possible.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  reiterated yesterday the need to trim the scale of
government to win public support for doubling the nation’s 5
percent consumption tax.  “This is the first step to a politics considerate of
future generations, from one valid only for the present,” Noda
said in an interview on Nippon Television last night. He also
pledged support for more reconstruction efforts in areas hit by
last year’s earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis.  Japan’s sixth prime minister in five years is pushing pay
cuts and a thinning of the bureaucracy and legislature to make a
tax increase more palatable. Noda said earlier he thinks a deal
is possible with the opposition on raising the tax to shore up
the social security system. “I believe we can come to an
understanding,” he told journalists in Tokyo on March 3.  An aging society and a declining birthrate have put  Japan 
in an “unprecedented situation” as the government seeks to
rein in soaring welfare costs, Noda said. Political parties all
recognize the urgency and must cooperate “to secure stable
financing for a sustainable social security system.”  Noda, 54, took office in September, tasked with reviving an
economy burdened by the world’s largest debt and recovering from
last March’s disaster. His popularity has plunged amid
resistance to his tax plan both from within his  Democratic Party 
of Japan and an opposition demanding new elections.  ‘Just Very Difficult’  “It’s not impossible to reach a deal, just very
difficult,” said  Jeff Kingston , a professor of Japanese
politics at  Temple University ’s Tokyo campus. “Noda has to do
something to improve the DPJ’s prospects.”  The world’s third-largest economy is showing signs of
rebounding from a contraction last quarter. Reports last week
showed industrial production and retail sales exceeded analysts’
forecasts in January.  Japanese exports may get a lift from the yen’s 7.9 percent
decline since marking a postwar high in October. The currency in
February had its steepest drop in two years after the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  set an inflation goal of 1 percent and added 10 trillion
yen ($124 billion) to the economy.  Failure to reach a compromise on the  sales tax  threatens to
push up bond yields, eroding the government’s ability to finance
its debt burden with the world’s second-lowest borrowing costs.
The yield on Japan’s 10-year bond rose one basis point on March
2 to 0.985 percent, the highest since Feb. 10. The yen fell to a
nine-month low of 81.81 per dollar.  Election ‘Best’  Sadakazu Tanigaki, head of the main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party , said on NHK Television March 2 that “it would
be best” for Noda to seek a new mandate before submitting his
tax legislation. He denied media reports that he and Noda met on
Feb. 25 to discuss the situation.  Given that it was the LDP that floated raising the
 consumption tax  when it was in power, the prime minister’s
persistence has “got them in sort of an awkward position,”
Temple’s Kingston said.  Forty percent of voters oppose Noda’s tax plan, compared
with 46 percent who support it, according to an Asahi newspaper
poll published Feb. 14. Noda’s approval rating fell to 27
percent from 29 percent the previous month. The paper provided
no margin of error for its survey of 1,741 people on Feb. 11-12.  Quake Recovery  Noda on March 3 cited progress in rebuilding from the March
11 record earthquake and tsunami that devastated Japan’s
northeast, leaving almost 20,000 dead or missing and causing
meltdowns at three reactors of  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima power plant.  “Infrastructure and the economy in the disaster areas are
steadily recovering and supply chains for manufacturing have
recovered completely,” Noda said. “Mining and manufacturing
output has returned to above pre-disaster levels.”  Public concern that radiation from the plant contaminated
the mountains of rubble left by the natural disaster have
blocked disposal. Noda said last night the government will
subsidize repository sites and conduct checks to insure the
safety of nearby communities.  Only two of Japan’s 54 nuclear power reactors are operating
as the facilities undergo stress tests to ensure their safety,
raising the prospect of power shortages during Japan’s summer.  Modest Background  A first-generation politician whose grandparents were
farmers, Noda is the least prosperous premier since the
government in 1989 began disclosing assets of cabinet members.
He is the first prime minister to graduate from the Matsushita
Institute of Government and Management, established by the
founder of what is now  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  to mold Japanese leaders
through policy study, factory work and Zen meditation.  Noda has declined to say whether anyone should be held
criminally responsible for the consequences of the Fukushima
disaster, saying there was plenty of blame to go around.  “In hindsight, the government, the operator and academics
were all too steeped in a myth of safety,” he said. “Everyone
must share the pain of responsibility.”  One lesson everyone should draw from the experience is to
prepare for all eventualities, he said. “We can no longer use
the excuse that something is unpredictable and beyond our
imagination.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  