-- Kodak Seeks Court Approval to Investigate Patent Claims by Apple
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-03T07:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/kodak-seeks-bankruptcy-court-permission-to-examine-apple-s-patent-claims.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , saying sales of
some of its digital imaging patents may be disrupted, asked a
bankruptcy judge for permission to investigate “the basis” of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s claims that it owns some of them.  “Whether as an infringer or a prospective purchaser of
Kodak’s patents, Apple has an economic interest in depressing
the value of these patents and disrupting the sale process,”
Kodak’s lawyers said yesterday in a filing in U.S Bankruptcy
Court in  Manhattan .  Kodak wants Apple to produce a list of all Kodak patents it
claims to own as well as documents and communications that
support the ownership claims, according to the filing.  Apple on Feb. 14 sought bankruptcy court approval to sue
Kodak over allegations it infringes patents for technology used
in printers, digital cameras and digital picture frames. Apple
previously claimed it is the true owner of the image preview
patent that has been the subject of lawsuits.  The U.S. International Trade Commission rejected Apple’s
ownership arguments in a case that’s still pending at the agency
in  Washington .  Apple has said it developed a digital camera in the early
1990s that it shared with Kodak, and that Kodak then sought the
patent on the technology. Kodak has denied the allegations.  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, didn’t immediately return voice-mail and e-mail messages
after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on
Kodak’s filing.  Kodak (EKDKQ)  filed for bankruptcy Jan. 19. The Rochester, New
York-based company listed assets of $5.1 billion and debt of
$6.8 billion in Chapter 11 documents.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  