-- Obama Says GM, Chrysler Growth Not Enough to Lessen Pain at Pump
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-03T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/obama-says-gm-chrysler-growth-not-enough-to-lessen-pain-at-pump.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
 auto industry ’s resurgence and new fuel-efficient vehicles
“will make a difference” in checking rising gas prices, though
“it won’t solve everything.”  In his  weekly address  today on the radio and the Internet,
Obama said his administration’s rescue of the U.S. auto industry
saved the jobs of more than 1 million people and helped the auto
industry add more than 200,000 new jobs over the past 2 1/2
years.  “They’re not just building cars again; they’re building
better cars,” the president said, noting that  General Motors
Co. (GM)  is again the world’s No. 1 automaker. He said U.S. auto
companies are manufacturing cars that will average almost 55
miles per gallon in the coming years. “That means folks will be
able to fill up every two weeks instead of every week, saving
the typical family more than $8,000 at the pump over time.”  Obama has been riding a wave of positive economic news as
homebuilding and  car sales  have improved and jobless claims have
declined. While the numbers beat forecasts, indicating the
recovery is gaining steam, gas prices are rising -- driven up in
part by increased tensions over  Iran’s nuclear program  -- and
are a source of concern for the administration.  The president repeated his call for an “all-of-the-above”
energy strategy to focus on domestic gas production and
developing clean energy sources. Since he took office, Obama
said, U.S. dependence on foreign oil has declined in part
because of increased domestic oil production.  Ending Subsidies  He asked listeners to contact their representatives and ask
them to end $4 billion in subsidies to the oil industry.  “I don’t think  oil companies  need more corporate
welfare,” he said.  Gasoline for April delivery fell 7.96 cents, or 2.4
percent, to settle at $3.2721 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices rose a fourth straight week, gaining
3.8 percent. Gasoline is up 22 percent this year.  Demand has fallen as prices at the pump are rising. Regular
gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.3 cent to
$3.741 a gallon on March 1, according to AAA data. Prices have
increased 14 percent this year, and are 10 percent higher than a
year earlier.  GM in January reported a record $9.19 billion in  net income 
for 2011 as sales rose 7.6 percent last year to 9.03 million
vehicles. Chrysler Group LLC said March 1 that car and truck
sales increased 40 percent in February compared with a year
earlier.  Auto Bailout  On Feb. 28 the president gave an impassioned speech to the
United Auto Workers annual legislative conference in  Washington 
on the same day as the Michigan primary, home of the U.S. auto
industry. Without naming the candidates, Obama said Republican
presidential contenders who rejected the auto bailout would have
let the auto industry die.  In today’s Republican radio address, Representative Doc Hastings of Washington, chairman of the House Natural Resources
Committee, said “rising gas prices are a huge drain on our
economy” and, like the president, he said members of his party
are pursuing an “all-of-the-above” energy strategy.  “Though the president now claims to support ‘all-of-the-
above,’ he has consistently blocked American energy
production,” Hastings said, citing the president’s rejection of
 TransCanada Corp’s (TRP)  Keystone XL pipeline, which would carry oil
from  Canada  to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries. Hastings said former
Democratic President  Bill Clinton  supports the pipeline as does
Obama’s jobs council.  Depending on Foreign Oil  Republicans say the pipeline would create jobs and lessen
U.S. dependence on foreign oil, while opponents say it will harm
the environment. Hastings said Obama also has restricted
drilling in other offshore locations and his administration has
proposed regulations that would hurt other domestic sources of
energy.  Hastings praised the Republican-controlled U.S. House for
passing legislation to reduce government regulations on energy
sources; open more drilling offshore and in 3 percent of the
land in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; require the
approval of the Keystone pipeline; and to spur energy
development leases.  “We hope the president will live up to his rhetoric,”
Hastings said. “Hardworking taxpayers can’t wait to have the
pain at the pump addressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower at 
 Kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  