-- Billionaire Okada’s Manila Tour Is Defining Moment as Wynn Goes ‘Nuclear’
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-03-05T06:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/okada-manila-tour-proves-defining-as-wynn-goes-nuclear-.html
Stephen Wynn  stepped off his private
jet at Manila airport in June 2010 to be greeted by the
Philippines gaming regulator. On the tarmac too, in black
wraparound sunglasses and trademark 1950s-style slicked-back
hair, was Japanese slot-machine billionaire Kazuo Okada.  Okada, 69, wanted the chief executive officer of  Wynn
Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  to join his $2 billion casino and hotel project on
Manila Bay. Wynn, companion Andrea Hissom and Wynn Resorts Chief
Operating Officer Marc Schorr toured a hotel, shopping mall and
casino showcasing Manila’s investment potential, and sat through
a presentation on the new project in an air-conditioned marquee,
photographs of the trip show.  That visit proved pivotal for Okada’s ambition to create an
Asian casino empire -- only not as he’d hoped, according to an
interview last week detailing how his 12-year alliance with Wynn
went sour.  Philippines  regulator Efraim Genuino was indicted in
an ongoing graft case. By the fall, Wynn was focusing on Okada’s
Philippines activities, court documents show, removing him as
vice chairman last year and forcibly buying his $2.77 billion
stake last month at a 30 percent discount.  During three hours at his 36th-floor office in Hong Kong’s
Tsim Sha Tsui district, Okada laid out his version of the split
with Wynn, whose business he helped revive with funding in 2000.
It’s a story at odds with the 47-page report Wynn commissioned
from Louis J. Freeh, a former director of the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation, which catalogs more than $110,000 in
hotel rooms, meals and gifts for gaming officials and their
associates that Wynn’s lawyers said may have breached U.S. anti-
graft laws.  No Notice  “They gave the board the report without letting me review
it,” said Okada, founder of Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment
Corp. (6425)  “Even criminals would be asked to sign off on the
findings to ensure there are no mistakes.”  The boardroom scrap at Las Vegas-based Wynn Resorts shows
the dilemma U.S. companies face when seeking growth in  Asia ,
where a broader acceptance of gift giving and hospitality
conflicts with the tightening anti-bribery regime at home. Wynn
Resorts alleges Okada misused its assets, name and know-how to
promote himself, even though Wynn had decided to stay out of the
Philippines, and that his actions put the company’s gambling
licenses at risk.  Clause Invoked  Freeh briefed Wynn Resorts’ directors on his findings Feb.
18, and on the same day they judged Okada to be an “unsuitable
person,” invoking a clause in the articles of incorporation to
redeem the 20 percent stake that made him the company’s biggest
shareholder. Okada said he’s gathering evidence to show the
report was riddled with errors and exaggerated standard industry
practice as a pretext to eliminate a man Wynn, 70, had come to
regard as a threat.  “These are very standard terms that lawyers put in these
contracts, but they’re rarely invoked,” said Wendy Wysong, a
Hong Kong-based lawyer at  Clifford Chance (1000L)  LLP who specializes in
anti-corruption matters.  Clifford Chance  isn’t advising either
party, she said. The clause is like a “dormant nuclear weapon”
that’s put in “to make everyone comply with the law.”  Wynn’s use of the provision raises the prospect that other
companies may follow suit to “just boot somebody out that’s
fallen out of favor,” she said.  Freeh interviewed Okada for more than seven and a half
hours in  Tokyo . “He did not offer any exculpatory evidence in
that meeting nor has he to date,” said  Paul Kranhold , a Wynn
spokesman.  Macau Rival  Wynn Resorts alleges Okada broke its code of conduct by
trying to set up a casino to rival its operation in Macau.  Okada planned “to lure high-limit, VIP gamblers from
 China ” to Manila “in direct competition with  Wynn Macau ,”
according to documents filed in a Feb. 19  lawsuit  in  Nevada .  A shareholder agreement amended Jan. 6, 2010, bars Okada
from investing in casinos in Macau and Nevada, regulatory
filings show. There is nothing to stop Universal from expanding
elsewhere, he said. What’s more, everything was done to further
the partnership with Wynn and for their mutual benefit, he said.  “I believe that business by nature is about trust,
contracts are a last resort,” Okada said. “That may be a
difference between Western and Asian countries.”  Okada won one of four provisional gaming licenses awarded
in the Philippines in 2008, according to Wynn’s lawsuit. Pushing
ahead with the project went against “requests to Okada not to
pursue business in the Philippines,” the document said.  Manila Trip  “In or around the fall of 2010,” Wynn learned Okada was
falsely claiming that he and Wynn Resorts were developing the
Manila project together, the lawsuit said. After Wynn’s
compliance committee advised the group to steer clear of the
country because of corruption concerns, “Okada was
unrelenting,” and in February 2011 “repeated his oft-uttered
request that Mr. Wynn travel to the Philippines to explore
investing in Universal’s Manila Bay project,” the papers said.  The photographs, copies of which were given to Bloomberg
News, show Wynn had already been there, with Hissom and Schorr,
on June 14, 2010. Wynn was “very interested” and asked to meet
with Aquino, Okada said.  In a 2008 press release, Universal said it “intends to
enlist the full cooperation of Wynn Resorts Ltd.’s Steve Wynn”
to develop the project. Okada said the license was to build the
hotel-related facilities at an integrated casino resort and that
he wanted Wynn to join in any gaming business.  Okada pushed for the meeting with Aquino and was
“embarrassed and angry” when told to cancel, the court
document said. Okada said Wynn was “foolish” to turn his back
on the Philippines project, which he expects to rake in about
$3.5 billion in revenue in its first year of operation.  Hong Kong Move  Okada last year began moving operations to  Hong Kong ,
transferring Philippine land assets from his U.S. unit to Aruze
Hong Kong Ltd. in April, filings show. Through another Hong Kong
company, Okada, his son, daughter and second wife control 70
percent of Universal, filings show. Okada and his wife rent a
luxury, 10th-floor apartment overlooking Repulse Bay on the
south of Hong Kong island, and he plans to open three
restaurants in the territory this year.  It’s all part of refocusing the group on growth in Asia
outside  Japan , he said, seated at a conference-room table in
offices bereft of ornaments or signage, except for an Aruze
Gaming logo above reception. During the interview, Okada’s
iPhone rang with a Japanese earthquake warning. Category 2, he
said, nothing to worry about.  Cambodia, South Korea  Okada said he has also bought land in Siem Reap,  Cambodia ,
and has held talks with South Korean officials about a $3
billion casino project near  Incheon Airport (IIACZ) .  For Okada, the growing number of governments in the region
that plan to introduce casinos offers a chance to diversify away
from Japan, where Universal’s  operating profit  peaked in 2000.
Wynn Resorts sees the trend more as a risk.  “If current efforts to legalize gaming in other Asian
countries are successful, our Wynn Macau resort will face
additional regional competition,” the company said in its
 annual report  released last week.  Wynn lost out to Sheldon Adelson’s  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) 
and Kuala Lumpur-based  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  when  Singapore  granted its
first gaming licenses in 2005 and 2006. Global anti-graft
watchdog Transparency International ranks Singapore the fifth-
least corrupt nation in the world, behind  New Zealand ,  Denmark ,
Finland and  Sweden .  The Philippines ranks 129th. Cambodia, 164th.  Outstripped  Ten years after Macau began offering new casino licenses,
the Chinese territory’s $34 billion annual gambling revenue is
more than four times that of Las Vegas. A turf war between triad
mobsters in the run-up to the deregulation saw casinos raked
with automatic gunfire, gangland killings and the attempted car-
bombing of the police chief. Now the enclave has cleaned up its
act, said Okada.  “It’s no longer that dim, dirty, dark and sketchy place
that’s scary at night,” he said.  The territory, the only place under Chinese rule where
casinos are legal, now accounts for more than 70 percent of the
group’s revenue. Okada was booted off the board at Wynn Macau
Feb. 24. He’s still on Wynn Resorts’ board because he can’t be
removed without a shareholder vote.  Wynn married Hissom on April 29, 2011, at Wynn Encore in
Las Vegas. He divorced his first wife, Elaine, in 2009, giving
half his roughly 20 percent stake in her settlement.  University Grant  In a conference call to explain the decision to oust Okada,
Wynn Resorts executives, including compliance committee head
Robert Miller, said they needed to limit the company’s risk of
losing its gaming licenses. Okada was given ample notice of the
board’s concern and was asked to choose between the Philippines
and Wynn Resorts, Miller said, according to a transcript of the
call.  In January, Okada turned the spotlight on Wynn, suing to
force more disclosure on a $135 million donation to the
University of Macau that he said hasn’t been sufficiently
explained.  Wynn Resorts needs land to build a second Macau casino-
hotel on the increasingly popular Cotai Strip, where it is one
of only two operators in the territory yet to set up business.
Wynn Resorts rose 4.3 percent March 2 after it filed a statement
suggesting it had been awarded a concession there. It later
retracted the filing. Las Vegas Sands will open a new casino-
hotel on Cotai in April. Hong Kong tycoon Francis Lui’s Galaxy
Resorts opened there in May.  No Details  Wei Zhao, the university’s rector, in a Feb. 29 interview,
declined to give a detailed breakdown of how the money would be
spent.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission last month
requested information on the donation, Wynn Resorts said in its
annual report. Okada’s court action was an attempt to distract
attention from his own conduct, Wynn said.  Wynn’s court documents cited 36 occasions between 2008 and
June 2011 in which Universal allegedly made a total of about
$110,000 in payments at Wynn Resorts in Macau and Las Vegas
benefiting Philippine gaming officials. Cristino Naguiat, who
took over from Genuino, stayed at a $6,000 a night apartment
usually reserved for high rollers, the report said.  Villa 81, one of four for VIP guests at Wynn Macau, sprawls
over almost 7,000 square feet, with three master bedrooms, a
sound-proof media room with 100-inch television, and bathrooms
with mother-of-pearl walls. One time, Universal picked up a
$50,523.22 tab for Naguiat’s party, Wynn alleges.  Inaccurate Picture  Wynn’s figures fail to distinguish between business and
regulatory guests, highlight the total amount rather than per-
person expenses over the three-year period and fail to take
account of Universal’s own costs tagged onto the rooms, Okada
said. Universal was also reimbursed for some expenses, he said.  Universal keeps track of hospitality its executives receive
and seeks to provide a reciprocal amount in return, he said.
Universal estimates Philippines regulators spent about $112,010
entertaining its officials between July 2017 and Dec. 1 last
year, according to documents provided by Okada.  There was nothing inappropriate in the Macau trip, Naguiat
said in a Feb. 21 phone interview. “It is industry practice
that if there are casino executives in town, we offer cars,
security and rooms as a courtesy, as a form of reciprocity,” he
said. “In the past month, Francis Lui of Galaxy and Lawrence Ho
of Melco also visited and we offered the same.”  Okada said he is gathering evidence to prove Wynn’s facts
are wrong, clear his name, and win back the shareholding. Wynn
Resorts’ board canceled the stock at a weekend meeting,
effectively preventing Okada from seeking an injunction, the
company’s lead counsel Kim Sinatra said on the conference call.  10-Year Note  Wynn Resorts will pay Okada $1.9 billion for his stake
though a 10-year promissory note, the maximum term permissible
under the company’s articles of incorporation. Because of a 2006
shareholder agreement restricting Okada from selling the shares
without Wynn’s consent, they weren’t deemed freely tradable and
so were priced at a discount, Wynn Resorts Chief Financial
Officer Matt Maddox said on the call.  Universal fell 21 percent Feb. 20, the first trading day
after the Wynn board meeting. The  shares  since pared the loss to
about 6 percent, and rose 4.1 percent in Tokyo trading today.  With hindsight, Okada said he now suspects Wynn may have
harbored a desire to get rid of him as early as 2002, when he
unilaterally approved the articles of incorporation for the
company before its initial public offering.  Wynn couldn’t afford to get rid of him until their
expansion into Macau, Okada said.  Forced Redemption  “He saw his chance when Macau proved to be a success, and
started to feel like he was on top of the world around
mid-2010,” Okada said.  Okada said he wasn’t aware of the 2002 amendment that
included a clause giving the board powers to declare a person
unsuitable and forcibly redeem their shares at a price the board
would determine.  “Mr. Okada has previously authorized and acknowledged
these fundamental protective measures and has participated in
board meetings at which the documents containing these
provisions were discussed,” Wynn spokesman Kranhold said.  Kranhold provided Bloomberg News with copies of documents
relating to Wynn Resorts’ predecessor companies that were signed
by Okada, outlining the provisions.  Articles of incorporation are generally overlooked in Japan
as nobody thinks they’re important, Okada said.  “We should have been helping each other over the hard
times, in a relationship based on trust,” he said of Wynn.
“But he was a cunning man.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  