-- Pound Strengthens Versus Euro on ECB Loans, BOE’s Weale Comments on Easing
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-03T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/pound-strengthens-versus-euro-on-ecb-loans-boe-easing-comments.html
The pound posted its biggest weekly
gain versus the euro this year as the  European Central Bank 
loaned a record amount of cash to the region’s banks, increasing
the supply of the 17-nation currency.  Sterling was also boosted as Bank of England Monetary
Policy Committee member  Martin Weale  said inflation was likely
to persist in the U.K., reducing the need for further asset
purchases. The ECB loaned 529.5 billion euros ($699 billion) to
the region’s banks on Feb. 29 in the second of its longer-term
refinancing operations.  “The pound is looking firmer against the euro and there
seems little doubt that the LTRO has had a mildly negative
impact against the single currency,” said Lee McDarby, head of
dealing on the corporate and institutional treasury desk at
Investec Bank Plc in London. “Weale’s comments moved additional
U.K. quantitative easing further away at the same time as  Europe 
is effectively doing more.”  The pound strengthened 1.7 percent this week to 83.27 pence
per euro as of 5:03 p.m. in London yesterday, the biggest
advance since the period ended Dec. 16. The currency jumped 1.1
percent on Feb. 29, the day the LTRO was announced. Sterling
fell 0.2 percent to $1.5849.  This week’s refinancing operation meant the ECB has now
offered more than 1 trillion euros in three-year loans to the
region’s banks to contain the sovereign debt crisis.  ‘More Persistence’  Higher  oil prices  and potential wage pressures “suggest a
risk that there may be more persistence to inflation than one
might expect at a time of rising unemployment,” Weale said in a
speech in  London  on Feb. 29. “I do not think there is likely to
be a further case once our current program is complete” in early
May for more bond purchases.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year gilt increased seven
basis points over the week to 2.14 percent. The 4 percent bond
due March 2022, which became the benchmark on Feb. 29, closed
the week at a price of 116.695.  Gilts have handed investors a loss of 1.5 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds, Europe’s benchmark securities, have dropped 0.1 percent.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will keep
its bond-buying target at 325 billion pounds when it next meets
on March 8, according to all the 45 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  The U.K. will sell as much as 1 billion pounds of
inflation-linked bonds maturing in 2034 on March 6. It will
auction up to 4 billion pounds of 1 percent bonds maturing in
September 2017 the following day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  