-- Prolor to ‘Transform’ Market as Shares Rebound: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-03-04T15:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/prolor-to-transform-market-as-shares-rebound-israel-overnight.html
Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH) , an Israeli
biotechnology firm that surged 11 percent last week, aims to
transform the hormone treatment market as it starts final trials
for its drug to win U.S. approval, President Shai Novik said.  “We will be first to market with a growth-hormone
product” that can be injected once a week instead of daily,
Novik said in phone interview from Tel Aviv on March 2. “This
will be a market transformer as we don’t see high-quality
competition for this drug.”  Prolor rose to $6.04 last week in  New York  after  Mountain
View , California-based competitor  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  won preliminary
approval from the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  for a
weight-loss drug similar to one being developed by Prolor. The
Nes Ziona, Israel-based company, which starts the final hormone
drug study later this year, will begin the first clinical trial
for its obesity treatment in early 2013, Novik said.  Shares of Prolor were the second-biggest gainers on the
 Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New-York traded
Israeli companies last week, which lost 1.7 percent to 85.64.
The measure has gained 5.4 percent in 2012 outpacing a 1.2
percent increase in  Israel ’s TA-25 Index.  MagicJack VocalTec
Ltd. (CALL)  led advances as it jumped 19 percent.  Prolor -- 21 percent-owned by Philip Frost, chairman of
generic drugmaker  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  -- may be
fully acquired by Teva as its products become more lucrative,
according to Raghuram Selvaraju, an equity analyst at Morgan
Joseph TriArtisan who covers Israeli biotechnology companies.  ‘Teva Acquisition Target’  U.S.-traded shares of Prolor have gained 42 percent since
Teva said on Jan. 2 that Jeremy Levin, who emphasized
partnerships and smaller acquisitions as an executive at
drugmaker Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., will replace Shlomo Yanai as
Teva’s chief executive officer in May.  “Prolor as a Teva acquisition target has been steadily
increasing ever since Jeremy Levin was hired,” Selvaraju said.
“Teva’s reliance on generics as a business model hasn’t served
it well of late, so because Jeremy is very focused on innovative
medications, he might be interested in acquiring a company like
Prolor.”  Novik declined to comment on takeover speculation. Teva
spokeswoman Denise Bradley, didn’t respond to phone messages and
an e-mail requesting comment.  Prolor fell 9 percent on Feb. 21 after a retail investor
sold almost 250,000 shares in one transaction to an
institutional investor, prompting speculation that “an
insider” was selling out of the stock, Novik said. The concern
sparked Prolor’s worst weekly decline since the week ended Nov.
4.  ‘Some Credit’  Shares began to rebound on Feb. 24, a day after Vivus
surged 78 percent following a vote by an FDA regulatory panel to
back the company’s pill Qnexa, moving it a step closer to
gaining U.S. approval as the first new obesity treatment in 13
years.  “We’ve seen for the past couple years, biotech investors
moving the whole sector up or down based on a very significant
event,” Novik said. “Our stock barely moved that day, but then
maybe investors start scouting around and realize that they
should be giving us some credit for that as well.”  Prolor shares gained 1.9 percent on March 2, the fourth day
of increases. Prolor stock  traded  in Israel rose 1.6 percent on
March 1 to close at 22.22 shekels, the equivalent of $5.84. The
shares advanced 3.2 percent to 22.94 shekels, or the equivalent
of $6.03, at the close in  Tel Aviv  today.  MagicJack, the Israeli company whose founders invented the
technology used to make phone calls over the Internet, added 2.3
percent on March 2 to $21.98, a six-year high. The 19 percent
advance in the week was the most since May 2011, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Soda Slumps  Alon Holdings Blue Square-Israel Ltd. (BSI) , Israel’s second-
largest food retailer, was the worst performer last week on the
Bloomberg Israel-US 25 measure, tumbling 9.6 percent to $3.56,
the worst week since November. Blue Square fell on bets that
consumer protests against increases in food costs will hinder
the supermarkets’ ability to raise prices. The shares declined
0.7 percent to 13.20 shekels, or the equivalent of $3.47, in Tel
Aviv today.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , an Airport City, Israel-
based maker of soda machines, declined 9.1 percent last week to
$40.42 after the company reported that sales grew at a slower
pace in the final three months of 2011 than in the previous
quarter.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
 Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, the second-most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net  