-- Putin Set for Kremlin Win on Vow to Boost Pay
-- B y   A n d r e w   L a n g l e y
-- 2012-03-04T16:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/putin-set-to-reclaim-russian-presidency-as-spending-vows-undo-poll-losses.html
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  is
poised to win today’s Russian presidential election in the first
round amid allegations of fraud similar to those that sparked
protests after December’s parliamentary contest.  Putin will get about 60 percent of votes, more than the 50
percent needed to avoid a runoff, surveys predict. Balloting for
about 110 million voters began at 8 a.m. March 4 seven time
zones from Moscow in Russia’s Far East. Exit-poll data is due
from 9 p.m. in the capital, to be followed by preliminary
results. The final outcome will be released within 10 days.  Putin, 59, who first came to power in 1999 and has been
premier since handing the presidency to protégé  Dmitry Medvedev 
in 2008, has faced unprecedented protests over a parliamentary
vote in December that opposition parties say was rigged in favor
of his ruling United Russia party. In trips across the country,
Putin vowed to raise state salaries and pensions.  “Putin ran a very successful campaign and it’s clear that
he’ll win on the first round,” Alexei Mukhin, head of Moscow’s
the Center for Political Information, said March 3 by phone.
“People will vote for him because none of his opponents were
able to show they can resolve their problems like he does.”  Fraud Accusations  Accusations of voter fraud are exceeding reports received
during the conduct of the election three months ago, Alexey Navalny, an anti-corruption blogger and opposition leader,  told 
the Ekho Moskvy radio station. More than 3,000 reports of
violations had been registered nationwide as of 6:40 p.m. in
Moscow, the state-run RIA Novosti news service reported.  About 56.3 percent of eligible Russians had voted by 6 p.m.
Moscow time, the  central election commission  said on its
website. Putin and his wife, Lyudmila, cast their ballot at the
Russian Academy of Sciences in the capital. Putin told reporters
that he hoped for a “good result” for himself and that he
hadn’t heard of any irregularities to that point.  The ruble has gained 9.7 percent against the dollar this
year, the third-best performance among currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, behind the Hungarian forint and the Polish zloty. The
benchmark  Micex (INDEXCF)  stock index is up 15 percent.  The cost of insuring government debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps fell to 179 basis
points on March 2, its lowest level since Aug. 17, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME)  and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Communist Challenger  The premier’s closest competitor is Communist leader
 Gennady Zyuganov  with 15 percent backing, according to Levada.
He is followed by  Vladimir Zhirinovsky  of the  Liberal Democratic
Party  with 8 percent, billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  with 6
percent and former Putin ally Sergei Mironov with 5 percent, the
pollster said.  Putin built up his support from as low as 37 percent in a
Jan. 20-23 poll that included undecided voters to 66 percent
among those who determined their choice for president, Lev Gudkov, director of the independent  Levada Center , told a Moscow
news conference Feb. 24.  “A second round is very unlikely,” said Gudkov, who
characterizes the Russian leader’s power base as medium and
small cities and villages. “Populist promises contained the
downward trend and led to elevated expectations.”  Spending Increase  As European nations adopt record austerity measures that
have toppled governments from  Spain  to  Romania , Putin has
pledged to increase  government spending  by as much as 4.8
trillion rubles ($164 billion), or 5 percent of economic output,
through 2018, Capital Economics estimates.  The additional expenditure will boost the incomes of
pensioners, students, state workers and the military. Back in
Moscow, after visits to as far away as Komsomolsk-na-Amure,
6,073 kilometers (3,774 miles) from the capital, Putin on Feb.
29 said the  retirement age  won’t be increased.  Putin will probably get 60.3 percent of the vote, the
Moscow-based  Public Opinion  Foundation, known as FOM, said Feb.
27. The All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion, or
VTsIOM, said Feb. 28 that he was headed for victory with 59.9
percent support.  Zyuganov is at 16.2 percent, Zhirinovsky may get 8.8
percent, Prokhorov 8.6 percent and Mironov 6.1 percent, FOM said
by e-mail. Zyuganov was at 10.8 percent in the VTsIOM survey
that included an option for those not planning to vote.  Levada’s Feb. 17-20 survey and VTsIOM’s Feb. 18-19 poll
both had 1,600 respondents and a margin of error of 3.4
percentage points. FOM contacted 3,000 people and gave a margin
of error of 2.5 percent.  Plummeting Support  Putin’s support plummeted last year, culminating in
protests that brought thousands of people to the streets of
Moscow and other major cities to challenge  United Russia ’s
victory in the Dec. 4 elections.  They have demanded a rerun of the vote, in which the ruling
party won just over half of seats, losing the two-thirds
majority that allowed it to alter the constitution unilaterally.  Opposition parties including the Communists have alleged
United Russia inflated its result, having won closer to 30
percent of the vote. International observers said the elections
were marred by ballot-stuffing. The next protest is planned for
tomorrow evening in Moscow.  Putin held his own rally in the Russian capital Feb. 23,
the Defenders of the Fatherland national holiday, attracting
tens of thousands of people to the Luzhniki stadium and
rekindling the criticism of foreign powers such as the U.S. that
characterized his first eight years as president.  “We have come here to say that we love  Russia ,” Putin
told his supporters. No one will allow people interfere in
Russia’s internal political affairs and “dictate their will to
us, since we have a will of our own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Langley in London at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  