-- Treasuries’ Yield Difference Widens on Bernanke Stance, Economic Strength
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-03T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/treasuries-yield-difference-widens-on-bernanke-stance-economy.html
The difference between yields on
two- and 10-year notes increased for the first time in three
weeks amid better-than-forecast economic data and  Federal
Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s failure to indicate the
central bank will boost stimulus.  U.S. 10-year note yields  rose  Feb. 29 and March 1 as
Bernanke’s two days of congressional testimony damped
speculation the central bank would engage in a third round of
buying Treasuries, known as quantitative easing. Two-year note
yields fell for the first time in five weeks on concern that
measures to increase lending in the euro region won’t boost
economic growth, spurring safety demand. A government report
next week is forecast to show February jobs gains exceeded
200,000 for a third straight month.  “The economic data has continued to come in better than
expected and there was no announcement on QE3,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in  New York  of government- and
agency-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income
broker and dealer for institutional investors.  The  yield  on the 10-year note was little changed for the
week at 1.97 percent in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent security maturing in February 2022
traded at 100 7/32.  Yield Trends  The two-year note yield  fell  three basis points to 0.27
percent, the first weekly decline since the five days ended Jan.
27.  The so-called yield curve measuring the differences between
two- and 10-year yields reached 1.74 percentage points this
week, compared with 1.67 percentage points on Feb. 24 and an
average for the past year of 2.14 percentage points.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators decreased
their net-short position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending Feb. 28, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data. Speculative short positions, or bets prices
will fall, outnumbered long positions by 22,496 contracts on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Net-short positions fell by 42,789
contracts, or 66 percent, from a week earlier, the Washington-
based commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  “I’m in the risk-off camp,” said  David Ader , head of
government bond strategy at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT
Capital Group LLC, in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “I don’t think
this is an atmosphere where there’s going to be a lot of risk
appetite.”  Trading Range  Ten-year note yields have  traded  between 1.79 percent and
2.09 percent this year. Treasuries of all maturities have lost
0.5 percent this year, compared with a gain of 9.8 percent last
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, closed the week at 76 basis
points, close to the lowest since July 2007 and compared with
the five-year average of 112 basis points.  Investors should embrace a defensive strategy because of
the limits of zero-bound  interest rates  and systemic debt risk
in global financial markets, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Bill Grosswrote.  “An instant replay of these past few decades would have
shown that accelerating asset prices weren’t due to any
particular wisdom on the part of academia or the investment
community, but an offensively minded Federal Reserve and their
global counterparts who were printing money, lowering yields and
bringing forward a false sense of monetary wealth that was
dependent on perpetual motion,” Gross wrote in a commentary
posted on  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco’s website.  Pimco Holdings  Gross boosted the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in Pimco’s $250.5 billion Total Return Fund in
January to 38 percent and raised his portion of mortgage
securities to 50 percent, the highest since June 2009.  Bernanke told two congressional panels that inflation is
likely to “remain subdued” as the Fed continues to monitor
energy markets. He said the inflationary impact of higher
gasoline prices is likely to be temporary. Gasoline prices have
climbed 13 percent since the start of the year to $3.72 a
gallon, according to the American Automobile Association.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices during the life of the debt, was 2.24 percentage
points. The decade-long average is 2.14 percentage points.  Inflation Target  Fed policy makers have a target of 2 percent for cost
increases in the economy, based on the personal consumption
expenditures index.  The  European Central Bank  said overnight deposits soared to
a record after its second allocation of three-year loans on Feb.
29. Financial institutions parked 776.9 billion euros ($1.03
trillion) with the Frankfurt-based ECB, up from 475.2 billion
euros a day earlier. The ECB this week lent banks 529.5 billion
euros for three years in the biggest-single refinancing
operation in its history.  The Conference Board’s index of consumer sentiment
increased more than forecast, to 70.8 from a revised 61.5 in
January, figures from the New York-based private research group
showed Feb. 28. Economists predicted the gauge would climb to
63, according to the median estimate in a separate survey.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate pace” in
January and early February, fueled by manufacturers, including
automakers, the Fed said Feb. 29 in its Beige Book business
survey, published two weeks before the Fed meets to set monetary
policy.  A government report on March 9 is forecast to show nonfarm
payrolls grew by 210,000 in February, after gaining 243,000 the
previous month, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The
 unemployment rate  is forecast to hold at 8.3 percent.  “The jobs market is improving slightly,”  Charles Comiskey ,
head of Treasury trading at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in New York,
said March 1. “Yields backed up a little bit.”  The 10-year Treasury yield will climb to 2.52 percent by
year-end, according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and
securities companies with the most recent forecasts given the
heaviest weightings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  