-- Saints Players, Assistant Coach Put Bounties on Opposing Players, NFL Says
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-03T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/saints-players-assistant-coach-put-bounties-on-opposing-players-nfl-says.html
About two dozen  New Orleans Saints 
players and an assistant coach had a bounty program that paid
bonuses for injuring opponents, the  National Football League 
said.  Between 22 and 27 Saints players were involved in the
program during the past three seasons, with as much as $1,500
paid for a specific hit, the league said yesterday in an e-
mailed release. The players were not identified in the release.  The findings from the NFL’s security department have been
presented to Commissioner  Roger Goodell , who will meet with the
players union before determining discipline for the team and
individuals involved. The investigation began in 2010, when the
league heard the Saints were targeting  Pro Bowl  quarterbacks
 Brett Favre  and  Kurt Warner .  “The payments here are particularly troubling because they
involved not just payments for ‘performance,’ but also for
injuring opposing players,” Goodell said in the release. “The
bounty rule promotes two key elements of NFL football: player
safety and competitive integrity.”  Saints owner Tom Benson said in a statement that he was
aware of the league’s findings and that he has cooperated with
the investigation.  Results Troubling  “While the results may be troubling, we look forward to
putting this behind us and winning more championships in the
future for our fans,” Benson said.  The investigation found that Saints players and at least
one coach regularly contributed to a pool and received payment
based on their performance in the previous week’s game. Payments
were received for interceptions and fumble recoveries, as well
as for injuring opposing players.  The pool violates an NFL rule prohibiting non-contract
bonuses, according to the release. Players can’t receive added
pay for performance against particular teams or opponents, or
for on-field misconduct such as injuring opponents or personal
fouls, according to a memo Goodell sends each year to all 32
teams.  Set up by then-defensive coordinator Gregg Williams, the
Saints’ bonus pool may have reached as much as $50,000 during
the 2009 playoffs, which culminated in the team’s  Super Bowl 
victory against the  Indianapolis Colts , according to the NFL
release. Williams, now an assistant with the  St. Louis Rams ,
occasionally contributed funds himself, the NFL said.  $1,500 for ‘Knockout’  Players were paid $1,500 for a “knockout,” in which an
opposing player was unable to return to the game, and $1,000 for
a “cart-off” in which opposing players were carried off the
field, according to the release. Payments doubled or tripled
during the playoffs.  Williams, 53, who was head coach of the  Buffalo Bills  in
2001-2003, apologized to the league and the Saints yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  “It was a terrible mistake, and we knew it was wrong while
we were doing it,” Williams said. “Instead of getting caught
up in it, I should have stopped it. I take full responsibility
for my role.”  The  Washington Redskins  had a similar bounty system for big
hits on opponents when Williams was defensive coordinator there
in 2004-2007, four players from those teams told the Washington
Post.  ‘Kill Shots’  Three of those players described a coach who offered
thousands of dollars to Redskins defenders who succeeded in
Williams’s scoring system for rugged play, including “kill
shots” that knocked opposing teams’ stars out of a game.  “You got compensated more for a kill shot than you did
other hits,” one former Redskins player told the newspaper on
condition of anonymity.  This isn’t the first time that an NFL team has been accused
of having a bounty system. Following a Nov. 23, 1989, game
against the Buddy Ryan-coached  Philadelphia Eagles , Dallas
Cowboys coach Jimmie Johnson accused Ryan of offering to pay for
big hits on two of his players.  Johnson said an unidentified coach and two players had
confirmed that Ryan offered a $200 bounty on Cowboys kicker Luis
Zendejas and a $500 bounty on rookie quarterback Troy Aikman.  “What concerns me more is when you take away from the
integrity of the game,” Johnson said at that time. “Having
bounties on opposing players is not the way it’s supposed to be
done.”  Denied Accusations  Ryan denied the accusations and the league lacked
sufficient evidence to prove a rule was broken, NFL spokesman
 Greg Aiello  said in an e-mail.  In October 2008, Baltimore Ravens linebacker Terrell Suggs
told Atlanta-based radio station “2 Live Stews” that his team
had a bounty on Pittsburgh Steelers running back Rashard Mendenhall and wide receiver  Hines Ward . The league looked into
the statements and Suggs later clarified his comments to imply
that the Ravens kept a close watch on those two players,
according to ESPN.  Brian Billick, who coached the Ravens from 1999 to 2007,
said in an  interview  on The Dan Patrick Show following Suggs’
comments that bounties were a part of the game.  “No one wants to hurt another player, no one wants to
impact or end a players’ career, but there’s a certain
mentality, it’s locker room talk, it’s playground-type talk that
every team does,” Billick said. “You throw a Kangaroo Court
number out there and say OK, this gets this, and you put money
in a pool, and every team does it.”  ‘Don’t Ask-Don’t Tell’  Billick called it “one of those don’t ask-don’t tell
things,” describing it as an equivalent of wide receivers being
offered bonuses for catching touchdowns or defensive backs for
getting interceptions.  “Players are very conscious about not jeopardizing the
career or the welfare of another player, but this is a very
physical, violent game and you play those games with regards to
how are you going to motivate yourself and your teammates,” he
said.  Billick declined to comment when reached yesterday by
telephone, saying he had just gotten off a flight and didn’t
have details.  The investigation began in 2010 when the league heard that
the Saints had targeted Warner of the Arizona Cardinals and
Favre of the  Minnesota Vikings , Goodell said. The allegations
were denied when the league originally looked into the bounty
program, but the investigation, which included a review of
18,000 documents and an undisclosed number of interviews, was
reopened toward the end of last season.  Zero Tolerance  “It is our responsibility to protect player safety and the
integrity of our game, and this type of conduct will not be
tolerated,” Goodell said. “We have made significant progress
in changing the culture with respect to player safety and we are
not going to relent. We have more work to do and we will do
it.”  In October 2010, the league announced it was cracking down
on illegal hits by handing out fines and considering possible
suspensions. Last season the NFL handed out penalties to players
who broke the rule, including a $40,000 fine to Atlanta Falcons
cornerback Dunta Robinson and a one-game suspension to Steelers
linebacker  James Harrison .  Benson, when informed of the bounty program earlier this
year, asked general manager Mickey Loomis to discontinue the
pool, the NFL said. Loomis, who had denied knowledge of the
program in 2010, didn’t carry out Benson’s instructions,
according to the league’s statement.  Punishment may include fines, suspensions or the forfeiture
of draft choices, the NFL said. No time frame was given for
Goodell’s decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  