-- Singapore University Says It Welcomes Discussion With Yale
-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-03-03T21:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/singapore-university-says-it-welcomes-discussion-with-yale.html
The  National University  of Singapore
said it welcomes a discussion with  Yale University  after
professors at the Ivy League school expressed concern about
civil and political rights at a branch campus scheduled to open
in the Asian city-state next year.  The campus, which will be jointly overseen by the two
institutions, will be the first overseas branch in Yale’s 300-
year history. It’s one of a number of campuses in East Asia
being developed by U.S. colleges, among them New York University
and Duke University.  Those campuses face restrictions on academic and political
freedoms, Yale professors say, and they are also concerned about
human rights in Singapore and faculty exclusion from the
planning.  “It is understandable that for a pioneering initiative
like the Yale-NUS College, there may be a diversity of views on
different issues,” said Lily Kong, vice president of university
and global relations for the  National University of Singapore ,
in an e-mailed statement. “We believe that this discussion
should lead to an even higher level of mutual understanding and
respect, ultimately making the college even more robust.”  More than 140 Yale professors as well as university
President Richard Levin attended a March 1 meeting during which
faculty members proposed a resolution that demands the NUS
campus “respect, protect and further the ideals of civil
liberties,” said Victor Bers, a classic professor at the New
Haven, Connecticut-based school.  The resolution may be voted on at an April 5 faculty
meeting, Bers said.  Singapore’s government censors the media and uses the
courts to silence criticism of the regime,  according  to Human
Rights Watch, a New York-based group. Last year, Levin said he
was confident that Yale’s faculty in  Singapore  could teach and
publish without restrictions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in  Washington  at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Sabo at   jsabo@bloomberg.net . 