-- Syrian Army Battles Armed Fighters in Daraa After Subduing Homs, 70 Dead
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-03-03T15:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/syrian-army-battles-armed-fighters-in-southern-city-of-daraa.html
Syrian army troops battled
opposition fighters in the south of the country two days after
the government regained control of the Baba Amr district in the
central city of Homs.  Six soldiers were killed and nine wounded in clashes today
near the southwestern city of Daraa when armed rebels attacked
armored personnel carriers and military buses, the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mailed statement.  Syrian forces killed 70 people today, Al Jazeera television
said, citing activists. The government executed 47 soldiers who
attempted to defect in the northwestern province of Idlib,  Al
Arabiya television  reported on its website today, citing the
Syrian Network for Human Rights.  The monthlong siege of Homs has intensified international
pressure on President Bashar al-Assad a year after his forces
began a crackdown on protests. The army has used tanks and
artillery to protect Assad’s regime and more than 7,500 people
have died in the conflict, the United Nations estimates.  Assad forces restored “security and safety” to Baba Amr,
“ridding it of members of armed terrorist groups,” the Syrian
Arab News Agency said. Shelling of districts in Homs continued
today,  Al Arabiya  reported. A suicide car bomber killed two
civilians and injured 20 people and security personnel in Daraa,
according to the  Syrian Arab News Agency .  Civil War  “We’ve got a full-scale civil war now,” U.K. Ambassador
to the UN Mark Lyall Grant told reporters yesterday at UN
headquarters in  New York . “You’ve seen what’s happened in Homs
over recent days.”  “There is a chance” that the mission by UN special envoy
 Kofi Annan  “could at least start the process of stopping the
hostilities, starting a political dialogue which leads to a
political transition,” Grant said.  An International Committee of the  Red Cross  team that
arrived in Homs yesterday with Syrian Red Crescent Society
personnel wasn’t allowed into the Baba Amr district, the Red
Cross said yesterday. The Syrian government told the Red Cross
it can’t enter until mines and booby traps are cleared, the
 British Broadcasting Corp.  reported today, without saying where
it got the information. The  BBC  also said there were unconfirmed
reports of revenge killings, mass arrests and summary executions
by Syrian forces in Baba Amr.  International Pressure  International pressure on the Assad regime has mounted as
the conflict has intensified.  Saudi Arabia  and other Gulf Cooperation Council members are
ready to participate in any joint effort to help Syrians protect
themselves from the Assad government,  Saudi Press Agency  said
yesterday.  The Syrian government “lost its legitimacy once it killed
its citizens,” the news service cited Abdullah bin Yahya al-
Mua’lemi, the kingdom’s ambassador to the UN, as saying.  The European Union separately said yesterday that it is
preparing “further targeted restrictive measures” against
Syria, according to a statement from a summit of its leaders in
Brussels yesterday. The EU also said it recognized the Syrian
National Council, the main opposition alliance, as “a
legitimate representative of Syrians.”  Iraq has increased border security to stop the smuggling of
weapons and insurgents into  Syria , the Iraqi government said
today in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  