-- Woolworths Aims to Build $6.4 Billion Home-Improvement Unit, O’Brien Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-03-04T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-03/woolworths-aims-to-build-a-6-billion-home-improvement-unit-o-brien-says.html
Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) ,  Australia ’s biggest
retailer, aims to build its Masters home-improvement unit into a
high-margin business within five years, Chief Executive Officer
Grant O’Brien said.  “We believe we can build this business to be a A$6 billion
($6.4 billion) plus entity over the course of the next five or
so years, and our focus is on delivering that,” O’Brien told
the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s “Inside Business”
television program yesterday.  Woolworths opened the first Masters stores in September in
partnership with Lowe’s Cos., the second-largest U.S. home
improvement chain. The companies plan an Australian network of
150 outlets, seeking the higher profit margins enjoyed by
Bunnings, a unit of  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) , to boost earnings.  “The historical levels of profit within these businesses
are well known,” O’Brien said. “Our objective is to get into
the same sort of area as those more mature businesses.”  Bunnings’ margin was more than 12 percent last year, based
on earnings before interest and tax, and other companies are at
similar levels, he said.  The home-improvement market is “fragmented” with the
largest existing player holding about a 16 percent share,
presenting opportunities for Woolworths, he said. The Sydney-
based retailer owns two-thirds of the Masters venture while
Mooresville, North Carolina-based Lowe’s has the rest.  Woolworths said on March 1 it had its first drop in profit
since at least 2000 due to a charge against its Dick Smith
consumer electronics unit.  Net income fell 17 percent to A$966.9 million ($1 billion)
in the six months ended Jan. 1, from A$1.16 billion a year
earlier. The retailer said it expects a “subdued” full year
because of weak demand while sales of groceries and fuel, which
generate 84 percent of revenue, may cushion the company from
stalling sales of discretionary items such as clothing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  