-- Abbott Board Must Face Depakote Investor Suit, Judge Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-05T20:49:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/abbott-board-must-face-depakote-investor-suit-judge-says.html
An  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  stockholder
suit accusing directors of shirking their duty to supervise the
marketing of its epilepsy drug Depakote can go forward, a
federal judge ruled.  The suburban- Chicago  drugmaker agreed to pay $1.6 billion
last year to settle federal and state claims its sales force
engaged in improper marketing of the medication and downplayed
risks associated with it from 1998 to 2006.  U.S. District Judge Virginia Kendall in Chicago required
the shareholders to show that any effort they made to get the
directors to curb the wrongdoing would have been futile. Today,
finding that the investors’ revised complaint satisfied her
requirement, she denied a defense request to dismiss the suit.  “The plaintiffs have alleged particularized facts
demonstrating that a majority of the relevant board had notice
that Abbott was engaging in illegal conduct,” and failed to
remedy it, Kendall said.  The ruling is on a complaint that consolidated eight
separate suits filed against the directors on Abbott’s behalf,
claiming they had breached their fiduciary duty.  “We disagree with the court’s decision,”  Scott Stoffel , a
spokesman for the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based drugmaker, said in
an e-mail. “We continue to believe that the suit is without
merit.”  Epileptic Seizures  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved Depakote for
use in treating epileptic seizures in adults and in children
over 10 years of age, as well as migraine prevention and for
mania associated with bipolar disorder.  Abbott salespeople allegedly promoted the drug in nursing
homes for the control of agitation and aggression in elderly
dementia patients, without evidence it was safe and effective
for that purpose, the  Justice Department  said in announcing last
year’s accord.  Kendall threw out an earlier version of the combined
complaint, finding that the institutional investors, led by the
Jacksonville, Florida, policemen’s and firemen’s pension fund,
hadn’t adequately explained why it would have been fruitless for
them to make demands on the directors.  The investors are seeking unspecified money damages for the
company from the current board members, including Chairman Miles D. White, audit committee Chairwoman Roxanne S. Austin, former
UAL Corp. Chairman  Glenn Tilton  and former directors such as
White’s predecessor as chief executive officer, Duane L. Burnham.  The shareholders are also seeking a court order compelling
the company to reform and improve its corporate governance.  The case is In Re Abbott-Depakote Shareholder Derivative
Litigation, 11-cv-08114, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  