-- Abe’s Power Plan Lifts Renewables at Utilities Expense
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2013-06-06T12:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/abe-s-power-plan-lifts-renewables-at-utilities-expense.html
Shinzo Abe’s pledge to spur 30
trillion yen ($302 billion) of investment in  Japan ’s electricity
industry opens the way for a surge in clean energy projects at
the expense of traditional utilities.  The prime minister endorsed proposals to deregulate an
industry that produces power mostly from fossil fuels, as well
as boost competition among generators and make it easier for
wind and solar energy to be distributed to consumers. His speech
yesterday in Tokyo didn’t mention restarting nuclear plants
closed since the earthquake in 2011.  Utility shares in Japan tumbled, led by  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501) , which owns the reactors in Fukushima that suffered
meltdowns after the earthquake two years ago. Abe’s remarks
raise the chances the government will move to weaken the
monopoly power producers now enjoy after elections for the upper
house of Parliament set for the end of next month. That would
benefit  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , both of which are
planning renewable energy investments.  “His push to liberalize power markets is a bold attempt to
increase competition and bring in new market players,” said
 Nathaniel Bullard , an industry analyst at Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in  Hong Kong .  Utilities Tumble  Tokyo Electric, also known as Tepco, fell 7.4 percent in
Tokyo trading today, adding to yesterday’s 16 percent decline.
The 17-member Topix Electric Power & Gas Index dropped for a
second day, losing 3.5 percent. In contrast, the benchmark
Nikkei 225 index fell 0.9 percent today.  Regional utilities  Shikoku Electric Power Co. (9507)  Inc.,
 Hokkaido Electric Power Co. (9509)  Inc.,  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503) 
Inc.,  Tohoku Electric Power Co. (9506)  Inc. also fell for the second
day in a row.  “For 60 years after the war, one giant power company in
each region has dominated from power generation to transmission
to retail,” Abe said in the speech. “The times are changing.
We are in the age where consumers themselves produce power.”  He discussed the emergence of fuel cells and power storage
batteries and the “need to create more innovation” that would
use those technologies to help integrate variable supplies of
renewable energy into the transmission grid. He said he “will
bring about the potential for such innovations” by “unbundling
transmission and distribution” -- two businesses that currently
are mostly integrated at utilities.  Previous Attempts  To be sure, Japan has made four previous attempts to
restructure its electric utility industry, which has remained
little changed since World War II, according a panel that
advised the government in February. It was led by Motoshige Itoh, an economics professor at the  University of Tokyo .  Abe also indicated coal would benefit from his policy, with
the nation funding cutting-edge coal-fired  power plants  at home
with technology that can be exported.  The earthquake in March 2011 led to an outcry among voters
and the closure of Japan’s nuclear reactors, changing the
government’s stance on energy policy to shift the nation toward
cleaner sources of energy. More than 70 percent of respondents
in an opinion poll by the Asahi newspaper in February said Japan
should scrap nuclear power.  The government wants to pass the power reforms bill, which
has been submitted to parliament, “by all possible means,” he
said. Investment in wind, geothermal and other renewable sources
will be accelerated by “drastically” speeding up environmental
assessment processes, Abe said.  Energy Review  The speech was short on detail, since the government is
working on a review of its  energy policy  due later this year.
Abe’s party, which took office in December, is seeking to
consolidate its grip on power in elections for the upper house
of the Diet due around July 21.  The suggestion that Abe is moving to restructure the power
generation business is a threat to the utilities, which were
hoping that the government would allow them to restart nuclear
plants. All except two of Japan’s 50 reactors have been shut
since the earthquake, and they provided more than a quarter of
the nation’s electricity.  “There may have been some selling on concerns about
tougher competition,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at
Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo. “Shares were sold after aggressive
buying of utilities including Tepco in May on expectations that
nuclear reactors would be restarted.”  Abe’s Support  Instead, Abe signaled his support for the recommendations
of the government advisory panel, which in February said
ministers should push utilities to spin off their distribution
networks. Japan’s 10 regional power companies own more than 70
percent of the nation’s generation capacity and control
transmission and distribution networks.  One result is power prices twice as high as in the U.S.
Japan’s households paid 23.2 cents per kilowatt-hour in 2010,
compared with 11.6 cents in the U.S., the Ministry of Economy
Trade and Industry said in a November 2012 report.  Since the earthquake, fossil fuels such as coal and natural
gas have replaced nuclear power, driving up Japan’s trade
deficit and making it more difficult for the nation to reduce
the pollution blamed for global warming. Japan’s previous
administration said it wouldn’t sign up to the next round of
worldwide emissions curbs under the  Kyoto Protocol .  Abe said renewables such as wind and geothermal may be part
of the solution, giving environmental campaigners hope that
clean energy technology will get a boost. Japan is forecast to
rival China as the world’s biggest market for solar power this
year, boosting sales for panel manufacturers such as  Canadian
Solar Inc. (CSIQ)  and  Sharp Corp. (6753)  Marubeni is pushing to revive long-dormant geothermal drilling projects in Japan.  Cleaner Energy  “Unless Japan pushes through power industry reform, the
country won’t have the ground to develop clean energy,” Masako
Konishi, climate and energy project leader for the environmental
group WWF Japan, said by phone.  The 30 trillion yen of investment in the power industry as
outlined by Abe will take place over the next 10 years and
represents a 50 percent increase from levels in the past decade.
No details were provided on where the money will be spent or how
much of the investments will go to clean energy.  Masayoshi Son’s Softbank may also benefit, since the
company has pledged to invest as much as 20 billion yen with
investors in renewable energy project. Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc.,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316)  expect Japan’s solar market to be worth as
much as 1.8 trillion yen in the next three years, spurring the
institutions to write loans for developers.  Storage Technology  Abe’s target may include investment in storage batteries,
Mika Ohbayashi, director of the  Japan Renewable Energy
Foundation , said by phone. Japan has been promoting the
development of storage batteries to help stabilize power
generation that depends on the sun shining and wind blowing.  “Rather than storage batteries that are still expensive,
we need to invest in new transmission lines to strengthen power
infrastructure,” Ohbayashi said.  A pillar of power industry reform is the establishment of
an independent system operator for power grids, said Hiroshi Takahashi, a senior fellow at Fujitsu Research Institute.  Setting up such an institution will help control the demand
and supply of power, which in turn can help expand the market
for clean energy, he said on June 4. Takahashi sat on the
government-appointed committee that recommended the reform
earlier this year.  Markets Abroad  Japan aims to capture a total 26 trillion yen worth of
energy technology sales home and abroad in 2020, from the
current 8 trillion yen, according to a draft strategy paper
released by the Industrial  Competitiveness Council  after Abe’s
speech.  “Japan will further strengthen areas where the country is
good at so that investment in renewable energy will not be cost
for the economy, but strength,” the document said.  Japan intends to become the first country to commercialize
floating offshore wind power technology by around 2018,
according to a timetable also released by the council. As for
solar, the country aims to lower the generation cost to less
than 7 yen a kilowatt-hour after 2030 from more than 30 yen
currently, according to the timetable.  Reform, without specific commitments and targets for
renewables, may not be enough, WWF Japan’s Konishi said.  “It’s possible to set ambitious targets for renewable
energy and energy saving without setting targets for nuclear,”
Konishi said. “Such targets will have an impact on investment
by companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  