-- Abe Vows to Spur Investment in Japan Power to 30 Tln Yen
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2013-06-05T07:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/abe-vows-to-spur-investment-in-japan-power-sector-to-30-tln-yen.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
pledged to spur investment in the nation’s electricity industry
to about 30 trillion yen ($299 billion) in the next decade as he
seeks to revive the world’s third-biggest economy.  Investment in wind, geothermal and other renewable sources
will be accelerated by “drastically” speeding up environmental
assessment processes, Abe said in prepared comments for a speech
in  Tokyo  today to preview his government’s economic growth
strategy to be detailed next week.  Shares of Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of the idled
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant,  tumbled  its daily limit of 100
yen, or 16 percent, to 513 yen after the speech, which excluded
reference to when  Japan  may restart nuclear reactors idled after
the March 2011 disaster. Nuclear power accounted for more than a
quarter of Japan’s energy before the Fukushima accident.  The country will help innovations in the power businesses
by fully liberalizing and separating distribution and
transmission operations from generation, Abe said. The
government wants to pass the power reforms bill, which has been
submitted to the parliament, “by all possible means,” Abe
said.  A government advisory panel in February recommended
measures to restructure the power industry, including spinning
off distribution networks, a step toward ending the power
companies’ monopoly. Japan’s 10 regional power companies
dominate electricity generation, transmission and distribution.  ‘Third Arrow’  The 30 trillion yen target represents a 50 percent increase
from levels in the past 10 years, Abe said, without providing
details on where the money will be spent or saying how much will
be put into renewable energy. The measures were included in a
speech outlining Abe’s growth strategy, the “third arrow” of
an economic revival plan.  The country will build cutting-edge coal-fired  power plants 
at home and will export the technology to other countries to cut
global carbon dioxide emissions, Abe said.  Japan, the world’s fifth-biggest carbon dioxide emitter in
2010, last year introduced a feed-in-tariff program to spur
investment in renewable energy by paying electricity producers
above-market rates for their output. The country is reviewing
its target to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent by 2020
from 1990 levels after the Fukushima disaster prompted the
shutdown of most of its reactors and forced the nation to rely
on oil-, gas- and coal-power plants.  “We will develop every single energy technology by making
investment at home and deploy it to the world,” Abe said in the
prepared comments. “That’s the only way for a resource-poor
country like Japan to survive.”  Japan emitted 1.14 million metric tons of  carbon emissions 
in 2010, lagging behind only  China , the U.S., India and  Russia ,
the  International Energy Agency  said in a 2012 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  