-- Abenomics Won’t Be ’Magic Bullet’ for Japan, Says Johnson of MIT
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-06-05T17:51:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/abenomics-won-t-be-magic-bullet-for-japan-says-johnson-of-mit.html
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
policies to stem deflation and spur growth won’t be a “magic
bullet” that shakes the nation’s economy out of stagnation, said
Simon Johnson of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  While Abe’s efforts are “significant,” an aging population,
heavy debt loads and a lack of immigration will continue to
hobble the Japanese economy, Johnson, a former chief economist
at the International Monetary Fund, said in an interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen.  “I don’t think you should expect Japan to become a lot
more dynamic, or for capital flows to change,” said Johnson,
who is professor of global economics and management at the MIT
Sloan School of Management. “We’ve seen many efforts in the
last decade or two to try and restart the Japanese economy. The
longer-term dynamics around the demographics is very difficult
for them. And they have a lot of debt, which is going to be a
difficult overhang.”  Japan had its biggest stock rally in 25 years as the  Topix (TPX) 
index jumped 24 percent this year amid Abe’s steps to reverse
two decades of stagnation and the Bank of  Japan  pledged to
double its bond-buying stimulus program. The stock gauge reached
its highest level since August 2008 on May 22. The yen, whose
strength hurt exporters, has fallen 13 percent against the
dollar in 2013.  Abe has also pledged to loosen rules on businesses ranging
from non-prescription drugs to construction to recoup 50
trillion yen ($502 billion) in national income that was lost
during two decades of economic malaise, the prime minister said.  The fiscal and monetary efforts alone won’t be enough to
achieve domestic or global economic transformation, Johnson said
in the interview.  “Balance sheets have to be rebuilt, and that is the lesson
from Japan,” said Johnson, a Bloomberg View opinion columnist.
“When you have a big financial crisis, it does enormous
damage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  