-- Madoff-Tarnished Mets Catching Yankees in Ballpark Bond Returns
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-06-05T04:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/madoff-tarnished-mets-catching-yankees-in-ballpark-bond-returns.html
Thomas Metzold, who helps oversee
$29.7 billion of municipal debt for  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV) , generally
roots for the  New York Yankees . In the  bond market , he likes the
 New York Mets , too.  Since both Major League Baseball teams sold tax-exempt
bonds for new ballparks starting in 2006, the funds Metzold
helps manage at the $255.1 billion, Boston-based mutual fund
company have traded in and out of Mets and Yankees debt more
than 100 times as the relative values have changed, he said.  “We would only favor the Yankees’ bonds over the Mets’ if
they’re trading at the same yield,” said Metzold, a 26-year
municipal-market veteran. “The difference in yields is what
creates a market. You’re constantly looking for bonds where the
historic relationships are out of whack.”  The Mets’ finances were battered by their owners’ links to
the Bernard Madoff scandal, and the team’s bonds, after
underperforming the Yankees’ for most of the last two years, are
starting to catch up in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Mets are 22-33 on the field this season, in fourth
place in the  National League East . The Yankees are 33-25 and
tied with the  Baltimore Orioles  for second place in the  American
League East  behind the  Boston Red Sox . Last week, the Mets took
all four games from the Yankees in their annual interleague
meetings, the first time the NL club has swept its AL rival.  Both teams sold tax-exempt bonds in 2006 and 2009 through
the New York City Industrial Development Agency, backed by
payments in lieu of taxes.  Madoff Case  The Mets actually have more sources of revenue pledged to
repay bondholders, but the team has been hurt by so-called
headline risk in some years, Metzold said. Some of that was tied
to ownership’s dealings with Madoff, who was arrested in 2008
and pleaded guilty to running the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in
history.  A New York court last year approved a $162 million
settlement between the Mets’ owners and the liquidator of
Madoff’s firm. Irving Picard originally sought $1 billion from
the team’s owners for the benefit of former Madoff customers.
 Standard & Poor’s   cut the outlook  on Mets bonds to negative in
December 2011 after falling attendance in the team’s third
straight losing season.  After the Madoff case, the Mets’ bonds “traded off,” even
though it had little effect on the actual revenue streams that
back the team’s debt, Metzold said.  “The ownership really has nothing to do with the security
of the bonds,” Metzold said. “Now the bonds have rallied
considerably as a lot of money has been chasing high-yield.”  Yankees’ Yield  Bonds sold to build the Yankees’ $1.5 billion stadium that
pay regular coupon interest have produced a total return of
about 27 percent since the end of 2010 through May 31, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s similar to the return for
a benchmark Bank of America Merrill Lynch index of BBB-rated
muni bonds.  Total return since December 2010 on bonds sold to build the
Mets’ $800 million Citi Field is about 28 percent. The Mets’
bonds underperformed against the Bank of America Merrill muni
index in 2011 and half of 2012 before closing the gap and then
outperforming, according to the Bloomberg data.  Alice McGillion, a Yankees spokeswoman who works for
Rubenstein Public Relations, declined to comment. The Mets also
declined to comment.  The returns on the Yankees’ and Mets’ bonds since the end
of 2010 outpaced corporate bonds and U.S. Treasury bonds. The
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate Index of
investment-grade company bonds had an 18 percent return in the
same period and the U.S. Treasury Master Index returned 10.8
percent. The BofA Merrill High Yield Index of company bonds with
lower credit ratings had a 25.8 percent return.  Demand Rises  “The bonds are trading relatively rich because there is so
much demand for high-yield bonds,” said Metzold. “People are
willing to pay a higher price to get more yield.”  The Mets sold $695.4 million in bonds, all interest-paying
with coupon rates between 3.9 and 5 percent, ranging in maturity
from early next year to January 2046. Some shorter-term bonds
already have matured.  The Yankees borrowed more than $1.3 billion through the
city agency to finance the new stadium in the Bronx, including
about $67 million in capital appreciation bonds in 2009.  Those zero-coupon bonds have returned about 72 percent,
higher than 42 percent for a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
of taxable muni bonds with at least 10 years to maturity. The
zero-coupon bonds, which are sold at discounts to face value,
have implied  interest rates  ranging from about 4.6 for the
shortest maturity (2014) to 7.9 percent for the longest (2047).
The Bank of America Merrill index is composed of bonds with an
average coupon rate of about 6.1 percent.  Zero-Coupon  Zero-coupon bonds typically are more sensitive in value to
changes in prevailing interest rates and market yields. As rates
and  yields  have dropped since 2008, the Yankee zeros have risen
in price more than conventional coupon bonds.  Metzold said he doesn’t much worry about which team is
better on the field when it comes to buying their bonds. He
knows some buyers feel differently.  “People have favored credits, and when the price is right
I sell it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 