-- AIG Chief Says Living Wills Risk Clash of Nations Over Assets
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-06-05T19:26:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/aig-chief-says-living-wills-risk-clash-of-nations-over-assets.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said that living wills,
designed to help unwind struggling financial firms, may lead to
international disputes.  Comparing the process of breaking up a company to a person
leaving wealth to heirs, Benmosche said he anticipates fights
over the way assets are distributed.  “You bring your kids together and you say, ‘You know, I’ve
decided to give this one to you, and this goes to you, and
you’re going to get that,’ and all of a sudden the kids say,
‘Well, wait a minute,’” the CEO said today at a conference in
New York, where AIG is based. In the case of companies, “these
kids are called countries and jurisdictions.”  U.S. regulators this week identified AIG,  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU)  and a unit of  General Electric Co. (GE)  as potential
threats to the financial system. The designation is a step
toward increasing oversight of the largest non-bank financial
firms and preventing future taxpayer bailouts. The government
has already labeled the largest banks systemically important and
required them to submit living wills.  AIG and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. lacked such plans
during the 2008 credit crisis. The government allowed Lehman to
fail in September of that year, disrupting global markets, then
bailed out AIG. The insurer’s rescue protected creditors and
eventually involved the commitment of $182.3 billion from
taxpayers. The U.S. exited its AIG stake last year at a profit.  Giving the government authority to unwind the biggest
financial firms “allows us to avoid the choice of all or
nothing -- nothing in the case of Lehman Brothers, all in the
case of AIG,” Democrat  Barney Frank , then a U.S. representative
from Massachusetts, said at a 2009 hearing. “Our job is to work
together and try to find some other way.”  CEO Endorsement  A year later, Congress passed a law championed by Frank and
then-Senator  Christopher Dodd  of Connecticut that increased
federal oversight of the largest financial firms. Benmosche, who
 became  AIG’s CEO in 2009, has welcomed the supervision, saying
the federal government can improve discipline in his industry.  “It’s good for our business,” he said today at the
conference, hosted by Standard & Poor’s. “The government has
decided that they’re going to make sure that we, the government,
will not have to stand behind any company.”  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  face an Oct. 1 deadline for submitting a second round of
living wills to regulators. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
told lenders that the documents should describe obstacles that
might arise from taking the companies apart under the  bankruptcy
code .  Andrew Gray , an FDIC spokesman, declined to comment on
Benmosche’s remarks.  Capital Trap  Benmosche, 69, said his company, which has customers in
more than  130 countries , already has experience thinking through
how it might be dismantled. AIG sold more than $60 billion of
assets including non-U.S. life insurers and a consumer lender to
help repay its bailout.  Still, the company is concerned about the prospect that
“we find ourselves trapped with capital all over the world”
amid competing demands from regulators in different
jurisdictions, Benmosche said. That’s “far worse” than any
charge the company faces from being labeled systemically
important, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  