-- AIG Gets Delayed Deposit From Buyer Group For Plane Unit
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-06-05T21:16:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/aig-receives-deposit-from-buyer-group-in-plane-lease-unit-deal.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
received a delayed deposit yesterday under the agreement to sell
its International Lease Finance Corp. unit to Chinese investors.  The payment was disclosed in a regulatory filing by New
York-based AIG, which said last week that the deposit hadn’t
been made on schedule. A group led by New China Trust Co.
Chairman Weng Xianding agreed in December to buy 80 percent of
the Los Angeles-based aircraft lessor for about $4.2 billion in
a deal that required a 10 percent deposit.  AIG had the right to terminate the agreement after the
group missed the payment, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche  said June 4 at a conference sponsored by Deutsche Bank
AG. He is getting rid of ILFC to reduce debt and simplify AIG as
he focuses on insurance. The transaction needs approval from
U.S. and Chinese regulators.  “It’s a very complicated situation,” Benmosche said at
the conference. “You’re dealing with a complicated property
between two complicated governments.”  AIG slipped the 0.5 percent to $43.90 yesterday, the
second-best performance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Insurance
Index as all 22 companies in the benchmark declined.  The buyers’ missed payment last week may reflect
“administrative” delays in China, rather than unease with the
original deal, Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co., said in a note to investors on June 2.  ‘Strategic Logic’  “The strategic logic for a re-purposed ILFC as a Chinese
air lessor and long-term champion of Chinese manufacturers
remains clear,” he wrote. “ILFC should benefit from lower
funding costs from domestic Chinese lenders and, as a Chinese
firm, ILFC should capture an even greater share of  China ’s
rapidly growing airplane leasing demand.”  Steven Lipin at Brunswick Group, a spokesman for the
Chinese buyers, didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for
comment about why the deposit was delayed and the prospects for
completing the deal. AIG’s Jim Ankner declined to comment.  ILFC has been one of the hardest assets to sell since 2008
when the insurer began divesting units to repay a U.S. bailout.
AIG said in 2011 that it could cut its stake through an initial
public offering, and Benmosche said June 4 that an IPO was an
option if the China deal collapsed.  Benmosche is seeking to return capital to shareholders
after repaying the government last year. He has said that he
first needs to focus on reducing the costs tied to borrowing
funds. ILFC had about $24.1 billion in debt as of March 31 and
owned or operated a fleet of about 1,000 aircraft, according to
a regulatory filing.  ‘Other Hurdles’  The payment of the deposit is a “positive step,” wrote
 Jay Gelb , an analyst at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , in a note that said the
bank has a 19.5 percent stake in New China Trust. “That said,
it remains unclear whether other hurdles, such as required
regulatory approval, remain outstanding.  Five-year credit-default swaps tied to the plane lessor’s
debt climbed 18.8 basis points to a mid-price of 318.5 basis
points at 5:02 p.m. in  New York  yesterday, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. That means it would cost the equivalent
of $318,500 annually to protect $10 million of obligations for
five years. Swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  