-- Mali’s Army Prepares to Seize Touareg-Held Town of Kidal
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-06-05T12:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/mali-s-army-prepares-to-seize-touareg-held-town-of-kidal-1-.html
Mali ’s army is preparing to take back
control of the town of Kidal after allegations of ethnic
cleansing by Touareg insurgents holding the area.  Troops will attack Kidal, 1,542 kilometers (958 miles)
northeast of the capital, Bamako, “within days” to restore
government authority after at least two “dark-skinned” Malians
were killed and an unknown number of people expelled, the prime
minister’s office said yesterday in a statement citing
Communications Minister Manga Dembele. The main Touareg militant
group denied the allegations of ethnic cleansing.  Malian soldiers clashed with insurgents in the smaller,
Touaerg-dominated town of Anefis, 112 kilometers south of Kidal,
army spokesman Modibo Traore said by phone today. It’s too early
to give details of the fighting, he said.  Negotiations over Kidal have failed to resolve differences
between Mali’s government and Touareg separatists, who last year
collaborated with Islamist militants to seize most of northern
Mali before  France  intervened to quash the rebellion.  Mali says it can’t organize elections next month if Kidal
remains under the control of insurgents. The government extended
the state of emergency in the country until July 5, after which
electoral campaigning can start, according to a statement
released today.  Ethnic Cleansing  The allegations of ethnic cleansing aren’t true, the
Touareg-led  Movement for the Liberation of Azawad , known by its
French acronym MNLA, said today in a statement on its website.  The group said it arrested 180 people in Kidal after
noticing “unusual movements of groups of people”. Twenty men
suspected of working for Mali’s secret service will be held
while the remaining 160, “not being Touareg,” will be be sent
out of town, the group added.  The Touareg are a generally light-skinned nomadic people
inhabiting the arid Sahel region extending across Mali, Niger,
Algeria and  Mauritania . French President  Francois Hollande , who
ordered the armed intervention in January, has pushed Mali’s
interim government to grant the Touareg a degree of self-rule.  As many as 11,200 United Nations peacekeepers and a special
counterterrorist unit are being deployed to Mali to take over
the fight against Islamic insurgents from France.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Amsterdam at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  