-- Alliance Bank Sees Deal on Capital Norms as Fitch Warns on Debt
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2013-06-05T05:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/alliance-bank-sees-deal-on-capital-norms-as-fitch-warns-on-debt.html
Alliance Bank, the Kazakh lender that
 Fitch Ratings  said faces a possibility of a new debt
restructuring, is counting on a “special agreement” with the
country’s regulator to avoid breaching new  capital requirements .  The Kazakh central bank has ordered domestic lenders to use
international financial reporting standards to calculate loan-loss reserves, Almaty-based Alliance said in its 2012 audited
financial results  published  yesterday. While the regulations
haven’t come into force yet, the bank will need to increase
reserves after switching to the new rules based on its results
for last year, according to the statement.  Fitch, which downgraded Alliance’s credit rating one step
to CCC on May 24, said that its  “understanding” is the
regulator may no longer accept the bank’s insufficient level of
capitalization “beyond the near term,” indicating that a new
debt overhaul is possible if parent company Samruk-Kazyna fails
to sell the bank “in reasonably short order.”  After holding consultations with the central bank,
Alliance’s management won reassurances that a “special
agreement” will keep it in compliance with prudential norms,
the bank said. “If such a deal will be reached, management
believes it will be in place at least until the bank will be
sold to a new non-state owner, with which the regulator will
discuss a detailed recapitalization plan,” Alliance said.  Alliance was the first Kazakh lender to default in 2009
after government-appointed managers found $1.1 billion of
liabilities that weren’t reflected on its balance sheet. Samruk-Kazyna, which holds the state’s stakes in Temirbank and
Alliance, the country’s eighth- and 13th-largest banks by
assets, has been considering their merger as it prepares to sell
the two lenders it acquired in bailouts.  Kazakh billionaire Bulat Utemuratov is considering an
acquisition of Alliance and Temirbank from the country’s
government, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter.  Alliance Bank is in talks with the regulator on the timing
and conditions of its shift to the new requirements, the lender
said by e-mail without elaborating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  