-- Ambani Said to Seek 40% Revenue Outside Energy: Corporate India
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-06-06T10:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ambani-said-to-seek-40-revenue-outside-energy-corporate-india.html
Mukesh Ambani , the world’s richest
energy billionaire, is seeking to increase the share of his
group’s revenue from new ventures in telecommunications and
retail to as much as 40 percent, said a company official with
knowledge of the plan.  Mumbai-based  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which made about 97
percent of its 3.97 trillion rupee ($70 billion) revenue from
refining, petrochemicals and natural gas exploration in the year
ended March 31, is looking for new ways to tap rising incomes in
 India , the person said, asking not to be identified because the
plan isn’t public. The person didn’t disclose by when the
company intends to achieve its goal.  Ambani, faced with declining gas output, has started
selling Kenneth Cole apparel,  Steve Madden (SHOO)  footwear and Hamleys
toys and plans to offer fourth-generation, or 4G, data services
to tap business from middle-class consumers that
PricewaterhouseCoopers forecasts will number more than 570
million by 2021. Reliance plans to spend $26 billion over the
next three years to expand all its businesses, Ambani told
shareholders in Mumbai today.  “Reliance is seeking to benefit from growing consumerism
in India,” said R.K. Gupta, who helps oversee about $864
million as a New Delhi-based managing director at Taurus Asset
Management Ltd. “It’s important for Reliance to diversify into
unrelated businesses so it can hedge its risks and avoid
possible crises in the future.”  Reliance Industries’ spokesman Tushar Pania didn’t reply to
an e-mail and didn’t answer a call seeking comment on the
company’s revenue target from telecommunications and retail.  Prior Experience  Ambani, 56, plans to start a 4G broadband service before
the financial year ends on March 31, the person said. Ambani,
worth $21.6 billion according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index , has prior experience in the phone business. In 2002, the
year Reliance Industries also discovered a natural gas deposit
off India’s east coast, he unveiled a mobile-phone service,
which became India’s third-largest by number of users in 2005.  That year, Mukesh split the Reliance group with his younger
brother  Anil Ambani , 54, following a public feud over ownership
after their father died intestate three years earlier. As part
of the division of businesses, Mukesh ceded control of the
telecommunications business to Anil along with power and
financial services. Mukesh kept oil and petrochemicals.  In May 2010, the first sign of a rapprochement between the
Ambani brothers emerged when they agreed to scrap agreements
that prevented them from competing in similar businesses.  Buying Airwaves  Unshackled from pacts that prevented him from returning to
telecommunications, Mukesh entered the business again. A month
after the pact with his brother, Reliance Industries  paid  48
billion rupees for control of Infotel Broadband Services Ltd.,
hours after the company won nationwide 4G airwaves in a
government auction for 128.5 billion rupees. In comparison,
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  paid 116.2 billion rupees that year for 3G
spectrum in nine service areas that covered 60 percent of its
subscribers.  “In continuing to hold a bullish view about the potential
of the Indian digital market, many may well count me among the
optimistic minority in the industry,” Ambani said today. “Let
me assure skeptics that my continued optimism is based on the
significant strides that we at Reliance have taken in the past
year.”  The company has tested its broadband network and finalized
agreements with vendors and suppliers in the past year, Ambani
said. Unit Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd. will have 10,000 employees
by next year from 3,000 at present, he said.  Sharing Network  Mukesh and Anil signed their first business agreement since
the split when Mukesh agreed to use his younger brother’s fiber
optic network for his 4G wireless service two months ago.
Reliance Jio agreed to pay Anil’s  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) 
12 billion rupees to use the latter’s intra-city infrastructure.
The companies plan more agreements to share networks between
cities in India and phone towers.  Still, Mukesh will have to convince consumers to use his
high-speed service in a country where only 3 percent of mobile-phone industry revenue comes from 3G data, according to a Credit
Suisse Group AG report.  “3G penetration in India is still in single digits and I’m
not expecting any significant numbers of subscribers to jump on
for at least two more years,” said Nitin Soni, a Singapore-based associate director at  Fitch Ratings . “3G has to become
profitable before people will spring for 4G services, which is
still in its infancy.”  ‘Pampered Baby’  Reliance Industries shares  declined  1.3 percent to 792
rupees at the close in Mumbai. They have lost 5.7 percent this
year, compared with a 0.5 percent advance for the benchmark S&P
BSE  Sensex. (SENSEX)   The company’s  operating margin , or operating income as a
percentage of total revenue, reached 5.58 percent in the year
ended March 31, the lowest in at least 10 years. Reliance
Industries earned 71 percent of its revenue from selling oil
products and 23 percent from petrochemicals in the year ended
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Telecom has always been the pampered baby for Mukesh
Ambani and his father before him,” said K.K. Mital, a New
Delhi-based fund manager with Globe Capital Market Ltd., which
owns Reliance Industries shares. “The company has previous
experience in telecom and investing their large cash in
businesses that will improve the return on equity, even if on
unrelated businesses, is welcome.”  Return on Equity  The company’s  return  on common equity fell for the third
straight year to 11.88 percent in the 12 months ended March 31.
Reliance had cash and equivalent of 829.8 billion rupees
invested in  bank deposits , mutual funds and  government
securities , as of March 31. That surpassed 724.3 billion rupees
of  debt outstanding .  Ambani is betting his retail ventures may help boost
returns. Reliance Retail Ltd., which operates hypermarkets,
grocery stores and sells electronic goods and jewelery through
branded shops, made a cash profit for the first time since its
debut in 2006, according to an April 16 statement.  “This milestone is a significant step in our journey
toward attaining our strategic vision,” Ambani said.  Ambani said in his annual speech to shareholders last year
he is targeting a fivefold increase in retail sales to 500
billion rupees by 2016. Revenue from retail rose 42 percent to
108 billion rupees in the year ended March 31, compared with a
year earlier, according to Reliance’s latest  annual report .  Reliance, which operates about 1,500 retail outlets in 130
cities, is seeking to open more stores as he estimates the
market will almost double to $850 billion by 2020 from $435
billion in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Kartikay Mehrotra in New Delhi at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  