-- Man. City Agrees to Sign Brazilian Fernandinho: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-05T07:13:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/man-city-agrees-to-sign-brazilian-fernandinho-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  City Signing  Manchester City agreed on a deal to sign Fernandinho from
Shakhtar Donetsk after reaching a compromise on the Brazilian
midfielder’s buy-out clause of 42.5 million pounds ($65.1
million), the  Daily Telegraph reported .  City monitored Fernandinho, 28, throughout last season, and
the player has made it clear that he wants to move to improve
his chances of getting selected in  Brazil ’s squad for next
year’s World Cup, the newspaper added.  Ronaldo Pursuit  Manchester United increased its efforts to sign Cristiano Ronaldo, whom it sold to Real Madrid for 80 million pounds in
2009, the  Sun reported .  The Red Devils are prepared to offer Real 65 million pounds
plus a player to bring back the Portuguese forward, who is said
to be keen on the move and has put his house in Madrid up for
sale, the Sun added.  Ronaldo has two years left on his contract with the Spanish
club and has said he won’t sign a new one, meaning Real will
have to trade him either this offseason or next to recoup a
large portion of the world record transfer fee it paid four
years ago, the  Daily Express reported .  Evra Exit?  United left-back Patrice Evra may be sold to his former
club  Monaco  to help fund a move for Everton’s Leighton Baines,
the  Daily Mirror reported .  Monaco, which already spent 115 million pounds on Radamel Falcao, James Rodriguez and Joao Moutinho since winning
promotion to  France ’s Ligue 1, is ready to continue its spree
with a 10 million-pound bid for Evra that United would be
unlikely to reject, the Mirror added.  Bayern Wants Suarez  Bayern Munich wants to sign Liverpool striker Luis Suarez
and is ready to offer Dutch forward Arjen Robben as part of a
deal, the  Sun reported .  The German club’s negotiating position may be strengthened
because new Bayern coach Pep Guardiola’s brother, Pere, is
Suarez’s agent, the Sun added.  Benteke Bid  Tottenham offered cash and England striker Jermain Defoe in
exchange for Aston Villa’s Christian Benteke, the  Daily Mirror
reported .  Benteke scored 19 league goals in his debut season in
English soccer. The Belgian forward is also a target for
Atletico  Madrid , which would pay 25 million pounds to sign him,
according to the Mirror.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  