-- Man Group Slides as AHL Decline Leads UBS to Cut Rating
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-06-05T15:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/man-tumbles-as-ahl-performance-leads-ubs-to-cut-rating-on-stock.html
Man Group Plc , the world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge fund manager, tumbled the most in almost
two years after  UBS AG  analysts cut their rating on the stock,
citing a decline in performance at its $16.3 billion AHL fund.  “Man Group remains highly dependent on AHL, which has had
a 12 percent pullback from its recent peak, leading to a
significant cut to earnings, but also reducing the probability
of flows turning,”  Arnaud Giblat , a London-based analyst at
UBS, wrote in a note to clients today. He cut his rating on the
stock to neutral from buy.  The shares closed at 97.05 pence in London, down 16.7
percent on the day, the biggest drop since September 2011.
Still, the stock is up 17 percent this year, valuing the company
at 1.8 billion pounds ($2.8 Billion).  AHL , Man Group’s largest hedge fund, fell about 8.7 percent
in May as the biggest one-day plunge in Japanese stocks since
the 2011 earthquake and uncertainty over how long the U.S.
Federal Reserve will maintain its record stimulus roiled
financial markets. Man Group had previously rallied after AHL
made money for six straight months through April and investors
anticipated that the ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Peter Clarke  might trigger cost cuts and a strategy overhaul.  ‘Risk Appetite’  Man Group has a “strong distribution” in Japan, which
accounted for about 15 percent of assets under management at the
end of 2012, Giblat wrote. Market turmoil in the world’s third-biggest economy could hurt Man Group’s ability to sell
investment products, as “risk appetite may have been negatively
impacted by the recent bout of volatility,” he said.  Giblat said that a 1 percent drop in AHL’s investment
performance reduces earnings by 6 percent.  AHL, which relies on computer algorithms to follow
profitable trends in the prices of  stocks , bonds, currencies and
oil, accounts for more than a quarter of London-based Man
Group’s $54.8 billion of assets under management. May was the
 fund’s  worst month since October 2002, cutting gains for all of
2013 to 0.9 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hedge funds tied to AHL are now 13 percent below their
high-water marks on average,  Peter Lenardos , an analyst at RBC
Capital Markets in London, wrote in a note to clients yesterday.
The high-water mark is the level at which fund managers can
charge investors lucrative performance fees.  Man Group paid $1.6 billion in 2010 for London-based hedge
fund and investment firm GLG Partners Inc. to make the company
less reliant on AHL.  Emmanuel Roman , 49, who replaced Clarke as
CEO in February, joined the firm as part of the GLG purchase.  Clients pulled a net $3.7 billion from Man Group’s
investment funds in the first quarter, the seventh consecutive
quarterly outflow. Assets under management have slid 23 percent
from $71 billion at the end of June 2011. Clients started
pulling money in the third quarter of 2011 to reduce market risk
amid the European sovereign debt crisis and as Man Group hedge
funds posted losses.  David Waller , a spokesman for Man Group, declined to
comment on the UBS ratings cut and AHL’s performance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  