-- Anti-EU Sentiment Increases as Britons Demand Exit, Poll Shows
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-06-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/anti-eu-sentiment-increases-as-britons-demand-exit-poll-shows.html
Rising anti-European Union sentiment
and the threat that Britain will quit the bloc may boost
nationalist candidates in next year’s European Parliament
elections, a poll showed.  Pluralities in six countries said things are going in the
“wrong direction” in the EU, with a majority in the U.K.
favoring a pullout from the bloc if a referendum were held now,
Gallup Europe said.  EU Parliament  balloting in May 2014 risks “the strong
mobilization of voters in favor of radical nationalist and anti-EU parties, which could result in a drastic change in the
landscape of European democracy,” Gallup Europe said in a
statement in Brussels today.  Economic ills and a sense of “disconnect” between the
people and EU politicians are likely to depress turnout, making
it easier for well-organized anti-EU forces to make inroads in
the election, the pollsters said.  Gallup’s numbers showed that 55 percent in the U.K. would
opt to leave the EU in a referendum with only 25 percent
preferring to stay, a far wider margin for the “no” camp than
in recent British polls.  British “no” voters eked out a 51 percent to 49 percent
edge in a June 1-3 Survation Ltd. poll for  Sky News . A ComRes
Ltd. survey conducted May 22-24 yielded 41 percent wanting to go
and 37 percent in favor of staying in.  One indication of the pan-European mood was that  France 
delivered the highest “wrong direction” number, 62 percent.
That topped the 56 percent in Britain who were dissatisfied with
the EU.  Gallup Europe surveyed at least 750 people in  Denmark ,
France,  Germany , the Netherlands,  Poland  and the U.K. in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  