-- Apple Getting Ahead of Legal System to Contain Ban Damage
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-06-05T23:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/apple-getting-ahead-of-legal-system-to-contain-ban-damage.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s first U.S.
patent victory over  Apple Inc (AAPL)  may prove fleeting if the iPhone
maker rolls out new products before the government’s ban on
older devices takes effect.  Apple has several avenues to string out, if not eliminate,
damage from an import ban  ordered  by a U.S. trade panel
yesterday on devices including the iPhone 4 and iPad 2 3G. It
can appeal to President  Barack Obama  and an appeals court, and
lobby Customs officials charged with enforcing import bans.  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS)  and two regional carriers
selling the offending devices have been offering the iPhone 5,
which isn’t covered by the import ban, since last year and a new
model is expected out later this year. When Samsung filed its
complaint in June 2011, it targeted the iPhone 3G, iPhone 3GS
and iPad 3G -- none of which are sold anymore. Apple usually
discontinues older models when it introduces a new one.  “In the high-tech space, product development rolls out so
fast that legal losses aren’t necessarily devastating,” said
Paul Berghoff, a founding partner at McDonnell Boehnen Hulbert &
Berghoff in  Chicago  who’s been watching the cases.  The iPhone 4 and iPad 2 3G, offered as entry-level products
to lure in people that Apple hopes to convert into long-term
customers, were found by the U.S. International Trade Commission
to infringe a Samsung patent for a way data is transmitted over
networks.  In an April 10 filing with the ITC, Samsung estimated an
import ban against Apple would impact about 1.4 percent of the
smartphones and 2.7 percent of the tablet computers sold in the
U.S. While Samsung is the world’s biggest smartphone maker,
Apple dominates in the U.S.  Personal Touch  T-Mobile said yesterday it “doesn’t anticipate any impact
of current and future supply of Apple devices.” AT&T said it
expects “minimal, if any, impact for customers wanting an
iPhone 4 or iPad 2.”  The Cupertino, California-based Apple has indicated it
won’t give up without a fight, even if only a few of the models
it currently sells are blocked.  Apple’s first stop will be the White House, where Obama,
who was given an iPad by Apple’s late co-founder  Steve Jobs , has
the power to overturn any import ban on public policy grounds.
Historically, presidents haven’t stepped in and instead have
allowed them to take effect after the 60-day review period ends.  Apple’s Appeal  “If you can get the president to act, the rest would be
unnecessary,” said Susan Kohn Ross, a trade lawyer with
Mitchell Silberberg & Knupp in  Los Angeles . “The question is,
why would he get involved?”  Apple’s chief executive officer,  Tim Cook , sat next to
First Lady  Michelle Obama  at the president’s  State of the Union 
address in February and contributed $2,300 to Obama’s 2008
presidential campaign.  On the other side, Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is the
pride of a nation forging closer economic ties with the U.S.,
including a free trade agreement signed in March 2012 and a
pledge to stand together against threats from  North Korea .  Apple said it will appeal the ITC ruling to the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington . The court,
which handles all patent appeals, is already considering one
issue central to yesterday’s ruling -- whether products can be
blocked for infringing patents tied to industry standards they
must follow -- in a dispute involving Apple and Google Inc.’s
Motorola Mobility.  “They’ve got some fairly significant arguments they can
make about irreparable harm,” Ross said.  The court may let the ban take effect since there are no
public health or safety concerns, Berghoff said. “These are
smartphones,” he said. “They are essential to our lives in one
respect, but if the older models are cut off from the market, I
don’t know that would affect the greater good.”  Border Police  Even if the import ban goes into effect, enforcing it could
be difficult.  Patent and trade lawyers who’ve handled similar cases
describe a process in which officials at  U.S. Customs  and  Border
Protection  trained to keep out terrorists and undocumented
immigrants must parse technical details of patents covering
complex electronics. Customs has in the past allowed offending
products to slip through while blocking products that weren’t
part of ban orders.  In this case, Customs would have to distinguish between
devices with chips made by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  that run on an industry
standard known as GSM, or global system for mobile
communications, from phones with differing  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) 
technology that aren’t banned.  Unexpected Outcomes  The ban also doesn’t cover Apple’s most recent and most
popular products -- the iPhone 5, iPad mini and fourth-generation iPad.  “Customs is going to have its hands full looking at
documents and looking at cargo,” Ross said. “It is not
terribly good in distinguishing different types of technology.”  The ITC is gathering comments on the effectiveness of its
orders, and Obama June 4 also called for a review of the
process. It was part of a broader policy statement on efforts to
curb abusive patent litigation.  Any delay gives Apple a chance to try to get the ruling
overturned as it tries to work out a deal with its rival and
prepares to start selling its next models.  The ruling adds to challenges Cook has faced since
succeeding Jobs as head of the world’s largest technology
company. The iPhone maker has faced criticism about its tax and
China labor practices. Apple stock has fallen more than 35
percent since a September high as investors await new products,
including the new iPhone.  ‘Sumo Wrestlers’  Under a cease and desist order, Apple won’t be able to sell
imported phones covered under the ITC order that are already in
the U.S. and not yet in the hands of consumers.  Apple asked for a five-month delay in the imposition of any
import ban. Though the commission’s full opinion isn’t public,
it gave no indication it would grant that request in the notice
published yesterday.  “What inevitably happens is the two players are like sumo
wrestlers,” Berghoff said. “They just beat each other until
they both collapse and fall to the ground and work out a
settlement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  