-- Argentine Tax Amnesty Won’t Revive Housing Market, Survey Shows
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-05T17:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/argentine-tax-amnesty-won-t-revive-housing-market-survey-shows.html
A dollar-denominated central bank
certificate created to encourage the investment of undeclared
funds in Argentina’s flagging real estate market will fail to
reverse a decline in transactions, according to 67 percent of
respondents in a survey by  website  Reporte Inmobiliario.  About 30 percent of the 984 people questioned said the new
instrument, created to inject funds that hadn’t been declared to
the Argentine tax agency into the economy, will help boost
property purchases.  Real estate transactions plunged since President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner tightened controls on the foreign exchange
market after being re-elected in October 2011. She banned
purchases of dollars for savings and for real estate
transactions, which traditionally are carried out in greenbacks,
Reporte Inmobiliario director Jose Rozados said on the website.  Last year “was the worse since 1980 in real estate
transactions in the city of Buenos Aires,” Rozados said.  Sales in the city fell 48 percent in the first quarter from
the same period two years earlier, before access to dollars was
restricted, according to the capital’s public notaries’ college.
Construction activity has fallen in 11 of the past 13 months on
a year-on-year basis, government data show.  Last week, Congress approved legislation that pardons tax
dodgers who invest their undeclared funds in either the
construction industry by using the central bank certificates or
buy bonds that will be used to finance increased oil and gas
production.  The government says the legislation will help bring part of
the $160 billion Argentines hide from the authorities into the
economy.  While the peso fell 7.1 percent this year to 5.2915 per
dollar today, the currency in the illegal market fell 20 percent
to 8.54 per dollar, according to Ambito Financiero website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  