-- Las Vegas Sands’ Stock Buyback Firms Cash-Return Pledge
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-06-05T21:18:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/las-vegas-sands-stock-buyback-firms-cash-return-pledge.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the largest
U.S.-based casino company, said it will repurchase $2 billion in
stock, furthering founder  Sheldon Adelson ’s stated goal to
return cash to shareholders.  Adelson, the Las Vegas-based company’s billionaire chairman
and chief executive officer, announced the multiyear buyback at
the company’s annual meeting today in  New York , without giving
details.  The move follows approval earlier today from Macau’s
government for the company to sell Four Seasons co-ops at its
unit that operates casinos in the Chinese territory. Sands was
considering a special dividend or a stock buyback, people with
knowledge of the situation said in April. Adelson confirmed in
May that the company was weighing such a move.  Approval to sell the Four Seasons units, which have already
been built, indicate an improving business environment for the
company in the Chinese territory, Adelson said. Sands last year
took a $100.7 million charge on parcels that it failed to get
approval to build on.  “I think that finally getting the Four Seasons okay
signals a re-examination, on the positive side, of our
relationship with the Macau government,” Adelson said at the
meeting, which was broadcast on the company’s website.  Casino Licenses  Sands will also sell residential units at its St. Regis and
Parisian hotels in Macau, which are under construction, Adelson
said. The sale of co-ops and retail properties are part of a
strategy to raise funds to pay for casino and convention center
development.  The company is continuing to pursue casino licenses in
Japan and  Spain , he said. Continued negotiations with the
Spanish government will depend on whether a smoking ban will be
lifted and whether online gaming is allowed to continue in the
country.  “There’s no benefit to our society to have internet
gaming,” Adelson said. “If I look at the reaction to the land-based casino, it’s either flat or going down. We can’t live with
that.”  Sands is not interested in pursuing a casino license in New
York because the tax rates being discussed are too high and the
locations in the northern part of the state being offered by
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  are not populated enough to give the
company adequate returns on its investment, Adelson said.  Investment Trust  The company will consider the idea of spinning off some of
its properties into a real estate investment trust to boost its
stock price, however, Adelson said he wasn’t convinced such a
structure would work for him.  “If somebody else owned our real estate assets, our
hotels, our exhibition and convention center then we’d be
hampered somewhat in our ability to expand and to accommodate
our customers’ needs,” he said.  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN) , the operator of 29 casinos and
racetracks, announced a plan in November to split into two
public companies this year by placing most of its properties
into a REIT to be owned by existing shareholders. Other casino
companies will probably consider similar moves to free up
capital,  Joseph Greff , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, said at
the time.  Sands fell 1.9 percent to $57.35 at the close in New York,
after climbing as much as 2.3 percent after buyback plan was
announced. The stock has risen 24 percent this year through
today, compared with a gain of 13 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  