-- Asian Stocks Fall as Japan Reverses Gain After Abe Speech
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-06-05T10:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/asian-stocks-fall-as-health-care-finance-lead-loss.html
Asian  stocks  fell, led by Japanese
equities, after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe failed to impress
investors in a speech outlining his growth strategy. Shares
dropped across the region amid concern the Federal Reserve will
scale back stimulus as the U.S. economy improves.  Japan’s Topix index slid 3.2 percent, reversing a gain of
1.2 percent, after Abe’s speech in Tokyo.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
Australia’s No. 2 lender by market value, fell 2.6 percent,
pacing declines among financial shares after the nation’s
economy grew less than expected.  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) ,
the world’s No. 1 maker of polysilicon used in solar panels,
rose 6.1 percent in Hong Kong after the European Union imposed
smaller-than-expected tariffs on panels from  China .  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.8 percent to 132.26 as
of 7:42 p.m. in Tokyo, heading for the lowest close since Feb.
5. Four stocks fell for each that rose and all 10 industry
groups on the gauge dropped. The measure is down 8.5 percent
from this year’s high on May 20.  “Shares are being sold because Abe’s plan didn’t have any
surprises that meet overblown expectations in the market, while
it points in the right direction,” said Takahiro Nakano, a
Tokyo-based senior strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a
unit of  Japan ’s third-largest bank by market value. “The Fed
has started leveling the ground toward scaling back quantitative
easing. The market dynamics are changing after rising on
monetary policy.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 4.1 percent this year
through yesterday. The measure yesterday traded for 13.1 times
average estimated earnings, compared with 14.8 for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index and 13.2 times for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regional Gauges  The Topix is down about 15 percent from an almost five-year
high on May 22. It is still up 27 percent this year, making it
the best-performing developed market in local currency terms, on
optimism the nation can emerge from 15 years of deflation.  Australia ’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  slumped 1.3 percent as a
report showed the economy grew 0.6 percent last quarter from the
previous three months, below the 0.7 percent median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
slipped 0.5 percent and  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index fell 1.5
percent.  South Korea’s Kospi index dropped 1.5 percent and  Taiwan ’s
Taiex Index shed 0.1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
declined 1 percent and China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.1
percent.  Growth Plan  A gauge of consumer discretionary companies in the Asia-Pacific index has led  gains this year  as Japanese shares have
rallied on the back of a weaker yen and the promise of policies
to end deflation. Energy companies recorded the biggest declines
amid concern that China’s demand for fuel will decline as
economic growth slows.  In Japan, Abe pledged a legislative campaign to loosen
rules on businesses ranging from non-prescription drugs to
construction.  Laws won’t be enacted until autumn at the earliest, which
means he’s putting off taking on vested interests until after
next month’s election for the upper house of parliament. The
growth strategy, which is to be detailed next week, is the
“third arrow” of Abe’s economic revival plan to accompany
fiscal and monetary stimulus.  “We’re going to have to reduce our expectations for
Abenomics,” said  Ayako Sera , a strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Bank Ltd., which has the equivalent of $325 billion in
assets. “The initiatives are too small. The direction is right,
but the comments are all long-term. It looks like things are
going to move too slowly.”  Exporters Slide  Japanese exporters dropped as the yen gained against 15 of
its 16 major counterparts following Abe’s speech. Toyota Motor
Corp., the world’s biggest carmaker, dropped 3.4 percent to
5,730 yen and TV maker  Sony Corp. (6758)  slid 5 percent to 1,908 yen.  Futures on the S&P 500 declined 0.5 percent today after the
gauge dropped 0.6 percent yesterday in New York. The S&P 500 has
alternated between gains and losses for the past seven sessions
as Fed policy makers continue to debate when to begin reducing
monetary stimulus.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist  Jan Hatzius  and Joseph
Lavorgna at Deutsche Bank AG predicted the Fed may begin to
taper bond purchases beginning in September. The U.S. central
bank is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage bonds each
month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs under its
quantitative-easing strategy.  Australian banks fell. Westpac declined 2.6 percent to
A$28.19.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , Australia’s biggest
lender by market value, fell 1.3 percent to A$66.25.  Among stocks that gained, GCL-Poly Energy rose 6.1 percent
to HK$1.92 in Hong Kong after Europe decided to impose tariffs
on solar panels from China, with an initial rate of 11.8 percent
The rate comes as a relief to Chinese producers that were
anticipating steeper penalties, said Angelo Zino, an analyst at
Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  