-- Asian Stock Futures Decline as U.S. Jobs Report Misses Estimates
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-06-05T23:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/asian-stock-futures-decline-as-u-s-jobs-report-misses-estimates.html
Stock futures in  Japan , Hong Kong and
 Australia  fell, tracking declines in Europe and U.S. equities,
as American jobs and factory data missed estimates and
investors speculated whether the Federal Reserve will taper bond
purchases.  American Depositary Receipts of Nissan Motor Co., a
Japanese carmaker that gets 80 percent of sales abroad, fell 1
percent from the close in  Tokyo . ADRs of Cathay Pacific Airways
Ltd., Asia’s biggest international carrier, declined 1.2 percent
from the close in Hong Kong. Those of Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s second-largest mining company, retreated 2.5 percent
from the close in Sydney.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring this
month closed at 12,910 in  Chicago  yesterday, down from 12,940 at
the close in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at
12,910 in Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 1 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index fell 0.9 percent.  “There will be a period where markets adjust to the new
reality -- the precursor to eventual tapering from the Fed,”
said  Binay Chandgothia , a Hong Kong-based fund manager at
Principal Global Investors, which has $292 billion. “It’s
impacting sentiment. You’ll have choppiness for some time.”  Futures on Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.7 percent and
contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland
Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong retreated 1 percent. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
shares in the U.S. dropped 1.5 percent in New York yesterday.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1
percent. The gauge yesterday fell 1.4 percent, extending its
decline from May 21 to 3.6 percent. The index last set a record
high on May 21, the day before Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told
Congress that the central bank’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases could be reduced as the jobs outlook “improves in a
real and sustainable way.” Economists at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG have predicted the purchases could be
curbed beginning in September.  Companies in the U.S. hired fewer workers than projected in
May, the ADP Research Institute reported yesterday, while
separate data showed growth in service industries and factory
orders.  Japan’s Topix index is down about 15 percent from an almost
five-year high on May 22. It is still up 27 percent this year,
making it the best-performing developed market in local currency
terms, on optimism the nation can emerge from 15 years of
deflation.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, has declined 8.3 percent through yesterday from
an almost five-year high on May 20, reducing this year’s advance
to 2.3 percent. That left the gauge trading at 12.9 times
average estimated earnings compared with 14.6 for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 13 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  