-- China Huaneng Dollar Bond Sale Lifts Power-Company Debt Fourfold
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   A n u r a g   J o s h i
-- 2013-06-05T05:32:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/asia-pacific-bond-risk-rises-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
China  Huaneng Group Corp.’s U.S.
dollar-denominated offering yesterday helped quadruple sales of
the notes by power companies in China and  Hong Kong  this year.
Bond risk in Asia-Pacific region rose.  The state-owned power generator sold $400 million of five-year 3.375 percent securities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Most of the buyers were based in Asia, with banks contributing
73 percent of the purchases, according to a person familiar with
the matter.  Offerings by Chinese electricity producers and distributors
jumped to $2.4 billion this year, from $600 million in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The companies stepped
up borrowings even as the average yield paid by Asian  utilities 
climbed 39 basis points this year to 5.15 percent yesterday,
reaching the highest since January 2012 a day earlier, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. indexes show.  “From the utilities standpoint, there is slight weakening
in demand in China,” said Rajiv Vishwanathan, a Singapore-based
associate director for credit ratings at  Standard & Poor’s .
“This will not impact the financial metrics of Chinese power
utilities in a big way. Hence, they may be able to get a
favorable pricing as conditions are mostly stable for Asia-Pacific utilities at this point of time.”  China State Grid Corp. is the only other power utility to
sell dollar bonds this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The nation’s largest electricity distributor raised
$2 billion of five-, 10-, and 30-year bonds on May 15. The yield
premium on the May 2023 securities climbed to 143 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries yesterday, from an issue
spread of 130 basis points, the data show.  Bond Risk  The cost of insuring corporate and sovereign bonds against
non-payment in the Asia-Pacific region increased, according to
credit-default swap traders.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 3 basis points to
117 basis points as of 9:55 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show. That brings the benchmark back near the
highest level in two months, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx  Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  advanced 2 to 121 as of 8:44 a.m. in
 Singapore , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show. The
measure has ranged from 99.5 basis points to 122.5 since Dec.
31, according to CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed 1.5 to 92.5 as of
9:18 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc. prices show. The gauge
increased last month for the first time since September, CMA
data show. It tumbled 10.5 yesterday in the sharpest fall in
five months, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private
market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . An increase signals deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness, while a drop suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Anurag Joshi in Mumbai at 
 ajoshi53@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  