-- AT&T Sells $564 Million in Shares of Slim’s America Movil
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-06-06T20:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/at-t-sells-564-million-in-america-movil-stock-to-maintain-stake.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  cut its stake in  America
Movil SAB (AMXL)  by 7.5 percent, raising about $564 million, to keep
its investment steady after billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s company
ramped up share repurchases.  The sale of shares in the open market in Mexico took place
between May 7 and June 4, Dallas-based AT&T said yesterday in a
U.S. regulatory filing. AT&T remains Mexico City-based  America
Movil ’s second-largest shareholder behind the Slim family.
Repurchases this year by Slim’s company, also known as AMX, have
reduced its shares outstanding by about 3.7 percent.  “From time to time we rebalance our asset levels and raise
cash for general corporate purposes,” AT&T said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We’ve historically owned about 9 percent of AMX.
As a result of AMX’s recent share repurchases and our sales, we
will again hold an approximate 9 percent interest in AMX.”  The relationship with America Movil dates back to 1990,
when AT&T’s predecessor, Southwestern Bell Corp., helped back
Slim’s privatization purchase of Mexico’s state-owned phone
company. AT&T Chief Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  spent
an earlier part of his career overseeing the company’s Mexican
investments, working closely with Slim.  “We believe AT&T made the decision to sell in order to
return their ownership stake back closer to 9 percent,” said
Walt Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG LLC, in a research note today.
“We do not expect AT&T to continue their selling.”  America Movil has dropped 16 percent this year in Mexico
City trading as Mexican lawmakers created a new regulator with
tougher powers to challenge the company’s dominance in the phone
business. The carrier has 70 percent of Mexico’s mobile-phone
lines and about 80 percent of landlines.  America Movil rose 2.1 percent to 12.82 pesos at the close
in Mexico City. AT&T climbed 1.6 percent to $35.81 in  New York .  An America Movil press official declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  