-- Audit Finds GSA Managers’ Actions Boosted Contract Prices
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-06-05T14:04:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/audit-finds-gsa-managers-actions-boosted-contract-prices.html
Managers at the U.S. General Services
Administration improperly intervened in decisions to award
contracts, resulting in inflated prices and unfavorable terms
for the government, according to an inspector general’s report.  “Numerous instances” occurred when senior officials at
the agency “overrode contracting officer determinations without
proper justification, pressured contracting officers to extend
or award contracts, and reassigned contracts to different
contracting officers,” according to the  report  released
yesterday.  The actions by GSA managers “undermined the integrity of
the procurement process,” according to the report, which also
said that management conduct “compromised the authority of
contracting officers and adversely affected morale.”  Three contracts held by  Oracle Corp. , Deloitte LLP and
Carahsoft Technology Corp. representing more than $900 million
in government spending in fiscal 2011 were affected by the GSA
managers’ improper actions, the report said.  The inspector general’s findings mark the latest blemish on
the performance of U.S. agencies. Last month, the Internal
Revenue Service disclosed that it had subjected Tea Party groups
seeking tax-exempt status to additional scrutiny, a practice
that’s now the focus of congressional investigations and a
criminal inquiry by the Justice Department.  Direct Communications  At the GSA, which purchases goods and services on behalf of
other branches of the federal government, the Office of
Inspector General’s report follows a scandal last year over
lavish conference spending that resulted in the departure of the
agency’s chief.  The improper actions outlined yesterday by the inspector
general,  Brian Miller , included direct communications between
contractors and senior GSA officials, often without the
knowledge of the employees responsible for the contracts,
according to the report.  Representatives from Redwood Shores, California-based
 Oracle  and Reston, Virginia-based Carahsoft didn’t return
telephone calls seeking comment placed after business hours
yesterday.  ‘Substantial Savings’  Deloitte officials had “just become aware of this IG
report and are trying to understand those conclusions that
pertain to our contract,” Jonathan Gandal, a spokesman at the
New York-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  “We believe our negotiations with GSA were at all times
appropriate and conducted in good faith,” Gandal said. “In
fact, the final negotiated rate structure is significantly lower
than in the previous contract and provides substantial savings
to taxpayers.”  Thomas Sharpe Jr ., commissioner of the Federal Acquisition
Service, the GSA division faulted in the report, said the
findings raise“serious concerns” and that his office has
“already begun taking action” to address them, according to a
letter included in the report.  Sharpe said he has ordered a review of the Deloitte and
Carahsoft contracts to determine if they should be renegotiated
or canceled. A supervisor has been placed on administrative
leave in connection with the report’s findings, he said.  “The agency has already taken action to address the OIG’s
recommendations and will continue working to ensure the
integrity of the procurement process,” Mafara Hobson, a GSA
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Oracle Contract  The Oracle contract, after being extended twice, was
canceled in June 2012, according to the report. A contracting
officer had raised concerns about “high labor rates” and
“unacceptable” terms under the agreement, according to the
inspector general.  The report raises new questions about an agency that was
rocked last year by a scandal over an employee conference near
Las Vegas that featured a clown, mind reader and a $75,000
bicycle-building exercise.  Martha Johnson , then the GSA’s administrator, stepped down
after details of the event surfaced in an inspector general’s
report. She was replaced by  Dan Tangherlini , the agency’s acting
administrator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  