-- Taurus Shuts Gold Fund on Redemptions After Price Tumbles
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2013-06-05T13:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/taurus-shuts-gold-fund-on-redemptions-after-price-tumbles-1-.html
Taurus Funds Management Pty Ltd. shut
its precious metals fund because of investor redemptions after
gold slumped, according to an executive, who said that the
product once held as much as A$250 million ($240 million).  Assets in Taurus Precious Metals peaked last year before
the closure in May,  Gordon Galt , a principal at the Sydney-based
fund manager, said in an interview today, declining to comment
on the level last month. As of February, the fund had invested
mostly in physical gold, according to a report to investors for
that month, which was confirmed by Galt.  Taurus Funds’ decision reflects a shift by some investors
away from bullion and into other assets as signs that the global
economy was recovering drove gold into a bear market while
equities rallied. Withdrawals from gold-backed exchange-traded
products reached a record pace this year, and  Nouriel Roubini 
has forecast that gold may fall toward $1,000 an ounce by 2015.  “We had a number of investors in April and May who decided
to allocate their funds into other sectors,” Galt said. “Given
the reduction in AUM, we decided that it was better to shut the
thing down rather than keep it going,” he said, using the
initials for assets under management. Taurus Precious Metals was
a so-called long-only fund, betting on price increases.  Five people who worked at the fund left, according to Galt.
 Brenton Saunders , who co-managed Taurus Precious Metals,
confirmed his departure in May, and said that he had started at
BT Investment Management Ltd. in Sydney.  Mohendra Moodley , the
other co-manager, said that he left Taurus in April and declined
further comment.  Record Sales  Gold for immediate delivery, which rallied for a 12th year
in 2012, traded at $1,401.70 an ounce at 2:22 p.m. in London
after Singapore after losing 16 percent this year. The price
slumped to $1,321.95 on April 16, the lowest since January 2011.
Investors have sold a net 490 metric tons from ETPs this year,
cutting holdings 19 percent, according to  data compiled  by
Bloomberg.  Taurus Precious Metals also invested in other precious
metals and related equities, according to fund documents. Silver
has lost 26 percent this year as platinum dropped 2.4 percent,
while palladium advanced 6.9 percent.  A lack of inflation and better returns from other assets
such as equities are two of six reasons why gold will trend
lower, according to Roubini, professor of economics and
international business at New York University. Gold will drop as
the economic recovery curbs demand, Roubini wrote in an article
published June 1 on commentary website Project Syndicate.  Soros, Paulson  Billionaire George Soros cut holdings of gold-backed ETPs
in the first quarter, while John Paulson maintained a stake.
Soros Fund Management LLC lowered its investment in the  SPDR
Gold Trust , the biggest such fund, 12 percent to 530,900 shares
as of March 31, compared with three months earlier. Paulson &
Co., the largest investor in SPDR, held 21.8 million shares.  Equities tracked by the  MSCI All-Country World Index  have
advanced 7.5 percent this year as the Standard & Poor’s 500
rallied to a record. In a survey, 54 percent of international
investors said equities will offer the highest returns over the
next year, while more than two in five intend to cut their
exposure to gold over the next six months, according to a
Bloomberg Global Poll published last month.  Taurus Funds, founded in 2006, has two private-equity funds
with combined assets under management of more than A$500
million, according to Galt. The firm specializes in the mining
industry, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  