-- Aussie Dollar Falls as Slowing Growth Stokes RBA Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-06-05T07:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/aussie-dollar-remains-lower-after-biggest-slide-in-seven-weeks.html
Australia’s dollar dropped after a
government report showed growth slowed to the least in almost
two years, fueling expectations the  Reserve Bank  will cut
borrowing costs.  New Zealand ’s dollar advanced against the Aussie for a
second day after the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said the smaller nation will need to raise  interest
rates  later this year. The Australian currency extended its
biggest slide in seven weeks versus the greenback amid
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will taper stimulus.  “When the weakness of Australia’s domestic demand is
highlighted just like today, people can’t shake off the
possibility of an additional rate cut,” said Masashi Murata, a
currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co.
“The Aussie’s over-valuation can be seen in various
indicators.”  Australia’s dollar dropped 0.8 percent to 95.74 U.S. cents
as of 5:04 p.m. in Sydney after sliding 1.2 percent yesterday,
the most since April 15. It weakened 0.5 percent to NZ$1.1975.
The kiwi declined 0.4 percent to 79.86 U.S. cents.  The Aussie fell 1.3 percent to 95.24 yen, the weakest since
March 5. New Zealand’s currency declined 0.8 percent to 79.57
yen.  Australia’s  gross domestic product  expanded 2.5 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau
said today. It’s the slowest pace since the period ended June
2011 and compared with the 2.7 percent growth estimated by
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  RBA Outlook  The  Reserve Bank of Australia  kept the overnight cash-rate
target at a record-low 2.75 percent yesterday, saying the
inflation outlook may provide some scope for further easing if
needed. The  exchange rate  “remains high considering the decline
in export prices that has taken place over the past year and a
half,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a statement.  The Aussie is third-most overvalued against the  U.S. dollar 
among 12 major currencies, according to data compiled by the
OECD. It’s 29 percent stronger than the estimated value based on
gaps in consumer prices among different countries, compared with
the kiwi’s 16 percent overvaluation, the OECD figures show.  ‘Economic Slack’  New Zealand’s currency climbed earlier against most of its
major counterparts after the Paris-based OECD said in its
biannual survey of the nation that “economic slack” will
dissipate over 2013 to 2014 and, as inflation pressures emerge,
monetary stimulus should then be gradually removed.  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  kept the official cash rate
at an all-time low of 2.5 percent in April.  In the U.S., ADP Research Institute will probably say today
the pace of hiring quickened by 46,000 jobs to 165,000 in May
from the previous month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News . Fed Bank of Kansas City
President Esther George urged the U.S. central bank yesterday to
reduce its $85 billion in monthly bond buying.  “The talk about U.S. quantitative easing possibly ending
or being tapered -- that’s really put downward pressure on the
Aussie,” said Janu Chan, a Sydney-based economist at St. George
Bank Ltd.  The yield on Australia’s benchmark 10-year government note
fell five basis points to 3.39 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  