-- Australia’s Slowest Growth Since ’11 Spurs Rate-Cut Bet: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-06-05T07:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/australia-economy-grows-less-than-forecast-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Australia ’s economy expanded at the
slowest annual pace in almost two years as manufacturers and
builders detracted from growth, sending the nation’s currency
lower as traders increased bets on further interest-rate cuts.  Gross domestic product  expanded 2.5 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the weakest reading since the
second quarter of 2011, a Bureau of Statistics report released
in Sydney today showed. Economists predicted a 2.7 percent gain.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia has slashed borrowing costs
to 2.75 percent to combat currency strength that prompted Ford
Motor Co. to cease operations and eliminate 1,200 jobs. Today’s
report showed some of the nation’s most employment-intensive
industries that the central bank has sought to stoke with
record-low  interest rates  remain subdued.  “You’ve got a much lower reading coming out of what you
might call the guts of the economy than you’ve got coming out of
the total economy,” National Australia Bank Ltd. Chief
Economist  Alan Oster  said. “I still think they’ve got one more
rate cut.”  The local dollar declined to 95.61 U.S. cents at 5:06 p.m.
in Sydney, from 96.35 cents before the release. Overnight index
swaps show a 63 percent chance the RBA rate will be 2.5 percent
or lower after the board meets Aug. 6, up from 49 percent odds
shown at 11 a.m. in Sydney.  Growth advanced 0.6 percent from the previous three months,
when it expanded at the same pace, today’s report showed. The
result compared with the median of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey  for a 0.7 percent gain.  Manufacturing Drag  Manufacturing fell 0.8 percent amid the local currency’s
longest stretch above parity with the  U.S. dollar  since it was
freely floated in 1983, and construction dropped 2.1 percent in
the first quarter from three months earlier. Exports climbed 1.1
percent and non-dwelling construction jumped 7.6 percent, the
data showed.  “We are involved in a transition from mining sources of
growth to non-mining sources of growth and that’s why the
monetary policy settings of the Reserve Bank are so important,”
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  told reporters in Canberra after the
release. “I thought the Australian dollar would start to come
down when the  U.S. economy  started to grow more strongly and
indeed that’s largely what has occurred in recent times.”  Household spending rose 0.6 percent in the first quarter,
adding 0.3 percentage point to GDP growth, today’s report
showed. Machinery and equipment fell 6.9 percent, subtracting
0.4 percentage point from GDP growth. Changes in inventories
reduced growth by 0.4 percentage point.  Spending Rises  “Growth is materially below trend, with domestic
expenditure contracting,”  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  economists
including Andrew Hanlan wrote in a research note today. “On
that basis alone, demand is certainly in need of support. That
reinforces our view that in the medium term the cash rate will
have to fall further, ultimately reaching 2 percent.”  The report showed state final demand dropped 3.9 percent in
 Western Australia , the hub of the nation’s mining investment
boom, in the first quarter from three months earlier, and
plunged 10.2 percent in the Northern Territory. In Queensland,
another resource-rich state, demand increased 0.6 percent from
the final three months of 2012.  Elsewhere in the region, services activity in  China ,
Australia’s biggest trading partner, increased in May, according
to a report compiled by Markit. The HSBC China Services PMI rose
to 51.2 last month, compared with 51.1 in April.  More Saving  Taiwan reported inflation eased in May, while Philippine
price gains were less than economists estimated. The European
Union’s statistics office will release revised GDP figures for
the first quarter, while economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast  Poland ’s central bank will cut borrowing costs today.
U.S. data scheduled to be released include April factory orders
and private payrolls for May.  Australia’s household savings ratio rose to 10.6 percent in
the three months through March from a revised 10.4 percent in
the fourth quarter, today’s report showed.  Australia’s currency averaged about $1.03 in the past two
years, compared with about 73 cents in the prior two decades,
spurred by the resource investment boom and near-zero interest
rates in the U.S. and  Japan . The RBA says some of its earlier
rate reductions were aimed to help offset the drag on growth
from the Aussie’s strength.  Ford announced on May 23 it would end production in the
country after nine decades. The closure was a blow to Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard , whose  Labor party  is trailing in polls
ahead of a Sept. 14 election.  The central bank cut its  benchmark rate  to 2.75 percent in
May before pausing at yesterday’s meeting. “Growth over the
past year has been a bit below trend,” Governor  Glenn Stevens 
said in the statement accompanying the rate decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  