-- Rodriguez Among MLB Players Facing Suspension, ESPN Reports
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2013-06-05T15:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/mlb-could-suspend-20-players-including-rodriguez-espn-says-1-.html
Major League Baseball will seek drug
suspensions for about 20 players, including former Most Valuable
Players  Alex Rodriguez  and  Ryan Braun , because of their
connections to a Miami-area clinic,  ESPN reported .  Tony Bosch, founder of the Biogenesis of America LLC clinic
accused by MLB of providing players with banned performance-enhancing drugs, reached an agreement this week to cooperate
with league investigators, ESPN said, citing two unidentified
people familiar with the case.  MLB may seek 100-game suspensions, the penalty for a second
doping offense, because the players’ connection to Bosch is one
offense and previous statements to league officials denying any
such connection or the use of banned substances would be a
second offense, ESPN said.  Spokesman  Pat Courtney  said in an e-mail that MLB had no
comment on the ESPN report “as we are in the midst of an active
investigation.”  Michael Weiner , executive director for the Major League
Baseball Players Association, said the union has been in regular
contact with the office of Commissioner  Bud Selig  regarding the
Biogenesis investigation.  “They are in the process of interviewing players and every
player has been or will be represented by an attorney from the
players association,” Weiner said today in a statement. “The
commissioner’s office has assured us that no decisions regarding
discipline have been made or will be made until those interviews
are completed. It would be unfortunate if anyone prejudged those
investigations.”  MLB Lawsuit  Biogenesis is being sued by MLB for allegedly helping
players obtain banned drugs and damaging the sport’s reputation.
Baseball’s suit says the now-shuttered clinic induced players to
violate contractual obligations.  The Miami New Times reported in January that it had
obtained medical records from Biogenesis linking banned
substances to players including the Yankees’ Rodriguez and
 Nelson Cruz  of the Texas Rangers.  Rodriguez, a three-time American League MVP, and Cruz have
denied the allegations. Rodriguez said in February 2009 that he
took banned substances from 2001-03 when he was with the
Rangers.  Braun, the National League’s MVP in 2011, said in February
that he consulted with Bosch while defending himself against
doping charges last year. Braun, 29, a Milwaukee Brewers
outfielder, avoided a 50-game drug suspension when he won an
appeal against MLB by arguing that his urine test sample had
been mishandled.  Yankees’ Rodriguez  ESPN reported this year that Rodriguez received injections
from Bosch at the player’s Florida home. Rodriguez, 37, said in
a statement following the Jan. 29 New Times report that he
wasn’t a patient of Bosch and was never treated or advised by
him. Ron Berkowitz, a spokesman for Rodriguez, said Rodriguez
had no comment on the most recent report.  Rodriguez, who hasn’t played this season following hip
surgery, ranks fifth on the MLB career list with 647 home runs.  “It’s in MLB’s hands,” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said
in a televised news conference today. “My focus is not on what
MLB is investigating. I don’t want to get caught up in that
because they’re going to handle it. Alex is in Tampa getting
ready and that’s what we want him to do.”  MLB investigators have had Biogenesis records listing about
20 players for more than a month, ESPN reported, and have been
waiting for confirmation from Bosch that the documents are
accurate. Bosch is expected to begin meeting with MLB officials
within a week and suspensions could come within two weeks, the
network said.  Cervelli’s Statement  Melky Cabrera  and  Bartolo Colon , both of whom served 50-game drug suspensions last season, also were among the major
leaguers cited by the New Times as having connections to the
clinic.  Yankees catcher  Francisco Cervelli  released a statement in
February saying he consulted with Biogenesis following a foot
injury in March 2011 and that “I purchased supplements that I
am certain were not prohibited by MLB.”  In exchange for his cooperation, ESPN reported, MLB would
drop the lawsuit against Bosch and report his help to law-enforcement agencies that might be considering charges against
the former clinic operator.  Minor-leaguer  Cesar Carrillo  was suspended for 100 games in
March based on the second-offense rule because officials had
Biogenesis documents containing his name and he denied having
any connection to Bosch or the clinic, ESPN said. As a minor
leaguer, Carrillo wasn’t entitled to the appeals process that
would be available to major-league players.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  