-- Baht Falls to Five-Month Low as Capital Control Concern Lingers
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-06-05T03:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/baht-falls-to-five-month-low-as-capital-control-concern-lingers.html
Thailand ’s baht fell to a five-month
low after foreign funds pulled money from local assets amid
speculation the government will take steps to control fund flows
and the  Federal Reserve  will reduce its stimulus.  Overseas investors have  sold  $605 million more sovereign
debt than they bought since the end of April and pulled $345
million from local stocks in the past two days, official data
show. Bank of Thailand Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said May 29 measures have been prepared to
combat baht volatility although they may not be used if they
aren’t necessary. Moody’s Investors Service said this week a
program to buy rice above the market price is credit negative.  “Lingering fear of  capital controls  and continued fund
outflow risks are weighing on the baht,” said Wee-Khoon Chong,
a strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong . “The comment
from Moody’s on Thai credit added to the negative sentiment. I
am bearish on the baht.”  The baht dropped 0.5 percent to 30.55 per dollar as of 9:34
a.m. in Bangkok, trimming this year’s advance to 0.1 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 30.59
earlier, the weakest level since Jan. 2.  The baht touched 28.56 on April 22 and April 19, the
strongest level since July 1997, prompting policy makers to
consider steps to stem fund inflows. Finance Minister Kittiratt
Na-Ranong said May 29 that an amended regulation enables the
central bank to set conditions or collect fees on funds flowing
in or out of the country.  Rice Plan  Kansas City Fed President Esther George yesterday called
for a reduction in the central bank’s bond-buying, while San
Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said a “modest adjustment
downward” was possible “as early as this summer.” The
monetary authority’s $85 billion a month of purchases has
increased fund flows to  emerging markets .  Moody’s said that losses from the rice-buying plan, started
in October 2011 to boost farmer incomes, inhibit the
government’s goal of balancing the budget by 2017.  One-month implied volatility in the baht, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options,
climbed nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 6.63
percent. The yield on the 3.625 percent government bonds due
June 2023 was steady at 3.64 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The rate was the highest since March 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  