-- Baidu Extends Decline as Giant Sinks: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-06-05T20:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/baidu-extends-loss-as-giant-sinks-on-share-sale-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks slumped to the lowest
level in six weeks in New York as web game operator  Giant
Interactive Group Inc. (GA)  tumbled after saying its chairman will
sell 15 million shares and Baidu Inc. slid on concern that costs
will rise.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. fell 1.5 percent to 89 yesterday,
declining for a second day. Shanghai-based Giant posted the
biggest tumble since September 2011 while Baidu, owner of
China’s most-used search engine, extended its retreat to a
fourth day.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  led a slump in solar producers and
 China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA)  traded at the widest discount to
its Hong Kong stock since April.  Giant Interactive retreated from a two-year high after
saying Chairman Yuzhu Shi will sell about 6 percent of its
outstanding American depositary shares in a secondary offering.
 Baidu (BIDU) ’s iQiyi web video unit has bought the online copyright of
a popular TV talent show, Xinhua News Agency’s website said in a
 report . The purchase was probably “expensive,” 86Research Ltd.
said in a note predicting iQiyi’s content costs will rise in the
third quarter.  “The sale of 6 percent shareholding is a large one, so
investors will wonder what’s really going on and why the
chairman chooses to sell now after holding on to his position
for almost six years,” Nick Ning, a Shanghai-based analyst at
86Research, said by e-mail. “Investors may be concerned it’s a
signal that the company growth will slow down.”  ETF Slips  The iShares FTSE  China  25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., dropped 1.4 percent in New
York to $35.69, the lowest close since April 18. The Standard
and Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.4 percent to 1,608.90 as U.S. jobs
and factory data missed estimates and investors weighed the
prospects for Federal Reserve stimulus.  Giant Interactive’s ADRs tumbled 11 percent to $7.55 as
trading volume surged to more than four times the daily average
over the past three months, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.
Each ADR represents an underlying share in the company.  Shi has started a process of asking underwriters to help
with the offering, and the company won’t receive proceeds from
the transaction, Giant said in a statement June 4.  The sale will reduce the chairman’s holding in the company
from to 49 percent from about 55 percent, according to Andy Yeung, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in New York.  “At the offering, there’s usually a discount to the
current market price for the stock,” Yeung said by phone.
“Investors tend to either participate in the follow-on offering
or wait until after the offering to purchase the shares. I
expect they will do the offering as soon as possible to reduce
impact on the share price.”  Talent Shows  Baidu’s ADRs sank for a fourth day, sliding 1.2 percent to
$94.95, the lowest price since May 23.  The company, based in Beijing, plans to promote “Super Boy
2013” before the show goes on air in July on its search service
and video websites, according to the report on the Xinhua
website. The online video unit of  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  purchased the
copyright of a similar talent show, “Voice of China,” for the
third quarter.  Trina lost 8.6 percent to $5.6, the lowest close since May
16. The Changzhou, China-based solar manufacturer said it was
disappointed with the tariffs imposed by the European Commission
on solar products imported from China. The EU announced June 4
tariffs as high as 67.9 percent, to be implemented initially at
a lower rate of 11.8 percent.  Tariff Reaction  China’s Commerce Ministry said yesterday the nation isn’t
satisfied with the result, while the China Chamber of Commerce
for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products said
the industry “strongly” opposes the tariff.  China Eastern, the nation’s second-largest carrier, dropped
2.2 percent in its sixth day of declines to $16.09, the lowest
price since October. Its ADRs, each representing 50 underlying
shares in the Shanghai-based company, traded 1.7 percent below
the Hong Kong shares, the largest discount since April 15.  AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , a digital map content provider
based in Beijing, surged 5 percent to $12.53 in New York,
jumping the most in four weeks.  The company plans to buy back as much as 2.5 million of its
ADRs within 12 months, according to a statement yesterday.  E-Commerce China Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , an online book retailer
based in Beijing, jumped 6.7 percent to a one-year high of
$7.21. Trading volume was 4.6 times the three-month daily
average.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares
slipped less than 0.1 percent to 2,270.93, the lowest price
since May 16. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong
slumped 0.6 percent to 10,473.18 in its sixth day of retreat,
the longest losing stretch since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  