-- Beauty Salons Seek Break Reserved for Restaurant Tips: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-06-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/beauty-salons-seek-break-reserved-for-restaurant-tips-taxes.html
The beauty industry has a tip for
Congress: Salons need a tax makeover.  Beauty salons never see the tips customers pay stylists,
yet the shops still have to pay Social Security taxes on them --
a burden the second biggest tip-producing industry is looking to
ease in an overhaul of the tax code, Bloomberg BNA reported.  The effort, led by two associations representing beauty
shops, would give salons the same treatment as restaurants with
a dollar-for-dollar credit for the Social Security taxes they
pay on tips. Beauty salons trail only restaurants in the amount
of tips collected, according to the Professional Beauty
Association, a trade group for 8,000 salons and stylists.  “For us, it’s fairness, it’s equity, and it’s also designed
to help our small businesses,” Steve Sleeper, the association’s
executive director, told BNA.  At issue is tax code Section 45B, which governs the payment
of Social Security and Medicare taxes under the Federal
Insurance Contributions Act.  A credit has been available to employers in the food
service industry since 1993 and applies “in connection with the
providing, delivering, or serving of food or beverages for
consumption, if it is customary for customers to tip the
employees,” according to the IRS guidance. The credit is
available on all tips above minimum wage.  Congress created the credit at the behest of the National
Restaurant Association. The restaurant group and the beauty
industry groups -- Sleeper’s association and the International
Salon Business Network -- say a tax credit encourages more
accurate reporting of tip income and may ultimately prove to be
a  revenue  raiser for the government.  Staffing Stylists  In one industry analysis, experts predicted that extending
the Section 45B credit to salons may generate hundreds of
millions of dollars for the government, Sleeper said.  The restaurant group praised the provision in an April 15
letter to the  House Ways and Means Committee , as part of public
comments the panel sought on tax reform.  “The Section 45B reimbursement is not just another tax
expenditure,” wrote Dave Koenig, the restaurant association’s
vice president for tax and profitability. “It is distinguishable
from other credits and deductions because it provides a positive
return on investment to the government. It incentivizes complete
and accurate tip reporting, which means additional income tax
revenue for the Treasury and additional FICA taxes for the
Social Security and Medicare trust funds.”  For salons, a credit may help keep some shops fully
staffed, Sleeper said. A credit that encourages accurate
reporting of tips reduces the chances that stylists will leave a
shop to go into business on their own or to switch to an
employer who is more lax about tracking tips, he said.  More Vulnerable  Stylists often take regular customers with them when they
change shops, he said. Self-employed stylists who rent booths
may report tips more accurately, he told a Ways and Means
Committee’s tax reform working group in a March 19 letter.  Beauty shops are more vulnerable than restaurants to losing
employees, one salon owner told the Senate Finance Committee in
June 2011.  “A waitress cannot just take her tables and open a basement
cafe,” wrote Kris Carpenter, founder and chief executive officer
of Sanctuary Spa & Salon from Billings,  Montana , in testimony to
the committee. “But a hairdresser or massage therapist can
easily find a less formal ‘self-employment’ situation, where
there is no employer to withhold from them.”  Generally, salons that employ stylists -- as opposed to
renting out space to independent stylists -- count on employees
to accurately report cash tips, which are then noted on
withholding Form W-2, Sleeper told BNA.  Tax Gap  Most salons accept credit cards, however. In those cases,
tips are aggregated and included in an employee’s paycheck,
Sleeper said. Credit cards add one more twist because the salon
is responsible for a transaction fee, Sleeper said.  For years, the IRS has identified tips as a significant
source of unreported income. One consequence is the tax gap
created by underpayment of FICA taxes. The IRS in 2012 estimated
the gap in FICA and unemployment taxes at $15 billion, for tax
year 2006; a few years earlier, the IRS estimated that as much
as $12 billion in income from tips may go unreported.  Senators Olympia Snowe, a Republican from  Maine , and
Representatives Sam Johnson, a Texas Republican, and John Lewis,
a Georgia Democrat, introduced legislation in the 112th Congress
to extend the Section 45B credit.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  