-- Big Companies’ Uninsured Deposits May Face Losses in Irish Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-05T16:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/big-companies-uninsured-deposits-may-face-losses-in-irish-plan.html
Large companies with uninsured bank
deposits may face losses ahead of smaller businesses and
individual account holders as part of draft European Union plans
for handling bank failures.  Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU,
proposed the measure in a bid to find common ground between
nations over rules for creditor writedowns at crisis-hit
lenders, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News.
Finance ministers will seek to reach a deal on the measures
later this month.  The compromise would give countries some powers to grant
exemptions from the order of losses set out in the law. For
example, countries could invoke financial stability as a reason
not to force writedowns on some derivatives or in
“extraordinary” cases where regulators encounter legal
or practical obstacles assigning losses on certain securities.  “We are aiming to get agreement among EU finance ministers
on the 21st on the new bank recovery and resolution rules,”
 Deirdre Farrell , a spokeswoman for the Irish presidency, said in
a text message.  June Deadline  EU nations are racing to meet a June deadline to agree on
the plans, which leaders have said will be a first step toward
more ambitious moves to centralize bank interventions in the 17-nation euro area. Finance ministers clashed over the draft law
last month, with diverging views over the creditor writedown
rules, and on establishing bank-financed funds that could be
tapped in crises.  Under the draft Irish plans, uninsured bank deposits
belonging to individuals as well as “micro, small and medium-sized enterprises” would be repaid ahead of “ordinary
unsecured, non-preferred creditors,” according to the document.  “It is very important that we reach a deal on this
important piece of legislation very soon,”  Chantal Hughes , a
spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
chief, said in an interview. She declined to comment on
the details of the Irish proposals.  Existing EU law requires governments to safeguard all
deposits up to 100,000 euros ($130,000) meaning that national
guarantee schemes take losses on their behalf. Under the Irish
plan, these schemes would be given a super senior status,
meaning they would be last in line to face losses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  