-- Biggest ETF Alluring at Deepest Discount Since ’11: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-06-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/biggest-etf-alluring-at-deepest-discount-since-11-muni-credit.html
The largest exchange-traded fund
tracking the U.S. municipal market is selling at its biggest
discount to its underlying assets in almost two years. If
history is any guide, that signals a buying opportunity.  The $3.6 billion iShares S&P National AMT-Free Municipal
Bond Fund fell to $107.60 in  New York  yesterday, the lowest
since March 2012. It sold at about  1.4 percent  below its net
asset value, the most since August 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The municipal market still earned 1.5 percent that month,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show. At the same time,
 yields  on benchmark 10-year munis fell about 0.49 percentage
point, the biggest rally since January 2009. This time around,
yields are close to a 15-month high and investors are set to
receive $128 billion in June, July and August from principal and
interest payments, $16 billion more than in 2012, according to
Bank of America.  “Munis could benefit from even a little bit of strength on
the demand side, whether it’s from reinvestment flows or just
the appeal of slightly higher rates,” said Bart Mosley, co-president at Trident Municipal Research in New York.  Debt Weakness  Investors speculating that the  Federal Reserve  will reduce
its debt purchases pushed yields on benchmark 30-year munis to
 3.33 percent  yesterday, the highest since May 2012, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Economic reports this week are
forecast to show employers sped up hiring, bolstering bets the
economy is gaining strength.  Some investors see a discount as a signal to buy the muni
ETF, which typically has traded at a premium since it was
created in 2007. ETFs usually track an index while trading on an
exchange like stocks.  With an average maturity of 14 years, the ETF is declining
in price as investors spurn longer-dated bonds, which are the
most vulnerable to rising interest rates, said  George Friedlander , chief muni strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New
York. The municipal market has lost money since April, after
nine straight quarterly gains.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries will climb about 0.4
percentage point to 2.53 percent in a year, according to the
median forecast of 64 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Funds Reliance  Investors are “much more cautious about putting cash to
work on the long end,” Friedlander said. “That is particularly
important for munis because the long end of the muni market is
very reliant on fund flows.”  Assets of U.S. municipal mutual funds with securities
maturing in 10 or more years have dropped for 13 straight weeks,
Lipper US Fund flows data show. That’s the longest period since
June 2011, according to Matthew Lemieux, a senior research
analyst at Lipper in New York.  “We haven’t yet really seen investors moving out of the
fund in response to rate concerns, though it does seem like they
have slowed down their purchases,” Matthew Tucker, head of
iShares fixed-income strategy at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  in  San
Francisco , said of the muni ETF.  Investors have added about $212 million to the fund this
year, half the amount for the same period of 2012, Christine Hudacko, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Above-Average  The declines of the past month have pushed the interest
rate on 30-year munis above the one-year average of about 2.96
percent, Bloomberg data show. That sets the stage for a rebound
given the wave of cash set to flow back to bondholders.  The amount of cash returning to investors is “massive,”
Friedlander said. “You could get something of a snap back here
over the next several weeks” or months.  Elsewhere in the municipal market,  Massachusetts  reduced
the size of a planned general-obligation sale to about $675
million from about $1.1 billion as local  interest rates  rose,
Bloomberg data show.  At  2.18 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year munis have
exceeded the interest rate on similar-maturity Treasuries for
the fourth straight day, the longest stretch in a month.  The  ratio  of the yields, a gauge of relative value, is
about 101 percent. The higher the percentage, the cheaper munis
are compared with Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  