-- Biocon Seeks Partner to Sell Rival Drug to J&J’s Stelara
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-06-05T12:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/biocon-seeks-partner-to-sell-rival-drug-to-j-j-s-stelara.html
Biocon Ltd. (BIOS) , India’s largest publicly
traded biotechnology company, is in talks with U.S. drugmakers
to co-develop and sell a psoriasis treatment that may rival
Johnson & Johnson’s Stelara.  Managing Director Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, 60, is seeking a
partner to help with expertise and funding for the tests needed
for approval in the U.S., she said in an interview. Biocon plans
to file for permission in the year ending March to sell in the
North American nation, and aims to start marketing Alzumab in
that country two to three years later, she said.  Alzumab would provide a novel therapy for a plaque-causing
form of the immune disorder that would compete with best-selling
products from Johnson & Johnson, AbbVie Inc. and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  The
biologic psoriasis treatment, made from living cells, will help
Biocon enter a market that it estimates will be valued at $8
billion by 2016.  “The proof of the pudding is if they’re able to license it
out to a major pharma company; if they can find someone to foot
the cost of global trials,” said Nitin Agarwal, an analyst at
IDFC Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, who has a buy rating on the
stock. “That would be the litmus test of whether this product
is going to succeed globally.”  The molecule, licensed by Biocon in 2003 from a Cuban
researcher, was approved for use in moderate to severe plaque
psoriasis after mid- and late-stage trials in India, the company
said in a statement in January.  Autoimmune Diseases  Treatments for the disorder include injected medicines such
as Amgen Inc. and Pfizer’s Enbrel, AbbVie’s Humira and Johnson &
Johnson’s  Stelara. (JNJ)  Together, the three medicines, which may also
treat other autoimmune diseases, had a total of more than $14
billion in sales last year.  Analysts estimate sales of Johnson & Johnson’s best-selling
Remicade, which is also used to treat diseases such as
rheumatoid arthritis and ulcerative colitis, as well as
psoriasis, will increase to $6.4 billion this year.  If Alzumab is “approved for the other indications like
rheumatoid arthritis, that would be significant,” said
Ajaykumar Sharma, associate director of health care practice at
 Frost & Sullivan  in Mumbai. “It would be a much bigger
market.”  Scaling, Inflammation  Psoriasis  is a chronic skin disease of scaling and
inflammation that affects more than 5 million, or 3 percent, of
adult American, though children are afflicted as well, according
to the  National Institutes of Health .  It occurs when cells rise from their origin below the
surface of the skin and amass on the surface before they have
matured. Normal turnover of skin cells takes about a month,
though can occur in only a few days in people with psoriasis,
resulting in patches of thick, inflamed skin covered with
silvery scales.  Alzumab is in a new class of treatment based on a humanized
monoclonal antibody that selectively targets the CD6 type of
white blood cell to reduce inflammation. Monoclonal antibodies
are made in the lab to mimic natural substances that stimulate a
patient’s immune system to attack disease-causing cells.  Biocon’s drug, also known as itolizumab, yielded
statistically significant  improvement  after 12 weeks of
treatment in a study of more than 200 patients, Biocon reported
last year.  “There are some studies that show Alzumab is better than
the other biologics, but more trials need to be done, with a
wider group of people around the world, to show its full
impact,” said Umashankar Nagaraju, consultant dermatologist at
Apollo Hospitals in Bangalore.  Fight Infections  Biologic treatments for psoriasis can lower a body’s
ability to fight infection, Mazumdar-Shaw said. Johnson &
Johnson’s website for  Remicade  warns that some patients have had
serious infections caused by viruses, fungi and bacteria that
have spread throughout their bodies, including tuberculosis.  Biocon’s Alzumab exhibited an “excellent safety and
tolerability profile with very low rates of infection,” the
company said in a statement in January 2012. That suggests “a
favorable risk benefit profile compared to currently available
biologic treatments.”  The Indian drugmaker plans to seek approval this year with
the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to conduct further tests
investigating the drug’s safety and efficacy in treating
psoriasis and other immune disorders, such as rheumatoid
arthritis, Mazumdar-Shaw said.  ‘Crown Jewel’  “We have such long remission rates, compared to all the
other drugs,” Mazumdar-Shaw, who started Biocon in 1978, said
in an interview in Bangalore last week. “We don’t even have
relapse in many of the patients. After 24 weeks, we’re still not
seeing relapse for a large percentage. That’s why we’re excited,
that’s why this is a  crown jewel  for us.”  Alzumab is the second-most advanced novel molecule in
Biocon’s pipeline of drugs in development, according to an
investor presentation. The leader is nimotuzumab, a cancer drug.  “They’ve created an interesting pipeline,” said IDFC’s
Agarwal. “Now it’s about the last mile, whether they are able
to commercialize this pipeline. That would affect the rerating
of the stock. People are waiting to see what happens.”  Biocon’s  shares  have dropped 0.5 percent this year,
compared with a 10.7 percent increase in the S&P BSE Healthcare
index. The company’s stock rose 2.4 percent to 285.30 rupees in
Mumbai, the most since April 11.  Sales in the U.S. will also help boost revenue, which
expanded 6.9 percent to 6.3 billion rupees ($112 million) in the
three months ended March 31, the slowest pace in a year.  ‘Transformational’  Rapid commercialization of Alzumab “will be
transformational for us,” Mazumdar-Shaw said.  A U.S.-based partner will help Biocon plan and design
clinical trials in the U.S., where patient studies are often of
a longer duration and more expensive to conduct that in  India ,
and assist with the drug’s marketing and promotion, she said.  A partnership with Pfizer to sell insulin made by Biocon
under the Univia and Glarvia brands ended last year after
“individual priorities” on copied biologics changed. Mazumdar-Shaw forecasts the planned venture to sell Alzumab will be
different.  “We’ve got all the safety, efficacy, immunogenicity”
data, Mazumdar-Shaw, who trained as a brewmaster, said. “All we
need to do now is to identify how we’re going to do the trial in
the U.S. and what is the shortest trial you can do to get it
into the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  