-- Brazil Scraps Tax on Foreigners to Help Tombini Fight Inflation
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-06-05T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/brazil-scraps-tax-on-foreigners-to-help-tombini-fight-inflation.html
Brazil is eliminating a tax on
foreign investment as it seeks to arrest the decline in the real
to help central bank President  Alexandre Tombini  rein in
consumer prices.  Scrapping the 6 percent tax rate on foreign investors who
buy Brazilian bonds in the domestic market may prompt the real
to strengthen back to 2.05 per dollar from 2.1251 yesterday,
 Marcelo Salomon , co-head for Latin America Economics at Barclays
Plc, wrote in a note to clients yesterday. The stronger real,
which reduces the price of imports, will lead swap rates to
decline as traders pare the size of interest rate increases they
consider necessary to slow inflation, said  Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves , chief economist at Banco Fator.  Brazil’s government in October 2010 boosted the tax on
foreigners in a bid to accelerate exports and growth by
weakening the real. Two-and-a-half years later the real is 29
percent weaker and the government is struggling to contain
inflation that is hovering near the upper end of its target
range. At the same time, economic expansion was slower than
predicted by analysts in the past five quarters.  The measure “shows the government is concerned that the
strengthening of the dollar could hinder the adjustment to
inflation that the central bank seeks,” Goncalves said by phone
yesterday from Sao Paulo. “At the opening of the market
tomorrow we’ll see swap rates down and the real gaining.”  Four-Year Low  The real on May 31 touched a four-year low. Yesterday it
weakened as much as 1.2 percent after central bank director  Aldo Mendes  said policy makers wouldn’t intervene in the market if
the currency was falling in line with peers. It pared losses and
closed little changed.  The real’s decline is part of a global phenomenon as the
dollar gains in value, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
reporters yesterday in Brasilia. The greenback’s rally comes
amid reduced global liquidity that may dry further should the
U.S. put an end to its monetary easing, he said.  “We were worried about excess liquidity and we have always
criticized that,” Mantega said after meeting with President
Dilma Rousseff. “Now the market is more regular, more normal,
which allows us to remove this obstacle we had placed.”  Brazil’s real has lost 7.6 percent in the past three
months, the worst performance among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Mantega said Brazil
has cut back on currency interventions and won’t use the
exchange rate to contain inflation, which breached the upper
limit of the central bank target in March.  Eroding Growth  Brazil’s gross domestic product growth unexpectedly slowed
to 0.55 percent in the first quarter, below the 0.9 percent
median economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey, as higher
consumer prices eroded demand.  Annual inflation accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, above the top of the central
bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent. In April,
year-on-year inflation eased to 6.49 percent.  Policy makers responded by raising the benchmark interest
in their past two meetings, after keeping borrowing costs at a
record-low 7.25 percent from October to March.  The central bank increased on May 29 the benchmark Selic
rate by 50 basis points, surprising 38 of 57 analysts, who
expected policy makers would raise borrowing costs
by 25 basis points for a second consecutive time.  The government’s step yesterday complements the central
bank’s effort to rein in consumer prices,  Carlos Kawall , chief
economist at Banco J. Safra SA, said by phone from Sao Paulo
yesterday. .  “This is the right step,” he said. “The government is
trying to bring back to normal the currency market by removing
breaks that no longer make sense given the problems we have.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  