-- Brazil Axes Foreign Investor Tax as Real Hits Four-Year Low
-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2013-06-05T00:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/brazil-axes-foreign-investor-tax-as-real-hits-four-year-low-1-.html
Brazil  will eliminate a tax on
foreign investment in fixed income after the real had the worst
performance in Latin America in the past three months.  “We were worried about excess liquidity and we have always
criticized that,” Finance Minister Guido Mantega told reporters
in Brasilia today after meeting with President Dilma Rousseff.
“Now the market is more regular, more normal, which allows us
to remove this obstacle we had placed.”  The government starting tomorrow will scrap a 6 percent tax
rate on foreign investors who buy Brazilian bonds in the
domestic market, he said. The announcement will cause the real
to strengthen tomorrow, Fabio Akira, an economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “Nobody knows by how much,” he said about the gain.  Signs the U.S. may tighten monetary policy threaten to
exacerbate a drain in global liquidity that has caused the
dollar to gain in value against global currencies, Mantega said.
Still, Brazil isn’t facing a liquidity shortage and companies
are able to secure international financing, he said.  Brazil’s real has lost 7.6 percent in the past three
months, the worst performance among the seven major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Mantega said Brazil
has cut back on currency interventions and won’t use the
exchange rate to contain inflation, which breached the upper
limit of the central bank target in March.  The real on May 31 touched a four-year low. It weakened
today as much as 1.2 percent after central bank director Aldo Mendes said policy makers wouldn’t’ intervene in the market if
the currency was falling in line with peers. It pared losses and
closed little changed at 2.1251.  Mantega’s tax measure comes as the government reduces a
series of capital controls it put in place over the years after
low interest rates in developed economies put pressure on the
real. President Rousseff in April eliminated a tax on loans for
the purchase, production and leasing of capital goods.  The government is keeping the tax on derivative operations,
Mantega said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  