-- Brazilian Real’s Decline Prompts Intervention After Bond Tax Cut
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-05T21:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/brazil-real-drops-as-global-weakness-offsets-scrapped-bond-tax.html
Brazil’s real approached a four-year
low, prompting the central bank to intervene in the  currency
market  after the government’s removal of a 6 percent tax on
foreign investors failed to produce a sustained rally.  The currency fell 0.1 percent to 2.1277 per  U.S. dollar 
after swinging between a 1.9 percent gain and a 1.1 percent
decline. It touched 2.1492, compared with the four-year intraday
low of 2.1495 on May 31. Swap rates on the contract maturing in
January 2015 rose 13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, to
9.10 percent, a one-year high. The yield on Brazil’s local
fixed-rate debt due in 2023 dropped 15 basis points to 10.31
percent.  The real fluctuated as signs of sputtering global growth
sapped demand for emerging-market assets, erasing the biggest
intraday rally this year. That surge was sparked by the
government’s removal of the so-called IOF tax on foreign
investors who buy Brazilian bonds in the domestic market.
President  Dilma Rousseff  said that the nation has a floating
exchange rate and isn’t adopting measures to contain the dollar.  “The fact that the real is weaker on the day after these
measures, not only the IOF but also intervention, tells you how
bad the  market sentiment  is,” Marcela Meirelles, a Latin
America strategist at TCW Group Inc., which oversees $128
billion of assets, said by phone from  Los Angeles .  The central bank sold 27,500 currency swap contracts worth
$1.38 billion out of 40,000 offered after selling 17,600
contracts worth $877 million on May 31 in its first intervention
in the foreign-exchange market since March.  Monthly Plunge  The real fell 6.5 percent in May, the most since September
2011, amid signs of lackluster economic growth and speculation
that the  Federal Reserve  may taper a stimulus program that has
bolstered emerging-market assets.  The currency’s decline is part of a global phenomenon as
the dollar gains in value, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  told
reporters yesterday in Brasilia. The greenback’s rally comes
amid reduced global liquidity that may dry up further should the
U.S. end monetary easing, he said.  “We were worried about excess liquidity and we have always
criticized that,” Mantega said after meeting with Rousseff.
“Now the market is more regular, more normal, which allows us
to remove this obstacle we had placed.”  Mantega used the term “currency war” in 2010 to describe
the use of monetary policy by developed countries including the
U.S. to keep their exchange rates weak and boost exports. The
real rallied to a 12-year high in July 2011. Brazil has cut back
on currency interventions and won’t use the exchange rate to
contain inflation, Mantega said.  ‘Very Apprehensive’  “The market is on edge,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency
trader at Renascenca DTVM in  Sao Paulo , said in a telephone
interview. “All these comments by the government are making
investors very apprehensive.”  Swap rates rose today on speculation a weakening real will
spur the central bank to sustain the pace of increases in
borrowing costs to curb inflation.  Policy makers voted unanimously on May 29 to raise the
 target lending rate  by a half-percentage point to 8 percent to
curb inflation, surprising 38 of 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, who had expected a second straight increase of a
quarter-percentage point.  Brazil’s gross domestic product growth unexpectedly slowed
to 0.6 percent in the first quarter, below the 0.9 percent
median economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey, as higher
consumer prices eroded demand.  The annual pace of consumer price increases accelerated for
nine straight months through March to 6.59 percent, above the
top of the central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent. In April, inflation eased to 6.49 percent.  Brazil ’s current account  deficit  surpassed 3 percent of
gross domestic product in April, the widest in almost 11 years,
as lower commodity prices weakened exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  