-- Brazilian Real Rallies After Tax on Foreign Investment Removed
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-06-05T12:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/brazilian-real-rallies-after-tax-on-foreign-investment-removed.html
Brazil ’s real rose after the
government scrapped the 6 percent tax on foreign investors who
buy Brazilian bonds in the domestic market.  The currency appreciated 1.5 percent to 2.0930 per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:29 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . Swap rates on the contract
maturing in January 2015 dropped eight basis points, or 0.08
percentage point, to 8.89 percent.  The government eliminated the tax after the real tumbled
6.5 percent in May amid an emerging-market currency selloff,
helping to keep inflation at the upper end of the central bank’s
target range. At the same time, economic growth has been slower
than analysts’ have forecast for five quarters. The government
boosted the tax on foreigners in October 2010 to support
exporters by weakening the real.  “This measure has an immediate impact on the dollar,
creating a sharp drop, but it won’t necessarily have a constant
effect, since we have an adverse international environment,”
Ures Folchini, the head of fixed income at Banco WestLB do
Brasil SA in Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “Still,
we will have a more balanced market.”  The real fell in May the most since September 2011 amid
signs of sputtering growth in  Latin America ’s largest economy
and speculation that the  Federal Reserve  may taper a stimulus
program that has bolstered emerging-market assets.  To stem the currency’s decline, Brazil’s central bank
intervened in the foreign-exchange market on May 31 for the
first time since March, selling 17,600 currency swap contracts
worth $877 million.  Policy makers voted unanimously on May 29 to raise the
 target lending rate  by a half-percentage point to 8 percent to
curb inflation, surprising 38 of 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, who had expected a second straight increase of a
quarter-percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  