-- CA Technologies Seeking Corporate Strategy Head After Jaffe Exit
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-06-05T18:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ca-technologies-seeking-corporate-strategy-head-after-jaffe-exit.html
CA Technologies Inc. , a maker of
software for managing mainframes and other information
technology, is looking for a new head of strategy after the
departure of Senior Vice President  Lonne Jaffe .  Jaffe, who joined CA from  International Business Machines
Corp.  last year, is leaving to take a chief executive officer
position at a medium-sized software maker that focuses on big
data, he said in an e-mail, without naming the company.  “We have launched a search to fill the position on a
permanent basis and will pursue candidates inside and outside of
CA,”  Jacob Lamm , executive vice president of strategy and
corporate development, said in a memo to employees. “Lonne has
left an indelible mark on our company, particularly in the
development and execution of the company’s long-term organic and
acquisition-related strategic initiatives.”  Michael Hyatt, vice president of corporate strategy, will
take Jaffe’s place on an interim basis, according to the memo.
 Jennifer Hallahan , a spokeswoman for Islandia, New York-based
CA, said the company had no further comment.  CA is undergoing a makeover under CEO  Mike Gregoire , who
joined the company in January after a career in Silicon Valley.
The next strategy chief will have to help execute the vision of
Gregoire, who is planning a mix of acquisitions and divestitures
to help the company compete with younger technology rivals.  The company today completed an acquisition of Layer 7
Technologies, which helps businesses manage application
programming interfaces, or APIs. In April, it acquired Nolio,
which provides a set of tools for software developers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  