-- Cambodia Risks Violence If July Election Flawed, Sam Rainsy Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-06-05T05:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/cambodia-risks-violence-if-july-election-flawed-sam-rainsy-says.html
Cambodia opposition leader Sam Rainsy
warned of violence if fraud taints the outcome of next month’s
election, as he uses Facebook in a bid to rally supporters from
his self-imposed exile in  France .  “If the popular will is again betrayed, then the popular
discontent will express itself through different means, and this
could be violence,” Sam Rainsy, 64, a former finance minister,
said by phone yesterday from  Singapore  during a trip through the
region. “Anything can happen, and that’s why it’s important to
ensure democratic elections in order to avoid violence.”  Prime Minister Hun Sen, 60, is seeking to extend a nearly
three-decade hold on power in a July 28 election against
opponents led by Sam Rainsy, who fled Cambodia in 2009 to avoid
a jail sentence he says was politically motivated. The two main
opposition parties holding about one quarter of the seats in
Parliament united last year to contest as the  Cambodia National
Rescue Party .  Hun Sen has overseen more than a decade of political
stability that has attracted investments from  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and
 Japan ’s  Minebea Co. (6479) , after violence marred elections in the
1990s as the country transitioned from two decades of civil war.
His Cambodian People’s Party won 90 of 123 seats in an election
in 2008 that was described by the U.S. as an “improvement”
over previous votes despite some flaws.  Sam Rainsy is banned from running as a candidate in July’s
poll even as the opposition continues to seek his reinstatement.
“This is not a judicial problem, this is a political problem,”
he said of his jail sentence on charges of disinformation and
falsifying maps.  ‘Decreased Violence’  “Since 1993 to now we’ve seen a pattern of decreased
violence because the voters and politicians are more mature,”
said  Koul Panha , executive director of the Committee for Free
and Fair Elections in Cambodia. “However, we are still
concerned. The opposition is more organized than before. It will
be a big challenge for us to transfer power without any
violence.”  Hun Sen served with the Khmer Rouge in the 1970s and then
became a leader in the campaign to oust the regime responsible
for about 1.7 million deaths. He has predicted a landslide win,
saying in a speech on June 1 there’s “no doubt” he’ll return
as prime minister for another five-year term, Xinhua news
reported. Credible opinion polls are lacking in the country of
15 million people, about half of whom are under 25 years of age.  Right Direction  A majority canvassed by the U.S. government-funded
International Republican Institute in a  survey  published last
month said they were better off than in 2008. The poll of 2,000
people conducted Jan. 12 to Feb. 2 had a margin of error of 2.2
percent.  The survey found that 79 percent of respondents thought the
country was heading in the right direction, up from 77 percent
in February 2008, because more roads and schools were built. The
21 percent who said the country was heading in the wrong
direction cited corruption, illegal immigration and nepotism as
reasons, according to the poll.  Phay Siphan, a government spokesman, said Sam Rainsy aimed
to stir unrest because he lacked popular support.  “Sam Rainsy never respects the rule of law or the will of
the people,” Phay Siphan said by phone from Phnom Penh. “He’s
trying to manipulate the result ahead of the election and put
the blame on the election committee.”  While observers criticized the National Election Committee
during the 2008 vote, election-day irregularities “were low in
number and did not appear to affect the outcome or distort the
will of the electorate,” the State Department said last year in
its annual  human rights report .  Garment Exports  Cambodia’s economy, the third-smallest in Southeast Asia,
grew 7.2 percent last year on higher consumption and investment,
the Asian Development Bank said in an April report. Gross
domestic product is forecast to expand at the same pace this
year and 7.5 percent in 2014 as the U.S. and Europe buy more
Cambodia-made garments and footwear, the  report  said.  At the same time, disputes over worker rights, the
environment and land clearing have become more prevalent. Land
disputes and forced evictions “continue unabated” and have led
to clashes, the United Nations human rights office said in a
report last year. Many activists and journalists who defend
human rights fear for their lives, it said.  The opposition has proposed more than doubling the minimum
monthly wage to $150 for factory workers. Cambodian police
arrested seven workers calling for higher wages at a supplier to
 Nike Inc. (NKE)  after June 3 clashes at the plant in Kampong Speu,
near Phnom Penh, the Associated Press reported June 3.  Sam Rainsy said civil servants, factory workers and farmers
who have had land seized by the government are bolstering the
opposition’s numbers. His party plans to deploy workers at
polling stations on election day to call in vote tallies as
ballots are counted and post results live on Facebook.  “Facebook is changing the environment, and it is much more
favorable for those who count on transparency to win,” Sam
Rainsy said. “The democratic force has never been this strong.
If they cheat the way they did in the past, there will be a very
strong protest with far-reaching implications.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  