-- Can the Fed Make Up Its Mind on QE?
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-06-05T22:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/can-the-fed-make-up-its-mind-on-qe-.html
When the Federal Reserve first
introduced its either/or stance on quantitative easing, I wasn’t
sure if it was a PR ploy or a serious plan.  Specifically, the Fed  said  it was prepared to increase or
reduce the current $85 billion-a-month pace of long-term asset
purchases based on certain economic criteria. If the outlook for
the labor market deteriorates, for example, the Fed might up the
ante. Should hiring increase and inflation remain subdued, the
Fed could taper its buying.  At his March 20 press conference, Fed chief Ben Bernanke
said “it makes more sense to have our policy variable,” with
purchases that respond to changes in the outlook.  To him, perhaps. If I understand Bernanke, he is saying
that every six weeks policy makers will examine an array of
leading, coincident and lagging indicators, most of which are
revised and subject to seasonal distortions, to take the
economy’s pulse and reassess the forecast. From there, they will
determine the appropriate amount of monthly bond purchases.  This idea is as infeasible in theory as it is in practice.  Unlike the physician who uses real-time feedback to adjust
the dose of a patient’s medication, central banks operate in a
world of long and variable lags. Their predictive models have a
poor record. The continuation of QE has always been predicated
on an improvement in “the outlook for the labor market,”
rather than an improvement in the labor market per se. Call it a
better jobs market once removed. The inherent flaws in the
theory should be apparent.  Methodological Mystery  As a practical matter, the plan is no more viable.  “The Fed doesn’t have a methodological way of calculating
the relationship between asset purchases, interest rates and the
economy,” says Jim Glassman, senior U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  He’s right. But you could say the same thing about the
Fed’s traditional policy tool, the  federal funds rate , and the
preference for adjusting it in 25-basis-point steps, according
to Neal Soss, chief economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New
York. Both have “the same element of science, judgment, and
trial and error,” Soss says.  He’s right, too. But interest rates are a lot more visible.
The public knows when the central bank raises its benchmark
rate, even if its relationship to the rates on home mortgages,
car loans and credit-card debt remains something of a mystery:
It costs more to borrow.  On the other hand, the public doesn’t know, or care, about
the size of the Fed’s  balance sheet , reported every Thursday at
4:30 p.m. Even sophisticated traders and investors have trouble
understanding the implications. They heard Bernanke say “exit”
in  congressional testimony  two weeks ago when the Fed is ”still
in the ’entry,’ or easing phase, of the policy cycle,” Soss
says. A reduced pace of asset purchases still qualifies as
stimulus.  An example will serve to demonstrate why using real-time
data to adjust QE is a fool’s errand. As initially reported by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, non-farm employment averaged
157,000 a month in the fourth quarter. Subsequent revisions
raised the average to 209,000.  Last week, the Bureau of Economic Analysis uncovered an
additional $108 billion (annualized) of personal income in the
fourth quarter, which had to come from a larger workforce,
higher compensation or some combination of the two. The revision
was based on the Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages, an
almost-universal tally of jobs and wages derived from tax
reports submitted by employers.  The jump in compensation was partly a function of income-shifting to avoid the year-end tax increase. When the  report  is
released to the public on June 27, the source of the
understatement will become clear. With its intense focus on the
labor market, would the Fed have made the same modification to
QE six months ago, based on available information, as it would
today? Somehow I doubt it.  Feedback Loop  Variable QE would represent an extreme case of
micromanagement that is likely to run amok. Economists are
already starting to forecast the size and timing of reductions
to QE. That means the markets will build an expectation into
prices, which means the Fed will have to consider those
expectations in deciding what to do, which means a closed
feedback loop that is of no value to anyone.  The bond market sell-off in response to Bernanke’s tapering
talk is a taste of what’s to come if the Fed decides to
implement variable QE. Market volatility will swamp any
perceived benefits. That’s why there’s a greater risk of the Fed
overstaying its welcome with accommodative policy than
withdrawing it too soon.  Which brings us to the possibility that this may all be a
public-relations gimmick designed to prevent financial markets
from getting four steps ahead of the Fed: from $85 billion a
month in bond purchases to the termination of QE to outright
sales from its portfolio to an increase in the funds rate.
Such a ploy would run counter to Bernanke’s DNA. After elevating
communication to a policy tool, the last thing he would want to
do is mislead the markets.  So which will it be? An option that is unworkable or one
that would undermine the Fed’s credibility? It sure sounds like
a choice between two losing propositions.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  