-- Canadian Dollar Fluctuates Amid Speculation When Fed Will Taper
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-06-05T21:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/canadian-dollar-fluctuates-amid-signs-u-s-hiring-is-slowing.html
Canada ’s dollar was little changed
after fluctuating against its U.S. peer as investors speculated
how a mix of economic data will influence the  Federal Reserve ’s
decision on when to begin tapering four years of stimulus.  The currency strengthened early after a private report
showed companies in America hired fewer workers than projected
in May, only to erase gains on a faster-than-forecast expansion
in U.S. service industries. The Canadian currency gained versus
the dollars of  Australia  and  New Zealand , fellow commodities
producers, as the nation’s building permits unexpectedly rose in
April. Jobless rates in Canada and the U.S. are forecast to
remain unchanged when they are reported June 7.  “The market’s in a bit of a quandary about what to do,
especially when you’ve got the all-important U.S. and Canada
employment data coming out,”  John Curran , a senior vice
president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer, said in a phone interview. “We’re still within the
C$1.0330-C$1.0380 range we’ve been in recently.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, traded at C$1.0343 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching C$1.0380. One loonie
buys 96.67 U.S. cents.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, with the yield on the 10-year benchmark declining by four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 2.04 percent. The 1.5 percent note due June
2023 rose 36 cents to C$95.14.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, rose 0.4
percent to $93.66 per barrel in New York. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index of stocks declined 1.4 percent.  Payroll Expectations  “It’s all about employment in the U.S. on Friday,” said
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in London. “That we have come a bit shy of
expectations is a little bit disappointing, so there may be some
that start taking the red pen to payroll expectations.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said May 22 the central bank
could reduce its monthly purchases of $45 billion of Treasuries
and $40 billion of mortgage bonds if the U.S. employment outlook
shows a sustainable improvement. Policy makers have pledged to
keep  interest rates  near zero as long as joblessness is above
6.5 percent and inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher , one of the
most vocal critics of quantitative easing, said yesterday it
“would be prudent to dial back the  rate of purchases ” as a
rebound in  home prices  signals an economic recovery.  Loonie Reaction  U.S. data will show 165,000 new jobs created in May,
unchanged from the previous month, leaving the  unemployment rate 
at 7.5 percent, Bloomberg surveys show before the June 7 data.  “A weaker labor report might mean the Fed might continue
to purchase assets for longer, so you might expect the U.S.
dollar to sell off” versus the Canadian dollar, Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford , Connecticut, said
in a telephone interview. “At the same time, the potential
future demand from U.S. consumers is very important to the
Canadian economy,” so a payroll miss would also hit the
Canadian dollar.  Canada’s  unemployment rate  held at 7.2 percent in May, a
report the same day is forecast to show.  The value of Canadian municipal permits rose 10.5 percent
to C$6.96 billion ($6.73 billion), following a revised 6 percent
rise in March,  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa. The gain was
the fourth in a row, the longest streak of increases in a
decade. Economists forecast a 3 percent decline, according to
the median of 11 responses to a Bloomberg survey.  The loonie gained 1.1 percent on the Aussie and 0.6 percent
on the kiwi.  Poloz Debut  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz will probably face
questions about the prospects for economic  expansion  during
testimony to the House of Commons Finance Committee at 8:45 a.m.
in Ottawa tomorrow. It will be his first public comment since he
took over the country’s central bank June 3.  His statements will be combed for reference to the so-called tightening bias held by predecessor  Mark Carney  that made
him an outlier among Group of Seven central bankers as the only
one abstaining from extraordinary measures to stimulate his
economy and warning of rate increases.  Canada’s dollar has lost 0.8 percent in the past month
against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. Australia’s dollar leads
with a loss of 6 percent and New Zealand’s currency dropped 5.4
percent. The U.S. dollar led gainers, adding 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  