-- Canada April Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-06-05T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/canada-april-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
April building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Canadian municipalities issued building permits worth $7.0
billion dollars in April, up 10.5% from March. The advance in
April was the fourth consecutive monthly increase. The recent
upswing came after a downward trend in the total value of
building permits that began in the fall of 2012.  The advance in April came largely from higher construction
intentions for multi-family dwellings in Ontario, British
Columbia and  Quebec .  Construction intentions for residential dwellings rose
21.0% to $4.4 billion. It was the second straight monthly
increase and the highest level in 10 months. All provinces
posted gains except Alberta and Nova Scotia. These two provinces
had posted large increases in March.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits fell
3.6% to $2.6 billion, following two consecutive monthly gains.
Declines were recorded in five provinces, with  Alberta  and
Ontario posting the largest decreases.  New Brunswick  registered
the largest increase, followed by Quebec and British Columbia.  Residential sector: Significantly higher construction intentions
for multi-family dwellings  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings rose
51.9% to $2.1 billion, a second consecutive monthly advance.
This gain was the result of higher construction intentions for
apartments and apartments-condominium in eight provinces, led by
Ontario, British Columbia and Quebec. Alberta and Nova Scotia
posted decreases.  The value of building permits for single-family dwellings
increased 1.1% to $2.2 billion in April, the third increase in
four months. Gains in British Columbia, Quebec and Ontario more
than offset declines posted in the other seven provinces.
Alberta had the largest declines, followed by  Nova Scotia .  Canadian municipalities approved permits for the
construction of 19,377 new dwellings, up 33.0% from March. This
increase was attributable to multi-family dwellings, which rose
58.3% to 13,168 units. The number of single-family dwellings,
however, fell 0.6% to 6,209 units.  Non-residential sector: Declines in the institutional and
industrial components  Non-residential building permits were down in April, as an
increase in construction intentions for commercial buildings was
not enough to offset declines in the institutional and
industrial components.  Construction intentions for institutional buildings fell
27.2% to $715 million, following a 119.2% increase the previous
month. Despite this monthly decrease, the total value of
institutional building permits continued the upward trend that
began at the end of 2012, albeit at a slower pace.  The decline in April was mainly attributable to government
buildings in Alberta, medical buildings in Ontario and
educational buildings in Saskatchewan.  The value of permits for industrial buildings decreased
5.3% to $450 million, following two consecutive monthly gains.
Decreases occcurred in six provinces, led by Ontario, where it
was largely attributable to manufacturing plants. Other notable
declines came in utilities and primary-sector buildings in
Saskatchewan.  In the commercial component, the value of permits rose
15.8% to $1.4 billion, following a 19.3% decrease in March.
Gains in four provinces, particularly Alberta, offset the
declines in the remaining provinces. Office buildings in Alberta
and Ontario accounted for most of the advance.  Higher construction intentions in most provinces  The total value of permits was up in six provinces in April,
with British Columbia in the lead, followed by Ontario and
Quebec.  British Columbia posted the largest advance, as a result of
higher construction intentions for multi-family dwellings and,
to a lesser extent, institutional buildings and single-family
dwellings.  The gain in Ontario resulted primarily from higher
construction intentions for multi-family dwellings, while in
Quebec, multi-family dwellings and industrial buildings were
behind the increase.  The largest declines occurred in Alberta and were due to
lower construction intentions for institutional buildings and,
to a lesser extent, residential buildings.  Higher construction intentions in most census metropolitan areas  Construction intentions were up in 27 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas (CMAs), led by Calgary and  Vancouver .  The gains in Calgary were driven by higher construction
intentions for commercial buildings. The increase in Vancouver
came mainly from multi-family dwellings.  London  was a distant third, with an advance largely
attributable to higher residential construction intentions. The
increase in Montréal came primarily from multi-family dwellings.  Following a record high the previous month,  Edmonton  posted
the largest decline in April. This decrease resulted from lower
construction intentions for institutional buildings.  Saskatoon and Toronto were a distant second and third, with
both CMAs posting declines in the non-residential sector and
single-family dwellings. The increases in construction
intentions for multi-family dwellings in Saskatoon and Toronto
were not large enough to offset the decreases in the other
components.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc-cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=fra ) .  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total for the entire population.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  The trend-cycle estimates have been added to the charts as
a complement to the seasonally adjusted series. Both the
seasonally adjusted and the trend-cycle estimates are subject to
revision as additional observations become available. These
revisions could be large and even lead to a reversal of movement,
especially at the end of the series. The higher variability
associated with the trend-cycle estimates is indicated with a
dotted line on the chart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  