-- Canadian Stocks Fall for Fourth Day, Longest Streak Since April
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-06-05T20:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/canadian-stocks-fall-as-financials-slump-after-u-s-jobs-data.html
Canadian  stocks  fell for a fourth
day, the longest streak in two months, after data showed U.S.
jobs and factory orders rose less than forecast and investors
weighed the U.S. Federal Reserve’s stimulus plans.  BCE Inc. (BCE)  dropped 1.3 percent to a February low, after
Macquarie Group Ltd. said that phone shares are vulnerable amid
increased regulation.  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  lost 4.4
percent to extend losses to a fourth day after its largest
shareholder said it will sell part of its stake. WestJet
Airlines Ltd. slid 2.3 percent after a measure of customers on
its flights declined. A gauge of real estate investment trust
fell for a seventh day, the longest streak in three years.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  fell 1.2 percent
to 12,443.65 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The index has lost 2.4
percent in the past four days and closed at a one-month low.
Trading volume was 13 percent higher than the 30-day average.  “The market in the U.S. and  Canada  is pausing here, it’s
run out of momentum,” said John Kinsey, fund manager with
Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto. He helps manage about C$1
billion ($966 million). “The economic numbers, some of them
have been disappointing, to put it mildly. There seems to be a
difference of opinion among Fed members. When they have a
problem, the market has a problem.”  ‘More Cautious’  Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher,
among the most vocal critics of additional easing, and Fed Bank
of Kansas City President Esther George, who has dissented
against record stimulus at every policy meeting this year,
separately called for a reduction in the central bank’s $85
billion in monthly bond purchases yesterday. Atlanta Fed
President Dennis Lockhart said earlier this week that “very
mixed” economic data makes him “more cautious” about a near-term reduction.  The 135,000 increase in U.S. employment in May followed a
revised 113,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially
estimated, the ADP Research Institute reported today. The median
forecast of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a May
advance of 165,000.  All 10 groups in the S&P/TSX retreated, led by industrial
stocks, which sank 2.6 percent as a group for the biggest slide
since September. U.S. factory orders rose 1 percent in April as
demand for non-durable goods dropped. The median forecast among
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 1.5 percent increase.  Canadian Pacific  Canadian Pacific slid 4.4 percent to C$126.  William Ackman ’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP said on June 3 it
plans to sell as many as 7 million  shares  of the company
beginning June 10.  The  New York  hedge fund instigated a turnaround at the
company after installing  Hunter Harrison  as the new chief
executive officer last year. The stock has  fallen  9.3 percent in
the past four days.  Chartwell Retirement Residences sank 2.6 percent to C$10.33
and Allied Properties Real Estate Investment Trust  declined 0.8
percent to C$31.89. The S&P/TSX Capped REIT Index has fallen
seven straight days, dropping 6.4 percent during its longest
losing streak since February 2010.  WestJet Airlines lost 2.3 percent to C$22.18. The company’s
passenger load factor, which measures the percentage of seats
filled on flights, declined to 78.5 percent in May from 79.2
percent a year earlier.  BCE retreated 1.3 percent to C$45.57. The stock has fallen
in six of the past seven days, slipping 5 percent in that time.
Canadian regulators yesterday squashed a proposed deal between
Telus Corp. and Mobilicity due to competition concerns, and
regulators have introduced a code of conduct allowing consumers
to break contracts after two years with no penalty.  Greg MacDonald, analyst with Macquarie Group, said in a
note today telecommunications stocks will continue to fall
through the summer due to the recent regulatory reforms,
including a delay of the next wireless spectrum auction until
2014.  Telus decreased 1.9 percent to C$35.14 and Rogers
Communications Inc., Canada’s largest wireless carrier, fell 1.4
percent to C$45.78.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  