-- Canada to Strengthen Food-Safety After Largest Meat Recall
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-06-05T22:17:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/canada-to-strengthen-food-safety-after-largest-meat-recall.html
Canada  will spend C$15.77 million
($15.2 million) for inspection teams to conduct random checks at
food plants after a review of last year’s XL Foods Inc. beef
recall found a “relaxed attitude” toward safety standards.  Responsibilities toward food safety programs were not
always met by staff in the Brooks, Alberta plant and by Canadian
Food Inspection Agency officials on site, a government-appointed
panel concluded in a  report  released today. There was no
evidence XL Foods analyzed beef product test results for trends
prior to the E.coli contamination, the report said, and was
unable to make any efforts to correct the root cause of the
contamination.  The recall was the largest in Canadian history and cost the
beef industry C$16 million to C$27 million, the review found.
The XL Foods recall issue began on Sept. 4 and by Oct. 15, beef
contaminated with E.coli made 18 people sick and 1,800 products
had been removed from the market in Canada and the U.S.  The Canadian government will create inspection verification
teams to ensure plants consistently enforce food-safety rules,
Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz said in a statement today. The
teams will perform spot checks at federally-registered food
plants and the frequency of inspections will depend on the risks
associated with the food produced, Paul Mayers, associate vice-president of programs at CFIA, said during a media briefing from
Ottawa.  “No system can give an absolute assurance of zero risk,”
Mayers said. “I would never want to leave the impression with
the inspection verification teams that we have a no-risk
system.”  Action Plan  The recall report comes three weeks after the government
unveiled a safe food  action plan  which includes requirements for
all meat plants to label mechanically-tenderized beef cuts, such
as steaks or roasts. The CFIA will conduct a broader review of
food regulations, according to a government press release, which
may take two years to complete.  The Canadian Cattlemen’s Association asked  Health Canada 
last month to consider allowing  beef irradiation  to further
reduce potential food contamination, they said in a statement.
Health Canada has started a safety assessment of the
irradiation, a government spokeswoman said in an e-mail, and a
team of scientific experts will consider its efficacy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  