-- Canadian Building Permits Rise Fourth Month on Vancouver Condos
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-05T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/canadian-building-permits-rise-fourth-month-on-vancouver-condos.html
Canadian  building permits 
unexpectedly rose in April led by multiple-unit housing in
Vancouver, a market that officials have said shows signs of
overbuilding fueled by record consumer debt.  The value of municipal permits rose 10.5 percent to C$6.96
billion ($6.73 billion), following a revised 6 percent rise in
March, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The gain was the
fourth in a row, the longest streak of increases in a decade.
Economists forecast a 3 percent decline in April, according to
the median of 11 responses to a Bloomberg survey.  Surging home construction has helped drive household debts
to a record 165 percent of disposable income, a ratio the
central bank says should stabilize as housing investment wanes.
Bank of Canada Deputy Governor Timothy Lane said June 4 in  Seoul 
there are signs of a “constructive evolution” in household
finances after “imbalances” built up.  Residential permits rose 21 percent to C$4.35 billion in
April, Statistics Canada said today. Permits for housing
projects such as apartments and condominiums jumped 51.9 percent
to C$2.15 billion, and single-family permits rose 1.1 percent to
C$2.21 billion.  Vancouver made one of the largest contributions to the
national increase among 34 cities, Statistics Canada said, with
permits rising 50.7 percent to C$645 million led by multi-family
dwellings. Calgary permits also rose 40.6 percent to C$773
million on commercial buildings.  Condo Overbuilding  Finance Minister Jim Flaherty tightened mortgage rules for
a fourth time last year on concern that there has been an
overbuilding of condos in cities such as Toronto and  Vancouver .  Permits for  non-residential construction  fell 3.6 percent
to C$2.60 billion in April from March, as declines for
industrial and institutional projects exceeded a gain in the
commercial group.  The value of permits was 5.4 percent higher in April than
the same month a year earlier, with multiple-unit housing 40.4
percent higher on the year.  Demand for homes has been supported by some of the lowest
 mortgage rates  in decades, with the Bank of Canada reporting the
average for a five-year fixed rate loan was 5.14 percent last
week. The central bank has kept its  overnight interest rate  at 1
percent since September 2010 to encourage borrowing and
spending, and has said business investment and exports will help
lead the economic expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 