-- Canadian Crude Output to Double by 2030 on Oil Sands Growth
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-06-05T17:12:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/canadian-crude-output-to-double-by-2030-on-oil-sands-growth.html
Canada’s crude output will more than
double to 6.7 million barrels a day by 2030, with almost all the
growth coming from Alberta’s oil sands, an industry group
representing the country’s petroleum producers said.  Oil sands production will rise to 5.2 million barrels a day
by 2030 from 1.8 million currently, the Canadian Association of
Oil Producers said in its 2013 annual  forecast . More
transportation such as pipelines and rail is needed to move the
rising output, the group said.  “Given the growing production outlook, the need to reach
new markets is a top priority for Canadian oil producers,” CAPP
said in the report. “Western Canadian supplies are essentially
landlocked and will need additional transportation
infrastructure to bring this growing oil supply to markets.”  Canada holds the world’s third-largest oil reserves, behind
Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, and is the sixth-largest oil
producer in the world, according to the  BP Statistical Review of
World Energy . The majority of the reserves are held in the oil
sands in northern Alberta.  The CAPP forecast for 2030 increased by 500,000 barrels a
day from last year’s, due to projections of more growth from oil
sands and shale oil. More production from oil-sands steam-injection projects offset a decline in mining projects.  Markets for Canada’s growing  heavy oil  production will
primarily be found in the U.S. Midwest and Gulf Coast, with the
opportunity for new markets in Asia, CAPP said. Some output can
also displace overseas oil imports at refineries in Quebec and
on the U.S. West Coast, the organization said.  U.S. Market  By 2020, Canadian producers could potentially supply an
extra 1 million barrels a day to the U.S. Gulf Coast and an
additional 460,000 barrels a day to the U.S. Midwest due to
crude conversion projects at refineries there, CAPP said.  Some 700,000 barrels a day of crude imports at plants in
Quebec and Atlantic Canada could also be displaced by growing
domestic supplies, CAPP said, and declining overseas sources
currently supplying Washington state and California could also
be replaced by Canadian supplies.  Canada could also tap into increasing oil demand in Asia,
including China and India, CAPP said. Canadian regulators are
reviewing plans for  Enbridge Inc .’s Northern Gateway pipeline
and Kinder Morgan Inc.’s Trans Mountain expansion, both of which
would send Alberta crude to British Columbia for shipment to
Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  