-- CFTC Sues U.S. Bank Over Peregrine Client Account Funds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-05T17:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/cftc-sues-u-s-bank-over-peregrine-client-account-funds.html
U.S. Bank NA used Peregrine Financial
Group Inc. client funds as security for loans to firm founder
 Russell Wasendorf Sr. , who has since been jailed for fraud,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The regulator, in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, accuses the U.S. Bancorp unit of violating
federal Commodity Exchange Act account-segregation rules and
seeks an order for restitution to firm clients who suffered
losses because of the bank’s alleged actions.  The CFTC claims U.S. Bank officials held Peregrine customer
funds in an account the lender treated as though it was the
firm’s commercial checking account, enabling Wasendorf to
transfer money out of it to pay for items including a private
plane, a restaurant he owned and his divorce settlement.  “U.S. Bank knew that these transfers were not for the
benefit of Peregrine’s customers,” the agency said in the
complaint.  Wasendorf was sentenced in January to 50 years in prison
after pleading guilty to charges of fraud, embezzlement and
making false statements. Prosecutors said he stole more than
$200 million from the Cedar Falls, Iowa-based futures firm.  His crimes came to light in July when he tried to commit
suicide in his car outside the firm’s offices. In a written
statement found at the scene, Wasendorf said he had been
stealing from Peregrine for almost 20 years.  Customer Funds  The firm filed for bankruptcy the next day, hours after it
and Wasendorf were sued by the CFTC for misappropriating
customer funds.  The Commodities Exchange Act and CFTC regulations bar banks
from using or holding client funds of futures firms “as though
they belong to anyone other than the customers,” the regulator
today said in a statement announcing the suit.  Tom Joyce , a spokesman for the Minneapolis-based bank, said
in an e-mailed statement that the lender is sympathetic to
Wasendorf’s fraud victims. He also said the bank did nothing
wrong.  “U.S. Bank was also a victim of the same fraud -- one the
CFTC failed to detect,” Joyce said. “As he has admitted,
Wasendorf actively deceived the bank. At no time did we have any
knowledge that Wasendorf was running a fraudulent scheme.”  The case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
U.S. Bank NA, 13-cv-02041,  U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  