-- Chen Xitong, Beijing Mayor During Tiananmen Protests, Dies at 82
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-05T19:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/chen-xitong-beijing-mayor-during-tiananmen-protests-dies-at-82.html
Chen Xitong, the mayor of Beijing
during the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests who served jail time
for corruption and later condemned the student crackdown he was
portrayed as engineering, has died. He was 82.  Chen died of cancer on June 2, 2013, the official Xinhua
News Agency said in a statement yesterday evening. He died two
days before the 24th anniversary of the army’s attack on the
protesters.  Chen’s jailing in 1998 on graft charges marked one of the
highest-level prosecutions of a Communist Party official since
the founding of the People’s Republic in 1949. His reassessment
of Tiananmen -- offered in a book published last year -- was a
rare instance of a top party stalwart breaking with the line
that the crackdown was necessary to maintain stability.  The massacre, in which hundreds of people were killed, was
“a tragedy that could have been avoided but wasn’t avoided,”
Chen said in the book “Conversations with Chen Xitong.” “One
day the truth will be revealed.”  Born in southwest Sichuan province on June 10, 1930, Chen
studied at  Peking University  and joined the Communist Party in
1949 as it came to power in the mainland. He served as vice
party secretary of Beijing’s Changping county and rose to mayor
of the city in 1983, China.com.cn said in a  2002 biography .  As Beijing mayor, Chen was a hardliner who “actively
encouraged” sending in armed forces against students who had
gathered at Tiananmen, Joseph Fewsmith, director of the Center
for the Study of  Asia  at  Boston University , wrote in his 2001
book “China Since Tiananmen: the Politics of Transition.”  Military Action  In an official report on the crackdown, Chen defended the
military action that culminated in the clearing of the square
and blamed former Premier Zhao Ziyang for splitting the party
and supporting the protests.  Chen ascended to the Politburo Standing Committee in 1992.
Three years later he was purged, and then sentenced to 16 years
behind bars on corruption charges in 1998. He was released for
health reasons in 2004.  Chen “led a dissolute, extravagant life, abused his power
to seek illegal interests for his relatives and accepted
valuable gifts for his own use,” Xinhua said in a 1995 account.
His son was also sentenced to 12 years jail.  In his memoir, “Prisoner of the State,” Zhao said Chen
and other party hardliners disregarded that the protests had
started to calm down and portrayed them as a movement in
opposition to the party and then-paramount leader  Deng Xiaoping .  “If Zhao’s account is correct, and most accounts that I
know of concur, then Chen Xitong played a critical role in
depicting the situation in ways that made it seem more out of
control than it was -- prompting Deng’s harsh response,”
Fewsmith said in an e-mail.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  