-- Chief Financial Officer Optimism in U.S. Rises to Four-Year High
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/chief-financial-officer-optimism-in-u-s-rises-to-four-year-high.html
Sentiment among U.S. chief financial
officers climbed in the second quarter to the highest level in
four years, even as hiring and spending expectations retreated.  The finance heads’ gauge of optimism about the  U.S. economy 
rose to 60.8 in the period ended May 31, the highest since the
first quarter of 2009, according to the Duke University/CFO
Magazine Global Business Outlook Survey of 353 companies
released today. It was the second-highest reading since 2007.  The brighter outlook didn’t translate into employment or
investment plans, the report also showed. The financial chiefs
projected payrolls will rise by 0.8 percent over the next 12
months, down from the 2.2 percent increase predicted last
quarter. They estimated spending on new technology, such as
computers and telecommunications gear, will climb 6.1 percent
compared with the 7.8 percent gain projected in March.  “Many firms have not seen this overall outlook trickle
down to their firms yet,” John Graham, director of the survey
and a finance professor at Duke University’s Fuqua School of
Business, said in an e-mail. “Hence, they remain in wait-and-see mode. In other words, they are waiting until demand for
their own firm’s products picks up before they will start to
increase spending and hiring more.”  Company chiefs also plan to keep more cash on hand,
projecting an 8.3 percent increase over the next year, up from
the 6.7 percent gain forecast in the first quarter.  “Some firms are of course experiencing a bit of difficulty
even as there is some improvement in the economy overall and
therefore want to hold onto to cash just in case,” Graham said.
“Some smaller firms are having a hard time borrowing due to
stricter rules and are also building up cash instead. Finally,
some firms may expect that  interest rates  will soon rise so are
saving up cash to avoid borrowing in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  