-- China Starts Probe of Wine After EU Solar Tariffs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-05T11:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/china-starts-probe-of-wine-after-eu-announces-solar-tariffs.html
China (CNFRBAL$)  said it started an anti-dumping
and anti-subsidy investigation of wine imports from the European
Union after the 27-nation bloc yesterday imposed tariffs on
Chinese solar panels.  The EU yesterday announced tariffs as high as 67.9 percent
on solar panels from China, which will be implemented initially
at a lower rate of 11.8 percent. China’s Ministry of Commerce
responded today by saying the country “firmly” opposes the EU
decision and in the same  statement  said that Chinese authorities
had started the probe of wine imports.  Growing trade tensions between China and the EU puts at
risk a relationship that generated $168 billion of exports and
imports in the first four months of this year, according to
Chinese government statistics. The dispute over solar shipments
comes after economic growth in  China  slowed in the first quarter
to 7.7 percent and the euro-area economy reported a sixth
quarter of recession.  “It’s a signal,” said Shen Jianguang, chief Asia
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. China had said in the
past that “there will be consequences, so they have to back it
up with action.”  China’s wine imports rose 8.9 percent to 430 million litres
in 2012, according to data from China’s customs agency. The
imports were valued at about $2.57 billion, it said. The EU
region accounted for more than two-thirds of the imports, with
 France  being the biggest export country, it said.  EU Reaction  China’s investigation is based on requests from the
domestic wine sector and is normal, Liu Danyang, an official at
the Commerce Ministry’s Bureau of Fair Trade for Imports and
Exports, said in separate comments posted on the ministry’s
website today.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, pledged to
follow the Chinese investigation “very closely” and said it
didn’t believe wine producers in  Europe  were selling at dumped
prices on the Mainland.  “We take note of the Chinese announcement,”  Roger Waite ,
a commission spokesman, told reporters today in Brussels.  EU wine exports to China in 2012 were worth 763 million
euros, or 8.6 percent of European wine exports, Waite said. Of
that sum, France accounted for 546 million euros, he said.  Italian Winemaker  Even so, today’s announcement isn’t worrying Italian wine
maker Podernuovo a Palazzone.  Giovanni Bulgari, chief executive officer at the wine
producer, said he is looking to sell a quarter of his first
vintage, or about 25,000 bottles here.  “China is a market where wine is starting to be
appreciated,” he said in an interview in Shanghai, where he is
promoting his wines.  The Asian nation may surpass the U.S. to become the world’s
biggest wine market by 2023, according to estimates by  Treasury
Wine Estates Ltd. (TWE) , the world’s second-largest wine company.  A commentary published by China’s official Xinhua News
Agency today said the nation hopes the EU can show “good
faith” in a new round of negotiations on the solar trade issue
that may start soon. The article, attributed to reporters Zhang
Zhengfu and Chong Dahai, also said the EU’s decision to impose a
temporary tariff of 11.8 percent instead of 47.6 percent showed
the dispute could be solved through negotiation.  Chinese Commerce Ministry spokesman Shen Danyang, in its
statement today, said trade was an important foundation for ties
with the EU and that China doesn’t want to see the solar dispute
affect the broader relationship.  “Both sides understand the relationship is very important;
having a trade dispute is quite normal when you have such a big
trade flow,” Mizuho’s Shen said. “It’s more likely they will
reach an agreement than a trade war.”  In a statement yesterday, the French government praised the
commission’s decision to introduce provisional anti-dumping
duties on Chinese solar panels, calling it “balanced and
responsible,” and urged efforts to seek an eventual negotiated
settlement with China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in  Shanghai  at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net . 