-- China’s Yuan Halts Two-Day Gain on Speculation Rally to Stall
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-06-05T09:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/china-s-yuan-halts-two-day-gain-on-speculation-rally-to-stall.html
The  yuan  was little changed, halting
a two-day gain, on speculation its rally this year will stall as
the dollar strengthens against most currencies.  The yuan has advanced 1.7 percent against the greenback in
2013, the best performance among Asia’s 11 most-traded
currencies, as the Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against six major trading partners, appreciated 3.8 percent. The
yuan should move more in line with regional currencies, as
investors now question the sustainability of the Chinese central
bank’s strengthening policy,  Tim Condon , head of Asia research
at ING Groep NV in Singapore, wrote in a research note today.  “It seems the market is no longer convinced that the
 renminbi  can continue to appreciate when the dollar is so strong
globally,” said  Ju Wang , a senior foreign-exchange strategist
at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong .  The yuan traded at 6.1278 per dollar in Shanghai, compared
with 6.1286 yesterday, according to  China  Foreign Exchange Trade
System prices. It gained 0.1 percent in the first two days of
the week and reached 6.1210 on June 3 and May 27, the strongest
level since the government unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993.  The People’s Bank of China set its daily fixing 0.04
percent weaker at 6.1757 per dollar from a record-high 6.1735
yesterday. The spot rate is allowed to diverge from the fixing
by a maximum 1 percent and China intervenes in the  currency
market  to prevent a breach of the trading band.  Offshore Yuan  The currency hasn’t approached the higher end of its
 permitted trading  range in the past week after hovering within
0.1 percent of the upper limit on most days in the previous
three months.  “We believe the PBOC has boosted the yuan’s reference rate
to close the gap between the fixing and spot rates,” HSBC’s
Wang said. “When the gap is closed that tells you the market
expectations have been neutralized.”  The yuan’s pace of appreciation is unlikely to persist,
Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. analysts led by  Marc Chandler , the
chief currency strategist in New York, wrote in a research note
yesterday. If the yuan continues to appreciate, it will lend
itself to the argument that the Chinese financial system is
indeed in need of foreign capital to keep the pace of lending
growth, according to the note.  China is receiving another round of “hot money” inflows,
Guo Tan, an official at the State Administration of Foreign
Exchange, wrote in a commentary on the China Finance 40 Forum’s
website today. Surplus funds from trade activities are the main
source of such inflows, not investments in property, stocks or
bonds, Guan wrote.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan rose 0.04 percent
to 6.1280 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards were little changed at
6.2485, trading at a 1.9 percent discount to the onshore
 exchange rate .  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options, fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.90 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  