-- China Export Gains Seen Halved With Fake-Data Crackdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T07:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/china-export-gains-seen-halved-with-fake-data-crackdown.html
China ’s crackdown on fake export
invoices used to disguise money flows is probably cutting the
nation’s trade figures, revealing subdued global demand that
will weigh on economic growth.  Outbound shipments may have grown 7.1 percent in May from a
year earlier, less than half the previous month’s reported 14.7
percent, based on the median  estimate  of 34 economists ahead of
data due June 8. Import growth probably slowed to 6.9 percent
from April’s 16.8 percent, a  Bloomberg News  survey showed.  Successful deterrence of fraudulent data through regulatory
scrutiny of companies and banks would help restore trust in
trade figures, while more accurate numbers may also highlight
the urgency for Premier  Li Keqiang  to shift growth toward
domestic consumption. Weakness in exports could also test Li’s
reluctance to add stimulus to support the expansion of the
world’s second-biggest economy.  “The crackdown from China’s foreign-exchange authorities
on fake invoicing will bring the inflated export growth down to
the real trend, which is single digits,” said Zhang Zhiwei,
chief China economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Hong Kong , who
projects export gains of 5 percent for May. More broadly,
 China’s economy  “is weakening but is not collapsing,” said
Zhang, who previously worked at the  International Monetary Fund .  Then MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks was down 1.2 percent
as of 4:19 p.m. in  Tokyo  today.  Inflation Figures  The trade data from the General Administration of Customs
will be followed June 9 by National Bureau of Statistics
releases on  prices , industrial production, retail sales and
investment that are forecast to show little change from April
growth figures. New  yuan  loans may have increased to 850 billion
yuan ($139 billion) from April’s 792.9 billion yuan in People’s
Bank of China numbers due over the next week, based on the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index of stocks has
declined for six days, the longest losing streak since June 2012,
amid concern that economic growth is losing steam. The gauge
lost 1.3 percent today, the most in six weeks.  Economists in a separate survey last month said January-April export  growth  was overstated by 4 to 13 percentage points.
Shipments abroad probably rose 8.5 percent in the first four
months of 2013 from a year earlier, based on the median estimate
of 15 economists, less than half the official 17.4 percent
number. Imports may have gained 8.25 percent, according to 14
analysts’ median estimate, compared with the government’s 10.6
percent figure.  PMI Gauge  The figures compare with  South Korea ’s reported 1 percent
increase in exports in the first five months of 2013 and a 1.3
percent January-April gain reported by  Taiwan . China’s official
 Purchasing Managers ’  Index (SHCOMP)  for manufacturing has shown new
export  orders  contracting for four of the past five months.  Slower growth in last month’s official trade data may
reflect measures announced by China’s  State Administration of
Foreign Exchange  to crack down on speculative funds entering the
country disguised as payments for trade.  The currency regulator said May 6 that it will send out
warning notices to companies whose goods and capital flows don’t
match as well as those bringing large amounts of cash into China.
SAFE on May 22 told banks to improve checks of customer
documents related to special trade zones amid speculation that
the areas have been exploited to mask money inflows as exports.  Double-counting in the zones probably continued to inflate
May’s figures, said  Steve Wang , chief China economist in Hong
Kong for Reorient Financial Markets Ltd., an investment bank
backed by the Chinese government. While exports probably rose
9.3 percent in May, the true rate may be close to 4.6 percent
excluding distortions from double-counting in the zones, Wang
said.  Fraud Probe  The customs administration didn’t respond to faxed
questions yesterday from Bloomberg News or to other inquiries on
the issue since it held a press briefing on April 10. Zheng
Yuesheng, an agency spokesman, said at the time that China is
investigating possible fraud behind first-quarter export growth
and that the practice of false trade declarations “does exist
but is definitely not mainstream.”  Some Chinese exports face other issues. The European Union
this week said tariffs of as much as 67.9 percent could be
imposed on solar panels from China in the largest EU commercial
dispute of its kind, affecting Chinese companies like Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co., Wuxi Suntech Power Co. and Changzhou
Trina Solar Energy Co.  Reserve Ratio  The slowdown may be too much for the government to stomach,
said Hu Yifan, chief economist at Haitong International
Securities Co. in Hong Kong, who previously worked at the  World
Bank . Authorities may start “active supportive policies,”
including a cut this month in banks’ reserve-requirement ratio,
said Hu, the only analyst surveyed to project a May decline in
exports.  China’s gross domestic product expanded a less-than-estimated 7.7 percent in the first quarter and analysts last
month trimmed forecasts for the April-June period to a median
projection of 7.8 percent. The government in March set a goal of
7.5 percent for the year.  “The pressure on the Chinese leadership may grow to do
more to boost domestic demand,” such as faster approvals of
investment projects, said Sun Junwei, a Beijing-based economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc. “The government doesn’t want another
stimulus package, but it won’t like a deepening slowdown
either.”  Around the world today, U.K. house prices rose for a fourth
month in May as government measures to help the  property market 
boosted demand, according to Halifax, the mortgage unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc. Other releases today include U.S.
jobless claims and factory orders in  Germany .  The  Bank of England  will probably decide to hold its target
for bond purchases at 375 billion pounds ($577 billion),
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The  European
Central Bank  will keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at
0.5 percent today, according to a survey of analysts.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  