-- China Coal Import Ban Unlikely on Cost, Indonesian Miners Say
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2013-06-05T07:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/china-coal-import-ban-unlikely-on-cost-indonesian-miners-say.html
China  is unlikely to implement a
proposed ban on imports of lower-quality coal, according to
three mining companies in  Indonesia , the world’s biggest
exporter of the power-station fuel.  The National Energy Administration’s plan to halt overseas
purchases of coal with a relatively low heating value and high
sulfur and ash content probably won’t happen, officials from  PT
Harum Energy (HRUM) , PT Permata Energy Resources and PT Adimitra
Baratama Nusantara said yesterday in Bali, Indonesia. The
officials cited conversations with unidentified customers in
China, saying they’re concerned their costs will increase.  As much as 10 percent of Indonesia’s annual coal output may
be affected by the rules, according to the Southeast Asian
nation’s coal mining association. The country typically produces
cheaper grades that have lower calorific value than shipments
from countries such as  Australia , the second-largest exporter.
China, Indonesia’s biggest customer, blends the fuel with
higher-grade supplies to reduce costs.  “We have talked with several buyers who said if the ban
was in force, it will make their industry uncompetitive,” Aris
Munandar, vice president of Permata Energy, which operates two
coal mines on Sumatra island, said at the Coaltrans conference
in Bali. “I don’t think the ban will be implemented because the
coal industry is still in consolidation. It’ll be very difficult
if there’s such a limitation.”  Reference Price  Zeng Yachuan, a spokesman for the NEA, didn’t answer two
phone calls to his office seeking comment on the proposal today.  China may ban purchases of coal with a heating value below
about 4,540 kilocalories a kilogram on a net-as-received basis,
sulfur content above 1 percent and ash above 25 percent, the
draft NEA regulation obtained by  Bloomberg News  shows. It
doesn’t specify when the ban would be implemented. The standards
may be eased,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  said in
a note today.  Indonesia’s  reference price  for the fuel with 4,200
kilocalories a kilogram was at $45.98 a metric ton as of May.
Thermal coal with a heating value of 5,500 kilocalories per
kilogram at Qinhuangdao, the benchmark grade for China, fell as
low as 600  yuan  ($97.91) as of June 2, the least since October
2009, according to data from the China Coal Transport &
Distribution Association.  Coal at the Australian port of Newcastle, which has a
heating value typically higher than 6,000 kilocalories per
kilogram and sets the marker price for  Asia , was at $86.80 a ton
as of May 31, according to figures from IHS McCloskey in
Petersfield,  England .  ‘Highly Unlikely’  China  bought  289 million tons of thermal and steelmaking
coal from overseas in 2012, data from the customs bureau in
Beijing show. About 50 million tons of imports will fail to meet
the NEA’s proposed criteria, according to estimates by Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. and Haitong International Securities Ltd.  Indonesia supplies 30 million to 40 million tons a year of
coal with a lower heating value to China,  Bob Kamandanu , the
chairman of the coal mining association, said in an interview in
Jakarta last week. Total Indonesian output this year will be 390
million tons, down from an earlier forecast of 400 million, he
predicted.  “The likelihood of this ban happening, based on our
conversation with our Chinese customers, is highly unlikely,”
Michael Soerijadji, Adimitra Baratama’s marketing director, said
at the conference. “If it does happen, the most likely outcome
would be the low calorific value price will drop and high
calorific will increase. We also heard talks about the rejection
limit being lowered.”  ‘Won’t Happen’  The Beijing-based NEA reduced the proposed minimum heating
value for coal imports and introduced different standards for
three categories of the fuel, Melbourne-based ANZ Bank said in
its report, without stating where it got the information.
Lignite would require a heating value of at least 3,940
kilocalories per kilogram on a net-as-received basis, anthracite
was set at 5,000 and bituminous coal at 4,300, the bank said.  “It won’t happen,” David Heap, Jakarta-based Harum
Energy’s marketing director, said at the conference, referring
to the proposed ban. “All customers we have spoken to agree.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  