-- Citigroup’s Rhodes Says Obama-Xi Meeting Is Reason to Be Hopeful
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-05T07:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/citigroup-s-rhodes-says-obama-xi-meeting-is-reason-to-be-hopeful.html
William Rhodes , a former  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  senior vice chairman and a senior adviser to the bank,
comments on U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s meeting with Chinese
President Xi Jinping June 7-8 in California and the outlook for
economic growth in China. Rhodes spoke in an interview in
Shanghai on June 3.  On Xi-Obama meeting:  “I’m really hopeful about this meeting that’s going to
take place in a few days. I think it’s a really good opportunity
in California to put some of these things on the table.  North
Korea , cyber, the whole question of trade between the two
countries. The way forward is trade and investment.”  On Chinese growth:  “Double digit growth is gone in  China  and it’s not coming
back. I think we’re in a period of 7-7.5% growth. You could get
8% but that’s basically where we are.”  “You had the most massive infusion of money the world has
ever seen with the 2008 stimulus program, particularly with bank
lending. I give China credit because without that infusion we
might not have gotten out of the Great Recession and it might
have been the Great Depression.”  “But whenever you have a spree in lending, you have to be
careful about how the money gets paid back and when it gets paid
back. There is no free lunch anywhere.”  “It’s easier to put  loans  on than it is to take them off.
We are still in a period of deleveraging worldwide but without
lending you’re not going to get growth and without growth there
will be problems with trade and employment. And you see how
trade has dropped. If we’re not careful there’s going to be a
new paradigm. Which means low growth, low trade, high
unemployment rates. That’s what we see in  Europe .”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Gregory Turk in Shanghai at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  