-- Clifford Chance Joins Linklaters in Raising London Lawyers’ Pay
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-06-05T07:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/clifford-chance-joins-linklaters-in-raising-london-lawyers-pay.html
Three of the U.K.’s highest-grossing
law firms raised salaries for  London  lawyers, who can earn as
much as 65,000 pounds ($99,000) in their first year after
qualifying to practice.  Clifford Chance LLP said yesterday it would increase pay
for newly-qualified lawyers by about 3 percent, to 63,500
pounds, while Linklaters LLP raised those rates 4 percent to
64,000 pounds. Slaughter and May also raised pay for that level
about 2 percent to 63,000 pounds.  Allen & Overy LLP and
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP kept salaries unchanged.  “The London office has had another successful year,” said
Clifford Chance partner David Bickerton.  The Magic Circle, comprising the five largest and most
profitable British law firms, cut or froze pay over several
years as deal work dried up during the financial crisis that
began in 2008. While the salaries of junior lawyers are rising
again, they lag behind their  New York  counterparts, who make as
much as $160,000 in their first year.  About six in 10 U.K. lawyers received a pay raise in 2012,
according to a  survey  by recruitment firm  Robert Walters Plc. (RWA) 
Nearly 70 percent of those got an increase of less than 6
percent.  “It’s certainly looking up,” said Nick Shillinglaw, a
legal recruiter at  Michael Page International Plc (MPI)  in London.
“There’s more confidence in the market now.”  Niche Practices  Finance and niche practices, such as intellectual property
litigation or tax, are attracting the highest salary offers, he
said.  Freshfields offered the highest pay for newly-qualified
lawyers. Rates for those in its first salary band, which include
newly qualified and attorneys with less than two years of
experience, started at 65,000 pounds. The firm doesn’t pay its
associates by years of experience, instead dividing them into
bands it calls Career Milestones, Alexa Highfield, a Freshfields
spokeswoman, said.  Allen & Overy LLP offered 61,500 pounds to newly-qualified
attorneys, rising to 68,500 pounds after a year of experience,
the same rates as in 2012. Clifford Chance increased pay
slightly for all its salaried lawyers. Those with three years of
experience could expect a salary of 87,000 pounds, compared to
89,000 pounds at Linklaters, 87,500 pounds at Slaughter and May
and 86,000 pounds at Allen & Overy.  Law firms are under pressure to pay junior lawyers
competitively while not angering clients, who have had increased
leverage during the economic downturn to pressure firms to lower
their bills.  “We believe this strikes the right balance between
rewarding our associates with increased scales at the same time
as recognizing that economic conditions remain tough,” Richard
Clark, the executive partner at Slaughter and May, said in an e-mail.  Bonuses  Clifford Chance, the only Magic Circle firm to disclose
bonuses, said lawyers with three years of experience can earn as
much as 27,000 pounds in added compensation in the coming year.
Linklaters’ bonus plan “will continue to reward exceptional
performance,” firm spokesman Rupert Winlaw said in an e-mail.  Excluding bonuses, Magic Circle lawyer wages are comparable
to those of investment bankers with similar experience, said
John Purcell, managing director of London-based executive search
firm Purcell & Co. Bankers with two years’ experience can expect
salaries of as much as 65,000 pounds, or about 80,000 pounds for
those with four years of experience, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  