-- Danish CoCo Experiment Seen Flopping Before First Bond Sold
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-06-06T12:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/coco-experiment-seen-flopping-in-denmark-before-first-bond-sold.html
Denmark’s experiment with contingent
convertible bonds risks falling flat even before the first sale,
according to the nation’s biggest bank.  The Financial Supervisory Authority said this week it will
let banks use such hybrid debt to meet individual capital
requirements. The regulator is also looking into allowing too-big-to-fail banks to use the securities to build buffers beyond
individual capital requirements. According to  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ,
investors probably won’t be interested in the hybrids at a price
that would make them feasible for Danish lenders to sell.  “It may be quite expensive, even too expensive,” Thomas Hovard, head of credit research at Danske Bank Markets in
Copenhagen, said in an interview. “It may be cheaper for the
banks to go for equity.”  The FSA argues stricter rules are needed to protect Denmark
from a financial industry whose combined assets are four times
the size of the $300 billion  economy . For systemically important
financial institutions, a government-appointed committee said in
March that hybrid conversion triggers should fire once banks
breach a capital threshold of 10.125 percent. Lawmakers have yet
to approve the Sifi proposals.  “We have seen instruments in other countries that are
designed to comply with Basel III and the triggers have been 5
and 7 percent,” Hovard said. “Debt investors don’t want equity
in their hands with such a high trigger” as  Denmark ’s Sifi
committee has proposed, he said.  Near ‘Impossible’  To make convertible bonds work for too-big-to-fail banks at
the current trigger proposal is “close to impossible,”
according to Hovard.  The FSA plans to provide more details in coming weeks on
which hybrid instruments banks can use. The emphasis will be on
capital that demonstrates an adequate loss-absorbing potential
while the bank is still solvent, Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said in an interview last week.  Banks will be allowed to use the hybrids to fulfill
individual solvency buffers above a minimum 8 percent equity
requirement, Noedgaard said. The FSA has worked with
international investment banks to design a security that is
consistent with similar products in other countries, “so it
should be also possible to issue for Danish banks,” he said.  Crisis Management  The FSA is still looking into the use of hybrids to fulfill
proposed  crisis-management  buffers for too-big-to-fail banks,
Noedgaard said.  Having an alternative to equity will in itself be positive
for banks, said Torben Jensen, chief dealer in debt capital
markets at Copenhagen-based Nykredit A/S.  “A number of European banks have issued CoCos, and I am
sure Danish investors also will consider it if they find the
terms sufficiently attractive,” he said in an e-mailed response
to questions. Whether CoCos are cheaper will depend not only on
the terms of the security, but also on how profitable a bank is
and the probability of conversion to equity, he said.  Relying on hybrid debt also hides potential risks as rating
companies redefine their assessments of the securities. The
prospect of a change of rules at  Standard & Poor’s  is hampering
Danske Bank’s ability to plan its  capital structure .  S&P Review  S&P said in March it’s reviewing its criteria for risk-adjusted capital in a move that threatens to reduce the loss-absorbing potential of a $1 billion 2037 bond that Danske issued
in September. Danske faces a Jan. 1 deadline to decide whether
to call the bond, Steen Blaafalk, head of group treasury, said
last week. No decision has been made yet, he said.  Danske won’t buy back the bond at par to avoid angering
investors, Christian Hede, a senior analyst at  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) ,
said. The bank needs to raise as much as 43 billion kroner in
the  capital markets  to fill  reserve requirements , he said.  Denmark’s FSA, which oversaw the European Union’s first
senior bondholder losses within a bank resolution framework in
2011, eased its stance on closures this year after creditors
balked at the prospect of writedowns. Instead of only allowing
banks 48 hours to find capital before being closed down, the
regulator is now giving insolvent lenders the time they need to
get back on their feet, it said in May.  Buffer Options  Noedgaard said allowing banks the option of building their
individual regulatory buffers with hybrids instead of only
equity was also a move designed to accommodate the industry.  Yet given the likely costs associated with contingent
convertible bonds in Denmark, Hovard says banks probably will
stick with equity to meet additional  capital requirements .  “It will be difficult for banks that aren’t Sifis to sell
these instruments,” he said. “They could perhaps if they have
good relations internationally, or even in Denmark, but in
general it’s still a bit difficult for Danish banks to compete
in the funding markets. Only a few of them will be able to issue
CoCos with the current legislation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  