-- Colony American Postpones Stock Sale as REIT Shares Fall
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-06-05T22:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/colony-american-postpones-stock-sale-as-reit-shares-fall.html
Tom Barrack’s  Colony American Homes
Inc. (CAHS) , which owns more than 12,000 U.S. rental houses, postponed
an initial stock offering as shares of real estate investment
trusts decline, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Scottsdale, Arizona-based landlord, which began buying
foreclosed homes and converting them into rentals last year, had
planned to raise as much as $260 million in an IPO this week.  REIT shares  have fallen 11 percent since May 21, more than
the 3.6 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.
Expectations that the Federal Reserve could end its
quantitative-easing programs amid a strengthening U.S. economy
have made yield-oriented equity investments such as REITs
relatively less attractive.  “The public market is very mercenary,” Jim Sullivan,
managing director at Newport Beach, California-based Green
Street Advisors Inc., said today in an interview at the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts conference in
 Chicago . “It’s a great reminder that you’ve got to price it
right and structure it right to get investors to give you the
benefit of the doubt.”  Colony American owned or had options on 12,247 homes with
an estimated cost basis of $1.8 billion as of May 17 in states
including  Arizona ,  California ,  Colorado ,  Florida  and  Texas , it
said in a regulatory filing last month.  Asset Class  The company would have joined Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp.
and American Residential Properties Inc. in going public as a
REIT in the burgeoning rental-houses asset class. American Homes
4 Rent, a Malibu, California-based single family rental company
headed by Public Storage founder Wayne Hughes, yesterday filed
plans to raise $1.25 billion as a REIT.  Colony American declined to comment, according to Caroline
Luz, a spokeswoman for the company at Owen Blicksilver Public
Relations Inc.  There are 14 million for-lease homes in the country with an
average price of $200,000, valuing the industry at about $2.8
trillion, according to an April report by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Silver Bay and American Residential are trading below their
IPO prices.  “We are not yet certain if the flood of institutional
capital into this market will leave investors shedding tears of
joy or tears of sorrow,” Henry Coffey Jr., an analyst with
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., wrote in a June 3 report on single-family REITs. “It is fair to say that the prospects for
additional home-price appreciation are relatively high. Whether
this turns into higher rental rates remains to be seen.”  Sale Inventory  Home-rental firms are helping to increase prices in areas
hit hard by the real estate crash by draining the market of
 inventory  as low mortgage rates and improving employment fuel
demand from individual buyers. There were 2.16 million homes
available for sale last month, the fewest for any April since
2001, according to the National Association of Realtors.  Home prices rose 12.1 percent in the 12 months through
April, the biggest gain since February 2006, said CoreLogic
Inc., an  Irvine , California-based data provider. Rents on
apartments and single-family homes gained 2.4 percent in the 12
months through April, according to a May 7 report by Trulia Inc.  The stock prices of single-family-home REITs have fallen
since their IPOs even as  homebuilders  and  apartment landlords 
have risen amid a housing-market recovery. Silver Bay, a
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based REIT formed by Two Harbors
Investment Corp., went public at $18.50 on Dec. 13 and today
closed at $17.65. American Residential Properties, a Scottsdale,
Arizona-based investment fund with more than 2,500 rental homes,
sold shares at $21 on May 8 and closed at $18.59 today.  Colony American Homes, part of Barrack’s Colony Capital
LLC, paid an average of $163,000 per house, including purchase
price and estimated upfront renovations, according to a filing
last month. It spent about $250 million a month from February
through April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  