-- Container Ship Demand to Grow in Line With GDP, Maersk Line Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-06-05T10:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/container-ship-demand-to-grow-in-line-with-gdp-maersk-line-says.html
Demand growth in the container-shipping industry probably won’t return to pre-crisis levels in
the coming years as the pace of globalization slows, the head of
 Maersk Line ’s North European operations said.  Demand will probably increase at the same pace as or no
more than one-and-a-half times the rate of the global economy,
compared with growth rates in the past of three times as much,
Karsten Kildahl, the executive said at a maritime conference in
Munich.  “It is important to recognize that we have been spoiled in
the container industry for decades as we have seen growth helped
by globalization,” he said. Future increases will be “much
more in line” with global trade as there aren’t many more
companies that can “containerize or outsource what they are
doing.”  The container shipping industry, in its fifth year of
crisis, is suffering from slow global trade, an overcapacity of
vessels and low freight rates. As new large  container ships 
enter the market, the imbalance will probably continue with the
fleet growing 7.5 percent in 2013 compared to demand growth of
4.5 percent, Drewry Maritime Equity Research said on May 16.  Kildahl said he expects the capacity overhang to last for
the next couple of years, and liners will have to scrap old
vessels as they purchase new ones.  Maersk Line (MAERSKB)  is the world’s
biggest container liner.  “We as carriers need to deal with it,” he said. “To sit
back and hope the supply and demand will take care of itself is
unrealistic.”  Uwe Lindemann, the head of Global Markets at Hapag-Lloyd
AG, said at the conference that the “very high” demand growth
rates are “a thing of the past. But the global container
transport business will continue to grow, that seems pretty
clear,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  