-- Cyprus Deposit Raid Spells ABS Revival in Europe, Pimco Says
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-06-05T11:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/cyprus-deposit-raid-spells-abs-revival-in-europe-pimco-says.html
Asset-backed securities are poised to
make a comeback in  Europe  as investors seek bonds less likely to
be written off in a rescue, according to Felix Blomenkamp, a
portfolio manager at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Losses suffered by depositors and senior bondholders when
Cypriot banks were rescued in March will lead investors to
demand higher risk premiums, pushing up funding costs for banks,
according to Blomenkamp, who is based in the Munich office of
the world’s  biggest bond fund  manager. While lenders currently
get cheap funding through central banks, that isn’t a long-term
solution and asset-backed securities represent an alternative,
he said in an article on Pimco’s website.  “ABS could potentially be seen as an ideal funding
instrument” that could benefit everyone,  Blomenkamp wrote . They
include “banks as issuers who get cheaper funding, investors
who can pick collateralized bonds that are free of bail-in risk,
and policymakers who could ensure lending to the real economy
without increasing European banks’ balance sheets.”  The notes, which are typically backed by loans and other
assets, fell out of favor as the U.S. subprime crisis escalated
into a global financial meltdown, with authorities blaming the
securitized debt for transferring complex and opaque risk to
unsophisticated investors. While notes issued in Europe didn’t
suffer losses to the same extent as those in parts of the U.S.
market, regulators still treated the securities “more
harshly,” imposing higher capital charges and other investment
restrictions, according to Blomenkamp.  Banks in the U.K. showed it was possible to reopen the
market after the crisis, issuing almost 40 billion euros ($52
billion) of debt backed by prime residential mortgages in 2011,
he wrote. While issuance this year has dropped back to zero,
it’s because lenders are using the cheaper funding offered by
central banks instead, according to Blomenkamp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  