-- Daiwa Raises Executive Pay as Nomura Resumes Bonuses on Abe
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-06-05T08:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/daiwa-executive-compensation-doubles-as-rally-fuels-profit-1-.html
Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  doubled
compensation for its top executives last fiscal year and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604)  resumed paying cash bonuses as profit surged amid
a market rally driven by  Japan ’s economic stimulus policies.  Average compensation for Daiwa’s top 12 officials rose to
67.3 million yen ($674,000) each for the year ended March,
according to documents sent to shareholders before they meet on
June 26. Nomura is paying the cash bonuses to executives after
waiving them in the previous year, reports to shareholders show.  The rewards underscore the turnaround in fortunes for
Japan’s two biggest securities firms since Shinzo Abe became
prime minister in December on a pledge to end  deflation . Rising
fees and commissions helped net income at the Tokyo-based
companies climb to the highest since before Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy triggered a global recession.  “The rise in compensation shows that the long, bitter
winter after the Lehman shock is over, thanks to Abenomics,”
said Mamoru Nagano, a professor of economics and international
finance at Seikei University in Tokyo, referring to the nickname
for Abe’s policies of fiscal and monetary stimulus coupled with
deregulation.  “It’s positive to see that Japanese bank executives are
receiving compensation linked to their firm’s performance as it
gives them an incentive to form more aggressive strategies for
growth,” including through mergers or alliances, Nagano said.  Stock Options  Daiwa booked 807 million yen for Chief Executive Officer
Takashi Hibino and 11 other executives for the fiscal year,
including base salaries and  stock options  as well as
performance-related payments to be made later, the document
shows, without providing a breakdown by individual. In the
previous year, the bank paid 14 top managers 424 million yen, an
average of 30.3 million yen each.  “Earnings and share performance were good, and
compensation rose in tandem with the move,” Misato Kinoshita, a
spokeswoman at Daiwa, said by phone yesterday. She confirmed the
calculation for the average remuneration per executive.  Nomura booked 656 million yen of compensation, including
base salaries, bonuses and deferred remuneration, for CEO Koji Nagai and seven other executives in the year ended March,
according to its report to shareholders. Averages per individual
couldn’t be calculated because some executives, including
Nagai’s predecessor Kenichi Watanabe, resigned in July after
staff leaked information used for  insider trading .  Debt Outlook  Standard & Poor’s today raised the outlook for Daiwa’s  debt
rating  to stable from negative, saying the banking group has
made “steady progress” on cutting costs to improve
profitability.  Daiwa posted  net income  of 72.9 billion yen last fiscal
year, following a 39.4 billion yen loss in the previous period.
Nomura’s profit surged to 107.2 billion yen from 11.6 billion
yen a year earlier. Both were the highest since the year ended
March 2007.  Securities firms have been among the biggest beneficiaries
of the equity-market recovery fueled by Abe’s fiscal spending
and the Bank of Japan’s plans to double the monetary base. The
Topix Securities and Commodity Futures Index has doubled in the
past six months, the best performer on the benchmark Topix.  Rebound Stalls  The rebound in Japanese stocks has stalled in the past two
weeks, with the Topix losing about 15 percent since its most
recent peak on May 22 and slumping 3.2 percent at the close of
trading today. Daiwa  shares  fell 7.6 percent to 790 yen, paring
this year’s advance to 66 percent. Nomura dropped 7.6 percent to
719 yen and is up 43 percent in 2013.  Daiwa’s senior executives aren’t the only  employees  to
benefit from the stock rally. The firm boosted the June bonus
pool for investment bankers and staff by 83 percent to 22
billion yen, the most in three years, company figures showed
last month.  CEO Hibino plans to increase the number of retail bankers
and branches by 50 percent over the next few years in
anticipation that households will shift savings to equities.
Daiwa has 3,000 to 4,000 financial advisers at its 123 branches
in Japan, and will increase headcount mainly by allocating
graduates, he said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  