-- Detroit Last-Ditch Talks on Cutting Debt May Take Months
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/detroit-last-ditch-talks-on-cutting-debt-may-take-months.html
Whether  Detroit  careens into the
largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy depends on emergency manager
Kevyn Orr’s convincing creditors during the next two months that
his plan will revive a city plagued by deficits, crime and
strained services.  Talks with debt holders, unions and retirees to erase a
$386 million budget gap may last into July or August, Orr said,
adding that he has held meetings already. He said he’s preparing
for possible Chapter 9 bankruptcy if he can’t strike deals to
restructure $15.7 billion in long-term obligations.  “If it appears we’re making progress and having productive
discussions, it would make sense, provided everybody’s moving in
good faith, to continue along that path,” Orr said yesterday by
telephone. “Getting all stakeholders to agree on a concept, a
plan, a means by which the city could move forward, is
crucial.”  Orr, appointed by Republican Governor Rick Snyder in March
to turn around  Michigan ’s largest city, has such powers as
imposing contract terms on unions and restructuring departments.
He must grapple with paying debt and retirement costs that drain
the coffers even as 10,000 employees have taken pay cuts.  To let the city avoid bankruptcy, creditors owed more than
$9 billion are looking for a long-term plan that does more than
balance the budget. Detroit’s population has fallen to about
701,000 from 1.8 million in 1950, a slide so steep it must do
what no other major U.S. urban center has done -- shrink itself
to a sustainable size while rebuilding its infrastructure,
attracting business and reforming its workforce.  Snyder’s Gamble  “The governor has really put his reputation and his future
on the line,” said Frank Shafroth, a former director of the
National League of Cities in  Washington .  Orr plans a hearing next week on his preliminary proposal,
which paints a sobering picture of a government that since 2008
has spent an average of $100 million more each year than its
revenue and has borrowed to stay afloat. Orr would reduce debt
costs by lengthening payback terms, lowering interest rates or
obtaining forgiveness on some obligations. Covering what it owes
devours at least a third of Detroit’s $1.1 billion general-fund
budget.  A hearing on his plan is required by a state law that lays
out procedures for emergency managers. Ultimately, the measure
allows Orr to ask Snyder for permission to pursue bankruptcy if
he determines there “is no reasonable alternative.”  Snyder would then respond in writing to Orr and state
Treasurer Andy Dillon, a Democrat appointed by the governor. If
Snyder approves, Orr would have exclusive power to act.  Core Resistance  Holders of the city’s general-obligation bonds, backed by
tax revenue, may be the toughest creditors to persuade to take
less than they are owed to let Detroit avoid bankruptcy, said
Richard A. Ciccarone, chief research officer at Oak Brook,
Illinois-based McDonnell Investment Management LLC.  The municipal-bond market has long assumed that such
securities are protected from losses on principal.  “That’s where the biggest objections will be,” Ciccarone
said. Forcing investors to take less than they’re owed on
general-obligation debt would “have a major impact on the bond
market,” he said.  Rather than bankruptcy, Detroit needs to attract more
businesses, jobs and residents, and increase revenue, said James E. Spiotto, a partner with Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago .  Orr’s Refusal  The city should refinance debt to pay off bondholders, and
negotiate cost reductions from vendors, unions and retirees,
Spiotto said. He said Orr also should consider selling or
restructuring assets, such as the municipal water department.  “Doctors bury their mistakes,” Spiotto said. “In
municipal finance, you refinance them.”  Orr said he won’t take that approach to Detroit’s debt
because doing so would burden future residents for decades.  Dennis Archer, a former mayor, said the city could learn
from how labor concessions helped its auto industry recover
after federally managed bankruptcies for  General Motors Corp. (GM) 
and Chrysler LLC. Archer credited concessions by the United
Autoworkers Union for the rebound.  “The light at the end of the tunnel is not a train, but a
way forward,” Archer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing, MI 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net .
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  