-- Yen Rallies Most Since 2011 as Volatility Rises Highest in Year
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i ,   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2013-06-06T21:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/dollar-near-month-low-on-jobs-data-fed-outlook-aussie-declines.html
The yen rallied the most in two years
against the dollar amid mounting speculation about the Federal
Reserve reducing stimulus, spurring a gauge of volatility to the
highest level since June 2012.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Group of Seven Volatility Index,
based on currency option premiums, rose as traders unwound bets
on a weaker yen that were based on the Bank of  Japan ’s monetary
stimulus. The euro strengthened to a three-month high against
the dollar as European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said
the region’s economy should recover this year. The Labor
Department is forecast to report tomorrow that the U.S. added
163,000 jobs in May, and the jobless rate was unchanged at 7.5
percent, key figures as the Fed debates the duration of its
stimulus programs.  “This is a very extreme move relative to what you expect,
even ahead of” the employment report tomorrow, Brad Bechtel,
managing director at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s definitely on the extreme
side and liquidity became challenging.”  The yen rallied 2.1 percent to 96.97 per dollar at 5:02
p.m. New York time. The euro rose 1.2 percent to $1.3246,
reaching its strongest level since Feb. 25. The single currency
lost 1 percent to 128.45 yen.  Yen Levels  Japan’s currency reached its strongest level since April 16
and had the biggest intraday gain since March 17, 2011, when it
rallied on speculation Japan would delay intervention to limit
the currency’s advance as the nation struggled to avert disaster
at a nuclear-power plant.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Volatility Index, based on currency
option premiums, touched 10.38 percent, the highest level since
June 2012.  Yields on Japan’s 10-year government bonds climbed
to as much as 1 percent on May 23, compared with a record low of
0.325 on April 5.  Futures traders had increased their bets that the yen will
weaken against the dollar to the most since July 2007. The
difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other
large speculators on a decline in Japan’s currency compared with
those on a gain, known as net shorts, was 99,769 contracts on
May 28, versus 95,186 a week earlier, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Abe Policies  The yen’s appreciation comes as Japanese equities, the best
performing in the world during the past seven months on
speculation Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies would end two
decades of deflation, are giving gains back. The Topix Index,
which rose as much as 77 percent between mid-November and May
22, has lost more than 16 percent since.  “Concerns around the Bank of Japan’s control of the
Japanese money supply are what triggered much of the turbulence
we are seeing,” Michael Schmanske, founder and chief executive
officer of New York-based Glenshaw Capital Management LLC, said
in an interview. “Trepidations around the Fed’s tapering of QE
was only the straw that forced the crowded currency trades to
break.”  Abe failed to provide additional detail on stimulus
measures yesterday. He said a legislative campaign to loosen
rules on businesses won’t begin for months as he outlined his
“third arrow” of an economic revival plan that seeks to build
on fiscal and monetary stimulus.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told reporters in  Tokyo  last
week that the central bank will conduct its debt purchases in a
flexible manner, and that the recent volatility in government
securities isn’t yet affecting the economy.  The yen has weakened 21.1 percent in the past year, the
most among 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar lost 1.7 percent while
the euro gained 4.3 percent.  Key Sectors  “The weakness in dollar-yen, as the cross took out stops,
pushed a positioning clear-out that took place across the G-10,” Brian Daingerfield, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in Stamford,
Connecticut, said in a telephone interview. “The catalyst of
broad-based dollar weakness was dollar-yen breaking through some
important levels on the downside, 98.80 and then 98.50.” Stops
are orders that a triggered when prices reached pre-set levels.  The ECB kept its benchmark  rate  at 0.5 percent in line with
the predictions of all except two of 59 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Morgan Stanley & Co. and IHS Global Insight were
the only institutions predicting a quarter-point reduction.  “Recent developments in economic sentiment data have shown
some improvements,” Draghi said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt  after the rate decision was announced. “Overall,
economic activity should stabilize and recover over the course
of the year.”  The ECB cut its growth forecast for this year, predicting
the economy will shrink 0.6 percent. Policy makers raised their
2014 forecast to show growth of 1.1 percent.  Euro Bids  “People are buying the euro because it’s less likely now
that you’re going to get any further blood out of the stone from
the ECB in terms of looser monetary policy,” Andrew Wilkinson,
chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak & Co., in New York
said in a telephone interview. “The overall takeaway from the
ECB’s comments is we have a series of measures that we could put
in place, but we’ve chosen to keep them on the shelf. I think
that’s why Spanish and Italian bond yields have been hit.”  Yields on 10-year Italian government bonds rose 23 basis
points, the most since July, to 4.36 percent. Similar-maturity
Spanish debt yields climbed 25 basis points to 4.69 percent, the
highest level since April 16.  Pound Up  The pound advanced for a second day against the dollar as a
Halifax report showed British house prices increased for a
fourth month in May, adding to signs the economy is recovering.  Bank of England policy makers kept their key interest rate
at 0.5 percent and their target for bond purchases at 375
billion pounds ($580 billion) at their meeting in  London .  “I probably will tweak my sterling forecasts just to make
them a bit stronger by the end of the year on the back of the
data that we’ve seen,” said Jane Foley, senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “Everybody
anticipated that it would be a fairly non-event meeting today”
from the Bank of England.  The pound climbed 1.3 percent to $1.5600, after rising to
the highest level since Feb. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Cox at 
 pcox16@bloomberg.net  