-- Lebanon Faces ‘Severe Risk’ of Civil War Next Year, IHS Says
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2013-06-05T08:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/lebanon-faces-severe-risk-of-civil-war-next-year-ihs-says.html
Lebanon may descend into civil war as
early as next year as  Syria ’s conflict spreads in the region and
the collapse of government authority accelerates, according to
research firm IHS.  “The state is already barely able to enforce its remit and
it will be weakened further in the north” and the eastern Bekaa
Valley, Firas Abi Ali, senior manager of  Middle East  and North
Africa country risk and forecasting at the Englewood, Colorado-based company, said in a phone interview from  London  yesterday.  The war in its larger neighbor has already spilled over to
Lebanon’s northern city of Tripoli, scene of routine clashes
between supporters and opponents of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Hezbollah’s military support for Assad against the mainly
Sunni Syrian rebels has raised concern that Lebanon, plagued by
a history of sectarian violence, may be dragged deeper into the
conflict.  Fighters from the rebel Free Syrian Army and Hezbollah, the
Shiite guerrilla group backed by  Iran , clashed in Lebanon’s
Bekaa Valley this week. Fourteen Syrian rebels were killed in
fighting in the border region near the city of Baalbek, while
one Hezbollah fighter died, the Lebanese Broadcasting Corp. said
on Twitter.  “Our forecast is that there is a severe risk of Lebanon
entering a civil war in mid-2014, with a gradual escalation of
violence between now and then,” Abi Ali said. “You’re going to
see this trend of the collapse of state authority accelerating,
especially as the various political and sectarian groups are
unable to agree on any political reform.”  Hezbollah, listed as a terrorist group by the U.S., is
helping Assad retake the strategic city of al-Qusair from the
rebels. Last month, rockets slammed into Hezbollah’s stronghold
in a southern suburb of  Beirut , injuring four people.  IHS said in May 2008 that Lebanon was “nearing civil war”
after a weekend of violence during which Hezbollah took control
of the western neighborhoods of Beirut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  