-- ECB Gives Green Light for Latvia Euro Adoption Despite Concerns
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-06-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ecb-gives-green-light-for-latvia-euro-adoption-despite-concerns.html
The  European Central Bank  said it
approves of  Latvia ’s bid to adopt the euro, even as policy
makers are concerned that the country will struggle to maintain
its economic achievements.  “All in all, Latvia is within the reference values of the
convergence criteria,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said in its
Convergence Report today. “Nevertheless, the longer-term
sustainability of its economic convergence is of concern.”  Latvia wants to join the euro on Jan. 1, 2014, becoming the
18th member of the currency union. The adoption would crown a
recovery from the world’s  deepest recession  in 2009 to the
European Union’s fastest growth last year. The European
Commission will present a separate assessment today, before EU
finance ministers will make a final decision on July 9.  Inflation (LACPYOY)  in the Baltic country averaged 1.3 percent in the
12 months through April, well below the reference value of 2.7
percent, the ECB said.  “There are concerns regarding the sustainability of
inflation convergence,” the ECB said. “Maintaining low
inflation rates in Latvia will be challenging in the medium
term, given monetary policy’s limited room for maneuver in a
context characterized by little room for nominal exchange-rate
flexibility.”  Latvia’s general government budget deficit, at 1.2 percent,
and the debt ratio, at 40.7 percent of gross domestic product,
remained below EU limits in 2012. The lats has held close to its
central rate since May 2011, and long-term  interest rates 
undershot their reference value, the ECB said.  Euro Adoption  To meet the euro-area requirements and the terms of a 7.5
billion-euro ($9.8 billion) bailout in 2008, the nation of 2.1
million transformed its public finances with austerity equal to
16 percent of GDP, winning praise from officials including EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy .  Euro adoption would probably lead to an upgrade in Latvia’s
credit rating,  Fitch Ratings  said on May 31. The company
currently has a BBB rating on the country, the second-lowest
investment grade.  “Although Latvia’s adjustment capacity has been strong,
its indicators of the quality of institutions and governance
point to a need to make progress in this field,” the ECB said,
adding that it is seeking clarification on Article 43 of
Latvia’s central bank law, which requires the country’s
parliament to supervise the institution.  “Finally, in the financial sector, the reliance by a
significant part of the banking sector on non-resident deposits
as a source of funding, while not a recent phenomenon, is again
on the rise and represents an important risk to financial
stability,” the ECB said. Non-resident deposits equaled about
40 percent of GDP last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  