-- Ecolab’s Nalco to Buy Stakes in Water Companies in India
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-06-05T20:45:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ecolab-s-nalco-to-buy-stakes-in-water-companies-in-india.html
Ecolab Inc. (ECL) , the largest provider of
chemicals and services for water and wastewater treatment, said
its  Nalco  unit plans to grow through acquisitions in the south
Asian nation.  Nalco Water India Ltd. may expand by purchasing firms in
complimentary fields as it seeks to meet rising industrial and
urban demand for treated water in India, Managing Director
Mahesh Rao said in an interview.  “We’d like to look at potential opportunities,” Rao said
by phone from the western Indian city of Pune. “The strategy
earlier was not to look at acquisitions but now the time has
come to look at M&As with complementary companies as demand
grows.”  India, the second-most populous after  China  with 4 percent
of the world’s water resources, plans to spend $20 billion on
water treatment, irrigation and recycling in the five years
ending March 2017. Indian companies, which often compete with
the local population for water supplies, and growing urban
communities are investing more in water treatment in a nation
where only 20 percent of sewage water is treated.  Nalco, with revenue of $65 million in India last year, is
looking to appoint advisers for potential deals, Rao said this
week without giving more details. The company has been growing
in India more than 20 percent annually and its water business
may expand by as much as 27 percent a year over the next five
years, Rao said. Nalco employs 2,500 people in  India , he said.  Any Nalco acquisition will be funded by Ecolab, which
closed a $2.3-billion acquisition of Champion Technologies Inc.
this April, Rao said. St. Paul, Minnesota-based Ecolab paid $5.4
billion for Nalco Holding Co. in 2011.  Nalco conducts water audits, builds automated water supply
systems and operates sensors for hospitals, hotels, food
companies, automotive and energy companies’ water systems that
are remotely controlled from its Pune-based center, Rao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  