-- Legg Mason CFO Says Firm May Expand Into Private Equity
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-06-05T17:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/legg-mason-cfo-nachtwey-says-firm-may-expand-into-private-equity.html
Legg Mason Inc.  is considering
expanding into private equity, real estate and infrastructure,
said Chief Financial Officer  Peter Nachtwey .  While the Baltimore-based money manager isn’t looking to do
big transformational acquisitions, it would be interested in
adding teams to invest in those areas, Nachtwey said today at
the Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asset Management Conference in New
York. There are opportunities to replace aging infrastructure in
developed markets and the need to build it in emerging markets,
he said.  “We think just about any of the mainstream alternative
models out there fit pretty well with our model, which is high-talent, independent affiliates,” Nachtwey said.  Legg Mason, led by Chief Executive Officer Joseph A.
Sullivan, is reviewing its business and relationships with
affiliates as it enters its sixth year of client redemptions. In
March, Legg Mason acquired fund-of-hedge-funds unit Fauchier
Partners, which added about $5 billion in assets. Sullivan has
said Legg Mason is looking to buy a non-U.S. equity unit to
expand the firm’s market share.  “Management remains on ‘front foot’ for deals,” using a
combination of cash or leverage for transactions such as smaller
“bolt-ons,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by William Katz wrote
in a research note today.  Nachtwey also said today cost savings resulting from a
review of the firm by a third-party consultant will be
reallocated to selling and distributing the firm’s funds. Legg
Mason still has a “tremendous amount” of distribution to build
out globally, including in countries such as Japan, and has so
far achieved about 60 percent of its goal, Nachtwey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  