-- Egypt Stocks Slump Most in Six Months Before Anti-Mursi Protest
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-06-05T13:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/egypt-stocks-slump-most-in-six-months-before-anti-mursi-protest.html
Egypt ’s  benchmark stock index  dropped
the most in six months as political tensions increased ahead of
planned demonstrations marking the first anniversary of Islamist
President Mohamed Mursi taking office.  The EGX 30 Index  tumbled  2.9 percent, the most since Dec.
6, to 5,071.91 at the close in Cairo, making it the world’s
third worst performer, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
About 99 million shares traded, compared with an 12-month daily
average of 125 million shares. Orascom Telecom Holding SAE
plunged the most since November while private equity firm
Egyptian Kuwaiti Holding fell to the lowest since 2009.  All 30 stocks on the index dropped as investors brace for a
western backlash against Egypt after after a Cairo court
sentenced 43 workers in pro-democracy organizations, including
Germans and Americans, to prison yesterday. Mursi, facing
growing calls for anti-government protests on June 30, is also
under pressure to respond to  Ethiopia ’s plan to build a dam on
the Nile River that Egypt says may reduce its water resources.  There are many “factors weighing in on investors minds and
none are positive,” Teymour El-Derini, director of  Middle East 
and North Africa sales trading at Naeem Brokerage in Cairo,
said. “It’s the water issue with Ethiopia, jailing of NGO
workers which might affect our chances of getting an IMF deal
and planned anti-government protests on June 30.”  ‘Deeply Concerned’  Egypt, whose economy is struggling since the 2011 uprising
that toppled  Hosni Mubarak , is seeking $4.8 billion loan from
the  International Monetary Fund , the Washington-based lender of
which the U.S. is the largest shareholder.  “The  United States  is deeply concerned by the guilty
verdicts and sentences” that were handed down “in what was a
politically motivated trial,” U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday. The workers were accused of operating
without licenses and receiving funds from abroad. Most of the
Americans were sentenced in absentia.  In Cairo, activists plastered posters on bridges and school
fences bearing a red X on a picture of Mursi, asking people to
participate in the month-end protests to “topple the
Brotherhood rule,” referring to the country’s biggest Islamist
organization from which Mursi hails.  Orascom Telecom retreated 5.1 percent to 4.31 Egyptian
pounds, taking its drop since Billionaire  Mikhail Fridman  pulled
his offer this week to buy a stake to 13 percent. Egyptian
Kuwaiti, which was eliminated from the MSCI Egypt Index last
month, plunged 8.1 percent to 80 cents on more than 20 times the
three-month daily average volume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  