-- Telefonica Said to Plan for Another Venezuela Devaluation
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-06-06T11:51:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/telefonica-said-to-forge-venezuela-plan-for-devaluation-scenario.html
Telefonica SA (TEF)  plans to boost spending
in  Venezuela  to avoid sitting on cash that may lose a third of
its value as speculation mounts that the government may devalue
the bolivar for a second time this year, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The Spanish phone company’s headquarters in Madrid will be
asked this week to sign off on additional spending of 1.3
billion bolivars ($207 million) this year on its mobile-phone
network in Venezuela, said the person, asking not to be
identified because the proposal is confidential. Telefonica
earlier this year approved a 78 percent increase in its budget
to 3.9 billion bolivars with an additional 600 million bolivars
earmarked for acquiring high-speed wireless spectrum.  Telefonica wants to spend as much as possible of an
estimated $3 billion that it can’t take out of Venezuela amid
speculation of a devaluation of the bolivar to 9.3 per dollar
from 6.3, the person said. Overseas companies may hold $12
billion in dividends in Venezuela that they can’t repatriate,
according to an April estimate by Caracas-based researcher
Ecoanalitica. Venezuela devalued the bolivar from 4.3 per dollar
on Feb. 8.  “To increase costs from 4.3 bolivars per dollar to 9.3
bolivars per dollar in a year would be truly explosive,” said
 Asdrubal Oliveros , a director at Ecoanalitica. “I’ve got
clients, multinationals calling but it doesn’t make any sense.”  Bonds Fall  The yield on the government’s benchmark 9.25 percent dollar
bonds due in 2027 climbed 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage
point, to 11.25 percent yesterday in New York, the highest level
on a closing basis since Sept. 20, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The price fell 2.13 cents to 85.94 cents, the biggest
daily decline since April 16.  Miguel Angel Garzon, a Telefonica spokesman, declined to
comment and referred questions to the company’s Venezuela unit.
Douglas Ochoa, a spokesman in Caracas, didn’t return calls and
an e-mail seeking comment.  Venezuela’s President Nicolas Maduro, speaking on state
television yesterday, said the country isn’t preparing for a
devaluation.  “What’s coming is a strengthening of the Venezuelan
currency, strengthening of the economy,” Maduro said. Venezuela
is overcoming shortages, Maduro said, asking Venezuelans to
resist rumors of bolivar devaluation.  Support Wanes  The February move has hurt international companies from
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and Merck & Co. to Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA, Spain’s second-biggest lender.  Most foreign businesses operating in the country “are
stuck with cash they can’t repatriate and they end up having to
carry out accounting adjustments after a devaluation for the
loss in value,” said Juan Carlos Martinez Lazaro, a professor
at IE Business School in  Madrid .  President Maduro whom Hugo Chavez anointed as his successor
three months before dying of cancer in March, has seen support
for his government wane as the devaluation cuts into
Venezuelans’ purchasing power and stokes inflation that was
already the region’s highest.  While the February devaluation narrowed an estimated fiscal
deficit in 2012 for the government and state oil company
 Petroleos de Venezuela SA  of 14.5 percent, it didn’t close it,
according to estimates by Francisco Rodriguez, an analyst at
Bank of America Corp.  Cash Pile  Venezuela still faces a budget gap of 9.7 percent,
according to Rodriguez, whose calculations are based on the
government reviving a dollar-auction system that sold $200
million in March.  Devaluing the currency would boost the government’s cash
flow by increasing the amount of bolivars it receives from oil
exports.  Telefonica, which expanded in Venezuela with the 2004
takeover of BellSouth Corp.’s Latin American wireless business,
has seen the value of its dividend accumulated in the country
slashed by about $1.3 billion since February, according to an
April company presentation seen by Bloomberg News. Telefonica is
the second-largest wireless carrier in the country after CA
Nacional Telefonos de Venezuela.  Telefonica shares rose 2 percent to 10.61 euros at 1:50
p.m. in Madrid. The carrier has a market value of 48 billion
euros ($63 billion).  To be sure, some investors in the country aren’t bracing
for another devaluation.  Duro Felguera SA (MDF) , a Spanish builder of
power plants, doesn’t expect a change in the value of the
bolivar soon, according to a spokesman, Federico Alvarez de la
Ballina. To hedge from any currency fluctuation, the company has
contracts in euros, dollars and bolivars, he said.  “The government’s need right now is for dollars,” said
Ricardo Villasmil, an economist at the Universidad Catolica
Andres Bello. “They have some delays in debt payments in
bolivars but the primary necessity at the moment is for foreign
currency and a devaluation won’t necessarily solve that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  