-- Eleven Charged in $200 Million Credit-Card Data Theft
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-06-05T19:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/eleven-charged-in-200-million-credit-card-data-theft.html
Eight people in  Vietnam  and three in
the U.K. were charged in a crackdown on an organized crime group
that ran one of the world’s largest Web forums devoted to
selling stolen credit card data, U.K. authorities said.  The website, which had 16,000 members, facilitated more
than $200 million of credit card fraud by hacking businesses and
stealing data relating to 1.1 million cards, the London-based
Serious Organized Crime Agency said today in a statement.  The eight arrested in Vietnam were “members of the
organized crime group behind the website,” while the three
charged in the U.K. were “significant forum users,” according
to SOCA. One of the Vietnamese leaders, Duy Hai Truong, 23, of
Ho Chi Minh City, was charged by the Justice Department in New
Jersey with conspiracy to commit bank fraud, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  “One of the world’s major facilitation networks for online
card fraud has been dismantled by this operation, and those
engaged in this type of crime should know they are neither
anonymous, nor beyond the reach of law enforcement agencies,”
SOCA said in the statement.  The website, named “mattfeuter,” gave members access
through a secure login and let them specify the type of credit-card data they wanted to buy, offering discounts for bulk
purchases, according to SOCA.  The crackdown was made possible by a 2009 law in Vietnam
that made it a crime to use fraud to obtain credit-card data,
according to SOCA.  Search warrants produced “more than 1.1 million unique
credit card numbers, including information relating to numerous
victims residing in New Jersey,” according to a Federal Bureau
of Investigation arrest complaint for Truong.  The Truong case is U.S. v. Truong, 13-mj-06080, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  