-- Emerging Stocks Head for Six-Week Low Amid Turkey, Egypt Unrest
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-06-05T13:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/emerging-stocks-drop-as-philippine-indonesian-equities-slide.html
Emerging-market stocks headed for the
lowest level in more than six weeks on concern mutual fund
outflows will accelerate as investors weigh the prospect of a
cut in Federal Reserve stimulus. Turkish shares slid after a
fifth night of anti-government protests.  Akbank TAS  led losses in Istanbul after Bank of America
Merrill Lynch lowered the lender to underperform. Egypt’s
benchmark EGX30 Index was the second-worst performer worldwide
after Japan’s Nikkei-225 Stock Average.  SM Investments Corp. 
fell 3.1 percent in Manila, driving the Philippine benchmark
index to the lowest level in 10 weeks.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry
Science & Technology Co.  slipped to a record in Hong Kong before
its removal from the FTSE China A50 Index. Russia’s Micex Index
declined to a one-year low.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  lost 0.6 percent to 998.36,
the lowest level on a closing basis since April 18, by 2:05 p.m.
in London. International money managers pulled a combined $1.6
billion from Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines since May
22, the most since August 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard Fisher called for a
reduction in the central bank’s bond purchases, which economists
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG predict may
be curbed from September.  “There will probably be more money outflows from the
region on speculation about the Fed tempering its quantitative
easing program,”  Sukit Udomsirikul , an analyst at Maybank Kim
Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl, the nation’s biggest brokerage,
said in Bangkok. “The outflows may be just the beginning.”  Turkey Slides  Gauges of consumer-discretionary and health care companies
shares in MSCI’s developing-nation index slid at least 1
percent, the most among 10  industry groups .  Brazil’s Bovespa index fell 0.3 percent, sliding for the
first time in three days. The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets
Index slipped 1.2 percent, poised for its lowest level since May
31.  Turkey’s Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index fell 2.1
percent, extending its weekly loss to 8 percent, while the lira
weakened and bonds retreated. Protesters accusing Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  of autocratic governance and citing
grievances including alleged police brutality and curbs on
alcohol sales clashed overnight with the police, who responded
with tear gas and water cannons in about 10 cities.  Akbank, the Turkish lender part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
dropped 3.1 percent, extending its weekly retreat to 7.8
percent. BofA lowered the stock from neutral.  The Egyptian gauge slumped 2.9 percent, the most in six
months. There are lots of “factors weighing in on investors
minds and none are positive,” said Teymour El-Derini, director
of MENA sales trading at Naeem Brokerage in Cairo. “It’s the
water issue with Ethiopia,” jailing of non-governmental
organization workers which might affect “our chances” of
getting an International Monetary Fund deal and “planned anti-government protests” on June 30, El-Derini said.  Rand Depreciates  Russia’s Micex Index slid 0.8 percent, led by utilities
 Federal Grid Co  and OAO Russian Grids, and miner OAO Mechel,
which slumped 6.6 percent to the lowest level since 2009.
Federal Grid dropped 6.8 percent and Russian Grids lost 4.6
percent.  The rand weakened for a second day, extending its
depreciation this year to 13 percent. South Africa’s Reserve
Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  said price stability remains the
central bank’s primary focus even as growth slows. The prospects
for capital inflows into South Africa are “less certain” than
in recent years, increasing the risks of funding the current-account deficit, the central bank said in its Monetary Policy
Review yesterday.  Polish Rates  Poland’s WIG20 Index erased losses of as much as 0.6
percent and climbed 0.2 percent. The central bank cut borrowing
costs to a record as the European Union’s largest eastern
economy grapples with its worst slowdown in four years. The 10-person Monetary Policy Council lowered the reference rate by a
quarter-point to 2.75 percent, matching the estimate of 38 of 40
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index  declined 1.7 percent,
its third day of losses.  SM Investments  fell to the lowest close
since March 19. The  Jakarta Composite Index  retreated 0.4
percent.  South Korea’s Kospi index fell 1.5 percent as the won
strengthened against the yen, hurting the competitiveness of
exporters. The Thai baht weakened to a five-month low against
the dollar.  Goldman Sachs economist  Jan Hatzius  and  Joseph Lavorgna  at
Deutsche Bank predicted the tapering may begin from September.
Kansas City Fed President  Esther George  yesterday urged a
reduction in bond buying as growth quickens, while San Francisco
Fed President  John Williams  said a “modest adjustment
downward” in the purchases is possible as early as this summer.  Companies in the U.S. hired fewer workers than projected in
May, the ADP Research Institute reported today, before the Labor
Department’s monthly payrolls report in two days.  Index Inclusion  Thailand’s SET Index slipped 2.1 percent, the most in two
months. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of mainland
companies listed in Hong Kong declined 0.6 percent to its lowest
since April 23.  Benchmark indexes in Qatar and Dubai dropped after  Maria Gratsova , an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a report today
that the United Arab Emirates and Qatar won’t win an upgrade to
emerging-market status at MSCI Inc. this month.  Trading volume at the FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index was
39.5 percent below the gauge’s 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Volume at the Shanghai Composite Index
was 26 percent below the average.  Zoomlion, China’s second-largest maker of construction
equipment, retreated 2.6 percent in Hong Kong ahead of its
removal from the A50 Index effective June 24.  BS Financial Group Inc.  slumped 7.6 percent in Seoul, a
record decline. The Financial Supervisory Service yesterday
ordered BS Financial and its banking unit to reprimand some
staff as they violated banking and regulatory rules.  The emerging-markets index has dropped 5.5 percent this
year, compared with a 9.4 percent gain in the MSCI World Index.
The developing-nation index  trades  at 10.2 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s 13.5 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  -- Editors: Ash Kumar, Gavin Serkin  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  