-- Merkel’s Fiscal Pact Risks Pre-Election Showdown as States Rebel
-- B y   B i r g i t   J e n n e n
-- 2013-06-05T14:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/merkel-s-fiscal-pact-risks-pre-election-showdown-as-states-rebel.html
Germany’s opposition-controlled
states threatened to scupper domestic implementation of the
European Union’s fiscal pact, undermining Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s push for euro-wide budget rigor in federal elections.  The states and Merkel’s federal government have locked
horns over the budget rules, with areas of contention including
state calls for extra financing to help with infrastructure
spending such as on schools. A mediation committee is due to
meet in Berlin later today to try and resolve the dispute.  “If the federal government doesn’t move, the states are
determined not to pass the fiscal pact,”  Carsten Kuehl , finance
minister for Rhineland Palatinate state and member of the main
opposition Social Democratic Party, said by phone. “Then Mrs.
Merkel will have to explain in Brussels why she hasn’t yet
implemented the fiscal pact in Germany.”  The impasse risks embarrassing Merkel as she seeks a third
term in the Sept. 22 election. Her Christian Democratic Union
party’s platform contains a campaign pledge to push for all euro
states to hold “strictly” to limits on debt as envisaged in
the fiscal pact.  Merkel persuaded all but two of the EU’s 27 members in
December 2011 to sign up to her fiscal pact locking in common
budget rules. The German Finance Ministry, which has said the
state veto is “incomprehensible,” declined to comment today.  Merkel lost control of the upper house, where the states
are represented, in 2010. The fiscal pact legislation was voted
down in March this year for a second time, as the opposition
Social Democrats and Greens party exercised their majority in
the upper chamber, the Bundesrat, to inflict a defeat on Merkel.  Kuehl said the states are looking for an additional 20.4
billion euros ($26.7 billion) for the period 2014-2019 to help
them plan their spending. He threatened a “showdown” in July,
when the Bundesrat is due to meet before the election, without
some movement by Merkel’s government,  “If the federal government thinks it can push its luck
during an election campaign, then we’ll push our luck too,”
Kuehl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Birgit Jennen  in Berlin at 
 bjennen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling oder  jhertling@bloomberg.net  