-- Merkel Ally Says Northrop Disputed Cost of Ditched Drone Program
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   A r n e   D e l f s
-- 2013-06-05T10:53:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/merkel-ally-defense-chief-to-testify-on-scrapped-german-drones.html
German Defense Minister Thomas  de Maiziere , a confidant of  Chancellor Angela Merkel , denied
bungling a spy-drone project he halted in May and said extra
costs disputed by Northrop Grumman Corp. were partly to blame.  Less than four months before national elections, De
Maiziere rebuffed opposition criticism that he was slow to halt
the  Euro Hawk  and wasted taxpayers’ money. Merkel’s government
said May 15 it would stop spending for the joint project by
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  and Northrop Grumman.  “The decision was right,” de Maiziere said in an advance
copy of testimony to the German parliament’s defense committee
in Berlin today. “The timing was not too late. Greater damage
was averted.” Still, the procurement exposed “deficiencies”
that must be fixed, he said.  While Merkel is  Germany ’s most popular politician, the
aborted project associated with one of her most trusted aides
risks becoming a liability as she campaigns for a third term in
Germany’s Sept. 22 election. Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck ,
Merkel’s main election challenger, said that he had come to the
conclusion “Germany doesn’t need drones,” Bild newspaper cited
him as saying in a speech in Berlin yesterday.  De Maiziere cited additional costs of as much as 600
million euros for airspace certification as one reason for
scrapping Euro Hawk. Northrop Grumman disputed the need for
extra spending, yet a study by the German government confirmed
the cost overrun, he said.  Northrop Grumman had no immediate comment when contacted
today.  ‘Divergent Ideas’  Germany and the two contractors agreed to develop the drone
in January 2007, 14 months into Merkel’s first term. Yet EADS
and Northrop Grumman had “such divergent ideas” about the
project that this planted “the seed of increasing problems,”
de Maiziere said.  A report by Germany’s government auditing office, the
Bundesrechnungshof, said the  Defense Ministry  should have known
by 2011 that the technology to ensure the drone’s airspace
permit would add to the project’s cost, according to Germany’s
ARD public television network.  Merkel and de Maiziere, both members of the Christian
Democratic Union party, met around German reunification in 1990.
He was Merkel’s chief of staff during her first term between
2005 and 2009 and was named defense minister in March 2011 when
Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg quit after revelations that he
plagiarized part of his doctoral dissertation. Merkel sent de
Maiziere to attend a crisis meeting of European finance
ministers in May 2010 after Wolfgang Schaeuble fell ill.  Better Controls  De Maiziere told lawmakers on May 16 that the government
will improve defense contract procedures and pledged to scrap
projects “if costs threaten to get out of hand.” Germany
signed the Euro Hawk contract in 2007.  The drone is a modified version of the Global Hawk unmanned
aircraft used by the U.S. Air Force, with EADS providing the
sensor payload after teaming up with Northrop in 2000.  To meet U.S. and German security requirements,  Northrop
Grumman (NOC)  and EADS separated elements of Euro Hawk work during
development. EADS has said that equipment developed for the
high-flying spy aircraft can find other uses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  