-- Tesco Sales Drop as Non-Food Slide Compounds Horsemeat Woe
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-06-05T08:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/tesco-u-k-first-quarter-same-store-sales-fall-as-revival-slows.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest grocer,
reported revenue that fell more than analysts anticipated as
weak non-food sales and the horsemeat crisis halted a revival.  U.K. same-store sales fell 1 percent, excluding gasoline
and value-added-tax, in the 13 weeks ended May 25, the Cheshunt,
England-based company said today, compared with the previous
quarter’s 0.5 percent gain. That missed the average estimate of
14 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.7 percent drop.  Tesco said the sales decline was caused largely by having
too much space dedicated to consumer electronics ahead of the
introduction of a new range of non-food items. Most food
categories showed an improvement, according to the company,
which last year invested 1 billion pounds ($1.5 billion) in its
stores, food offer and staff training to slow encroachment by
discounters such as Aldi and upscale chains like Waitrose Ltd.  A weak first quarter “immediately puts pressure on the
full-year outturn,” Darren Shirley, an analyst at Shore
Capital, said in a note. Tesco will need to deliver same-store
sales growth of 1.6 percent for the rest of the year in order to
meet estimates, said Shirley, who rates the shares buy.  Tesco fell as much as 3.2 percent in London trading and was
down 3.1 percent at 353.25 pence at 9:04 a.m., the second-biggest decline in the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   Economic Stagnation  The discovery of equine DNA in four products at the
beginning of the year had “a small, but discernible impact on
frozen and chilled convenience food sales,” Chief Executive
Officer  Philip Clarke  said today.  In addition, Tesco’s non-food business proved a greater
drag on sales than in the previous quarter, Clarke said.  The grocer plans to reduce the space given to general
merchandise in its hypermarkets and superstores and move that
part of the business toward “higher margin, higher growth
categories,” the CEO said on a conference call.  Tesco will “reduce our reliance on categories that take up
a lot of space and don’t take a lot of money,” Clarke said.
“We take about a third of the space away and rather give it to
food, health and beauty and clothing.”  Same-store sales of non-food items will remain negative
while the changes are being implemented and should improve
toward the end of the year, the CEO said.  Still, “that doesn’t affect the margin,” as it is a
“top-line drag” and the company is editing categories that
aren’t profitable, Clarke said.  Market Share  Tesco’s attempts to bolster its U.K. business comes against
a backdrop of economic stagnation and inflation outstripping
wage growth, leaving shoppers with declining real incomes.
Turning the business around “will take time,” according to
 Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon & Co in London.  The grocer’s market share declined to 30.2 percent in the
12 weeks ended April 14 from 30.8 percent in the same period a
year earlier, researcher  Kantar Worldpanel  said May 21.  “Tesco is a long way from being out of the woods,” Dave McCarthy, an analyst at Investec in London, said before today’s
announcement. “There are many unanswered questions and
difficult decisions yet to be made.”  The retailer’s profit margin is likely to come under
pressure as “no retailer can suffer high like-for-like declines
indefinitely without a big hit on profits,” McCarthy said.  The company didn’t comment further on its planned exit from
the U.S. and said it would “update the market as appropriate.”
Tesco said April 17 it would withdraw from the country about six
years after it created the Fresh & Easy chain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  