-- Tesco Plans Non-Food Revamp as Grocer’s Sales Revival Peters Out
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-06-05T11:05:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/tesco-plans-non-food-revamp-as-grocer-s-sales-revival-peters-out.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  Chief Executive Officer
Philip Clarke today promised to step up an overhaul of the
grocer’s U.K. non-food business to fix a part of the company
that caused first-quarter sales to miss estimates.  About a third of the space dedicated to underperforming
general-merchandise items such as televisions will be replaced
by stronger-selling products including dinner plates, clothes
and stationery, Clarke said today on a conference call. A new
non-food range will be introduced in 850 hypermarkets and
superstores, he said, without being more specific.  Tesco today reported a 1 percent drop in U.K. same-store
sales, the weakest performance in a year. Clarke is struggling
to convince shareholders that the grocer has turned a corner in
its home market as it can no longer rely on international growth
amid declining sales from  South Korea  to the  Czech Republic . A 1
billion-pound ($1.5 billion) investment in stores, products and
staff training last year has failed to slow U.K. encroachment by
discounters such as Aldi and upscale chains like Waitrose Ltd.  “ Philip Clarke ’s turnaround plan is yet to look
convincing, but it is still early days,” Dan Coen, a director
at advisory firm Zolfo Cooper, said by e-mail.  Tesco  fell  as much as 4.4 percent in London trading and was
down 4.1 percent at 349.35 pence at 11:20 a.m., the second-biggest decline in the U.K. benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   Clarke said he’s stepping up the overhaul in general
merchandise, which is “an even bigger change” than anticipated
when he took over as CEO of the U.K.’s biggest supermarket
company in 2011.  Product Changes  Like-for-like sales in the category won’t improve until the
end of the financial year and when the main changes to the range
feed through in 2014, he said. Sales of electrical and other
non-food items may have fallen at least 10 percent in the first
quarter, Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Mike Dennis estimates.  “Would I ever be happy with like-for-like sales in a
category going backwards?” Clarke said on the conference call.
“I couldn’t say I’m happy with the performance.”  While changes to the product range mean Tesco will lose
some sales in the short term, profit margins won’t be affected
as the categories being reduced aren’t profitable, Clarke said.  Getting the general-merchandise offer right “is certainly
a key issue as Tesco built a ton of big superstores and
hypermarkets with the express intention of selling loads of non-food,”  Nick Bubb , an independent retail analyst, said by e-mail. “How they shrink that non-food space and repurpose it
will be a big test for the new U.K. management team.”  Market Share  Tesco’s U.K. same-store sales have declined in seven of the
past nine quarters. The 1 percent first-quarter drop followed a
0.5 percent gain in the previous quarter and missed the average
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a 0.7 percent decline.  Tesco’s attempts to bolster its U.K. business come against
a backdrop of economic stagnation and inflation outstripping
wage growth, leaving shoppers with declining real incomes.  Tesco’s market share declined to 30.2 percent in the 12
weeks ended April 14 from 30.8 percent in the same period a year
earlier, researcher  Kantar Worldpanel  said May 21.  The company didn’t comment today on its planned exit from
the U.S. and said it would “update the market as appropriate.”
Tesco said April 17 it would withdraw from the country about six
years after it created the Fresh & Easy chain.  Same-store sales fell in eight out of Tesco’s 10
international markets in the first quarter, including declines
of 16 percent in  Turkey  and 9 percent in the Czech Republic.  Restrictions on Sunday trading continued to hamper business
in South Korea, where same-store revenue fell 5.1 percent.  “Precipitous” sales declines in some countries can only
“be increasing earnings pressure on the group as a whole,”
Citigroup Inc. analyst Alastair Johnston said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  