-- Ethiopian Air Targets Congo to Complete Aftica Hub System
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2013-06-05T13:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ethiopian-air-targets-congo-to-complete-aftica-hub-system.html
Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest carrier, said it’s planning to
add a hub in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo to secure transfer
traffic amid growing competition from Middle Eastern operators.  Congo is the favored location for a subsidiary that would
seek to attract travelers from across central Africa, following
on from bases in Togo in the west and Malawi in the south, Chief
Executive Officer Tewolde GebreMariam said in an interview.  Ethiopian Airlines is building a system of African hubs to
help win traffic beyond its headquarters in Addis Ababa as
economic growth and a mining boom spur passenger traffic across
the continent. Gebremariam said the exact location of the bases
is less important than the regional markets they give access to.  “We’re planning to cover the continent,” the executive said
in  Cape Town , where he was attending the International Air
Transport Association annual meeting. “That’s becoming more
urgent as demand attracts competition from the Gulf. But we
think Africans will use African airlines of they can.”  Ethiopian Airlines established its Togo hub from 2008
through ASKY Airlines, controlled via a 40 percent stake and a
five-year  management contract . It was selected this year to
purchase a 49 percent holding in Air Malawi 2012 Ltd. following
the liquidation of a predecessor company.  The company had previously said it was considering hubs in
Tanzania or Zambia to serve the southeast of the continent.
Gebremariam didn’t say if a venture in the Congo would follow
the same model based on equity holdings as favored previously.  The CEO told the gathering of airline chiefs in  South
Africa  that local carriers should be seeking a 50 percent share
of the continent’s international traffic, compared with the 18
percent that they currently control.  In addition to Persian Gulf operators such as Emirates and
 Etihad Airways , Ethiopian Airlines is seeing increased rivalry
from Star Alliance partner  Turkish Airlines (THYAO) , the CEO said. The
Istanbul-based company serves cities including Kinshasa, the
capital of the DRC, with the route made viable through the use
of a narrow-body Boeing Co. 737 plane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London   cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  