-- Metso Sees Acquisitions Fueling Growth After Spinning Off Valmet
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-06-05T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/metso-sees-acquisitions-fueling-growth-after-spinning-off-valmet.html
Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , the Finnish maker of rock
crushers and mining equipment, seeks to expand through
acquisitions after it spins off its less profitable paper, pulp
and power unit, Chief Executive Officer Matti Kaehkoenen said.  “There is a list of acquisition targets that we will go
through and keep an eye on,” Kaehkoenen said in an interview at
the company’s headquarters Helsinki yesterday. “My common sense
says there will probably be more opportunities visible” after
the demerger.  Metso, which is splitting off paper, pulp and power into a
new company called Valmet Oyj, will focus on mining,
construction and automation. The sluggish global economy weighs
on demand for investment goods, including machinery and
equipment. About half of Metso’s 3.5 billion-euro ($4.6 billion)
annual  mining and construction sales  come from services. Its
automation unit had sales of 859 million euros last year.  “We want to keep services growth as a high priority,”
Kaehkoenen said. “In this field, there are no large
acquisitions. On the side on automation -- valves, oil and gas -
- there is more space to maneuver. At the moment it seems that
oil and gas grow well while the mining industry takes a
breather.”  Metso’s mining, construction and automation had an
operating profit margin of more than 11 percent of net sales
last year, with operating profit growing to 498 million euros.
Its paper, pulp and power business achieved a 4.9 percent margin
and its profit was 148 million euros.  Shareholder Support  The new Metso will be less volatile due to less emphasis on
large projects, Kaehkoenen said. Shareholders are scheduled to
decide on the company split on Oct. 1. Some of its largest
owners, including Solidium Oy, Cevian Capital AB, Varma Mutual
Pension Insurance Co. and Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance
Co., support the demerger, Metso said last week.  Metso’s credit metrics won’t “materially” weaken in the
demerger even as less diversification may lead to more
volatility, Moody’s Investors Service said last week. The
company has a  Baa2 grade  at Moody’s and BBB at Standard &
Poor’s, investment grade at both companies.  “Valmet is the more volatile one,” Kaehkoenen said. “For
the new Metso, the share of services, small projects and
equipment sales will grow. In this respect, it will be more
stable.”  Strengthening Finances  Metso was created in 1999 following the merger of Valmet,
then mainly a paper-machine maker, and Rauma Oyj, a maker of
rock crushers, pulp machinery and industrial valves. It bought
Svedala Industri AB in 2001 for about $1.5 billion to form the
core of its mining and construction unit.  “Metso made large acquisitions in the beginning of 2000s,
after which the balance sheet has been strengthened
systematically,” Kaehkoenen said. The company’s net debt halved
to 559 million euros at the end of last year from 2008.  Metso has faced calls to break up since 2005, when Cevian
Capital’s co-founder Christer Gardell and U.S. investor  Carl Icahn  said the mineral and paper equipment divisions don’t
provide synergies to each other. The company studied splitting
up in 2008 and decided to pull back from the plan due to a
turbulent global economy.  “This wouldn’t really have been possible before,”
Kaehkoenen said. “During its 14 years, Metso has grown to the
extent that all the original businesses are strong enough. One
can’t do a split like this with a weak balance sheet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  