-- Euribor Managers Mulling Parallel Data-Based Benchmark With ECB
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-06-05T13:30:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/euribor-managers-mulling-parallel-data-based-benchmark-with-ecb.html
The group that manages the Euro
Interbank Offered Rate, or Euribor, is considering setting up a
parallel benchmark based on real transactions rather than
estimates.  Euribor-EBF is exploring the move as part of its response
to revelations that some lenders tried to rig interbank lending
rates, tarnishing credibility of the indexes. The European
Central Bank is providing technical assistance for a feasibility
study, according to Euribor-EBF’s response to a review by global
regulators.  Any new benchmark would be set up in addition to Euribor,
according to the letter, sent to the International Organization
of Securities Commissions. It wouldn’t affect any contracts
linked to Euribor rates, the group said.  The move echoes comments made last month by Martin
Wheatley, the head of the U.K. markets regulator. He said the
London interbank offered rate should eventually be replaced with
a transaction-based benchmark using a dual-track system. The
tarnished benchmark, based on a daily survey of panel banks,
should run in parallel with a new rate until a full overhaul of
the system can be enacted, the Financial Conduct Authority chief
executive officer said.  Global regulators are working on alternatives to Libor and
Euribor after U.S. and U.K. officials uncovered attempts by
banks to manipulate the benchmarks. Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc, UBS AG and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  have been fined a total of about
$2.5 billion in the case, and at least a dozen firms remain
under investigation.  Greater Oversight  Iosco recommended in April that the rates should be based
on data from actual trades and that regulators should have
greater oversight of the people who set the rates.  “We’re taking all necessary steps to comply with
international recommendations,” Cedric Quemener, structure
director at Euribor-EBF, said in a telephone interview today.  “Euribor-EBF is committed to put the EBA-ESMA
recommendations in place in a timely fashion, and we are also
reviewing what actions we would need to take to comply with the
draft Iosco principles,” he said, referring to guidelines
published by the European Banking Authority and the European
Securities and Markets Authority earlier this year.  A spokesman for the ECB in  Frankfurt  didn’t have an
immediate comment.  Euribor is derived from a daily survey of interbank lending
rates for unsecured loans conducted for  Euribor-EBF  by Thomson
Reuters Corp. It is based on estimates provided by participating
banks of the rates they believe banks are charging each other,
meaning rate-setting data isn’t necessarily based on actual
transactions.  Mortgages and Derivatives  The rate is widely used as a reference point for mortgages
and derivatives transactions. Euribor-EBF is an international
non-profit operating under Belgian law.  “Euribor, with its current definition, should remain an
estimation of the market price levels by a panel bank, as it was
originally conceived, while strengthening the contribution
guidelines, controls and overall governance of the index,” the
group said in its response to the Iosco consultation.  The organization also says that banks should be given
incentives to join rate-setting panels, in response to an exodus
of lenders from Euribor-EBF panels since last year.  Iosco received more than 40 responses to the consultation,
which was led by U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Chairman Gary Gensler and Wheatley. Madrid-based Iosco, which
brings together markets regulators for more than 100 nations to
coordinate their rule-making, is planning to publish final
standards later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  