-- Euro-Area’s Recession Deepens on Slump in Investment, Exports
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-06-05T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/euro-area-s-recession-deepens-on-slump-in-investment-exports.html
The  euro-area recession  deepened in
the first three months of the year as investment and exports
plunged, and the region may continue to struggle this quarter.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.2 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today, confirming
an estimate on May 15. Investment as measured by gross fixed
capital formation dropped 1.6 percent, subtracting 0.3
percentage points off GDP. Separate reports showed retail sales
fell more than forecast in April and services shrank last month.  Europe’s economy is grappling with a record slump as
unemployment at a record high and government austerity measures
damp domestic demand. While an index of manufacturing rose last
month, it still indicates contraction, and the European Central
Bank will probably keep its key interest rate at a record-low
0.5 percent tomorrow after cutting it last month.  “No meaningful recovery looks by any means certain for the
euro zone,”  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in  London  said in a telephone interview.
“There isn’t any real strength anywhere, German household
spending looks like it picked up a little but exports have
slowed down pretty sharply due to a decline in global demand and
investment is pretty weak as well.”  Exports fell 0.8 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months, while imports dropped 1.1 percent,
today’s report showed. Consumer spending rose 0.1 percent and
government spending declined 0.1 percent. Inventories had a
neutral impact on GDP in the quarter.  Retail Sales  Efforts by euro-area authorities to calm the currency
bloc’s debt crisis have yet to translate into an economic
recovery. From a year earlier, the economy of the 17-nation euro
area shrank 1.1 percent in the first quarter. In the 27-nation
European Union, GDP fell 0.1 percent on the quarter and declined
0.7 percent from a year earlier.  Separate data today showed  retail sales  dropped 0.5 percent
in April from March. Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent
decline, according to the median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. From a year earlier, retail sales were down 1.1
percent.  Also today, Markit Economics said its  index of services 
activity rose to 47.2 last month from 47 in April. That’s below
an initial estimate of 47.5 published on May 23.  OECD Forecasts  The euro-area economy has  contracted  for a record six
straight quarters. The Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development has forecast that it will shrink 0.6
percent this year and expand 1.1 percent in 2014, lagging behind
the U.S.  Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-largest power-equipment
maker, cut its profitability forecast last month amid lower
demand from local utilities in Europe.  The ECB will publish its new economic forecasts tomorrow
after a monthly meeting of its Governing Council. ECB President
Mario Draghi said this week that while the outlook is
“challenging,” he still anticipates a pickup in growth this
year.  “Our baseline scenario continues to be one of a very
gradual recovery starting in the latter part of this year,”
Draghi said in the text of a speech in  Shanghai .  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, GDP rose 0.1 percent
in the first quarter, the EU report showed.  France ’s economy
contracted 0.2 percent, while Italy and Spain shrank 0.5
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  