-- Euro-Area Services Output Shrinks at Faster Pace Than Estimated
-- B y   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-06-05T08:13:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/euro-area-services-output-shrinks-at-faster-pace-than-estimated.html
Euro-area services contracted at a
faster pace than initially estimated in May, adding to
indications the bloc’s economy is struggling to pull out of the
recession.  An index of activity in the services industry based on a
survey of purchasing managers was at 47.2 last month, compared
with 47 in April, London-based Markit Economics said in a report
today. The May figure is below an initial estimate of 47.5
published on May 23. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. A
composite gauge of services and manufacturing increased to 47.7
in May, matching the earlier estimate, from 46.9 in the prior
month.  Efforts by euro-area authorities to calm the currency
bloc’s debt crisis have yet to translate into an economic
recovery, with gross domestic product falling 0.2 percent in the
first quarter. The  European Central Bank  will probably leave its
benchmark  interest rate  on hold tomorrow after cutting it to a
record low last month. It will also publish new economic
forecasts.  “The  euro zone  as a whole is looking into a low-growth
scenario,” said Carsten Brzeski senior economist at ING Belgium
SA/NV in Brussels. “There is some vague light at the end of the
tunnel, however, that the economy could still be in the process
of bottoming out.”  French Index  In  Germany , the euro area’s largest economy, the services
index rose to 49.7 in May from 49.6 in April, below an initial
estimate of 49.8. The French index was unchanged at 44.3.  The  purchasing managers index  for euro-area manufacturing
rose to 48.3 in May from 46.7 in April, Markit said on June 3.
That was above an initial estimate of 47.8.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the “marginal improvements”
in the PMI indicators “have raised our level of confidence in
our existing view that GDP will stabilize in the second half of
the year.”  The outlook is for “continued, but mild, recession in the
second quarter, followed by stabilization, and subdued growth
towards the end of the year,” Goldman economists including
Andrew Benito in  London  said in a note yesterday.  Still, unemployment remains an issue, with data last week
showing the euro-area jobless rate rose to a record 12.2 percent
in April.  The European Union’s statistics office will publish its
second estimate of first-quarter euro-area GDP at 11 a.m.
Brussels time, including data on consumer spending and exports.
 Retail sales  in the bloc probably fell in April, economists said
before a separate report due today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  