-- European Stocks Drop to Their Lowest Level in Six Weeks
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-06-05T15:58:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/european-stock-futures-fall-on-federal-reserve-concern.html
European stocks  retreated to their
lowest level in six weeks as investors weighed comments by
Federal Reserve policy makers on when to scale back the central
bank’s bond-buying program.  Tesco Plc slid the most in 16 months after the U.K.’s
largest retailer reported same-store sales that fell short of
analysts’ estimates. Carrefour SA lost 4.1 percent after HSBC
Holdings Plc recommended that investors sell the French
retailer’s shares. Man Group Plc plunged 17 percent after
reporting a decline in the net assets of its flagship fund.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  dropped 1.5 percent to 295.12 at
the close of trading, its lowest level since April 24. The gauge
has still  gained 5.5 percent  so far this year, reaching its
highest level in more than five years last month, as the Fed
maintained its quantitative-easing program.  “It’s very much sentiment about QE, because that is going
to be the key thing that will impact the markets,”  Daniel Morris , a market strategist at JPMorgan Asset Management, told
Mark Barton on Bloomberg Television in London. “If we do think,
because of stronger payrolls numbers, that QE is going to slow
down sooner than expected, you will see a bit of short-term
weakness in the market because of losing that liquidity.”  The volume of shares changing hands on the Stoxx 600 was 11
percent greater than the average of the last 30 days, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bond Buying  Fed Bank of Kansas City President  Esther George  urged the
Fed yesterday to slow its bond-buying program. George has
dissented against the latest round of  asset purchases  at every
policy meeting this year. Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard
Fisher called for the central bank to reduce its purchases of
mortgage bonds because the housing market has improved.  Economists at Deutsche Bank AG predicted yesterday that the
Fed may start winding down its bond-buying program at its
September meeting, even if this week’s non-farm payrolls report
falls short of forecasts.  The Labor Department publishes its employment report for
May this Friday. The release will show that the world’s largest
economy created 167,000 jobs last month, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes declined in every western-European market that opened today, except for Greece. Denmark
was closed for a public holiday. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 2.1
percent, France’s CAC 40 slid 1.9 percent and Germany’s DAX
retreated 1.2 percent.  Tesco, Carrefour  Tesco declined 5.2 percent to 345.6 pence after reporting
that U.K. same-store sales, which exclude gasoline and value
added tax, declined 1 percent in the 13 weeks ended May 25. The
average estimate of 14 analysts in a Bloomberg survey had called
for a drop of 0.7 percent. Sales rose 0.5 percent in the
previous quarter.  Carrefour slid 4.1 percent to 21.47 euros after HSBC
downgraded  France’s biggest retailer  to underweight, which is
similar to a sell recommendation, from neutral. The brokerage
said the company’s profit in Europe may trail estimates as sales
fall in Spain, Italy and Poland.  Man Group  plunged 17 percent to 97.1 pence after reporting
that the net-asset value of its A Man AHL Diversified fund
decreased 6.1 percent last week. UBS AG also lowered its
recommendation on the shares to neutral from buy. The brokerage
said that the fund’s recent performance will cut earnings.  Meda Sinks  Meda AB dropped 8.1 percent to 80.25 kronor, its biggest
tumble in 15 months, after the maker of the Dymista allergy
medicine said it has not held talks to merge with another
drugmaker. The shares climbed to their highest price in more
than 5 1/2 years yesterday after the Wall Street Journal
reported that Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. discussed an
almost $5 billion takeover of Meda on May 31.  Elekta AB jumped 6.8 percent to 106.90 kronor. The Swedish
manufacturer of radiation-surgery equipment forecast that full-year sales will climb more than 10 percent for the financial
year ending in 2014, with most of the growth coming from
emerging markets. The company said it broke its own delivery
records in the fourth quarter. It also reported full-year
earnings that were in line with analysts’ estimates.  Voestalpine AG  rallied 7.6 percent to 27.28 euros, for the
biggest advance on the  Stoxx 600 . Austria’s biggest steelmaker
proposed to increase its dividend by 13 percent to 90 cents a
shares. It also reported that  net income  jumped to 444.9 million
euros ($582 million) in the year through March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  