-- Everton Names Martinez as Manager on Four-Year Contract
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-06-05T16:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/everton-names-roberto-martinez-as-manager-on-four-year-contract.html
Everton appointed F.A. Cup-winning
manager  Roberto Martinez  to replace  David Moyes , who switched to
Manchester United.  The 39-year-old joins from Wigan Athletic, which last month
became the first team to win the Cup and be relegated from the
Premier League in the same season.  “This is a phenomenal and a passionate football club,”
Martinez said at a televised news conference after agreeing on a
four-year contract. “Today, walking in at Goodison Park, it
really feels like a special place for the future for me.”  The Spaniard became Wigan manager in 2009, four years after
it was promoted into the top flight.  Wigan Chairman  Dave Whelan  said this week that he had
agreed on a compensation deal with Everton for the release of
Martinez, who’d been given permission to speak with the club.
Everton will pay 1.5 million pounds ($2.3 million), according to
the Daily Mail.  Moyes achieved regular top-half finishes in the 20-team
league in his 11 years at Everton. Although he didn’t win any
trophies, he didn’t have the financial resources of clubs such
as Manchester City, Chelsea and Manchester United, which are
owned by billionaires.  ‘Huge Pressure’  Everton hasn’t finished outside the top eight since 2006,
coming sixth last season and above Merseyside rival Liverpool
for the second straight year. Its last trophy was the F.A. Cup
in 1995.  “There is huge pressure but I am extremely proud of that
pressure because it means what David Moyes did in 11 years is
set high standards and lay an incredible platform,” Martinez
said. “I feel lucky to be able to carry on that work.”  Martinez moved to Wigan from Swansea, having represented
both clubs in his playing career. The Latics finished no higher
than 15th place during his tenure, but were able to avoid
relegation in his first three seasons after late-season rallies.
They weren’t able to pull another off this year and finished
18th in the 20-team league, three points from safety behind
Sunderland.  Relegation was confirmed with a 4-1 defeat at Arsenal,
three days after Wigan upset Manchester City 1-0 to win the F.A.
Cup, the first major trophy in its 81-year history.  “It has been a phenomenal time at Wigan but after four
seasons this was the right time and I knew Everton was the right
club,” Martinez said.  Moyes moved to United last month to succeed Alex Ferguson,
who retired at age 71 after more than 26 years at Old Trafford,
where he helped the Red Devils to a record-extending 20th
English league title this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter-Joseph Hegarty  in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 