-- Ex-SAC Manager Martoma Faces Nov. 4 Insider-Trading Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ex-sac-manager-martoma-faces-nov-4-insider-trading-trial.html
Former SAC Capital Advisors LP
portfolio manager Mathew Martoma is scheduled to go on trial
Nov. 4 on charges he helped the hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen  make $276 million using illegal tips about a drug to treat
 Alzheimer’s disease .  U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe in  Manhattan  set the jury
trial date yesterday after Martoma’s lawyer,  Richard Strassberg ,
said at a hearing that prosecutors told him they might file a
superseding or revised indictment that would include additional
information. The government’s deadline to file insider trading
charges in the case expires in late July.  Strassberg argued he’d need time to prepare if a new
indictment is filed and told Gardephe that he has a trial before
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff scheduled to begin in late
September that could pose a conflict with Martoma’s November
trial date. He asked that the trial start in February.  “We do understand that there is a possibility the
government will seek to file a superseding indictment by the end
of July,” Strassberg said. “That may require additional time
to prepare a defense.”  Gardephe said he was reluctant to wait until next year and
said he originally intended to set a September trial date in the
case before Strassberg took over as Martoma’s defense counsel in
April.  Trial Date  “I’m not closing the door to a later trial date, but if
you feel, as you get close to your trial date before Judge
Rakoff, that you’re facing insurmountable difficulties or that
you’ll still be on trial before Judge Rakoff, you’ll alert me to
that and I’ll make an appropriate adjournment,” Gardephe said.  Martoma, who worked as a fund manager for Cohen’s CR
Intrinsic Investors unit, was charged in November in what the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara called the
biggest insider-trading scheme in history.  The U.S. says Martoma helped SAC reap the illicit profits
by trading in shares of  Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth LLC, from tips he
received from a physician who was in charge of monitoring tests
on a clinical drug trial of bapineuzumab, or bapi, a drug to
treat Alzheimer’s disease.  SEC Allegations  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission alleges that
Martoma’s source was Sid Gilman, a  University of Michigan 
neurologist who was head of the safety monitoring committee for
the drug trial. Gilman has entered into a non-prosecution
agreement and is cooperating with prosecutors.  In mid-July 2008, the doctor passed Martoma secret data
showing that bapi failed to halt progression of Alzheimer’s in
patients in the clinical test, the U.S. said.  When Martoma learned the companies would report negative
data on the drug, Martoma had a 20-minute phone call with Cohen,
according to the government. The hedge fund owner, at Martoma’s
recommendation, sold off almost all of the fund’s $700 million
position in Elan and Wyeth, then sold the stock short,
prosecutors claimed.  Cohen, who was subpoenaed along with five other senior
employees to appear before a federal grand jury in  New York , has
denied any wrongdoing. Martoma has pleaded not guilty.  Shares Plunged  When the clinical trial results became public, shares in
both companies plunged, allowing the hedge fund to make $276
million in profit and losses avoided, according to the
government. Martoma received a $9.3 million bonus as a result,
according to the indictment.  Court records show Strassberg is scheduled to go on trial
Sept. 23 before Rakoff in a $1 billion lawsuit by the U.S.
against  Bank of America Corp.  over mortgages the bank and its
Countrywide unit sold to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . Strassberg,
who declined to comment after court, is representing Countrywide
Financial, according to court records.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Arlo Devlin-Brown said the
government was prepared to go to trial and told the judge
yesterday that the majority of evidence was provided to
Martoma’s defense team before he was indicted in December.  He said the only substantial evidence provided since
December were more than 2.5 million pages of e-mails the
government obtained from SAC Capital, which he said comprised
“all” of the preserved electronic messages Martoma sent and
received during his time at hedge fund.  E-Mail File  “What is produced after the indictment is basically all
the e-mails of this defendant while he worked there for about
four years,” said Devlin-Brown, who added the e-mails were in a
searchable format. “It is not the kind of thing that would
warrant a substantial delay in the proceedings.”  Strassberg also told Gardephe yesterday the defense is
contemplating a motion to dismiss charges related to the trading
in Dublin-based Elan, citing the 2010 U.S. Supreme Court ruling
in Morrison v. National Australia Bank. The high court ruled
that U.S. securities laws don’t protect foreign investors who
buy stocks on overseas exchanges. He said the government alleges
 insider trading  of American depositary receipts, or ADRs.  “We would focus particularly on trading of Elan, an Irish
company and the ADRs and subsequent count of conspiracy,”
Strassberg said. “These are complicated issues that we will be
briefing.”  Gardephe yesterday also scheduled a June 18 conference in
the case to discuss a dispute over lawyers’ access to an
encrypted hard drive of a computer owned by the  University of
Michigan  which the government’s cooperating witness used during
the time the alleged insider-trading occurred.  Medical Information  Devlin-Brown told Gardephe that the university has told the
government that some of the files on the hard drive may be
protected by the attorney-client or doctor-patient privilege
because they contain information about drug trials that have
nothing to do with Martoma’s case as well other confidential
medical information. He said that prosecutors had prepared a
subpoena to serve upon the university to obtain an encrypted key
that would allow lawyers to access the files.  “If the university’s position is that they want to quash a
subpoena I want a filing from them,” Gardephe said.  Martoma had asked Gardephe for a bill of particulars, or
information, regarding the timing of the alleged inside
information and the identities of co-conspirators. The judge
said yesterday that prosecutors have already agreed to identify
Martoma’s co-conspirators by July.  At least nine former or current employees of Cohen’s $15
billion hedge fund have been linked by the U.S. to insider
trading. In March, Michael Steinberg, a  fund manager  who worked
at SAC’s Sigma Capital unit, was indicted by federal
prosecutors. His trial is scheduled for Nov. 18.  Settlement Approved  The U.S. alleges Steinberg, who has pleaded not guilty to
the charges, earned more than $1.4 million based on tips
provided by his analyst, Jon Horvath. Horvath has pleaded guilty
and is cooperating with the U.S.  In April, a federal judge in New York conditionally
approved  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC’s record $602 million
settlement with the SEC, in which SAC neither admitted nor
denied fault.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in Manhattan ruled April
15 that the settlement can go forward, while saying it remains
subject to a ruling by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York in
a case involving an earlier SEC settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The case is U.S. v. Martoma, 12-cr-00973, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .
Bob Van Voris in federal court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 