-- Texas Judge Accused of Misconduct for Remarks on Race
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-06-05T14:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/texas-judge-accused-of-misconduct-for-remarks-on-race.html
Edith Hollan Jones , a federal appeals
judge in Texas, is the subject of a judicial misconduct
complaint from a coalition of civil rights groups over comments
she made about race and the death penalty.  During a February event at the University of Pennsylvania
Law School in Philadelphia, Jones said black and Hispanic people
are “predisposed to crime” and “prone to commit acts of
violence,” according to the complaint filed in New Orleans by
the League of United Latin American Citizens, the Texas Civil
Rights Project and the Austin, Texas, chapter of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People.  Jones, 64, also allegedly said death sentences provide a
positive service to capital defendants, who are likely to “make
peace with God” when facing imminent execution. She said that
capital defendants who raise claims of “mental retardation”
abuse the system and that claims of racism, arbitrariness or
innocence are “red herrings” used by death-penalty opponents,
according to a copy of the filing supplied by the groups.  “Judge Jones’s biased remarks demonstrated both an utter
disregard for the fundamental judicial standard of impartiality
and a lack of judicial temperament,” the groups said in the
filing, which included sworn affidavits from five students and a
lawyer who said they attended the lecture.  Jones, who is based in Houston, didn’t return a phone call
seeking comment on the complaint.  Reagan Appointee  Jones is a former chief judge for the New Orleans-based
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and was appointed to
the bench in 1985 by President  Ronald Reagan . The University of
Texas School of Law graduate was mentioned as a potential
nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court in 2005 under President George
W. Bush.  The complaint was filed with Chief Circuit Judge  Carl Stewart , who must review it and decide whether it should be
dismissed or referred to a special committee. Stewart may
conduct a limited inquiry in determining what action should be
taken under rules established by the Judicial Conduct and
Disability Act.  Jones’s statements “violated basic rules of judicial
ethics, including the fundamental duty of impartiality,” the
civil rights groups said yesterday in a statement. They have
asked that the complaint be transferred to another circuit since
it involves a former chief judge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  