-- Mexico’s Peso Slumps on Speculation Fed Will Scale Back Stimulus
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-06-05T20:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/mexico-s-peso-slumps-on-speculation-fed-will-scale-back-stimulus.html
Mexico’s peso fell to a five-month
low as speculation mounted that the U.S. will taper stimulus
measures that have helped boost demand for the Latin American
country’s higher-yielding assets.  The currency depreciated 1.1 percent to 12.8512 per  U.S.
dollar  at 3:04 p.m. in Mexico City. A close at that level would
be the weakest since Jan. 1. The decline trimmed this year’s
advance to 0.1 percent, the only gain among the greenback’s 16
major counterparts.  The peso fell as Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President
 Richard Fisher  called for a reduction in the monetary
authority’s bond purchases. The currency plunged 5.3 percent
last month as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers
may curtail stimulus if the economy shows signs of sustained
recovery. Speculation that U.S. employment improved more than
forecast last month is fueling today’s drop, according to
Roberto Torres, the head peso trader at BNP Paribas SA.  “This is totally related to fear that on Friday the
nonfarm payroll comes really above what the market is
expecting,” Torres said by a telephone interview from  New York .
“Fisher’s comments are supporting the probability of a
tapering.”  The Labor Department will report June 7 that U.S. nonfarm
payrolls grew by 165,000 jobs last month, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Service industries  in the
U.S., Mexico’s biggest export market, expanded at a faster pace
in May as a pickup in orders showed companies are confident
demand will be sustained after a second-quarter slowdown.  Yields on benchmark peso-denominated debt maturing in
December 2024 rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 5.30 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  