-- Heineken-Modelo Beer Probe Nears Mexico Agency Decision
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2013-06-06T12:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/mexico-defers-decision-15-days-in-heineken-modelo-antitrust-case.html
Heineken NV (HEIA)  and Grupo Modelo SAB, the
dominant brewers in  Mexico  with brands such as Dos Equis and
Corona, are nearing the end of an almost three-year-old
government antitrust probe.  Mexico’s competition regulator gave itself another 15
business days to decide whether exclusive beer distribution
agreements held by the two brewers are anticompetitive, meaning
a ruling is likely around the end of the month.  The Federal Competition Commission, which held a closed-door session on the case June 3, made the announcement on its
 website  yesterday without providing more details.  Modelo and Heineken control close to 98 percent of the
market in Mexico, according to an analysis from Barclays Plc,
and pay to have exclusive distribution at privately owned mom-and-pop retailers and numerous restaurants.  SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the
world’s second-biggest brewer, brought a complaint against the
practice in 2010 for the second time, saying these agreements
blocked access for other brewers.  Any change to Heineken and Modelo’s current exclusivity
agreements “would theoretically open up the market a little bit
as SABMiller and other brewers outside the Heineken/ABI duopoly
would find it easier to sell some of their brands,” Eddy Hargreaves, an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in  London , said
today. “But, because of their huge scale advantage in the
market, the big two would likely find other ways to exercise
their dominance through increased consumer marketing,
sponsorship, and promotions.”  Growth Markets  Brewers including SABMiller are racing to expand into fast-growing  emerging markets  such as Mexico as sales in Europe and
the U.S. stagnate. Amsterdam-based Heineken, the third-largest
brewer, bought into Mexico with the purchase of the beer unit of
 Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FEMSAUBD)  in 2010, giving it brands
including Dos Equis, Tecate and Sol.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the world’s largest brewer, this
week completed the $20.1 billion purchase of the 50 percent of
Modelo it didn’t already own.  SABMiller is “encouraged by the commission’s deliberation
over this significant matter involving anticompetitive
activities,” Richard Farnsworth, a spokesman for the London-based company, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Marcela Cristo, a spokeswoman for Mexico City-based Modelo,
the brewer of Corona, and Marianne Amssoms, a spokeswoman for
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , declined to comment.  Hugo Loya, a spokesman in Mexico City for Heineken, also
declined to comment.  Heineken shares rose 1.6 percent to 53.33 euros at 2:07
p.m. in Amsterdam. SABMiller was down 0.3 percent in London at
3,270 pence, while AB InBev added 1.3 percent to 69.94 euros in
Brussels. Modelo climbed 1.3 percent in Mexico City yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  