-- MF Global Customers May Recover 94 Cents on Dollar
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-06-05T16:52:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/mf-global-customers-may-recover-94-cents-on-dollar.html
MF Global Inc.’s former customers
should get 94 cents on the dollar as disputes including a
lawsuit against directors and officers delay the potential for
full recovery, the failed brokerage’s trustee said.  Most customers have already recovered 89 percent of what
they were owed, trustee  James Giddens  said in a report covering
his progress from Dec. 5 to June 4 in overseeing the brokerage’s
wind-down. Giddens sees the potential for 94 cents following the
completion of settlements with MF Global’s U.K. unit and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. , according to the report filed yesterday in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  Customers may recover as much as 96 percent following the
settlement with JPMorgan, Giddens said. He previously projected
customers would get 93 cents on the dollar.  “The trustee’s goal and aspiration remains to return as
close to 100 percent of allowed net equity claims as possible
for customer property while maximizing value for all
creditors,” Giddens said.  A pending lawsuit against the company’s former management,
including former New Jersey Governor and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Co-Chairman Jon Corzine , will affect the size and timing of
further distributions, Giddens said.  The case, in which Giddens is cooperating with class action
plaintiffs, has consolidated lawsuits in multiple districts
under Judge  Victor Marrero  in the Southern District of New York.
Mediation under retired judge Daniel Weinstein, which began in
February, is “progressing,” and has been extended to June 24,
Giddens said.  Improve Distributions  Resolution of the U.K. and JPMorgan issue will also improve
distributions for U.S. customers who traded on foreign
exchanges. Those customers, who have received 18 cents on the
dollar, eventually should get 84 to 91 cents, Giddens said.  MF Global Holdings Ltd. , the brokerage’s parent company,
filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31, 2011, after a wrong-way $6.3
billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of Europe’s
most indebted nations. The company listed assets of $41 billion
and debts of $39.7 billion.  Giddens received 27,000 customer claims, and only 12 remain
unresolved, he said. The current anticipated shortfall for U.S.
account holders who have received 89 percent distributions is
$563 million, and will be down to $205 million after the
JPMorgan settlement is finalized, according to his report.  Separate Trustees  While Giddens has been overseeing distributions to former
MF Global customers, a separate trustee,  Louis J. Freeh , has
been overseeing returns to creditors of the holding company.
That company’s wind-down plan was approved in April, and will
pay unsecured creditors as much as 41.5 cents on the dollar.  Separately, Freeh said yesterday that he would step down,
leaving the remainder of the wind-down to be overseen by a board
of directors.  “With the plan approved and a new board in place, I am
confident the liquidation process can be effectively
administered to the satisfaction of the creditors,” Freeh said
in a statement.  The holding company’s Chapter 11 case is In re MF Global
Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The liquidation of the broker
is In re MF Global Inc., 11-bk-02790, in the same court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  