-- FDIC Nonbank Power, Fannie-Freddie, Finra: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-06-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/fdic-nonbank-power-fannie-freddie-finra-compliance.html
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
board approved a rule defining whether a non-bank company is
engaged in financial activity to an extent that would subject it
to liquidation by the agency if it fails.  The definition adopted yesterday echoes a Federal Reserve
rule approved in April. The Dodd-Frank Act required the agencies
to define the threshold for firms covered by the FDIC’s
authority to take apart systemically risky non-bank firms when
they fail and the Financial Stability Oversight Council’s
authority to decide such a firm warrants additional oversight.  The FDIC’s rule -- set to go into effect next month --
details how regulators may determine the threshold for companies
falling within the agency’s authority, which Dodd-Frank outlined
as firms with more than 85 percent of their revenue linked to
finance. The proposal was written to parallel the Fed definition
-- effective last month -- of non-bank firms that could be
evaluated for potential risks to the financial system.  The oversight council, established by Dodd-Frank, met June
3 to label some non-bank companies as systemically important, a
move that puts them under heightened Fed supervision.  Compliance Policy  EU Parliament to Delay Vote on Fund Manager Bonus Rules  European Parliament lawmakers will delay voting on rules to
curb fund manager bonuses as they continue to tussle over
details of the plans.  Legislators are weighing changes to draft measures approved
by the assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee
earlier this year that would ban managers of so-called UCITS
funds from receiving bonuses worth more than their fixed pay and
crack down on performance fees, Sven Giegold, the parliament’s
lead lawmaker on the dossier, said yesterday in an e-mail.  The purpose of the delay on the vote is “to continue
political negotiations,” Giegold said.  The draft rules for fund managers go beyond planned EU
curbs on banker pay that would allow bonuses of twice fixed
salary. European asset-management firms are concerned the
proposal, which may affect two-thirds of senior fund managers,
may cause a bidding war for their  best-performing employees ,
increasing fixed costs and making the industry more vulnerable
to market downturns.  The draft law needs approval by the parliament and by
national governments before it can take effect.  Dark Pool Curbs Sought by U.S. Exchanges Fighting Trading Exodus  Three large U.S. stock exchanges are lobbying for new
limits on dark pools and other competitors, arguing that too
much trading has become hidden on private venues that create
more cost and volatility in public markets.  Chief executive officers of  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Inc.,  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Bats Global Markets Inc. met in  Washington  during
the past two months with lawmakers and the Securities and
Exchange Commission. They asked for a rule that could divert
more orders to exchanges rather than trading in dark pools or
within a broker’s inventory.  The exchanges say that more than a third of all stock
transactions now occur without pre-trade prices being made
public, up from 16 percent in January 2008. They are pressing
the SEC to make market restructuring a priority as the agency
resets under its new chairman, Mary Jo White.  The lobbying comes several years after the SEC began adding
controls to grapple with technology that has made markets faster
with lower trading costs while also more fragmented and prone to
software errors.  Dark pools, which don’t publish bids or offers on shares,
were set up to allow large investors to trade big blocks without
having news of their orders move the price.  For more, click here.  Senators Draft Plan to Abolish Fannie Mae, Shrink Backstop  A bipartisan group of U.S. senators is putting the final
touches on a bill that would liquidate  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie
Mac (FMCC)  and replace them with a government reinsurer of mortgage
securities behind private capital.  The legislation is likely to be the first detailed
blueprint reflecting a growing consensus in Washington that the
U.S. role in mortgage finance should be limited to assuming risk
only in catastrophic circumstances. It also reflects the
prevailing view among lawmakers that the two government-sponsored enterprises should cease to exist, according to a
discussion draft obtained by Bloomberg News.  As a serious bipartisan effort written by members of the
Senate Banking Committee, the measure could restart the long-stalled debate over the future of the mortgage-finance system.
Still, it represents only a first step in what is likely to be a
long legislative process, and it’s unclear how much support the
authors will get from their colleagues.  Housing-industry participants who have seen the draft have
been critical of the amount of risk that private capital would
assume. Small lenders have expressed concern about the burden on
banks of securitizing loans without adequate resources.  For more, click here.  Credit Traders Said to Win SEC Relief in Portfolio Margin Rules  Hedge funds and asset managers will win partial relief from
Dodd-Frank Act collateral requirements for credit-default swaps
under a policy shift to be announced this week, according to two
people briefed on the matter.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is revising a
policy released in March that required some clients to put up
double the collateral dealers post at Atlanta-based
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , according to the people, who
requested anonymity because the decision isn’t public. The
relief applies to portfolio accounts that hold credit swaps tied
to single securities as well as indexes.  ICE, Citadel LLC and other firms have spent more than a
year pushing regulators to support the portfolio-margining
system for client trades. The SEC may require banks temporarily
to collect from clients collateral equivalent to what’s required
under clearinghouse rules plus the level required by their own
models, according to an e-mail note the Managed Funds
Association sent members on May 31.  The change from the March policy may help encourage
clearing of trades under Dodd-Frank, the 2010 regulatory law
that called for most swaps to be guaranteed at clearinghouses as
a way to reduce risk in the financial system.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and SEC, which
share oversight of the credit-swaps market, have taken steps to
reduce the amount of collateral traders must have when they hold
swaps in portfolio accounts.  Compliance Action  Bank of America, Wells Fargo Fined by Finra Over Loan Funds  Bank of America Corp.  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  were ordered to
pay about $5.2 million in fines and restitution by the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority over sales of loan funds.  Brokers at units of the two banks recommended funds that
invested in floating-rate debt to customers who weren’t looking
for risky deals, the industry-funded regulatory group said
yesterday in a  statement . Bank of America was fined $900,000 and
ordered to reimburse $1.1 million in losses, while San
Francisco-based Wells Fargo was ordered to pay a $1.25 million
fine and about $2 million in restitution.  Salespeople at  Banc of America Investment Services Inc.  and
 Wells Fargo Investments LLC  recommended the unsuitable mutual
funds in 2007 and 2008, Finra said in regulatory filings.
Customers lost money when they sold the funds after their value
fell during the financial crisis, according to the regulator.  The banks neither admitted nor denied the charges, Finra
said.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, said the firm was pleased to resolve the
issue, while Wells Fargo’s Erica Van Ross declined to comment on
Finra’s allegations.  HSBC Is Sued by New York for Alleged Foreclosure Law Violations  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  broke New York foreclosure law and put
homeowners at greater risk of losing their homes, New York
Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said as he sued the bank.  A state investigation found that HSBC has left homeowners
languishing in foreclosure by failing to meet requirements for
giving them an opportunity to negotiate loan modifications,
according to Schneiderman’s office.  The lawsuit comes as state attorneys general nationwide
have targeted banks over foreclosure practices, last year
reaching a $25 billion settlement with five mortgage servicers.
HSBC wasn’t part of that settlement.  The HSBC case, filed yesterday in state court in Buffalo,
stems from a New York law pertaining to foreclosures and court-supervised settlement conferences in which homeowners can try to
negotiate alternatives to foreclosure such as a loan
modification that lowers their monthly payments.  Diane Soucy Bergan, a spokeswoman for London-based HSBC,
didn’t immediately return e-mails and a telephone message
seeking comment on the suit.  Courts  Simon Investors Can Proceed With CEO Pay Suit, Judge Rules  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)  investors can proceed with a
lawsuit accusing the company’s directors of improperly
increasing Chief Executive Officer David Simon’s compensation
without shareholder approval, a judge ruled.  Simon investors unhappy with the CEO’s 2011 compensation
package, which included a $120 million stock award for staying
with the real-estate firm, raised legitimate questions about the
failure to hold a shareholder vote on the plan,  Delaware 
Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine ruled May 30.  Last month, a majority of Indianapolis-based Simon’s
shareholders  approved  modifications to the CEO’s compensation
plan, which reduced the amount of performance-based awards he
can earn. The executive can still receive the $120 million if he
stays with Simon, the largest U.S. shopping-mall owner, through
July 2019.  Simon investors sued in Delaware last year over the CEO’s
stock grant after 73 percent of the Simon shares voted at the
company’s 2012 annual meeting  opposed  the retention award.  Simon officials said in an e-mailed statement the company
will defend itself against the “meritless charges” that
directors erred in failing to hold an investor vote on the
executive-compensation plan’s changes.  “This litigation is still at a preliminary stage and we
will continue to act in the best interests of all SPG’s
stockholders,” Brooke Gordon, a Simon spokeswoman, said in the
statement. Gordon is a managing director of Sard Verbinnen &
Co., a New York-based communications firm.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System v. Bergstein, CA No. 7764, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  Interviews  Jain Says Fed Should Start Removing Stimulus Post-Rally  Anshu Jain, co-chief executive officer of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
discussed financial regulation, bank revenue and global central
bank monetary policy, including measures by the Federal Reserve
to stimulate the economy.  He spoke in New York at the dbAccess 2013 Global Financial
Services Investor Conference.  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 