-- Fed Grants Foreign Banks Leeway in Dodd-Frank Swap Rule
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2013-06-06T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/fed-grants-foreign-banks-leeway-in-dodd-frank-swap-pushout.html
Foreign-based banks won leeway in
Dodd-Frank Act requirements to separate swaps trading from their
U.S. branches under a Federal Reserve policy released yesterday.  The central bank said in an interim final rule that the
banks will be eligible to apply for a transition period of 24
months in rules taking effect July 16. The Institute of
International Bankers, a lobbying group representing  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  among others, urged the Fed
to grant foreign banks the same phase-in process U.S. banks like
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  received earlier this year  “Absent clarity regarding the availability of the
transition period, uninsured U.S. branches and agencies of
foreign banks arguably would have to terminate their swaps
activities by July 16, 2013 in order to continue to be eligible
for access to the discount window,” the Federal Reserve said in
the rule. Ending the swaps might have resulted in disorder and
risks to their operations, the central bank said.  Dodd-Frank, the 2010 financial regulatory overhaul,
requires banks to separate some swaps trading from units that
are backed by federal  deposit insurance  or have access to the
central bank’s discount window. The provision was included in
the law by former Senator  Blanche Lincoln , an Arkansas Democrat,
to limit risky trading at taxpayer-backed banks.  Provision Opposed  Dodd-Frank requires that equity, some commodity and non-cleared credit derivatives be pushed out into affiliates.
Interest-rate and some credit swaps can still be traded in bank
units. Regulators including Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  had
opposed the provision, saying it would drive derivatives to
less-regulated entities.  “I never myself thought it made a great deal of sense,”
 Barney Frank , the former House Democrat from  Massachusetts  and
drafter of the law, said in February 2012. The measure was
included in the law to help secure Senate passage, he said.  In January, JPMorgan, Citigroup Inc.,  Bank of America  Corp.
and other U.S. banks won the opportunity for at least a two-year
delay in the pushout provision from the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. The action left unresolved if
branches of foreign-based banks would be awarded the same
opportunity for a delay. Senators said the law intended to treat
the branches in the same way as insured depository banks even if
the language of the law didn’t make that clear.  “We applaud the  Federal Reserve ’s clarification that for
the purposes of the swaps push-out provision of Dodd-Frank,
uninsured U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks have
parity of treatment vis-à-vis U.S. insured  depository
institutions ,” Sally Miller, chief executive of the
international bankers’ lobby group, said in a statement. “This
clarification addresses a widely-acknowledged drafting error in
the original legislation.”  The interim final rule was effective yesterday, while the
central bank will accept comments until Aug. 4. The rule will be
revised if necessary, the Fed said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  