-- Fed’s Fisher Urges QE Reduction Seeing End to Bond Rally
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-05T11:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/fed-s-fisher-calls-for-qe-taper-seeing-end-to-30-year-bond-rally.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher, one of the most vocal critics of
quantitative easing by the central bank, called for a reduction
in the $85 billion in monthly asset purchases while saying he
sees an end to a three-decade bull market in bonds.  “This is the end of a 30-year rally” in bonds, Fisher
said yesterday to reporters after a speech in Toronto. “It
would be prudent to dial back the  rate of purchases  we are
making in mortgage-backed securities” now that “the housing
market is in a good state, construction has started again,
housing prices are appreciating significantly.”  Treasury yields  have jumped in the past month as some Fed
officials have said the central bank could slow its asset
purchases. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said on May 22 that the Fed
could consider reducing its monthly bond purchases within “the
next few meetings” if officials see signs of sustained
improvement in the labor market.  “We’ve had a 30-year bull bond market,” with “the lowest
rates in the history of the United States right now,” said
Fisher, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year. “At some
point secular markets change.”  The yield on 10-year Treasury notes rose 3 basis points
yesterday, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.15 percent, from 1.63
percent on May 2.  Not Forever  “The one thing the market has begun to discount is that
this will not go on forever,” Fisher said, noting that the
 Fed’s stimulus  has helped flatten the yield curve. “I’m not
surprised to see a back-up in yields” and “when you’re being
compensated for risk at such a low rate at nominal terms, forget
about spreads, as an investor I would be cautious.”  Fisher opposed the beginning of the current round of bond-buying in September as well as the expansion of the program to
Treasuries in December.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, who has dissented
against record stimulus at every policy meeting this year, also
urged the  central bank  to begin slowing the stimulus as growth
quickens and low interest rates encourage investors to take on
more risk.  “Waiting too long to acknowledge the economy’s progress
and prepare markets for more-normal policy settings carries no
less risk than tightening too soon,” she said yesterday in the
text of a speech in Santa Fe, New Mexico. She was unable to
speak because of illness.  The Fed will probably trim its monthly asset purchases by
almost a third in September if the labor market continues to
strengthen, according to  Joseph LaVorgna , Deutsche Bank AG’s
chief U.S. economist.  The first reduction will be $25 billion, consisting of $10
billion fewer mortgages and $15 billion of Treasuries. This will
bring monthly purchases down to $60 billion from the current
level of $85 billion, LaVorgna wrote yesterday in note to
clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  