-- Federation Sells A$602 Million Mall Stakes to Challenger
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-06-05T06:56:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/federation-centres-sells-a-602-million-mall-stakes-to-challenger.html
Federation Centres (FDC) , the shopping mall
operator formerly known as Centro Retail Australia, agreed to
sell half stakes in six properties for A$602 million ($579
million) to investment management firm Challenger Ltd.  The properties, in New South  Wales , Victoria and Western
Australia states, have a total value of A$1.2 billion,
Melbourne-based Federation Centres said in a statement to the
Australian stock exchange. The company will continue to manage
the malls, it said.  Federation Centres settled the sale of half stakes in three
malls to Perron Group a year ago, and agreed to sell 50 percent
interests in five malls to Industry Superannuation Property
Trust in February. The sales are part of Federation Centres’
plan to fund redevelopments by taking on partners to invest in
its malls and follows the sale of its retail assets in Surfers
Paradise, Queensland, in January to Challenger.  Federation Centres forecasts balance sheet gearing, a ratio
of debt to equity, of about 22 percent as at July 31, and said
it plans to reduce its debt facilities by as much as A$450
million “in the near term.”  “We have now agreed to extend our alliance to also include
co-ownership of a larger group of other centers,” Steven
Sewell, managing director of Federation Centres, said in today’s
statement. “The co-ownership strategy provides Federation
Centres with the liquidity and balance sheet flexibility for the
future funding of our redevelopment and enhancement program of
our portfolio.”  Federation Centres’  shares  fell 0.4 percent to A$2.45 at
the close of trading in Sydney, paring this year’s gains to 7.9
percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index declined 1.3 percent
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  