-- Finnish Economy Enters Recession as Euro Slump Saps Output
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-06-05T08:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/finland-s-economy-enters-recession-as-euro-slump-saps-exports.html
Finland ’s economy shrank in the first
quarter, entering a recession as its fellow euro-area countries
struggle with austerity and surging unemployment.  Gross domestic product , adjusted for seasonal swings,
contracted 0.1 percent from the prior three months, when it
shrank a revised 0.7 percent,  Statistics Finland  in Helsinki
said today on its  website . The slump matched the median estimate
of three economists in a Bloomberg survey. The economy also
stalled in the third quarter, after being revised from 0.1
percent growth, data showed.  “Finland’s economy is zigzagging downhill,” said Pasi Sorjonen, economist at Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki. “We’re on a
clear downward trend where at times the official recession
criteria are fulfilled and at times they aren’t.”  Finland’s economy, where exports account for about a third
of output, is hurting amid falling demand in the euro area,
which is shrinking for the second year as austerity policies
erode spending. Domestic demand in Finland, home to struggling
mobile phone maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , is failing to compensate, with
 consumer spending  contracting an annual 0.5 percent, the
statistics office said.  Euro Recession  The euro area shrank 0.2 percent in the first quarter after
contracting 0.6 percent in the fourth, according to preliminary
data.  Germany’s economy ,  Europe ’s biggest, expanded 0.1 percent
from the prior three months, less than the 0.3 percent gain
estimated by economists.  Finnish exports contracted an annual 4 percent last quarter
and manufacturing shrank 5.1 percent in the year, the statistics
office said. Adjusted for working days, the economy shrank an
annual 2.1 percent, more than the 2 percent drop estimated by
economists.  In the quarter, exports rose 0.9 percent and private
spending grew 0.3 percent from the prior period.  “Today’s figures were odd, given nothing’s really
contracting from the previous quarter,” Sorjonen said. “The
GDP figure maybe relies more on production data than on the
demand and import data.”  The recession is weighing on the labor market, prompting
companies including publisher and broadcaster Sanoma Oyj and
telecommunications operator TeliaSonera AB to cut jobs. The
 unemployment rate  rose to 8.8 percent in the first quarter from
8 percent a year earlier.  Statistics Finland revises prior data with each
publication. It had originally reported a third-quarter drop of
0.1 percent, revised that to a 0.1 percent increase before
saying today the economy was flat in the three months through
September. It also revised the fourth-quarter decline to 0.7
percent from 0.5 percent.  “I expect today’s figures to be later revised quite
significantly,” Sorjonen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  