-- Fisher Says Fed Stimulus Lacks Potency Amid Fiscal Deadlock
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-06-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/fisher-says-fed-stimulus-lacks-potency-amid-fiscal-deadlock.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  said that without clarity in U.S.
fiscal policy the Fed is “pushing on a string” through its
record stimulus and risks stoking inflation.  “The Fed has no hope of moving the economy to full
 employment , despite having pulled out all the stops on the
monetary front, unless our fiscal authorities get their act
together,” Fisher said today in the text of a speech in
Toronto. “Until then, I argue that the Fed is, at best, pushing
on a string and, at worst, building up kindling for speculation
and, eventually, a massive shipboard fire of inflation.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1 that it will
 keep buying  $85 billion a month in bonds until it sees a
“substantially” improved labor market. Fisher, who doesn’t
vote on policy this year, has been among the most vocal critics
at the Fed of additional accommodation.  For businesses, “decision-making in a thick fog of
uncertainty is well-nigh impossible,” Fisher said at the C.D.
Howe Institute Directors’ Dinner. The confusion “negates the
power of hyper-accommodative  monetary policy  to propel our
economic vessel forward.”  Fed policy makers are debating when to begin reducing the
pace of monthly bond-buying, with minutes of the April 30-May 1
meeting showing that many officials preferred to see more
progress in the labor market before curtailing the program.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George, who has dissented
against record stimulus at every policy meeting this year, urged
the central bank to begin slowing the stimulus as growth
quickens and low  interest rates  encourage investors to take on
more risk.  “Waiting too long to acknowledge the economy’s progress
and prepare markets for more-normal policy settings carries no
less risk than tightening too soon,” she said today in the text
of a speech in  Santa Fe , New Mexico. She was unable to speak
because of illness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net 
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  