-- Florida's $230 Million Corizon Prison Contract Is Revived
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J o r d a n   S e x t o n
-- 2013-06-05T23:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/florida-s-230-million-corizon-prison-contract-is-revived.html
Corizon Health Inc.’s five-year, $230
million contract to provide services for inmates in Florida
prisons was revived by a state appeals court that said a judge
shouldn’t have blocked the deal last year.  The First District Court of Appeal in Tallahassee ruled
today that the state validly entered into the contract with
Corizon and that the 14-member Legislative Budget Commission
didn’t err when it approved an amendment to move funds within
the corrections department’s budget to help fund the contract.  The ruling overturns a December decision by a lower court
in Tallahassee that blocked the contract from being implemented.
State Circuit Judge John Cooper had ruled the lawmakers’ budget
commission broke the law when it approved a transfer of $57.6
million to help fund the contract with Brentwood, Tennessee-based Corizon.  “The LBC simply moved funds from different line items
within the Department’s Health Services’s program, providing
additional funds for contracts that the Department otherwise had
the authority to enter,” the appeals court said in its 21-page
ruling.  The move to privatize prison health care has been a
priority for Florida Governor  Rick Scott , the former chief
executive officer of Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. who promised
while campaigning for office to cut prisoner costs by $1
billion. The Republican governor’s privatization efforts have
been met with a series of legal challenges.  Corizon Contract  The lawsuit targeting the Corizon contract was brought by
AFSCME Florida and the Federation of Physicians and
Dentists/Alliance of Healthcare and Professional Employees.  Alma Gonzalez, a lawyer for AFSCME, called the appeals
court ruling a “disappointment.” She said no decision has been
made whether to seek further court review.  Ann Howard, a spokeswoman for the Florida Department of
Corrections, said the state is pleased with today’s ruling.  “It will help save taxpayer money as we move forward,”
she said.  Brian Fulton, a spokesman for Corizon, had no immediate
comment on the ruling.  The Florida Legislature in 2011 authorized prison health-care privatization in its annual general appropriations act. A
lawsuit against that action was declared moot in July by a state
court judge, who said the privatization authority expired at the
end of the fiscal year, June 30, 2012.  The case is Crews v. Florida Public Employers Council 79,
1D12-5808, Florida First District Court of Appeal, Tallahassee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jordan Sexton in Tallahassee, Florida, at 
 christinesextonwork@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  