-- Billionaire Morse’s Florida Dirt Bonds Not Tax-Exempt
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r ,   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2013-06-06T17:48:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/florida-billionaire-s-development-bonds-not-tax-exempt-irs-says.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  ruled
that bonds sold by a Florida community-development district that
issued $426 million of debt aren’t tax-exempt, a decision with
potential implications for hundreds of similar entities.  Securities issued by Village Center Community Development
District, created by billionaire H. Gary Morse, don’t provide
tax-free income because the entity isn’t a political arm of the
state, according to an IRS memo dated May 30. The document was
provided by Perry  Israel , a lawyer for the district.  Florida’s community-development districts have sold $6
billion in municipal bonds, according to  Richard Lehmann ,
publisher of the Distressed Debt Securities newsletter in  Miami
Lakes , Florida. Similar obligations are issued in other states
to help finance property development and the IRS decision may
apply to them, said Scott Lilienthal, president of the National
Association of Bond Lawyers.  “This could create some widespread problems,” said
Lilienthal, whose Washington-based group includes about 3,000
municipal-finance attorneys. “Special districts are a pretty
widely used method of financing in various states.”  Eric Smith , an IRS spokesman, didn’t respond to a telephone
call seeking comment on the memo. The IRS opened its
investigation of the district in 2008.  The IRS ruling may not have a widespread effect on other
community development districts in Florida, said  John Miller  of
Chicago-based Nuveen Asset Management, which holds $10 million
of Village Center’s 2003 recreational-revenue bonds. In projects
such as these, he said, control of the board has typically
transferred to the residents.  ‘Unbelievable Efforts’  The developer made “unbelievable efforts” to ensure
“these assets did not go to the community,” Miller said. “But
it’s supposed to be a community bond and that’s why it’s tax-free. So this is very unique.”  Land-secured debt is the riskiest part of the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market, accounting for almost half of nonpayment
default filings, Matt Fabian, a managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, said in a June 5
report. Defaulted land-secured debt totals about $3.5 billion,
according to the report.  Village Center revenue bonds maturing November 2032 and
rated three steps above non-investment grade by Moody’s
Investors Service traded June 5 at an average yield of about 5
percent, or about 2 percentage points above an  index  of
benchmark municipal bonds with similar maturities, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Further Research  Holders of the bonds include Goldman Sachs Asset Management
and Nuveen Asset Management, as of April 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Mackay Shields LLC holds the bonds, as of
March 31.  The IRS ruling may require municipal investors to further
research bonds before purchases to determine whether the
earnings on the debt will remain tax-free, Fabian said in an
interview.  “If there’s a permutation of the structure in these bonds
that could undermine the exemption, investors will need to be
more careful about the structure,” Fabian said in the
interview. “So there’s more due diligence required in new
acquisitions.”  The district in  Florida  has been issuing debt since it was
created in 1992 with approval from a board of supervisors
controlled by the developer, according to the IRS memo. The
agency said that state law intends for community-development
districts to be turned over to residents.  ‘Political Subdivision’  “We believe that an entity that is organized and operated
in a manner intended to perpetuate private control, and to avoid
indefinitely responsibility to a public electorate, cannot be a
political subdivision of a state,” according to the IRS memo.  Israel, who is based in  Sacramento ,  California , disputed
the finding and said in an interview that the jurisdiction was
considering its options. Debbie Arceneaux, the IRS agent listed
on the memo as a contact, didn’t immediately respond to a voice
message seeking comment on the memo.  U.S. Representative Richard Nugent, a Florida Republican
who counts Morse among his constituents, said “any change in
the tax-exempt status of these bonds would likely have a harmful
impact on Florida homeowners already burdened by a weak
economy,” according to a March 5 letter to the IRS.  Campaign Contributions  Nugent, a member of the Tea Party Caucus in the House and
co-sponsor of legislation to abolish the IRS, received $19,400
in contributions from the Morse family during his 2010 and 2012
campaigns, according to campaign finance records.  U.S. Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, wrote to the
IRS on Oct. 26, warning that an agency conclusion that the
district isn’t a political subdivision could “paralyze bond
markets for new CDD issuers and create a chilling effect on
investment in my state.” The Morse family backed Nelson’s
Republican opponent last year, then-U.S. Representative  Connie Mack , with $62,500 in contributions.  Joseph Grant, then acting IRS commissioner for tax-exempt
and government entities, wrote back to Nugent on April 5 that
the investigation was “not part of any general guidance project
we are considering at this time.”  Morse, 76, is the developer of The Villages, one of the
world’s largest retirement communities, located on 33 square-miles (85 square-kilometers) in central Florida. Through his
fully owned Holding Company of The Villages, Morse has built and
sold more than 44,400 homes since 1983 and controls more than
4.5 million square-feet (418,000 square-meters) of commercial
space in the development.  Billionaire’s Fortune  Morse has a personal fortune of $2.6 billion derived from
profits selling the homes as well as related business such as
issuing mortgages to buyers, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  At least $955 million of Morse’s fortune comes directly
from money paid to him from the issuance of tax-free municipal
bonds -- including the bonds ruled taxable by the IRS, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg from an analysis of 38 bond-offering statements since 1992.  Under Florida’s community-development district arrangement,
Morse built amenities in The Villages -- primarily golf courses,
pools and guard houses -- and sold them to residents through
district boards that decided how much to pay for the assets. The
boards were appointed by Morse, as state law allows, and in
every case the majority of the members worked for Morse; one
board included Morse, according to Bloomberg’s analysis.  Gary Lester, a Villages spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the IRS memo.  Morse was a co-chairman of 2012 Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney ’s Florida finance committee. With his
company and three children, Morse donated $180,000 to Florida
Governor  Rick Scott ’s election campaign last year, state records
show, as Scott initiated a review of Florida’s special taxing
districts, including community development districts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  