-- For Djokovic, Playing Nadal on Clay is His ‘Biggest’ Task
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-05T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/for-djokovic-playing-nadal-on-clay-is-his-biggest-task.html
Novak Djokovic, No. 1 in tennis and
seeking a first French Open title, calls tomorrow’s semifinal
against Rafael Nadal his greatest challenge. Having won a record
seven times in Paris, the defending champion just shrugs.  “It is not the finals, it’s the semifinals,” Nadal said.
“If you win, you didn’t win nothing yet. That’s a big
difference.”  Both Djokovic of Serbia and Nadal, the No. 3 seed from
Spain, reached the final four in straight sets yesterday in
Paris. They will meet for a shot at the championship of Roland
Garros, where Nadal has lost one match in nine years.  The women’s semifinals are today. Defending champion Maria Sharapova of  Russia  plays Australian Open winner Victoria Azarenka of Belarus before top-seeded Serena Williams of the
U.S. plays last year’s runner-up,  Sara Errani  of  Italy . The
women’s final is on June 8, with the men’s final the following
day.  Djokovic is 15-19 against Nadal and never has beaten him at
the French Open. Nadal defeated him in a close four-set final
last year, a rain-delayed result that Djokovic said affected him
for months.  “Now I have a big challenge in front of me, and I’m ready
for it,” the top-ranked player on the ATP World Tour said at a
news conference yesterday. “This is the biggest matchup of our
Roland Garros 2013 campaign for both me and him. It’s the small
details and a few points can decide a winner, and that’s why I
need to be very disciplined and focused in order to get
emotionally, physically and mentally ready for that match.”  Djokovic Wins  Djokovic, 26, reached the semifinals by defeating 35-year-old Tommy Haas of  Germany , the oldest man in the French
quarterfinals in more than four decades, 6-3, 7-6 (7-5), 7-5.  Nadal, 27, advanced with a 6-2, 6-3, 6-1 victory against
ninth-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland. It was the third
consecutive straight-set victory for the Spaniard, who dropped
the opening set in each of his first two rounds. The only time
in eight previous appearances in Paris that Nadal hasn’t won the
tournament was 2009, when he lost to Robin Soderling in the
fourth round.  Djokovic, with six Grand Slam titles, had been so wary of
Nadal that he asked a French Open official to tell reporters not
to talk about the draw before the start of his pre-tournament
news conference.  Fateful Draw  The two men had been drawn in the same half, with 17-time
major champion Roger Federer of Switzerland in the opposite
part. Federer, seeded second, was knocked out of the French Open
in the quarterfinals by Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in straight sets. The
Frenchman plays David Ferrer, the No. 4 seed from Spain, in the
other semifinal tomorrow.  Although his run of eight straight titles on the clay
courts of the Monte Carlo Masters was ended by Djokovic in the
final in April, playing on the same surface at Roland Garros is
another matter, Nadal said.  “This court, and the feeling to play this court, is always
a little bit different,” Nadal said. “And in any case, the
past is the past.”  The victory in Monte Carlo has given Djokovic confidence he
may end his losing streak to Nadal at Roland Garros, even though
their match will be played in a best-of-five format instead of
best-of-three sets on the ATP World Tour.  ‘Mental Edge’  “That is something that can maybe give me that mental edge
when I step onto the court, knowing I already won against him on
clay this season, knowing I can do it, even though not many
players in last 10 years have won against him on this surface
and he’s been the most dominant player in the history of this
sport on this surface,” Djokovic said. “It’s incredible what
he does on this surface.”  Sharapova kept her championship defense alive by doing
something she hadn’t done before at the top level of tennis --
win a match after dropping the opening set at love.  The second seed this year, Sharapova beat 18th-seeded
Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia , 0-6, 6-4, 6-3. The Russian title-holder made 20 unforced errors in the first set before raising
her record at the Grand Slam and WTA tour level to 1-5 in
matches she began on the wrong end of a shutout.  “I do find it meaningful when I have to dig deep in order
to find the bonuses out of the match,” Sharapova told
reporters.  Azarenka defeated No. 12 seed Maria Kirilenko of Russia 7-6
(7-3), 6-2 yesterday. She holds a 7-5 career record against
Sharapova.  “Always a tough match,” Sharapova said. “We have played
each other so many times, there are really no secrets between
each other in terms of our game styles and what we do well and
not.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  