-- French Fracking Ban Endorsed on U.S. Environmental Repercussions
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-06-05T09:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/french-fracking-ban-endorsed-on-u-s-environmental-repercussions.html
France ’s ban on hydraulic fracturing
should not be eased because the oil and gas drilling technique
is causing “considerable” environmental damage in the U.S.,
according to a government minister.  “We have to have our eyes wide open about what is going on
in the U.S.,” Environmental and Energy Minister Delphine Batho
said during a radio debate. “The reality is that the cost of
producing gas doesn’t take into account considerable
environmental damage.”  Earthquakes, aquifer pollution, heavy metal contamination,
increased truck traffic and damage to the countryside are
consequences of fracking, the minister said.  France outlawed fracking in 2011 under the government of
former President  Nicolas Sarkozy  because of environmental
concerns. His successor  Francois Hollande  has said he supports
the ban. The country’s business lobbies have stepped up a
campaign in recent months in favor of shale energy development,
which commonly uses fracking. The lobbies argue it would help
reverse France’s industrial decline, raise competitiveness
through cheaper energy supplies and lower unemployment.  “The U.S. has invented environmental dumping,” Batho said
today. “ Gas prices  in the U.S. don’t take into account the cost
of environmental damage that future generations will have to
pay.”  France should pass up on potential shale resources in favor
of “massive development” of renewable energies including
biomass, Batho said.  France and Poland have the greatest potential for
recoverable shale gas in  Europe , the  International Energy Agency 
has said. The French anti-fracking law would allow some forms of
drilling for research purposes under highly controlled
conditions, something the government has so far blocked.  “We have to at least allow research that would permit us
to evaluate the resources we have in shale oil and gas,”
 Laurence Parisot , head of the French business lobby  Medef , said
during the same radio debate. “We need to know their
characteristics and whether it would be profitable to develop
them.”  If fracking is properly carried out, it can be “risk
free,” she said. Banning the method is “signing the death
knell” for France’s petrochemicals industry.”  The French parliament is scheduled to publish a study
tomorrow on alternative techniques to fracking.  “Shale gas is not a miracle solution for Europe to lower
energy prices,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said
in an interview published today in Le Monde newspaper. She said
Europe should avoid the same “errors” as the U.S. through
rules limiting risks of water pollution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  