-- Gagosian Gallery Asks to Toss Billionaire Perelman’s Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-06-05T23:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/gagosian-gallery-asks-court-to-dismiss-suit-by-ronald-perelman.html
Two entities controlled by
billionaire  Ronald Perelman  are “sophisticated” art investors
whose lawsuit against gallery owner  Larry Gagosian  should be
dismissed, lawyers for Gagosian told a New York state judge.  Gagosian sued Perelman in New York state  Supreme Court  in
 Manhattan  in September, accusing the billionaire of reneging on
an agreement to buy two works of art for more than $23 million
and offering less money and other works of art in exchange.
Perelman sued Gagosian and his gallery in the same court the
same day, accusing them of concealing material information and
using their position to manipulate the price of art.  The gallery dropped its suit in October and asked Justice
Barbara Kapnick to throw out Perelman’s complaint in January.
Matthew S. Dontzin, an attorney representing Gagosian, today
told the judge that Perelman’s MacAndrews & Forbes Group LLC
holding company and its MAFG Art Fund are “sophisticated”
business entities that had a “heightened duty” to conduct due
diligence on their purchases.  “It is undisputed that the plaintiffs here are
professional investors in art, not just buyers and sellers,”
Matthew S. Dontzin, an attorney representing Gagosian, told
Kapnick during a hearing today.  Perelman accuses Gagosian of taking advantage of his
position of trust to force him to buy “Popeye,” a granite
sculpture of the cartoon character by  Jeff Koons , for $4
million.  Sonnabend Gallery  Gagosian bought the sculpture from the Sonnabend Gallery
for $4 million about 2 1/2 weeks after executing its sales
agreement with MacAndrews & Forbes -- restricting Perelman’s
ability to sell or trade the sculpture for its full market value
by requiring Gagosian to pay Koons a 70 percent share of any
profit made above $4 million, Perelman’s lawyers said in court
filings.  Gagosian is “probably the world’s leading and most
powerful  art dealer ,” and Perelman -- who isn’t of the same
“level of expertise and skill” -- has relied on him for more
than 20 years for advice in buying and selling art,  Marc
Kasowitz , an attorney representing Perelman, told Kapnick today.  Gagoisan’s knowledge of art sold through private sales
allows him to know the value of pieces not known to the public,
and the “secret agreement” with the Sonnabend gallery
“seriously undercut” Perelman’s ability to sell or exchange
the sculpture for its full market value, Kasowitz said.  ‘Private Transactions’  “You can’t go up and there and lie and say that because
someone is sophisticated there is immunity,” Kasowitz said.
“If you know the market and the results of private
transactions, those are misrepresentations of existing facts.”  Kapnick dismissed one of the claims in the suit, for
deceptive business practice, while reserving decision on the
remainder of the claims and urging the two sides to resolve the
case themselves.  “I really think that these two gentlemen ought to get
together at a cocktail party in the Hamptons this summer,”
Kapnick said. “This is a crazy case to have going on in this
court and you ought to see if this can’t get resolved before I
write a decision.”  The case is MAFG Art Fund LLC v. Gagosian, 653189/2012,  New
York  State Supreme Court, 653189/2012, New York state Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan at  cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  