-- German Bunds Rise With French, Dutch Bonds as Recession Deepens
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-06-05T15:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/german-government-bonds-little-changed-before-5-year-debt-sale.html
Germany’s 10-year bonds advanced,
snapping two days of declines, as economic reports added to
signs the recession in the 17-nation region is deepening.  French, Dutch and Austrian securities also gained as stocks
declined around the world, boosting demand for the region’s
safer assets. Euro-area gross domestic product shrank 0.2
percent in the first quarter, while separate data showed retail
sales in the region fell in April and services contracted last
month. The European Central Bank will keep its main  interest
rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent at a policy meeting tomorrow,
according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “The data today looked dreadful,” said  Soeren Moerch ,
head of fixed-income trading at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.
“The ECB will probably not move tomorrow but I would not be
surprised if its rhetoric would turn a bit more dovish than last
time. Europe has no growth. Stock losses also helped bunds.”  The 10-year bund yield dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.52 percent at 4:48 p.m. London time after
climbing to 1.57 percent on June 3, the highest level since Feb.
25. The 1.5 percent security due in May 2023 rose 0.265, or 2.65
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,309) face amount, to 99.875.  The rate on France’s 10-year securities fell two basis
points to 2.06 percent. The yields on similar-maturity Dutch
bonds also dropped two basis points, to 1.85 percent, and those
on Austrian debt declined the same amount to 1.89 percent.  GDP Shrinks  Euro-area  GDP  fell 0.2 percent last quarter, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said, confirming an
estimate on May 15. A  composite index  based on a survey of
purchasing managers in services and manufacturing industries in
the region was at 47.7 last month, below the level of 50 that
divides growth from contraction, Markit Economics said.  Germany’s five-year notes were little changed after the
debt agency allotted an additional 3.35 billion euros of the
securities at a yield of 0.54 percent at an auction. That’s up
from 0.38 percent at the previous sale on May 8. The five-year
note yielded 0.53 percent.  Yields on government bonds across the world have climbed
over the past month amid speculation the Federal Reserve will
curb its bond-buying program, known as quantitative easing.  “The higher yield than the last auction is associated with
the general selloff associated with the Federal Reserve
tapering,”  Lyn Graham-Taylor , a fixed-income strategist at
Rabobank International in London, wrote in a note to clients.
“Overall, this appears to be a reasonable auction result.”  Fed Purchases  The Fed buys $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage debt each
month to support the economy by putting downward pressure on
interest rates. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on May 22 the
central bank could reduce record stimulus if the economy shows
sustained improvement.  Insight Investment, which oversees about $134 billion in
fixed income and currencies, is buying Italian and Spanish debt
with maturities of three to five years, according to  Andrew Wickham , the company’s head of U.K. and global fixed income.  The securities have rallied during the past year as ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said in July the central bank would do
“whatever it takes” to preserve the single currency and in
September announced details of a bond-purchase program known as
Outright Monetary Transactions.  “We are buying them with the view that we will hold them
to maturity,” Wickham said at a briefing in London. “The ECB
is in a different mood to perhaps they were two or three years
ago. The key difference is the existence of the OMT, the
backstop for short-dated assets in that market.”  Italy’s 10-year yield rose four basis points to 4.14
percent and Spain’s climbed two basis points to 4.44 percent.  German securities  handed investors a loss of 1.1 percent in
the past year through yesterday, according to Bloomberg World
Bond Indexes. Italian securities returned 16 percent and Spanish
bonds gained 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  