-- German Stocks Decline Amid Concern Fed Will Pare Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-06-05T15:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/german-stocks-fall-amid-concern-fed-may-reduce-stimulus.html
German stocks  declined to a four-week
low amid growing speculation the Federal Reserve will scale back
monetary stimulus measures as soon as September and as two U.S.
central bankers called for a reduction in bond purchases.  K+S AG, Europe’s biggest potash distributor, retreated to
its lowest price in almost a year after Berenberg Bank cut its
forecast for the shares.  Solarworld AG  jumped 4.3 percent as the
European Union imposed tariffs on solar panels from China.  The  DAX  fell 1.2 percent to 8,196.18 at the close of
trading in Frankfurt. The gauge gained 5.5 percent in May and
has rallied in all but one of the past 12 months as central
banks around the world maintained stimulus efforts. The broader
HDAX Index also slipped 1.2 percent today.  “The overriding issue pushing markets lower is hawkish
comments from senior officials at the Fed yesterday, which
illustrate that the debate regarding the timing of tapering is a
live issue,”  Jeremy Batstone-Carr , head of research at Charles
Stanley Group Plc in London, said in a telephone interview.  In the U.S., the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
turned lower yesterday after the close of European trading, to
finish down 0.6 percent as economists at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Deutsche Bank predicted the Fed could start winding
down its bond-buying program this summer.  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  called for a
reduction in the central bank’s monthly bond purchases.  “It would be prudent to dial back the  rate of purchases  we
are making in mortgage-backed securities” now that “the
housing market is in a good state, construction has started
again, housing prices are appreciating significantly,” he said
yesterday to reporters after a speech in Toronto.  George Speech  Kansas City Fed President  Esther George , who has dissented
against record stimulus at every policy meeting this year, also
urged the  central bank  to begin slowing the stimulus.  “Waiting too long to acknowledge the economy’s progress
and prepare markets for more normal policy settings carries no
less risk than tightening too soon,” she said in the text of a
speech in Santa Fe, New Mexico. She was unable to speak because
of illness.  K+S lost 2.1 percent to 30.74 euros, its lowest price since
June 14, 2012, after Berenberg Bank cut its target on the shares
to 28 euros from 30 euros, citing the increase in capital
expenditure for a Canadian greenfield project.  HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third largest maker of the
building material, declined 1.8 percent to 57.80 euros. A gauge
of construction and materials companies was among the biggest
fallers in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index .  Solarworld Advances  Solarworld, the world’s fourth-largest solar-panel maker,
added 4.3 percent to 79.3 euro cents, after earlier rising as
much as 9.2 percent. The EU imposed tariffs as high as 67.9
percent on panels from China in the largest commercial dispute
of its kind, as it seeks to help revive a withering industry in
Europe.  Producers including  Solarworld  have suffered “significant
harm” as a result of dumped imports from China, the European
Commission, the bloc’s trade authority in Brussels, said in a
statement yesterday.  Wacker Chemie AG , a maker of the main raw material in solar
panels, fell 2.6 percent to 53.63 euros. Commerzbank AG said the
EU measures could increase financial risks for the company.  ThyssenKrupp AG advanced 0.3 percent to 15.40 euros, paring
earlier gains of as much as 4 percent. Germany’s largest
steelmaker agreed to sell its Brazilian plant to Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA, the country’s third-biggest steelmaker,
Platow Brief reported, without saying where it got the
information.  Continental AG , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts
supplier, climbed 0.2 percent to 101 euros, paring earlier gains
of as much as 1.7 percent. HSBC Holdings Plc raised its target
price on the shares to 123 euros from 105 euros, saying
consensus forecasts underestimate the strength of Continental’s
rubber operations.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 9.2 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  