-- Glencore Xstrata Said to Raise More Than $19 Billion for Loan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-06-05T16:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/glencore-xstrata-said-to-raise-more-than-19-billion-for-loan.html
Glencore Xstrata Plc , the biggest
publicly-traded commodity supplier, raised more than $19 billion
to replace  credit lines  after completing its takeover of Xstrata
Plc, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  More than 80 lenders committed funds to the deal, including
29 providing $500 million each, said the people, who asked not
to be identified because the terms are private. The loan may be
finalized this month.  The Baar, Switzerland-based company sought to replace debt
including $12.8 billion of credit facilities obtained before the
merger. Glencore concluded its all-share $29 billion merger with
 Xstrata  last month to add coal, copper, zinc and nickel mines to
its trading operations.  The revolving credit facilities, where money repaid can be
borrowed again, comprise one-, three- and five-year portions
that pay initial interest margins from 80 basis points, or 0.8
percentage points, to 90 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Fees paid to draw on the credit lines range from zero on the
one-year portion to 75 basis points on a five-year deal,
dependent upon their use.  A spokesman for Glencore declined to comment on the
financing.  Banks participating as mandated lead arrangers will have
their commitments reduced to $450 million when the facility is
finalized, said the people. Other lenders had the option of
committing smaller amounts.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc is coordinating the loan,
with Banco Santander SA, Barclays Plc, Commerzbank AG and
Societe Generale SA also helping to arrange the debt, Bloomberg
data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  