-- Gluskin Sheff Sees Yield in Suncor, Oil Shares
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-06-05T21:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/gluskin-sheff-sees-yield-in-suncor-oil-shares-corporate-canada.html
Gluskin Sheff & Associates Inc. (GS) , the
second-best performing publicly traded  money manager  in  Canada 
this year, bought stakes in  Suncor (SU)  Energy Inc., Whitecap
Resources Inc. and other oil providers as it focuses on high-yielding dividend stocks.  Oil and gas producers and services companies have begun to
clamp down on costs and return cash to shareholders, William Webb, chief investment officer with the Toronto-based money
manager and hedge fund, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Toronto office May 30. Likely approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL pipeline is added allure, he said.  “When Suncor got religion on dividends, we added right
away, almost doubled our position,” said Webb, 49, who leads
management of about C$6 billion ($5.8 billion) across several
equity, fixed income and hedge fund portfolios. “To entice
investors to add exposure, they want to know they’ll see some of
that free cash returned to their pocket. And you’re seeing
companies start to transition towards a sustainable dividend
model.”  Calgary-based Suncor, Canada’s largest energy company by
market value, said on April 29 it had boosted its dividend 54
percent to 20 Canadian cents and planned to buy back an
additional C$2 billion worth of shares. The stock has climbed
7.3 percent since then.  Suncor slipped 0.7 percent to C$31.55 at 4 p.m. in Toronto
today. Whitecap Resources lost 0.2 percent to C$10.64.  U.S. approval of TransCanada’s $5.3-billion Keystone XL
pipeline connecting the Canadian  oil sands  to the  Gulf Coast 
could help oil shares, Webb said. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
said he would decide on the pipeline this year, Republican North
Dakota Senator and Keystone XL supporter  John Hoeven  said in
March, after a meeting with the president and other Republican
lawmakers.  Sees Approval  “I’m in the camp that it will get approved,”  Webb said.
“I wouldn’t make a huge bet on that, but the market has not
priced it in and that is what really matters to us.”  Pipeline congestion has helped push Western Canadian Select
heavy crude $17.25 below West Texas Intermediate crude as of
yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy Index has  risen  13
percent in the past year, the third-worst performing industry in
the benchmark  S&P/TSX Composite (SPTSX)  as of yesterday. The S&P 500
Energy Sector Index is up 27 percent in the same period.  Gluskin also owns  Whitecap Resources (WCP) , an oil and gas
explorer that’s gained 23 percent this year, as well as
 Vermillion Energy Inc. (VET) , Bonterra Energy Corp., and
infrastructure companies such as Gibson Energy Inc. and Keyera
Corp.  Gold Out  Gluskin Sheff’s Resource Strategy Fund holds 64 percent
energy stocks and 10 percent in precious metals. All of its top
10 holdings are energy stocks, including Trilogy Energy Corp.,
Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. and Tourmaline Oil Corp.,
according to company documents.  The firm recently sold its gold equities before a 31
percent decline in Canadian gold producers this year.  “In the resource space, we’ve really downplayed our gold
mining and base metal plays,” Webb said.  Gluskin, which is traded in the Toronto Stock Exchange but
not in the broad S&P/TSX Composite Index, has surged 26 percent
this year. That’s the second-best performance after Fiera
Capital Corp. among 17 publicly traded asset managers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Current Platform  Gluskin earlier this year explored “ shareholder value 
maximization alternatives” at the request of founding
shareholders Ira Gluskin and Gerald Sheff. In April, it
concluded its search without finding a buyer and said “the
current platform remained an excellent way to serve clients and
enhance shareholder value.”  According to company documents, Gluskin’s Canadian Equity
fund has posted an annualized return of 10.9 percent since its
inception in 1991, compared with an 8.7 percent return for the
S&P/TSX Total Return Index, the fund’s benchmark.  Gluskin’s Resource Strategy fund, founded in 2009, has
reported an annual return of 6.9 percent, compared with a 1.1
percent loss for its benchmark, a combination of the S&P/TSX
Materials and Energy indexes.  David Rosenberg , 52, chief economist and strategist at
Gluskin Sheff, said he sees inflation approaching in the U.S. as
the economy improves and wages increase.  “If there’s stagflation what do you screen for?,” he
said. “You want to screen for high fixed costs, low variable
costs, high  capital ratios , and companies that have relatively
low demand elasticities.”  Likes Banks  Inflation hedges would include energy infrastructure,
royalty firms, as well as life insurance companies, which can
use higher rates to pay out annuities, Webb said. Gluskin has
invested in  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Sun Life Financial Inc.
and Industrial Alliance Insurance and Financial Services Inc. in
the past three or four months as global equities have rallied,
turning away from pipelines and telecommunications stocks, which
have become expensive, Webb said.  Gluskin Sheff is also keeping its stakes in Canadian banks
as higher rates increase the margin between what they borrow and
lend, Webb said. Their largest holdings are in Bank of  Nova
Scotia , Toronto-Dominion Bank and Royal Bank of Canada, the
nation’s largest.  In an inflationary environment, companies such as satellite
maker  MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates Ltd. (MDA)  that are become more
attractive, Webb said.  ‘Terrific Business’  “The question becomes which companies are able to continue
growing their dividends,” Webb said. “Dividend growth will
attract a higher premium if and when  interest rates  really do
back up.”  MDA, maker of the International Space Station’s Canadarm2
robotic arm, is the second-best performing  technology stock  in
Canada over the past year, rising 57 percent. The Richmond,
British Columbia-based company completed an $875 million
acquisition of Space Systems/Loral Inc. last year.  “It’s a terrific business, this is a company where I don’t
care if inflation is 4 percent or zero percent,” Webb said.
“It’s a growing business, a global leader that makes
acquisitions and has a high return on capital, implemented a
dividend.”  Looking ahead to the rest of the year, Rosenberg doesn’t
expect U.S. stocks to fall into a  bear market , even as investors
anticipate a summer sell-off.  “It’s completely normal to have a correction, and it opens
up an opportunity for entry into stocks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  