-- Goldman Said to Pledge $500 Million to Alibaba as IPO Looms
-- B y   F o s t e r   W o n g   a n d   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-06-05T05:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/goldman-said-to-pledge-500-million-to-alibaba-loan-as-ipo-looms.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. will lend
$500 million to Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. as the company seeks
$8 billion of loans, two people familiar with the matter said.  The pledge by the New York-based bank forms part of a
facility that will cut debt costs for  China ’s biggest e-commerce
company, the people said yesterday, asking not to be identified
because the details are private. Edward Naylor, a spokesman for
Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong, declined to comment.  Alibaba is locking in three- and five-year loan financing,
introducing a smartphone operating system and buying a stake in
China’s biggest Twitter-like service -- steps considered a
prelude to an initial public offering that may value the company
at as much as $100 billion. Investment banks are keen to form
relationships with Alibaba to increase their chances of being
selected to help with the share sale.  “Goldman Sachs wants to use this as an opportunity for
further chances of cooperation,” including the IPO, said Alex Wang, a Beijing-based analyst at Internet consulting group
iResearch. “These banks might not come across a chance like
this in years.”  John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Alibaba, said
he had “no comment on speculation regarding who may have joined
the syndication” when asked about the company’s financing
plans.  Debt Split  The debt is split into a $4 billion five-year  term loan , a
$2.5 billion three-year term facility and a $1.5 billion
similar-maturity revolving credit line, according to the people.
The financing offers interest rates of 225 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate for the three-year
portions and 275 basis points for the five-year loan, the people
said.  Margins for dollar-denominated loans paid by companies in
Asia outside of  Japan  averaged 249 basis points this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Bank Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.
and Morgan Stanley were hired to help arrange the loan and have
been marketing it to a wider group of banks in syndication.  Goldman Sachs is the top-ranked arranger of global equity
offerings this year with a 13 percent market share, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup is ranked second with an
8.7 percent share, followed by Morgan Stanley with 7.9 percent,
the data show.  Mobile Strategy  Alibaba, led by Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Lu after
billionaire founder Jack Ma stepped down last month, is
refocusing on mobile platforms to replicate its dominance with
desktop computer users.  The Hangzhou-based company was formed in 1999 as an online
marketplace for Chinese companies. It doesn’t sell merchandise
itself, instead running platforms including Taobao Marketplace
and Tmall.com that connect retail brands with consumers, a cross
between Amazon.com Inc. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  It makes most of its sales
from commissions and advertising.  Goods sold on Alibaba -- ranging from consumer staples to
cement and aluminum -- were worth $180 billion last year,
according to Eric Qiu, an analyst at Guosen Securities Co. in
Hong Kong.  Alibaba will use $4.8 billion of the loan proceeds to
refinance debt, $800 million to buy back preferred shares from
Yahoo! Inc., and the rest for corporate purposes, another person
familiar with the matter said May 2.  All-In Rates  The borrower is paying so-called blended all-in rates of
314 basis points, 307 basis points and 300 basis points more
than Libor for pledges of $500 million, $300 million and $200
million respectively, the people familiar with the matter said
yesterday.  The syndication deadline is expected to be extended by
about two weeks from June 7 to give banks more time to process
credit approvals, a person familiar with the matter said today.
Some 30 lenders were invited by the nine lead arranging banks to
join the deal, the person said.  An $8 billion facility would be the biggest syndicated
financing in the Asia-Pacific region outside Japan this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s
largest offshore energy explorer, signed a $6 billion short-term
bridge facility in February, which was used to buy Canadian
energy producer Nexen Inc., the data show.  Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd. is lining up about $7
billion in loans from two banks to back its $4.7 billion bid for
Smithfield Foods Inc., the world’s biggest hog producer, a
person familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Bank of China Ltd. is providing a term loan of about $4
billion to pay for the cash component of the takeover while
Morgan Stanley, Shuanghui’s financial adviser, will provide
about $3 billion to refinance Smithfield’s existing debt, that
person said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Foster Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 fwong94@bloomberg.net ;
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  