-- Gold Investment Sales Total $6 Billion as ‘Flood Continues’
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-05T16:32:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/gold-sales-came-to-6-billion-last-month-as-stocks-assets-gained.html
Gold  sales through exchange-traded
products came to $6 billion last month as investors put more
money into stocks and bonds, ETFGI Ltd. said.  The outflow for gold in May pushed the total for the first
five months this year to $24.2 billion, compared with gains of
$3.2 billion for the same period last year, according to data
provided by e-mail today from London-based ETFGI. Commodity
outflows were $6.7 billion last month compared with $25 billion
added to stock ETPs and $3.1 billion to fixed income.  Gold outflows came on top of an $8.8 billion cut in April
when the metal slid to a two-year low and entered a bear market.
BlackRock Inc. said the April gold sales were a record.
Investors cut gold-backed ETP assets that reached an all-time
high in December as faith in the metal as a store of value waned
after inflation failed to accelerate and confidence mounted that
the U.S. economy was improving.  “The flood continues,” said Robin Bhar, an analyst at
Societe Generale SA in London. “If the price does weaken as we
think, it’s going to prompt more ETP liquidation.”  Gold prices that rallied for 12 years in the best run in at
least nine decades are down 16 percent this year while U.S.
equities climbed to a record.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities dropped 2.9 percent
this year and the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 6.7 percent. Treasuries are down 1.2 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Commodity ETP outflows last month were down from $9.4
billion in April, according to ETFGI, which is managed by
Deborah Fuhr, formerly of BlackRock. All ETP assets climbed to a
record $2.14 trillion last month, ETFGI said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  