-- Gold Climbs in New York as ADP Jobs Report Spurs Stimulus Bets
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-05T13:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/gold-climbs-in-new-york-as-adp-jobs-report-spurs-stimulus-bets.html
Gold futures rose for the second time
this week after a private jobs report showed U.S. companies
hired fewer workers than projected in May, spurring speculation
that the Federal Reserve will keep buying bonds.  The 135,000 increase in employment followed a revised
113,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
the ADP Research Institute said today. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg expected a May advance of 165,000, the median of 40
forecasts. Gold slid 17 percent this year through yesterday on
concern that the Fed would curb stimulus measures that helped
bullion cap a 12-year bull run in 2012.  “The ADP numbers are on the weaker side, and the talking
heads may again suggest the Fed will hold pat,”  Peter Hug , the
global trading director Kitco Inc., a precious-metal refiner and
research company in  Montreal , said in a report. This creates a
“bullish tone,” he said.  Gold futures for August delivery gained 0.3 percent to
$1,401.50 an ounce at 9:25 a.m. on the Comex in New York.
Trading was 28 percent below the 100-day average for this time
of day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Prices also rose as global equities declined, boosting the
appeal of precious metals as alternative assets. The MSCI All-Country World Index touched a five-week low today.  Today’s jobs report comes as some U.S. policy makers have
said they favor easing the central bank’s $85 billion in monthly
debt buying. Fed Bank of Kansas City President Esther George,
who dissented against record stimulus at every policy meeting
this year, urged yesterday to slow the program.  “A bit of risk aversion might help gold,” Marc Ground, a
commodity strategist at Standard Bank Plc in Johannesburg, said
by telephone, referring to the drop in equities. “The talk
lately has been a lot more hawkish from the Fed. The market is a
bit nervous.”  Silver futures for July delivery gained 0.4 percent to
$22.495 an ounce on the Comex. Through yesterday, prices fell 26
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  