-- Goldman Breaks Drought With Saudi Property Bond: Islamic Finance
-- B y   S a m u e l   P o t t e r
-- 2013-06-05T10:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/goldman-breaks-drought-with-saudi-property-bond-islamic-finance.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , whose
shariah-compliant bond program was questioned by Islamic
scholars in 2011, led its first sukuk in more than three years
after helping a Saudi property developer raise $450 million.  The bank was a lead arranger on  Dar Al Arkan Real Estate
Development Co. (ALARKAN) ’s sukuk on May 21, reforging links with the
Riyadh-based real estate company after helping arrange the sale
of its $450 million five-year bonds in February 2010.  The New York-based bank is seeking to catch up with U.S.
competitors as demand accelerates for securities that conform to
Islamic principles. Global sales reached a record $46.5 billion
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while
issuance has increased 4 percent to $18.3 billion in 2013.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are U.S. banks that have
appeared among the global top 10 underwriters for Islamic bonds
in the last five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is an area of growing importance as a source of
funding” for borrowers, Martin Weber, head of debt capital
markets for  Europe   Middle East  & Africa growth markets at
Goldman Sachs, said by phone yesterday. “Our presence in the
region and connectivity with local issuers has gone up. You have
seen us on Dar Al Arkan, and there is going to be more.”  Demand  Islamic financial assets could more than double by 2015 to
as much as $3 trillion, Standard and Poor’s said in September.
Emerging market sukuk have returned 0.3 percent this year,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Sukuk Total Return Index.
That compares with a loss of 1.9 percent for debt in  Bloomberg
USD Emerging Market Composite Bond Index. (BEM)   Dubai Electricity & Water Authority secured more than $5
billion of bids for the $1 billion of Islamic bonds it sold in
February.  Islamic Development Bank , the Saudi Arabia-based
multinational lender, last week received $1.5 billion in bids
for $1 billion of securities as it paid the lowest yield of the
year.  “The Islamic industry is growing faster than conventional,
so every financial institution is looking at it,” Afaq Khan,
chief executive officer of Standard Chartered Saadiq, said by
phone this week. “If clients are demanding Shariah-compliant
solutions, you must develop accordingly.”  GE Sukuk  Goldman in 2009 helped arrange the sale of  GE Capital ’s
$500 million Islamic bond, ranking it 24th on the list of global
sukuk underwriters. The bank was 17th in 2010.  “International sukuk issues, which is where houses such as
ours would historically add value, had better times three years
ago,” said Weber.  Goldman has yet to issue from its own $2 billion sukuk
program. The sukuk, blessed at the time by eight of the world’s
top scholars, was criticized by some Islamic advisers for not
ensuring the debt would be traded at par value as mandated by
Islamic law. Advisers including Riyadh-based Mohammed Khnifer of
Edcomm Group Banker’s Academy in  New York  also said it’s unclear
how Goldman will use the funds it raises.  “A lack of product and industry knowledge could up-end the
essence of Shariah-compliance,” Hatim El-Tahir, director of
Deloitte’s  Islamic Finance  Knowledge Centre, said by e-mail this
week. “It could threaten the risk-return profile of both
industry and product.”  Growth Strategy  Banks “need to see a buoyant product, and right now that
is sukuk,” Rizwan Kanji, Dubai-based partner at King &
Spalding, said by phone this week. “That is what is driving
these players.”  JPMorgan has hired a “big name” in Hussein Hassan, former
global head of Islamic structuring at  UBS AG (UBSN) , which proves the
bank’s commitment to the industry, Kanji said.  BofA Merrill Lynch was a lead manager as  Asya Katilim
Bankasi AS (ASYAB)  raised $250 million in Tier 2, 10-year bonds on March
28. The issue was the first of its kind from Europe,  Turkey  or
the Middle East, King & Spalding said. Kanji worked on the deal.  “BofA Merrill Lynch has done a lot of conventional
issuance in Turkey,” said Kanji. “The bank has played to its
strengths to build an Islamic platform.”  Spokesmen for JPMorgan and BofA Merrill Lynch weren’t
available for comment.  Increased competition in the industry could work in banks’
favor, said  Standard Chartered (STAN) ’s Khan, as lower fees increase
the chances borrowers will come to market and more banks means a
greater profile for the Islamic industry.  Forty-three banks have underwritten global sukuk sales this
year, compared with 30 in the year-earlier period, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Forty-four companies and governments
have sold Islamic bonds, up from 36 in the year-earlier period.  “The more people we have talking about a product and
Islamic solutions to their clients, the deeper the market
becomes,” said Khan. “So while a few fees may go down, the
absolute size of the market will increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Samuel Potter in Dubai at 
 spotter33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  