-- IMF Says Greece May Need Faster Debt Relief, Cites Own Mistakes
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-06-05T23:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/greek-debt-may-warrant-front-loaded-debt-relief-imf-staff-says.html
Greece ’s public debt remains a risk
to its recovery that could require faster European relief, the
 International Monetary Fund  said as it criticized its own
handling of the country’s rescue.  While the Mediterranean nation is meeting key targets under
its second international bailout, such as  budget cuts  and
changes to  labor laws , concern about its debt levels “hang over
the program,” the staff wrote in a  report  released yesterday. A
second paper cited “notable failures” in the fund’s first loan
to Greece in 2010.  “If investors are not persuaded that the policy for
dealing with the debt problem is credible, investments and
growth will be unlikely to recover as programmed,” the  staff
wrote  in the report. “Should debt sustainability concerns prove
to be weighing on investor sentiments even with the framework
for debt relief now in place, and strong program implementation
by the Greek authorities notwithstanding, a more front-loaded
approach to debt relief would need to be considered.”  The recommendation reflects the tougher approach the IMF
has taken over the past year with  Europe  over the level of debt
it deems sustainable as it draws lessons from the first Greek
bailout. In the self-evaluation also released yesterday, fund
staff said it would have been better for Greece to restructure
debt held by investors as early as 2010, a plan the IMF didn’t
push because Europeans opposed it.  Decisively Tackling  “Not tackling the public debt problem decisively at the
outset or early in the program created uncertainty about the
euro area’s capacity to resolve the crisis and likely aggravated
the contraction in output,” the agency’s staff wrote in an
 assessment  of the first Greek loan, which ended with the largest
debt restructuring in history last year.  “A delayed debt restructuring also provided a window for
private creditors to reduce exposures and shift debt into
official hands,” the staff said.  In December, European governments committed to further ease
the country’s debt burden to ensure that it falls to 124 percent
of gross domestic product in 2020 and “substantially below”
110 percent of GDP in 2022, from a peak of about 175 percent
this year.  Under the current goals, some debt relief will be provided
at the start of 2014 and of 2015 if Greece meets fiscal targets,
IMF mission chief Poul Thomsen said on a conference call
yesterday.  Greek Economy  According to a different IMF report on the Greek economy
also released yesterday, reaching the current debt-reduction
goals will also require additional relief from European nations
of 4 percent of GDP by 2020 and at least another 3 percent by
2022.  The IMF hopes “that will convince the private sector that
private investors should not be concerned about the debt because
there is a framework to take care of it,” Thomsen said. “If
not, well, we’ll have to reconsider it.”  The Washington-based IMF is co-funding four bailouts with
European governments in the  euro zone , where the Greek-born debt
crisis engulfed five countries.  If measures are not implemented as planned, the debt
reduction may be much smaller, according to the fund. In an
alternative scenario of lower growth, with privatization
proceeds at half the amount expected and fiscal plans delayed by
two years, debt would still amount to 147 percent of GDP in
2020, it said.  Budget Cuts  While IMF staff said there’s no need for additional budget
cuts this year and next, it warned the government against easing
existing taxes, including the one on property or on restaurant
sales.  “The impressive fiscal adjustment evident since the crisis
erupted is continuing, and the competitiveness gap and the
current account deficit are now narrowing fast,” according to
the staff report.  “However, the adjustment is still taking place through
recessionary channels, and although the contraction is clearly
slowing and sentiments are improving, there is no evidence yet
of the sustained expansion in investments necessary for a robust
recovery to get under way.”  The review was among several papers the IMF released
yesterday on its involvement in the Greek bailout, including an
evaluation of the fund’s role in  approving a loan  three years
ago as the crisis deepened.  IMF ‘Misgivings’  That report showed the IMF had “misgivings” about
Greece’s debt burden and that its macroeconomic projections were
too optimistic.  The evaluation concluded the program had “notable
successes” such as a strong fiscal consolidation and helping
preserve the nation’s membership in the euro area. The report
also cited failures, including incapacity to restore market
confidence and a banking system that lost 30 percent of its
deposits.  The oversight of the program with the  European Central Bank 
and the European Commission in the so-called troika lacked
clarity in the division of labor, with “occasionally marked
differences of view within” the group, according to the report.  In addition, “Greece’s recent experience demonstrates the
importance of spreading the burden of adjustment across
different strata of society in order to build support for a
program,” the staff wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  