-- Gundlach Mortgage Bet Best of Bond Funds: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-06-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/gundlach-mortgage-bet-best-of-bond-funds-riskless-return.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , explaining why he
named his firm DoubleLine Capital LP, compared running a fund to
driving on a winding mountain road where a motorist mustn’t
cross “the double line into the oncoming lane of risk.”  So far, he’s proven to be a skillful driver. His $41
billion  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund  returned a risk-adjusted 11 percent over the past three years, best among
comparable funds run by managers such as Bill Gross of Pacific
Investment Management Co. and Tad Rivelle of TCW Group Inc.
Gundlach had the second-highest absolute return while keeping
price swings below average in a group of 27 rivals, according to
the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.  Gundlach, 53, achieved his results buying mortgage-backed
securities, blending together packages of home loans with
different risk qualities. He has supplemented that work with
prescient calls, including a prediction in 2011, the year Gross
stumbled, that the U.S. economy was weakening and interest rates
would fall. This year, Gundlach is sounding a similar alarm,
warning of the riskiest assets such as subprime securities in
what he believes is a worsening economy. He put half his fund’s
assets in government-backed mortgages and debt as of April 30.  “The market is euphoric today,” Gundlach said in a
telephone interview. “I think people are wrong. The global
economy is slowing.”  ‘Fascinating Combination’  At the DoubleLine fund, which opened in April 2010,
Gundlach has built a portfolio that mixes government-backed
mortgages and non-agency mortgages, debt that isn’t guaranteed
by the U.S. government. The government mortgages behave like
U.S. Treasuries and rise in price when the economy weakens,
Gundlach said. The non-agency debt does best in a strong economy
when housing prices climb and defaults ebb.  “They make a fascinating combination, with different risks
and rewards,” said Gundlach.  Navigating the market by adjusting investments in both
types of debt has helped Gundlach steer DoubleLine Total Return
to the best risk-adjusted performance among total return bond
funds with at least $1 billion in assets. The fund returned 34
percent on an absolute basis in the three years ended June 3,
with volatility of 3.2, for a risk-adjusted gain of 11 percent.  The total return category includes funds that invest in
intermediate-term, investment grade bonds -- core holdings for
investors seeking to put money into fixed income -- and excludes
municipal bond funds and funds with less than $1 billion in
assets.  JPMorgan, Pimco  The $9.5 billion  TCW Total Return Bond Fund , run by Tad
Rivelle, ranked second, gaining 8.5 percent when adjusted for
volatility. Rivelle, the chief investment officer for fixed
income at Los Angeles-based TCW, took over the fund in December
2009 after TCW fired Gundlach following a dispute.  The $4.2 billion JPMorgan Mortgage-Backed Securities Fund
ranked third with a risk-adjusted gain of 8.3 percent, combining
below-average returns with the second-lowest volatility in the
group.  Gross’ $285 billion Pimco Total Return Fund ranked 19th in
the group with a volatility-adjusted gain of 4.2 percent, hurt
by subpar performance in 2011 when it trailed 70 percent of
rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gross also
suffered relative to Gundlach because of a smaller allocation to
non-agency mortgages. At the end of April, Gross’s Total Return
Fund had 5 percent in that asset class compared with 26 percent
for Gundlach’s fund.  Mortgage Rally  The risk-adjusted return isn’t annualized. It’s calculated
by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree of daily
price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of risk.
Higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Gundlach had the best risk-adjusted return in 2010 and
ranked second in 2011. He more than tripled the performance of
the  Barclays US Aggregate Bond Index , before adjusting for price
swings, in the last nine months of 2010, capitalizing on a rally
in both types of mortgages.  In 2011, he beat the index and peers in total return by
boosting government-backed securities from 41 percent of his
fund to 47 percent between April and October. Gundlach sought to
take advantage of falling interest rates in 2011 as the yield on
the 10-year U.S. Treasury note dropped from 3.3 percent to 2.1
percent over that six-month stretch, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Stinker’ Year  DoubleLine Total Return had a total return of 9.5 percent
in 2011, compared to 4.1 percent for Rivelle’s TCW Total Return
and 4.2 percent for Gross’s Pimco Total Return. Gross called his
performance in 2011 “a stinker” after missing the rally in
U.S. Treasuries.  Last year, the DoubleLine Total Return fund rose 9.2
percent, compared with 13 percent for Rivelle’s fund and 10
percent for Gross’s Total Return fund. Gundlach said he trailed
some rivals after taking far less risk.  “People who took huge risks in 2012 had huge returns,” he
said. “We don’t take huge risk so we just had great returns.”  U.S. mortgage-backed securities, about 48 percent of
Gundlach’s portfolio as of Dec. 31, rose 2.6 percent last year,
while bonds that benefit from an improving U.S. economy,
including high-yield bonds and non-agency mortgages, soared.
High-yield debt gained 16 percent and non-agency mortgages were
up 30 percent, according to TCW and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes.  TCW Struggle  Gundlach started DoubleLine in 2009 after he lost an
internal struggle for leadership at TCW, which fired him and
sued for theft of trade secrets. He countersued, arguing that
TCW owed him money. The suits were settled in 2011.  Gundlach built his reputation as a mortgage investor at
TCW, where he ran the Total Return Bond Fund for 16 years. He
said he was struck by the fact that mortgages consistently
exhibited lower volatility than other categories within fixed
income. He concluded that mortgages also offered an opportunity
to outperform if one studied consumer behavior and the pace at
which homeowners refinanced.  In 2006, just as U.S. home prices peaked, Gundlach
predicted that housing was entering a slump that would last
until at least 2010. He told Barron’s in a December interview in
2006 that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan was “out of
his mind” to suggest that home prices had stabilized.  ‘Silly Optimism’  “This is the kind of silly optimism that one would expect
from somebody who’d just passed his real-estate brokerage exam
and was hoping to drum up some business,” Gundlach said.  Gundlach mostly escaped the housing downturn, with his fund
at former employer TCW gaining 1.1 percent in 2008. Gross, who
was also early in forecasting the housing collapse, had a gain
of 4.8 percent in his fund that year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  In his last 10 years at TCW, ending in 2009, Gundlach had
the best risk-adjusted returns among major total return bond
funds, Bloomberg data show.  “He is the preeminent expert in mortgages,” Joshua
Emanuel, chief investment officer with Elements Financial Group
LLC in Irvine, California said in a telephone interview.
Emanuel, who oversees $400 million, is an investor in DoubleLine
Total Return.  Gundlach isn’t buying the prospect of a strengthening
economy, even as many economists and investors are bullish.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg expect interest rates to climb
and the global economy to pick up steam in the second half of
2013.  Laszlo Birinyi , president of Westport, Connecticut-based
Birinyi Associates Inc., among the first to advise buying U.S.
stocks before the bull market began in 2009, reiterated in May
that the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index may climb to 1,900. The S&P
closed yesterday at 1,631.38.  Government Backing  DoubleLine Total Return had 50 percent of its assets in
government-backed mortgages and other government debt as of
April 30, the second-highest monthly level in the fund’s
history, company data show. The yield on the 10-year U.S.
Treasury note reached 2.17 percent May 28, the highest in more
than a year. Gundlach said that while rates might go higher in
the near term, he expects the 10-year Treasury yield to drop to
1.7 percent by the end of the year.  “It’s a horrible time to be exiting bonds at this
moment,” Gundlach said yesterday during a webcast with
investors.  In a September interview posted on DoubleLine’s  website, 
Gundlach said he was reluctant to “bet the farm,” on assets
that depend on a strengthening economy.  “It would be nice if that optimistic thesis plays out, but
in today’s volatile environment, it’s better to prepare for the
worst and hope for the best with a prudently balanced
portfolio,” he wrote.  Not Impressed  Not everyone is impressed by Gundlach’s risk-management
techniques. Morningstar Inc., gives his fund a “neutral
rating,” the second step on a three-step scale, on concerns
that, at the start, DoubleLine Total Return relied too heavily
on exotic securities tied to changes in interest rates.  “You have to ask what kind of risks have been in the
portfolio,” analyst Sarah Bush said in a telephone interview.  Gundlach disagrees with the idea.  “If I take so much risk when is it going to show up in
volatility?” Gundlach asked. “The people at Morningstar don’t
understand what we do. They don’t manage mortgages.”  Today, Gundlach sees risk in economically-sensitive assets
such as stocks, junk bonds and subprime mortgages, which he
called “grossly overvalued.” Subprime mortgages rose 30
percent in 2012 and 12 percent in the first five months of this
year, TCW data show.  Low Duration  If Gundlach’s forecast is wrong, and rates continue to
rise, his fund has some built-in protection. Its duration, a
measure of sensitivity to changes in rates, was 2.6 years at the
end of April, compared to 5.5 years for the benchmark index.  In May, when rates on the 10-year Treasury note rose,
Gundlach’s fund lost 0.8 percent, better than 72 percent of
peers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco Total
Return fell 2.2 percent, and the TCW Total Return fund declined
0.9 percent.  Bond investors need to get used to more muted returns, said
Gundlach, without giving a specific forecast.  “People have to think in terms of absolute returns,” he
said. “I think plenty of asset classes will have negative
returns. Being up a little in bonds will feel good in
comparison. Markets are over-believed right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  