-- Ibovespa Declines on U.S. Stimulus Concern
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-06-05T16:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ibovespa-futures-fall-as-global-stocks-drop-on-stimulus-concern.html
The  Ibovespa  fell as steelmaker
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA led commodity producers
lower amid concern the U.S. Federal Reserve will reduce
stimulus, dimming the outlook for Brazil’s raw-material exports.  Iron-ore producer Vale SA fell for the first time in three
days, contributing the  most  to the benchmark’s decline. ALL
America Latina Logistica SA sank after Argentina expropriated a
cargo railway concession from the company. Homebuilder  Rossi
Residencial SA  led gains on the gauge.  The Ibovespa lost 1.4 percent to 53,242.97 at 12:49 p.m. in
Sao Paulo with 57 of 71 members declining. The gauge’s 90-day
volatility, a measure of price swings, rose to the highest since
January. The real was little changed at 2.1249 per dollar after
erasing a gain of as much as 1.9 percent. Global stocks fell,
with the  MSCI World Index  slipping 1.2 percent, as investors
weighed comments by Fed policy makers on when to scale back the
central bank’s bond-buying program.  “There’s an expectation that they’ll pull back stimulus if
the economy improves,”  Pedro Galdi , the chief strategist at Sao
Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora. “Commodity-linked stocks
are falling after recent gains. It’s been very volatile.”  Global stocks fell as Fed Bank of Dallas President Richard
Fisher called for a reduction in the central bank’s bond
purchases, which economists from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Deutsche Bank AG predict may be curbed from September.  Voting shares of Usiminas sank 4.5 percent to 8.95 reais,
snapping a two-day advance. Vale lost 2.5 percent to 29.54
reais. ALL sank 1.3 percent to 10.65 reais.  Smiles Rises  Brazil scrapped a 6 percent tax rate on foreign investors
who buy Brazilian bonds in the domestic market effective today,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said yesterday.  Rossi gained 0.8 percent to 3.60 reais.  Smiles SA , the frequent-flier unit of Gol Linhas Aereas
Inteligentes SA, rose 1.8 percent to 25.45 reais. Analysts at
Bradesco BBI and Deutsche Bank AG initiated coverage of the
stock with the equivalent of buy.  Brazil’s benchmark gauge has slumped 13 percent in 2013,
underperforming emerging markets including China, Russia and
India, amid concern quickening inflation will curb the nation’s
economic expansion.  The  Ibovespa  trades at 12.7 times analyst  earnings
estimates  for the next four quarters, compared with a multiple
of 10.6 for the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  of 21 developing
nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading  volume  for stocks in Sao Paulo was 7.1 billion
reais on June 4. That compares with a daily average of 7.67
billion reais this year through May 29, according to data
compiled by the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  