-- Michelle Obama Chooses Her Kids Over Photo Opportunities
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-06-05T19:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/michelle-obama-chooses-her-kids-over-photo-opportunities.html
Michelle Obama  had two choices for
the weekend, according to  news accounts . Option one: spend time
with her two daughters, who have just finished the school year.
Option two: jet out to Rancho Mirage,  California , for a faux-intimate summit at a borrowed mansion with President Xi Jinping
of  China  and his wife. Apparently, it wasn’t much of a choice:
She’s staying in  Washington  and leaving the diplomacy to her
husband.  This isn’t sitting well with some. The  New York Times , for
example, says that Michelle Obama’s absence will “deprive the
meeting of a layer of informality,” while  disappointing  “a
Chinese public eager for the sight of their first lady joining
America’s own groundbreaking presidential spouse on the global
stage.”  Dan Drezner at  Foreign Policy  calls the first lady’s
absence a “diplomatic own-goal that could have been avoided.”  In any case, the promised intimacy of what’s being called
the Sunnylands summit was never likely to be realized, even with
the comparatively informal (compared with his stiff predecessor)
new Chinese leader, Xi Jinping. As the Times reports, Xi and his
wife won’t even be staying at the Sunnylands estate with
President  Barack Obama  -- instead, Xi is booked at the Hyatt up
the road.  As for his  wife , the glamorous Peng Liyuan, she’s probably
at the Hyatt, too. Although she certainly would have time to
spend with her U.S. counterpart, it’s a stretch to imagine that
she would have license -- from her husband and from the
Communist Party -- to engage in the “ first-lady diplomacy ”
envisioned by some U.S. commentators. A photo-op, perhaps tea,
would be the best that anybody could hope for.  To be sure,  Peng  is the first Chinese first lady since
Madame Mao to have a public profile. But the persona she rolled
out in March is that of a clotheshorse with a distinguished
entertainment career in her past and little else. She has made
no public pronouncements of her own, has adopted no public
initiatives and hasn’t even submitted to the most basic
interviews. No doubt, that relatively reticent role isn’t
entirely of her own making, but it should be a reminder of the
limitations of her position to those who hoped for a U.S.-style
first lady. The very notion of a photo of a first lady remains
something of a novelty in China. It’s going to take time --
years, probably -- to go further.  Of course, the Chinese public would enjoy a photo of the
two first ladies together. But there’s absolutely no evidence to
suggest that the Chinese are clamoring for a meeting (neither
Peng nor Michelle Obama is trending on Chinese  search engines  or
microblogs). Nor are they likely to be disappointed to learn
that the U.S. first lady was busy with her daughters. In fact,
from the perspective of an  education-crazy  Chinese public,
Michelle Obama is behaving precisely as a parent should.  (Adam Minter is the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog and a contributor to the Ticker.  Follow  him on Twitter.)
 