-- Microsoft to Add Outlook to Windows RT After Complaints
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2013-06-05T07:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/microsoft-to-add-outlook-to-windows-rt-update-after-complaints.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , facing lackluster
sales of tablets running its software, said it will include the
popular Outlook e-mail program in a new version of Windows RT,
after a previous application met with customer complaints.  Outlook 2013 RT will be part of the free Windows 8.1 update
that will be publicly tested starting June 26 and officially
released later this year, the company said in a blog posting.
Users of Windows RT -- Microsoft’s software for devices running
chips with  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology -- said the previous e-mail program was more basic and lacked many Outlook features.  Microsoft, whose executives are speaking today at the
 Computex  computer show in Taipei, are trying to jump-start sales
of Windows RT-based tablets after just 200,000 units were
shipped in the first quarter, according to IDC. In an effort to
woo device makers that have avoided using the operating system,
the company is rolling out price cuts for partners who opt to
use RT in smaller tablets, people familiar with the matter said.  “We’re always listening to our customers,” the company
said in the blog. “One piece of feedback was that people want
the power of Outlook on all their Windows PCs and tablets.”  Windows Chief Financial Officer Tami Reller will unveil the
addition of Outlook as part of a speech at the conference, and
Antoine Leblond, a Windows vice president, will give the first
public demonstration of Windows 8.1. The company announced some
features of the updated software last week.  ARM Tablets  Windows RT is a version of Windows 8 for machines running
chips based on ARM designs. Of five such devices that have gone
on sale since the program was released in October, only
Microsoft’s own Surface tablet remains widely available, Reller
said last month. Computer makers such as  Acer Inc. (2353)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  have steered clear of the operating system.  Windows RT already comes with several Office programs,
including Word and Excel for spreadsheets. Instead of including
Outlook, which also lets users manage contacts and calendars,
the company built a new mail app for this version of Windows,
prompting complaints from customers.  At least one Microsoft partner also asked the company to
reconsider.  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  Chief Executive Officer Jen-Hsun Huang
has said he wants Microsoft to include a version of Outlook that
works on RT.  “Give me Outlook and I’ll use it every day,” Huang, whose
company makes chips used in Microsoft’s Surface RT and other
devices based on the software, said in May. The executive said
in March that he was disappointed with sales of RT-based
tablets.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 