-- Ignatiev Sees Russian Easing Curbed by Economy Crosscurrents
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-06-05T14:30:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ignatiev-sees-russian-easing-hindered-by-economy-s-crosscurrents.html
Russia’s central bank faces a “very
difficult choice” when it meets next week to review interest
rates as conflicting economic data undermine the case for
monetary stimulus, outgoing Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev  said.  “The decision won’t be simple because the situation in the
economy isn’t that simple,” Ignatiev, who steps down later this
month, said today at a banking conference in St. Petersburg.
“Some economic indicators count in favor of one decision,
others support another.”  Inflation has stymied the central bank’s ability to lower
borrowing costs even as economic growth in Russia, the world’s
largest energy exporter, has slowed to the weakest pace since a
contraction in 2009. While corporate investment is sagging and
car  sales  fell in April, signaling the need for monetary
stimulus, price growth above the central bank’s target range is
limiting room to act, according to Ignatiev.  “It’s possible we’ll keep all interest rate unchanged,”
Ignatiev said. “I don’t rule out another decision, under which
some interest rates will be reduced and others kept unchanged.”  Bank Rossii kept its main lending rates unchanged for an
eighth month on May 15 and reduced by a quarter point the costs
of some longer-term loans, including those backed by gold and
non-marketable assets. Ignatiev said the central bank won’t
consider raising borrowing costs at their next board meeting on
June 10, the last one he’ll head before  Elvira Nabiullina ,
President  Vladimir Putin ’s chief economic aide, takes over two
weeks later.  Potential Cut  While Ignatiev said he saw “some potential” to cut the
central bank’s long-term rates by a quarter point, he cautioned
against the risk of negative fallout from any abrupt move to
lower borrowing costs  A “sharp” reduction would mean that “inflation will be
faster,” Ignatiev said. “The positive impact on the real
sector will be slight and very brief.”  Investor bets are pricing in a smaller reduction in rates.
The three-month MosPrime rate, which large Moscow banks say they
charge one another, may drop 17 basis points, or 0.17 percentage
point, in the next three months, according to forward rate
agreements tracked by Bloomberg. That compares with a cut of 49
basis points, the most since October 2009, seen on May 22.  The central bank may keep the refinancing rate unchanged at
8.25 percent at the next meeting, according to 18 of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Seven predict a quarter point
cut.  Corporate Credit  Lending to companies and households increased 19 percent as
of May 1 compared with a year earlier, Ignatiev said. In real
terms, the advance was 11 percent, which is “much faster” than
the pace of the economy. That suggests the pace of lending isn’t
weighing on the economy, Ignatiev said.  Consumer price growth, which Ignatiev helped drive down to
a record low 3.6 percent pace last year in April and May, has
surged to more than double that level to above this year’s
target range of 5 percent to 6 percent, preventing policy makers
from using easier borrowing costs to shore up the stumbling
economy. Inflation accelerated for a second month this year in
May to 7.4 percent, the highest since August 2011, the Federal
Statistics Service in Moscow said yesterday. Economists
projected the rate would increase to 7.3 percent.  Poor Crop  The surge in prices is largely related to a quick rise in
some consumer costs because of a bad harvest last year, Ignatiev
said. While price growth will probably start slowing in the
second half, Ignatiev said he sees a risk that inflation
expectations may rise, further fanning prices.  The central bank has held the overnight and one-week
repurchase rates, the main tools used to provide banks with
cash, at 5.5 percent since September, when they were raised a
quarter point. The refinancing rate, used as a signal rate by
the bank, has been held at 8.25 percent over the same period.
Bank Rossii reduced rates on lesser-used instruments by a
quarter point at the last two meetings, which Ignatiev said in
April was a “first decision” toward easing.  Ignatiev, 65, has led the regulator since 2002, seeing the
country’s banking system through the 2008-2009 financial crisis
that toppled Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and allowing the
ruble to trade more freely.  Policy Continuity  Ignatiev said today he expected “continuity” in Russia’s
monetary policy under his successor. He has said he plans to
accept Nabiullina’s offer to remain at the bank as an adviser
once she becomes chairman. The handover to Nabiullina, 49, a
former economy minister, comes as the central bank prepares for
a merger with the main markets regulator and the introduction of
Basel III requirements for capital adequacy later this year.  Ignatiev , who left in 1991 after more than a decade of
teaching in what was then Leningrad to join the government as a
deputy economy and finance minister, also worked in 1992 and
1993 as a deputy head of the central bank. He was  Alexei Kudrin ’s first deputy at the Finance Ministry in 2002 when Putin
nominated him for the first of three terms as chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  