-- Miliband to Pledge Labour Discipline Over Welfare Budget
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-06-06T11:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/miliband-to-pledge-labour-discipline-over-welfare-budget.html
Ed Miliband, the leader of the U.K.
opposition Labour Party, promised to look for ways of reducing
welfare costs by encouraging house-building and pushing
employers to pay workers more.  In a speech in east London today, Miliband took up the
message of his Treasury spokesman, Ed Balls, who promised “iron
discipline” over spending in a speech three days ago. The
Labour leader said local councils should be given incentives to
negotiate lower rents for social-housing tenants that it has to
place in accommodation belonging to private landlords, with the
money saved being spent on constructing homes.  Miliband argued that much of the welfare bill, one of the
government’s biggest areas of spending, involves subsidizing low
pay. He pledged grants for companies that pay a “living wage”
and a crackdown on “zero-hours” contracts and on companies
that recruit staff only from abroad.  “We have always been against the denial of opportunity
through the denial of work,” Miliband said. “And against the
denial of responsibility by those who could work and aren’t
doing so. This country needs to be a nation where people who can
work, do work. Not a country where people who can work are on
benefits.”  Balls’s speech acknowledged that an incoming Labour
government after the next general election in 2015 wouldn’t be
able to reverse many of the cuts by the current coalition that
the party has attacked in opposition. Prime Minister David Cameron taunted Miliband in Parliament yesterday over reports
that Labour wouldn’t reverse a decision to cut child benefit for
higher earners, something Labour has criticized.  “It won’t be our biggest priority” to restore the
payment, Miliband said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  