-- Illinois Governor Gets 30 Days to Review Concealed Carry Law
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-05T01:15:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/illinois-governor-gets-30-days-to-review-concealed-carry-law-1-.html
Illinois Governor  Pat Quinn  gained a
30-day extension of a court-imposed deadline for signing into
law legislation legalizing the concealed carrying of handguns
before a state law banning the practice is permanently blocked.  The U.S. Appeals Court in  Chicago  last year ruled the old
law, which limited the carrying of loaded guns in one’s home or
regular place of business, was unconstitutional. The panel
delayed the effect of its Dec. 11, 2012, ruling for 180 days to
allow lawmakers time to craft a new statute.  Today it granted Attorney General Lisa Madigan’s request
for additional time to let Quinn, a Democrat, study a measure
passed by lawmakers on May 31. Gun-owner advocacy groups that
sued to overturn the earlier measure opposed the extension.  “This court’s mandate is stayed until July 9, 2013,” the
three-judge panel said in today’s ruling. “No further
extensions to stay the court’s mandate will be granted.”  In declaring the prior measure void, the appellate court
reversed two trial court decisions to uphold the law -- the only
one of its kind in the U.S. -- in challenges filed by the
 Illinois  State Rifle Association and the Bellevue, Washington-based Second Amendment Foundation.  Each group relied on the U.S. Constitution’s Second
Amendment, which says, “A well regulated militia being
necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the
people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.”  18th Century  “One doesn’t have to be a historian to realize that a
right to keep and bear arms for personal self-defense in the
18th century could not rationally have been limited to the
home,” U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner wrote for the two-judge majority last year.  The  new legislation  authorizes the state police to issue a
license to carry a concealed firearm to people over age 21 who
have a valid firearm owner’s identification card, have completed
a requisite training program, aren’t barred by federal law from
possessing a gun and meet other criteria.  “The requested 30-day extension of time is intended merely
to assure that the governor has a reasonable time to fulfill his
state constitutional duties,” Madigan said in her filing with
the court yesterday. The Illinois constitution affords a
governor 60 days to review legislation and sign it, she said.  “Granting this request would constitute an entirely
unwarranted judicial infringement of the Second Amendment,” the
Illinois State Rifle Association said in its papers opposing
Madigan’s bid for more time.  “This court has spoken,” the Second Amendment foundation
said in its filing. “The People of Illinois, through their
representatives, have spoken. There must be some finality to
this process.”  The cases are Moore v. Madigan, 12-1269, and Shepard v.
Madigan, 12-1788,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  