-- India Boosts Gold Import Tax to Curb Record Deficit, Demand
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h ,   S w a n s y   A f o n s o   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-06-06T11:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/india-raises-gold-import-duty-as-record-deficit-pressures-rupee.html
India , the world’s largest gold
buyer, increased a tax on bullion imports to curb a record
current-account deficit at a time when the World Gold Council
predicts an all-time high quarterly demand for the metal.  The duty will rise to 8 percent from 6 percent, effective
immediately, Revenue Secretary Sumit Bose said in a telephone
interview yesterday in  New Delhi . Before the move, India had
tripled the tax since January last year. Gold imports may fall
as much as 20 percent this year, the All India Gems & Jewellery
Trade Federation said. The levy on platinum imports was also
increased to 8 percent from 6 percent.  Gold’s slump to a two-year low in April boosted demand for
jewelry from  Asia . Yesterday’s step is the latest by India to
curb the appetite for the metal among the nation’s 1.2 billion
population, for uses ranging from wedding jewelry to a hedge
against consumer-price inflation. Such demand contributed to a
$32.6 billion  current-account gap  in the last quarter of 2012,
equivalent to a record 6.7 percent of gross domestic product.  “Physical demand at these sort of  price levels  is still
very strong and the Indian government wants to curb imports,”
 Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe Generale SA in  London , said by
phone. “It will have an impact on demand because already we’re
seeing a whole raft of restrictions announced.”  Prices Drop  Gold for immediate delivery was little changed at $1,404.14
an ounce at 4:42 p.m. in Mumbai, down 16 percent in dollar terms
this year compared with a 10 percent drop in rupees. The dollar
price reached a two-year low of $1,321.95 on April 16 after
rallying for the past 12 years in the longest bull run in at
least nine decades. Futures in Mumbai jumped 2.2 percent
yesterday, the most in six weeks, and were little changed today
at 27,692 rupees per 10 grams ($1,515.262 an ounce).  India’s gold imports will be 300 to 400 metric tons in the
second quarter, almost half of total shipments for all of last
year, the London-based World Gold Council said in a May 29
report. Inward shipments may decline by as much as 20 percent in
2013 after the increased levy, Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director at
the All India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, said by
telephone from Kolkata.  The rupee has weakened about 4.6 percent against the dollar
in the past month, the most in a basket of 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The drop threatens to stoke price
pressures that may curb the  Reserve Bank  of India’s scope to
extend monetary easing and counter the slowest economic growth
in a decade.  Chidambaram’s Appeal  Gold imports aren’t sustainable and India must curtail
them, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said in a speech
in Mumbai today. He urged banks to refrain from encouraging
purchases of the metal and said the country’s overall economic
situation isn’t very promising, with investment still weak.  The government this week sold inflation-linked bonds for
the first time in 15 years, to provide investors with an
alternative to gold as a buffer against inflation.  Wholesale prices rose 4.9 percent in April from a year
earlier, a 41-month low, while the  consumer-inflation  index
climbed 9.4 percent.  The nation had already widened curbs on imports on June 4.
Restrictions on overseas purchases by banks on a consignment
basis will be expanded to include state-run trading companies
and others authorized to directly import gold, the RBI said.  A levy on gold ore, concentrate and so-called dore bars for
refining was increased to 6 percent from 4 percent, and an
excise tax on refined gold will climb to 7 percent from 5
percent, the  Finance Ministry  said in a statement.  “The government is taking a hard line trying to curb the
country’s appetite for gold,” UBS AG wrote yesterday in a
report, before the announcement. “This poses a risk for Indian
gold demand up ahead. While this is unlikely to put an end to
traditional gold buying in India, a more expensive gold price in
rupee terms should have a negative impact on overall volumes. An
unintended consequence of increasing difficulties in importing
gold would be a potential increase in unofficial flows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  