-- India’s Rupee Extends Best Rally in Five Weeks on RBI Gold Curbs
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-06-05T05:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/india-s-rupee-extends-best-rally-in-five-weeks-on-rbi-gold-curbs.html
India ’s rupee extended the biggest
advance in five weeks after the central bank widened curbs on
gold imports, which it estimates account for 80 percent of the
nation’s current-account deficit.  Restrictions on overseas purchases by banks will be
expanded to include state-run trading companies and others
authorized to directly import gold, the  Reserve Bank of India 
said yesterday. The monetary authority also tightened financing
rules for inbound shipments. The rupee will stay supported as
the U.S. labor market is unlikely to improve sufficiently for
the  Federal Reserve  to stop bond purchases anytime soon,
according to BNP Paribas SA.  “The curbs on gold will cap the dollar-rupee  exchange-rate ,” Thio Chin Loo, a senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas
in  Singapore , said in an interview. “The market is focusing on
the Fed’s quantitative easing, and the impact of that on the
dollar will be a more dominant factor in determining exchange
rates.”  The rupee appreciated 0.1 percent to 56.3590 per dollar as
of 10:09 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It advanced 0.6 percent yesterday, the biggest gain
since April 30. The currency is unlikely to weaken past 57 a
dollar, BNP Paribas predicts.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the exchange rate used to price options, fell 11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, to 8.85 percent.  Widening Deficit  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against six
major counterparts, fell today after rising yesterday. Federal
 Reserve Bank  of Dallas President Richard Fisher yesterday called
for a reduction in the Fed’s $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, called quantitative easing, which have spurred the
flow of funds to  emerging markets .  India was the biggest consumer of bullion last year,
according to the World Gold Council. The current-account deficit
probably widened to a record of around 5 percent of gross
domestic product in the year ended March 31, policy makers
estimate.  The central bank on May 13 limited gold imports by banks on
a consignment basis to only those required to meet the genuine
needs of exporters.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 57.32 per
dollar today, compared with 57.31 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 57.26 versus 57.32. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  