-- India Acts Against Founders for Missing Holdings Rule Deadline
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2013-06-05T06:16:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/india-acts-against-founders-for-missing-holdings-rule-deadline.html
Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone
Ltd. (ADSEZ)  and  Essar Ports Ltd. (ESRS)  are among 105 Indian companies whose
founders’  voting rights  have been curtailed for not meeting a
minimum public shareholding rule.  Owners voting rights of non-compliant companies have been
capped at 75 percent and they won’t receive dividend on shares
exceeding the limit, the regulator said in a  statement  late
yesterday. Founders were required to reduce their holdings to 75
percent to ensure a public float of least 25 percent by June 3.  The rush to meet the ownership requirement announced in
June 2010 led to share sales of at least $1 billion last month
from firms including DLF Ltd., the largest developer, and  JSW
Energy Ltd. (JSW) , owned by the billionaire Jindal family, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Exchanges globally introduce free-float rules to ensure adequate liquidity for investors in a
publicly traded stock. Index compilers such as MSCI Inc. take
into account the percentage of shares available to investors
when determining a stock’s representation in stock gauges.  Owners and directors of the non-compliant firms have been
barred from holding new position as a director in any publicly
traded company until they comply.  Plethico Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (PLEP) ,
 BGR Energy Systems Ltd. (BGRL)  and  Bombay Rayon Fashions Ltd. (BRFL)  are among
the 105 companies whose founders and directors face the
prohibitory order, according to the regulator.  A spokesman for Adani Ports declined to comment, while a
spokesman for Essar Ports, and Hitesh Thakar, a spokesman for
Plethico Pharmaceuticals, didn’t immediately respond to calls,
text message and e-mails seeking comments.  Adani Ports offered to sell 66.6 million shares at 148
rupees to 158 rupees apiece through an institutional placement
on June 4, according to an exchange filing on June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  