-- India’s Bond Yield at One-Week Low on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2013-06-05T04:56:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/india-s-bond-yield-at-one-week-low-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
India ’s bond yield held at the lowest
level in a week as easing inflation and slowing economic growth
spurred speculation the central bank will add to three interest-rate cuts this year.  Gross domestic  product  climbed a decade-low 5 percent in
the 12 months ended March, below the 10-year average of about 8
percent, official data showed last week.  Reserve Bank  of India
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said May 14 that  inflation  at a 41-month low of 4.89 percent in April would be taken into
consideration at the next monetary policy review.  “Sovereign bond yields have eased sharply in anticipation
of easier monetary policy and lower inflation,” said  Gaurav
Kapur , a senior economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
Mumbai. “While the RBI may not reduce rates on the 17th of June
in its mid-quarter review of monetary policy, it is likely to
guide that the room for policy rate cuts can increase.”  The yield on the 8.15 percent government securities due
June 2022 was little changed at 7.39 percent as of 9:50 a.m. in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. The rate
was at the lowest level since May 28 and has declined six basis
points this week.  Subbarao reduced the  repurchase  rate in January, March and
May by a combined 75 basis points to 7.25 percent.  The RBI will buy as much as 70 billion rupees ($1.2
billion) of government notes on June 7, it said in a statement
on June 3. The cash reserve  ratio , or the proportion of reserves
that banks should set aside, was last cut by 25 basis points to
4 percent in February.  RBI Purchases  “Indications from the RBI, that it prefers open-market
purchases of bonds to inject liquidity into the banking system,
rather than a CRR cut has also been positive for sovereign
bonds,” said Kapur of RBS.  In the fiscal year that ended March 31, the central bank
added 1.6 trillion rupees to the financial system through open-market debt purchases, RBI data show.  The one-year interest-rate swap, a derivatives contract
used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, rose one
basis point to 7.16 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  