-- InVivo CEO Gollier to Resign at Largest French Farm Cooperative
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-06-05T12:26:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/invivo-ceo-gollier-to-resign-at-largest-french-farm-cooperative.html
Patrice Gollier, chief executive
officer of Union InVivo,  France ’s largest agricultural
cooperative, will resign from his job effective July 1 due to
family health concerns.  Gollier, 62, is quitting because his wife has a “serious
health problem,” the Paris-based company said in an e-mailed
statement today. Deputy CEO Jerome Duchalais will replace him
temporarily and InVivo will name a new CEO “who knows our
universe well” on June 27, the company said.  “The work already started to ensure his succession has
been accelerated,” said InVivo, the country’s biggest shipper
of wheat.  The CEO’s departure comes after InVivo placed Didier Nedelec, head of grains, and Pierre Duclos, head of
international trading, on leave in February following a drop in
earnings, with Gollier temporarily taking over the grains unit.  Operating profit fell 70 percent to 14.3 million euros ($19
million) in the 2011-12 fiscal year, while sales dropped 6.7
percent to 5.67 billion euros. Profit and sales at InVivo Grains
suffered from “extreme market volatility,” with revenue at the
unit falling 21 percent to 2.2 billion euros, the company said
in December.  The new CEO will start this autumn, according to InVivo.
Gollier will remain “in close contact” as long as necessary
for a smooth transition, the company said.  Gollier became chief executive in 2007 following three
years as deputy CEO, having risen through the corporate ranks
after joining a predecessor company to InVivo in 1981.  The company said Gollier “strongly contributed” to
fundamental changes with InVivo’s strategy and creating an
efficient organization.  “We would already like to thank Patrice Gollier for the
tremendous work he has done with his teams during his six years
of general management, and more broadly, his 32 years within the
group,” InVivo wrote.  The Frenchman is chairman of the supervisory board of
Hamburg-based grain trader Alfred C. Toepfer International GmbH,
which is 20 percent owned by InVivo with the remainder held by
 Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  