-- Lions Rout Force in Australia Opener; Healy Faces Tour Exit
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-06-06T07:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/lions-beat-force-69-17-in-opening-match-of-australia-rugby-tour.html
The British and Irish Lions routed an
understrength Western Force 69-17 in the first of five games in
 Australia  before facing the Wallabies in a Test series. Prop
Cian Healy may leave the tour after he was cited for allegedly
biting an opponent and also got injured.  The Lions, who beat the Barbarians 59-8 in  Hong Kong  last
weekend, outscored the Force by nine tries to two at Patersons
Stadium in Perth, with captain  Brian O’Driscoll  touching down in
each half. Full-back Leigh Halfpenny had a perfect goal-kicking
game last night with nine conversions and two penalties.  “We’re relatively pleased with the performance,”
O’Driscoll, who’s on his fourth Lions tour, said in a televised
interview. “The boys set a good standard last Saturday and we
need to keep building it forward because we know what test lies
ahead of us with the Wallabies in a few weeks’ time. There were
great aspects to the game but plenty to work on.”  The lineup that began the match didn’t include any starters
from Hong Kong as Lions head coach Warren Gatland tries to give
all 37 players in the squad game time in the leadup to the best-of-three contest against Australia starting June 22 in Brisbane.  The Lions, a combined team from the U.K. and Ireland, will
play another four matches before taking on the third-ranked
Wallabies, who rallied for a 2-1 series victory when the teams
last met in 2001. The tourists, who haven’t won a Test series
since beating  South Africa  in 1997, next face the  Queensland
Reds  in two days.  Healy’s Hearing  Irish prop Healy was cited under a law stating: “contrary
to good sportsmanship, a player may not bite an opponent” after
Force scrum-half Brett Sheehan accused him of biting his arm in
the 17th minute. A scheduled disciplinary hearing in Brisbane
today was delayed until tomorrow, the Australian Associated
Press reported. He faces a ban if found guilty.  With Healy also damaging ankle ligaments in the match, the
Lions called up  England ’s Alex Corbisiero as cover.  “Cian has had an X-ray and, while his left ankle is not
broken, he will be assessed further when we get to Brisbane,”
Gatland said in a  statement . “In the meantime we need to get
Alex over here as soon as possible.”  The Force, the lowest-ranked of the five Australian teams
in this year’s Super Rugby competition, included seven rookies
in their squad and just two starters from its previous match.
Clive Woodward, who coached the Lions in  New Zealand  in 2005,
said having to play weakened teams devalues the tour.  Weakened Force  “It is unacceptable and disgraceful to cobble together a
weakened, second-string club team to play against some of the
best players in the world on one of the great rugby tours,”
Woodward wrote in a column in the  Daily Mail . “The Lions come
to Australia once every 12 years but if this is how they are
going to be treated in this country then they should seriously
consider whether to return.”  The Lions had almost 60 percent of the possession and made
15 clean breaks to one for the Force, who missed 27 tackles.  The tourists took a 10-0 lead through a Halfpenny penalty
and converted try by fly-half  Jonathan Sexton . Sheehan kicked
the home team’s only points of the first half before O’Driscoll
linked up with winger  George North  on the touchline to dive over
in the corner and make it 15-3.  It was the Irishman’s seventh try for the Lions and came 12
years after scoring on his debut against  Western Australia .  Healy was carried off on a motorized stretcher in the 35th
minute after twisting his left leg in a tackle. Halfpenny made
it 20-3 with another penalty and openside flanker  Tom Croft  went
over out wide after the siren for the Lions’ third converted try
and a 27-3 halftime lead.  Second Half  No. 8 Jamie Heaslip added the Lions’ fourth try two minutes
after the break and Halfpenny again converted. Heaslip’s
opposite number  Richard Brown  then went over from close range
for the Force and Sheehan added the extras.  Mako Vunipola, on as a replacement for the injured Healy,
powered over from five meters and winger  Tommy Bowe  touched down
in the corner. Halfpenny maintained his 100 percent record with
the boot by converting both from out wide.  Replacement flanker Lachlan McCaffrey got the Force’s
second converted try of the game before O’Driscoll and Owen Farrell, on in place of Sexton, ran in tries following midfield
breaks. Replacement lock Geoff Parling went over for the Lions’
final try that Halfpenny converted to complete a perfect haul of
24 points.  “We were clinical,” Halfpenny said in a televised
interview. “Tonight was about taking us to the next level and
getting the momentum going on tour.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  