-- Lira Weakens as Turkish Yields Climb on Sixth Day of Protests
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-06-05T15:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/lira-weakens-as-turkish-yields-climb-after-fifth-day-of-protests.html
The lira weakened and bond yields
rose as anti-government demonstrations in Turkey continued for a
sixth day. Shares slid, with  Akbank TAS  among the decliners as
Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut the lender to underperform.  Markets swung to negative after a record rally in two-year
 bonds  yesterday followed the biggest plunge a day earlier.
Protesters accusing Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  of
autocratic governance and citing grievances, including alleged
police brutality and curbs on alcohol sales, clashed overnight
with police, who responded with tear gas and water cannons in
about 10 cities.  While statements from Erdogan’s administration helped ease
market concerns yesterday, “protests against the government
haven’t come to an end” and so “investors remain cautious,”
 Pinar Uslu , a private banking strategist at ING Bank in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments today.  The lira weakened 0.4 percent against the dollar to 1.8846
at 5:43 p.m. in Istanbul.  Yields  on two-year benchmark bonds
rose 29 basis points to 6.32 percent, a day after they fell 75
basis points, the most in percentage terms since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 2005.  Turkey’s central bank relaxed monetary tightening today,
providing 1 billion liras ($532 million) in its daily one-week
repo auctions, the same amount it offered a week ago. The bank
had tightened lending to banks in the last three days.  The Borsa Istanbul  National 100  Index dropped 1.4 percent
to 79,636.79. Akbank tumbled 1.6 percent after BofA cut the
lender part-owned by Citigroup Inc. to underperform from neutral
in a report today. Turkiye Is Bankasi slid 2.8 percent as BofA
cut the lender known as Isbank to neutral from buy.  Selling Pressure  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.5 percent today on
investor speculation an improving U.S. economy will encourage
the Federal Reserve to taper financial stimulus measures.  “The events in Turkey overlapped with the heightened
selling pressure abroad and we can see very sharp movements in
an environment of low liquidity,”  Erkin Isik , a fixed-income
strategist at  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS  in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Two of Turkey’s main labor groups, Kesk and Disk, joined
protests against the government in center of Turkey’s two
biggest cities as arrest warrants were issued for dozens of
people charged with spreading false information on social media
about the past week’s demonstrations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  