-- Iranian Presidential Candidates Seek More Social, Press Freedom
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-06-05T18:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/iranian-presidential-candidates-seek-more-social-press-freedom.html
Two Iranian presidential candidates
used the second debate before next week’s election to call for
greater press freedom and social liberties.  All eight candidates took part in the program organized and
aired by  Iran ’s state television, with the aim of introducing
their views on society and culture. While some underlined the
importance of Iran’s “Islamic culture” being supported or
celebrated, others used the time allotted to criticize what they
described as harmful restrictions on the population.  “Let people have more freedom, let’s not intervene so much
in their lives,” said Hassan Rohani, a cleric who was Iran’s
chief nuclear negotiator in the early 2000s. “Cultural issues
must be solved through culture itself. Police should be the last
resort.”  With the election looming on June 14, Rohani criticized the
seizing of satellite dishes by the police, saying it was an
“attack against people’s privacy.” The government had brought
about a brain-drain by discouraging those studying abroad from
returning home, creating in effect “a one-way road,” he said.  Iranian authorities routinely crack down on holders of
satellite dishes in an attempt to prevent the reception of
foreign television channels, which they say aim to undermine the
Islamic Republic by propagating moral depravity in families and
encouraging political unrest.  Mohammad Reza Aref, a former vice-president and the other
candidate backing social reforms, said the solution to perceived
“cultural aggression isn’t censorship but improving the quality
of local productions” to attract young Iranians’ interest.
“The government must be at the service of culture, not dictate
it to the people,” Aref said.  Student Restrictions  Aref also condemned restrictions on students, saying the
climate in universities was “security-driven to an
unprecedented level” and that they were not allowed political
activities. “This view should be changed,” he said.  Iran’s government has been less tolerant of political
criticism or activities since the 2009 street protests triggered
by the announced re-election of President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
Thousands were arrested including journalists and students. Two
of the candidates who ran against Ahmadinejad and alleged vote
rigging are under house arrest. Top officials said the unrest
had been a result of “sedition” engineered by western nations.  “We have created a policed climate,” said Rohani, a
cleric, while also urging more freedom and autonomy to be given
to media and non-governmental organisations.  Other candidates seen as loyalists to  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , the ultimate power in Iran, spoke from a different
perspective.  Nuclear Resistance  Saeed Jalili, Iran’s nuclear negotiator, lauded the
culture of “resistance” in the country, which he said had
allowed Iranians to fight back in an eight-year long Iraq-led
war against his country, and safeguard its right to nuclear
technology in the face of western nations. Iran must make full
use of its “cultural potential” and convey abroad the
“message of Iran’s Islamic revolution,” he said.  Jalili and Rohani are prominent candidates in the race.
Others include Tehran Mayor Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf and Ali Akbar Velayati, a long-time foreign policy adviser to Khamenei.
Ahmadinejad is not eligible to stand for a third consecutive
term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  