-- Iran Nuclear Issue May Be Deferred at IAEA Meeting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-06-05T13:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/iran-nuclear-issue-may-be-deferred-at-iaea-meeting.html
Steps to increase international
pressure on  Iran  at the United Nations atomic agency may have to
wait until later this year, a senior U.S. envoy said.  The International Atomic Energy Agency’s 35-member board of
governors is deliberating on the decade-long investigation into
Iran’s disputed atomic work at its quarterly meeting today in
Vienna. World powers accuse the Persian Gulf nation of pursuing
the ability to make nuclear weapons, while Iran maintains it is
peacefully pursuing treaty rights to the technology.  “I don’t think the U.S. has determined what the best next
step would be,” the U.S. envoy to the IAEA, Joseph Macmanus,
said today at a press briefing in the Austrian capital. “I
think we have dealt with this issue and will continue to in an
incremental fashion. We’ll be back here in September.”  Iran, subject to dozens of international sanctions, could
have its case reported again to the Security Council, which has
already fielded four IAEA resolutions on the nation since 2006.
While UN monitors report Iran hasn’t diverted any of its
declared nuclear material, they haven’t been able to win access
to additional people and sites suspected of illicit atomic
activities.  The so-called P5+1 group -- comprised of  China ,  France ,
 Germany ,  Russia , the U.K. and the U.S. -- issued a joint
statement urging Iran to step up cooperation with the agency.  “While we seek tangible results in our diplomatic process
with Iran, that process cannot be a substitute for Iran meeting
its obligations to the IAEA,” the group said in a statement
issued in Vienna. The last round of talks between the P5+1 and
Iran ended April 6 in Almaty, Kazakhstan, without an agreement.  September will mark the one-year anniversary of the IAEA
board’s request for Iran to conclude an agreement with
investigators to broaden access to sites. November will mark the
second anniversary of the IAEA report detailing the possible
military dimensions of Iran’s nuclear work.  “These are moments that people will feel and react to,”
Macmanus said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  