-- Itau’s Kinea Plans Sales as Brazil’s IPO Market Rebounds
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2013-06-05T13:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/itau-s-kinea-plans-sales-as-brazil-s-ipo-market-rebounds.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA’s investment
boutique, Kinea Investimentos Ltda, is planning to take public
two of its holdings as the market for initial public offerings
in Brazil rebounds.  Kinea will sell shares in Grupo Multi Holding, Brazil’s
largest English school chain, and Unidas SA, the nation’s
second-biggest car-rental company, as soon as this year,
according to  Cristiano Gioia Lauretti , head of private equity
and a partner at Sao Paulo-based Kinea.  “Those companies are our early investments and we think
it’s time to start divesting,” Lauretti said in an interview.
Kinea’s buyout fund only acquires minority stakes, he said.  Brazil’s IPO market is bouncing back this year after just
three companies went public in 2012, raising $1.8 billion, the
lowest value since 2004. Companies have completed six IPOs
totaling $7.3 billion since January, including the world’s
biggest this year, BB Seguridade Participacoes SA’s $5.67
billion deal in April. The rebound came even as Brazilian stocks
sank, with the benchmark Ibovespa index down 12 percent this
year, the worst performance among major emerging markets.  Kinea’s buyout fund acquired 21 percent of Grupo Multi in
December 2010 for 200 million reais ($94 million). A week later,
Grupo Multi purchased a chain of schools under the Yazigi brand
for 100 million reais, and now owns more than 3,000 schools.  Unidas Stake  Kinea became a minority investor in Unidas along with funds
managed by Gavea Investimentos Ltda and Vinci Capital Partners
in June 2011, when SAG Gest-Solucoes Automovel Globais SGPS SA,
a distributor of Volkswagen AG cars, raised 300 million reais in
capital. Amadora, Portugal-based SAG remained the majority
shareholder as Kinea bought a 100 million-real stake.  Jose Guilherme Souza , a partner at Vinci Partners in Sao
Paulo, said his firm is also considering taking public one of
the companies in which it owns a stake. He declined to identify
which one.  “This is something we are considering so we are working to
have something solid for the right moment,” Souza said in an
interview. “The damage of presenting something that isn’t ready
is too great. If we go to the market, it’s because the company
is ready.”  Kinea has already invested 540 million reais of its 1.4
billion-real private-equity fund, Lauretti said. It plans during
the next two to three years to buy stakes in five to seven
companies linked to the consumer sector, including retail,
health, food, cosmetics, and education, which usually benefit
from rising income levels in Brazil, he said. Sao Paulo-based
Itau invested 250 million reais in the Kinea fund.  Share Performance  “Even with weak economic growth, the consumer sector will
grow more than GDP, and their shares tend to perform better,”
Lauretti said. Brazil’s gross domestic product slowed last year
to  0.9 percent , capping the slowest two years of expansion in a
decade.  Linx SA, the Sao Paulo-based communications technology
provider, rallied more than 18 percent on its first day of
trading in February after holding the country’s first IPO of the
year. Linx’s shares have gained 38 percent since the IPO, the
best performer among this year’s deals.  “Brazil’s equity market isn’t performing well this year,
but you have small-cap companies such as Linx that did a very
successful IPO with a huge share increase after that,” Lauretti
said.  Picking Underwriters  Unidas’s IPO will raise money for both shareholders and the
Sao Paulo-based company, while Grupo Multi’s deal would probably
be only for shareholders, Lauretti said. The firms may select
underwriters in about two months, and the IPOs will probably
take place in the second half of the year, he said.  “One must be very careful when buying into a small-cap IPO
because few numbers are provided before the IPO,”  Eduardo Carlier , head of core equities at Schroder Investment
Management’s Brazilian unit, said yesterday at a panel
discussion in Sao Paulo on small-cap companies sponsored by
Bloomberg. An accurate valuation usually isn’t possible until
about two years after an IPO, Carlier said.  “Reduced trading volume increases the risk because share-price volatility is higher and it may be difficult to find a
buyer when the investor wants to sell,” he said, adding that
some small-cap IPOs have fared poorly as a result.  Biosev SA, the Brazilian sugar mill controlled by Louis
Dreyfus Holding BV, fell 8.3 percent since its 700 million-real
IPO in April, the worst performer among this year’s deals.  “Even with lower economic growth in Brazil you can find
really good opportunities among mid-size companies if you look
very close, because they can be more agile in adapting to new
environments and offer a great investment diversification
alternative,”  Luiz Caetano , an analyst at Planner Corretora de
Valores, said at the Bloomberg panel discussion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net ;
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  