-- Japanese Individuals’ Trillions to Rescue Rally, Sawakami Says
-- B y   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o   a n d   T o m   R e d m o n d
-- 2013-06-05T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/japanese-individuals-trillions-to-rescue-rally-sawakami-says.html
Japanese stocks will rally after a
correction as more retail investors transfer some of almost $9
trillion of bank savings into equities, according to the
nation’s largest independent mutual fund.  “There’s no doubt that money previously kept in deposit
accounts is starting to move,” said  Atsuto Sawakami , chairman
of the 297 billion yen ($3 billion) Sawakami Fund. “The shift
from savings to stock-market investment will steadily proceed
and become more widespread.”  The Topix index has lost about 15 percent from an almost
five-year high on May 22, after surging 77 percent in five
months on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to revive the
world’s third-largest economy. In the week to May 24,
individuals accounted for  32 percent  of all trading in Japanese
shares, double the share at the start of November, according to
Tokyo Stock Exchange Data.  A record 55 percent of individuals’ financial assets, or
 854 trillion yen  of a total 1.5 quadrillion yen, was held in
deposit accounts at the end of December, according to Bank of
Japan statistics. Only 6.8 percent, or 106 trillion yen, was in
stocks. In the U.S.,  15 percent  of household assets are in
savings accounts with 33 percent in stocks. In Europe the figure
is 36 percent in deposits and 14 percent in shares.  Abe will publish his government’s economic growth strategy
next week, part of his revival plan following fiscal and
monetary stimulus. While the first two stages were initially
greeted with enthusiasm by investors, stocks have entered a
correction from the biggest rally in a quarter century and the
yen has risen against the dollar after touching a 4 1/2-year
low.  ‘Bamboo Joints’  “The recent stabilization of stock prices is a very good
thing for the future,” Sawakami said in an interview on May 29.
“By repeating this process over and over, the rising market
will find its legs. It’s like how bamboo joints get stronger by
adding layer upon layer. We’re now at the stage of creating the
joints.”  His Sawakami Fund has outperformed the Topix index in 10 of
the past 13 years, according to Bloomberg data.  While the participation of retail investors has increased,
they have been net sellers in all but  seven weeks  of the rally,
according to Japan Exchange Group Inc. data.  Yet this doesn’t mean individuals are leaving the market,
Sawakami said. Retail investors have been trading “against the
trend,” buying when the market falls and selling to take
profits when it rises, he said.  Net Buyers?  In the week to May 24, when the Topix had its biggest drop
since August 2011, individuals bought a net 408 billion yen
worth of shares, the most since July 2009, the data show. Net
sales jumped to a record in the week to April 12, when the Topix
surged by the most since September 2008.  “If the huge amount of money sitting in deposit accounts
starts to flow into the stock market in earnest, individuals
will probably shift to being net buyers even when the market’s
rising, but this will probably take another two or three
years,” Sawakami said.  Japanese shares have failed to maintain strong rallies in
the past. Every  gain  of more than 40 percent since stocks peaked
in 1989 has ended with the Topix index finding a new low. The
gauge closed at its lowest since 1983 a year ago this week.  “Most individuals have never experienced rising stock
markets, so they just don’t know the real pleasure of long-term
investment,” Sawakami said. “If the recovery in Japan’s stock
markets continues, this will gradually change.”  Previous Obstacles  Hurdles that have hobbled previous rallies have largely
disappeared, Sawakami said. The reduction of cross-shareholdings, stakes held by banks in their customers to cement
relationships, is mostly complete, Sawakami said. Selling to
meet bank-capital and or solvency requirements will also be
moderate, he said.  City banks and regional banks held 3.9 percent of the total
amount of stocks by value in the year ended March 31, 2012,
while life and non-life insurers owned 6.1 percent, both record
lows, according to a survey by the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Companies’ stock holdings have also fallen from 30.1 percent in
fiscal 1990 to 21.6 percent in fiscal 2011.  “Conditions are now in place for the market to rise,”
Sawakami said. “Up to now we’ve seen across-the-board gains as
a reaction to companies being oversold. Going forward, the
weeding out process will begin.”  Stock Performances  About 96 percent of the 1,709 companies on the Topix
advanced  this year  through May 22, with 97 firms, including
Tokyo Electric Power Co., Mazda Motor Corp. and Sony Corp. more
than doubling.  The Topix rose to a 4 1/2 year intraday high of 1,289.77 on
May 23 before plunging. Yields on Japanese government bonds
touched 1 percent that day, the highest in a year and triple the
record low reached in April after the Bank of Japan announced
unprecedented bond buying.  As of April 30, the  Sawakami Fund  didn’t hold consumer
finance and real estate stocks, companies most sensitive to
interest rates. Banks, which are also sensitive, accounted for
no more than 0.5 percent of its portfolio, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sawakami Asset Management Inc. manages the Sawakami Fund,
an open-ended equity fund with 297 billion yen under management.
It’s the second-largest actively managed Japanese mutual fund
after FMR LLC’s Fidelity Japan Growth Fund, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Redmond in Tokyo at 
 tredmond3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  