-- Japan Shares Decline as Abe Growth Strategy Disappoints
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-06-05T08:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/japan-s-topix-slides-as-brokerages-fall-developers-rise.html
Japanese  shares  declined, with the
Topix index deepening its correction, after Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe’s speech on the country’s growth strategy
disappointed investors and the yen strengthened.  Exporters such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Sony Corp. fell.
Financial shares including brokerages, insurers and banks
dropped. Tokyo Electric Power Co., also known as Tepco, led
utilities lower after Abe failed to mention restarting the
nation’s nuclear plants. Dentsu Inc., which has exclusive Asian
broadcast rights for the 2014 World Cup, jumped 2.5 percent as
 Japan  became the first team to qualify for the soccer
tournament.  The Topix fell 3.2 percent to 1,090.03 at the close of
trading in Tokyo, after initially rising as much as 1.2 in the
afternoon session when Abe started his speech. The Nikkei 225
Stock Average lost 3.8 percent to 13,014.87, with volume 5.7
percent below the 30-day average. The yen gained to 99.59 per
dollar after weakening to as much as 100.46 earlier.  “We’re going to have to reduce our expectations for
Abenomics,” said  Ayako Sera , a strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui
Trust Bank Ltd., which has the equivalent of $325 billion in
assets. “The initiatives are too small. The direction is right
but the comments are all long-term. It looks like things are
going to move too slowly.”  Abe’s speech outlined his growth strategy, the “third
arrow” of an economic revival plan that seeks to build on his
first two arrows, fiscal and monetary stimulus.  Third Arrow  The prime minister said he will use all means to promote
private-sector investment and remove all barriers to corporate
activity. He also vowed to open up the energy, health and
infrastructure sectors, while doubling foreign investment to
Japan to 35 trillion yen ($350 billion) by 2020.  Stocks slid as Abe said the growth effort won’t begin for
months. The timing may suggest he’s putting off taking on vested
interests until after next month’s election for the upper house
of parliament, and will leave the onus on the central bank to
boost growth for now.  Japanese shares have rallied almost 30 percent this year to
become the world’s best-performing major market, after the first
two stages of Abe’s policies were greeted positively by
investors.  Stocks entered a correction on May 30 from the biggest
rally in a quarter century. The  Topix (TPX)  has fallen 15 percent from
its high on May 22. The gauge has dropped more than 3 percent on
five of the 10 trading days since.  Topix Forecasts  The Topix will reach 1,231 at the end of the year,
according to the average forecast of 17 strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg News last month. That’s a gain of 13 percent from
today’s close.  All but one of the 33  industry groups  on the Topix fell
today, with about four shares dropping for each that rose.
Declines were led by utilities, brokerages, consumer lenders and
insurers, while exporters were the biggest drag.  The Topix, Japan’s broadest equity measure, had an intraday
trading range of 4.4 percent today and has swung by an average
of 4 percent daily since May 23.  Nomura tumbled 7.6 percent to 719 yen, erasing yesterday’s
gains of nearly the same amount.  Acom Co. (8572) , Japan’s biggest
consumer lender by market value, fell 8.2 percent to 3,540 yen.  Toyota, Honda Motor Co. and Nissan Motor Co., which each
get more than 70 percent of revenue abroad, fell more than 2.5
percent as the yen rose to its highest since May 8.  Tepco Tumbles  Tepco tumbled 16 percent to 513 yen, leading a decline by
power producers after Abe’s speech excluded any reference to
when Japan may restart nuclear reactors idled after the March
2011 disaster. Abe also said he would also liberalize power
generation and distribution, which may include spinning off
distribution networks, a step toward ending the power companies’
monopolies.  “The comments fell short of expectations,” said  Gavin Parry , the managing director of Hong Kong-based brokerage Parry
International Trading Ltd. “We need to wait for substance and
implementation.”  Among shares that advanced, Dentsu jumped 2.5 percent to
3,290 yen. Japan’s largest advertising agency has exclusive
Asian broadcast rights to all the games of the World Cup in
2014. Japan yesterday became the first team to qualify for the
soccer tournament, after drawing 1-1 with  Australia .  Shares on the Topix trade at 1.16 times  book value ,
compared with 2.4 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 1.65 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the S&P 500 declined 0.3 percent today. The
gauge dropped 0.6 percent yesterday in New York as economists
predicted the U.S. central bank may curtail stimulus as soon as
September amid signs of growth. A report from ADP Research
Institute today is expected to show U.S. employers accelerated
hiring in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  