-- Jefferson County to Turn Deal Into Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-05T18:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/jefferson-county-to-turn-deal-into-bankruptcy-plan.html
Jefferson County,  Alabama , will file
a proposal by the end of the month to adjust its debts and end
the biggest U.S. municipal bankruptcy by November under an
agreement signed yesterday with its largest creditors, a lawyer
for the county told a judge.  “We have a very, very tight time frame,”  Ken Klee , the
bankruptcy attorney leading the restructuring, said in court
today in Birmingham, Alabama. The county will file the plan
before July 1, even if it is necessary to send the documents to
the court on Sunday, June 30, through an electronic filing, Klee
said.  It took months to negotiate the agreement, leaving the
county just three weeks to turn the deal into a plan of
adjustment that will allow the county to leave court protection,
Klee said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Thomas Bennett  told Klee he would
accommodate the timing.  Yesterday, the county ended more than 18 months of
bankruptcy court battles with its biggest creditors over how
much the jurisdiction can afford to pay on more than $3 billion
it borrowed to expand and improve the county’s sewage system.  60 Percent  The deal would pay creditors $1.84 billion, or 60 percent
of what they’re owed, the county said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , seven hedge funds and a group of bond
insurers, which together hold about $2.4 billion, or about 78
percent, of the county’s sewer debt, agreed to the deal.
 JPMorgan , which holds $1.22 billion of debt, will forgive $842
million. Adding in a previous settlement, the bank will have
either paid the county, or given up the right to collect, $1.57
billion.  The agreements require approval by November of a
bankruptcy-exit plan that would adjust the county’s debts, Klee
told Bennett today. The judge must approve the plan before the
county can refinance the sewer debt and end its Chapter 9 case.  The county will now try to negotiate a plan to pay school
warrant holders in full and an agreement with general obligation
debt holders, Klee said. Those creditors are owed a fraction of
the amount claimed by sewer warrant holders.  The county’s attorneys, led by Los Angeles-based Klee,
Tuchin, Bogdanoff & Stern LLP, have won bankruptcy court rulings
that allowed it to maintain control of the sewage system and its
revenue stream, which is pledged as collateral for its warrants.  The county sold the warrants, which are almost identical to
bonds, to investors, promising that the debt would be repaid
using the monthly service fees collected from homes and
businesses connected to the sewage system.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds owed about $872 million will collect more than
80 cents on the dollar under to the agreements, which were made
public yesterday. The hedge funds will also help backstop the
refinancing to ensure that the county can raise all the money it
needs.  The funds include Brigade Capital Management LLC, Claren
Road Asset Management LLC, Fundamental Advisors LP and Monarch
Capital Master Partners LP, according to court records.  Carney Hawks , a partner at Brigade Capital, led
negotiations for the hedge funds and agreed to restrict his
trading activities during the talks so he could receive
confidential financial information, Klee said today in court.  The insurers, including Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.,
Syncora Guarantee Inc. and Financial Guaranty Insurance Co.,
will get $165 million. They claimed to be owed $315 million.  The county will also pay as much as $25 million in any
claims filed against the insurers by creditors seeking to
recover losses, according to the agreements.  Three Agreements  The deal is made up of three agreements that require the
creditors to support Jefferson County’s reorganization proposal.
That proposal, called a plan of adjustment, needs approval by
Bennett, the bankruptcy judge.  The county agreed to raise sewer rates 7.4 percent annually
for four years. Those rates may go slightly higher if interest
rates rise before the refinancing closes.  Warrant holders who are owed more than $500 million aren’t
part of the deal. They will have a choice of collecting 65 cents
on every dollar they are owed, or 80 cents on the dollar if they
give up their right to collect money from the insurers.  Those warrant holders and other creditors have the right to
vote on the plan of adjustment. Bennett will take that vote into
consideration when deciding whether to approve the plan.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009, JPMorgan agreed to a settlement
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over payments
its bankers allegedly made to people tied to county politicians
to win business.  JPMorgan Payments  JPMorgan paid the county $75 million in that settlement and
has given up more than $657 million in swaps claims it held.  Jefferson County supplanted Orange County, California, as
the largest municipal bankruptcy. Orange County entered court
protection in 1994 after losing $1.7 billion on interest-rate
bets.  While its petition initially listed more debt than
Jefferson County, much of that liability was reduced in the
early weeks of the case. Thanks partly to lawsuits against the
financial firms, Orange County creditors were paid in full.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-bk-05736, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  