-- Kennedy-Wilson Buys Dublin Housing Development for $105 Million
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-06-05T15:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/kennedy-wilson-buys-dublin-housing-development-for-105-million.html
Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc.,  a U.S.
investment company, agreed to buy Dublin’s Clancy Quay project
for more than 80 million euros ($105 million), according to the
receiver selling the development.  The 13.8-acre (5.6-hectare) site beside the River Liffey
has 420 apartments and planning approval to develop 323 more
homes, a hotel and buildings for education. It was placed on the
market in April for 70 million euros, according to a statement
at the time from Savills Plc, which brokered the sale on behalf
of receiver Grant Thornton Ltd.  The seller is “really pleased with the price achieved,”
said Douglas Keatinge of FleishmanHillard Inc. on behalf of
Grant Thornton. Fergus O’Farrell, the Savills director who
brokered the sale, declined to discuss the deal.  Kennedy-Wilson plans to own more than 1,000 homes in
Ireland,  Peter Collins , managing director of the company’s
European unit, said in August. It already holds a 210-apartment
block close to Google Inc.’s headquarters in Dublin with
Canadian insurer Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. Collins didn’t
immediately return a call to his phone seeking comment on Clancy
Quay.  Lloyds Banking Group  Plc’s Bank of Scotland (Ireland) unit
appointed the receiver to Clancy Quay Properties Ltd. and
related companies in August, according to Iris Oifigiuil, the
Irish State Gazette.  Dublin home prices rose 0.2 percent during April and 1
percent from a year earlier, the country’s statistics office
said yesterday. Values are down about 50 percent from their 2007
peak, it said.  Kennedy-Wilson, based in Los Angeles, and Vaerde Partners
Europe Ltd. are preferred bidders to buy 16 properties linked to
the Opera Finance (CMH) Plc bonds for 306 million euros in a
separate deal, according to a stock exchange statement on
Tuesday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net . 