-- Kentucky Derby Winner Orb Is Early Favorite for Belmont Stakes
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-06-05T16:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/kentucky-derby-winner-orb-is-early-favorite-for-belmont-stakes.html
Kentucky Derby winner Orb is the
early favorite in the 14-horse field for the 145th running of
the Belmont Stakes, the final leg of thoroughbred horse racing’s
Triple Crown.  Orb, ridden by jockey Joel Rosario, will start from the
fifth position in the 1 1/2-mile (2.4-kilometer) race on June 8
at Belmont Park in Elmont, New York. Orb started on the rail and
finished fourth at the Preakness Stakes in Baltimore last month,
ending the colt’s chance of becoming the 12th Triple Crown
winner and first since 1978.  “I like to get the middle and that’s about as middle as
you can get,” Orb’s trainer, Shug McGaughey, said at a news
conference today announcing the Belmont draw. “I’m a lot more
satisfied there than I was at Pimlico.”  Orb is the 3-1 morning-line favorite to win the race,
followed by Revolutionary, who will leave from the ninth post
position, at 9-2, and Preakness winner Oxbow, who is 5-1 and
starts from the seventh gate.  “At a mile and a half, with that long run and sweeping
turns, I think we over-analyze the draw position,” said Oxbow
trainer  D. Wayne Lukas , who’s coming off his sixth Preakness
win. “I’m more concerned with who’s around me.”  The Preakness winner will be flanked at the starting gate
by Incognito (20-1) in the sixth post and Midnight Taboo (30-1)
in the eighth. Frac Daddy will start from the rail and is also
30-1, tied with Midnight Taboo and Giant Finish for the longest
in the field.  Freedom Child and the filly Unlimited Budget both have 8-1
odds, followed by Kentucky Derby runner-up Golden Soul at 10-1,
Overanalyze (12-1), Palace Malice (15-1), and Vyjack and Will
Take Charge joining Incognito at 20-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  