-- King Calls Time Surveying Recovery Not Yet Assured: U.K. Credit
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-06T11:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/king-calls-time-surveying-recovery-not-yet-assured-u-k-credit.html
Bank of England  policy makers
maintained stimulus for the economy after Governor  Mervyn King 
concluded his last policy meeting surveying a recovery that’s
not yet strong enough to warrant the “escape velocity” sought
by his successor,  Mark Carney .  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee held its  target
for bond purchases  at 375 billion pounds ($580 billion), in line
with the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 43
economists. The meeting was King’s 194th, and he will hand
Carney on July 1 an economy that  resumed growth  in the first
quarter and may have picked up in the current period.  Manufacturing and services strengthened in May, helping
send gilts to the worst performance among Group of Seven nations
over the past month as investors bet the prospect of more
quantitative easing is receding. While King said there are
“signs now of a recovery,” growth isn’t as fast as he would
like. Carney arrives having professed support for tools such as
forward guidance, and risks may persuade other panel members to
join his cause.  “Although the recent economic news has generally been
encouraging, it remains hard to see what part of the economy can
power a sustainable recovery,” said  Vicky Redwood , economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. and a former central bank official. “We
still expect the new governor to take action soon after he
arrives in July.”  ‘Skeptical’  The BOE also kept its key  interest rate  on hold at 0.5
percent, a record low. In  Frankfurt , the  European Central Bank 
held its  benchmark rate  at 0.5 percent after cutting it by a
quarter point last month.  The pound rose for a second day against the dollar and was
at $1.5447 as of 12:52 p.m. London time, up 0.3 percent from
yesterday. Gilts were little changed, with the 10-year yield at
2 percent.  “King will be pleased to be leaving at a point when growth
is picking up, though it must be hard for any of us to feel
satisfied,” said  Kate Barker , who retired from the MPC in 2010.
“It’s not recovering at the kind of rate that comes up to
escape velocity and the question is whether monetary policy
alone is enough to do that. I’m skeptical.”  King’s retirement brings to an end a two-decade career at a
central bank that he helped steer as it gained independence in
1997. Inflation targeting began a year after he joined as chief
economist in 1991, while he implemented the quarterly  Inflation
Report  in 1993 and held a press conference for every
publication. “I have had my say,” he said at the last such
event on May 15.  ‘NICE’ Times  King became governor in 2003 and was reappointed in 2008.
After a first term he described as “NICE,” an acronym for
“non-inflationary consistent expansion,” his second was marked
by the financial crisis, bank bailouts and Britain’s longest
economic slump in decades. His early handling of the turmoil and
the collapse of Northern Rock Plc drew criticism from lawmakers.  He subsequently set up programs to help provide liquidity
to lenders, cut the  benchmark interest rate  to a record low and
pumped billions of pounds into the economy via gilt purchases.  “The stimulus provided by the bank means that there are
now good reasons to suppose that a gentle recovery is under
way,” King said in the BOE’s annual report on June 4.  ‘Tentatively Comforting’  The U.K. returned to growth in the  first three months  of
the year with expansion of 0.3 percent, and the BOE forecasts
0.5 percent growth in the current quarter. Measures of services
and manufacturing were at the highest in 14 months in May.  “The economy is definitely in a better shape than it was a
year ago,” said  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank
AG. “He is going out on a tentatively comforting note.”  In the U.K., the brighter outlook has reduced the chance of
more QE. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey is for bond
purchases to rise to 400 billion pounds by the end of the year.
That’s down from 425 billion pounds a month ago.  Officials finished their third round of bond purchases
seven months ago, and that may be enough, some economists say.
Malcolm Barr at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London cited improved
economic data when he changed his forecast yesterday to no more
QE from a previous prediction for a restart in August.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 2.5 percent over the past
month, according to the Bloomberg U.K. Sovereign Bond Index.
That compares with a 1.3 percent loss on German debt and 1.4
percent on U.S. Treasuries, according to separate indexes.  The central bank raised its growth forecasts last month and
said inflation will peak at a lower level than previously
expected.  Still, the U.K. hasn’t yet fully shaken off the financial
crisis, and gross domestic product is about 2.5 below its peak
level. With continuing risks from  Europe  and a banking system
under repair, BOE officials have given no signal that they’re
looking at unwinding stimulus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  