-- Korea Finds No Gene-Altered Wheat From Oregon as Testing Widens
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-06-05T06:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/korea-finds-no-gene-altered-wheat-from-oregon-as-testing-widens.html
South Korea said it hasn’t detected
genetically modified material in wheat and flour imports from
Oregon as it expands tests to cover shipments from all U.S.
states to ensure  food safety .  The Ministry of Food and Drug Safety checked 45 samples
from Oregon, it said in an e-mailed  statement  today. The
ministry asked the U.S. government for guidance on testing
methods as it continues examinations.  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack yesterday said tests of
U.S. wheat imported by  Japan , South Korea and the European Union
have found no evidence of the unapproved gene-altered strain
discovered in a field in April. The  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  assigned 15 investigators to learn the origin of the
altered wheat and develop a faster, less expensive test for
contamination, Vilsack said.  The discovery risks hurting demand for U.S. supplies at a
time when the Food & Agriculture Organization is predicting a
record global grains harvest. Prices of U.S. wheat may decline
should more nations delay or cancel purchases from the world’s
largest supplier, said  Abdolreza Abbassian , senior economist at
the Food & Agriculture Organization, in an interview.  Wheat on the Chicago Board of Trade gained for a fourth day
as excessive rains in parts of the Midwest delayed planting of
the spring crop, while persistent drought in Kansas and Texas
curbed winter yields. The contract for delivery in July gained
0.5 percent to $7.1225 a bushel at 2:05 p.m. in Seoul.  Japan halted imports of western-white and feed wheat, South
Korean millers suspended purchases of U.S. white wheat and the
 Taiwan  Flour Mills Association said it wants the U.S. to label
cargoes by state of origin.  Monsanto Strain  The European Union, which competes with the U.S. for
exports, said it asked  Monsanto Co. (MON)  for a method to detect
genetically modified wheat developed by the company.  The St. Louis-based company had withdrawn an application
for approval of the strain nine years ago amid concern that
buyers would avoid crops from the U.S. It said there’s reason to
believe the current incident is isolated and should not concern
consumers or trading partners.  Monsanto said in a posting on its corporate blog that it
gave the USDA and U.S. trading partners a testing method to
distinguish the wheat trait developed to resist the Roundup
herbicide from approved varieties.  Citizens’ Coalition for Economic Justice, a South Korean
civic group, asked the government in Seoul to establish a
“thorough and regular” system to check for genetically
modified materials and called for labeling of gene-altered
products.  “The tests this time were for only a limited number of
products and within a short period time,” the group said in a
statement “A broader testing is needed.”  South Korea , along with Japan, the  Philippines , Taiwan and
 Indonesia  are the five biggest U.S. buyers in  Asia , according to
Michael Spier, a vice president of U.S. Wheat Associates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  