-- Koruna Strengthens as Czech Retail Sales Rebound: Prague Mover
-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2013-06-05T16:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/koruna-strengthens-as-czech-retail-sales-rebound-prague-mover.html
The koruna gained the most among
emerging European currencies after Czech retail sales rose for
the first time in six months, spurring optimism the economy is
recovering from its longest recession on record.  The Czech exchange rate appreciated as much as 0.5 percent
and traded 0.2 percent stronger at 25.802 per euro by 5:24 p.m.
in Prague. That compares with retreats of 0.8 percent for
Poland’s zloty and 1 percent for the Hungarian forint.  April sales rose 1.5 percent from a year earlier after a
revised 3.5 percent contraction in March, the statistics office
in Prague said today. That beat the median estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for a 0.3 percent drop. Erste
Group Bank AG said in a report to clients that investors should
consider buying the koruna against the euro as it will probably
stengthen toward 25 by the year-end.  The “underlying recovery is stronger than we thought,”
Erste said. “This is positive for the koruna.”  The koruna weakened yesterday after gross domestic product
shrank 1.1 percent in January to March from the previous quarter
as a drop in inventories outweighed an increase in household and
government spending.  The $217 billion economy has contracted for six straight
quarters, the longest recession since comparable records began
in 1996, as Europe’s debt crisis curbed demand for Czech
exports. The slump has tamed inflation and pushed the central
bank to cut its main interest rate to 0.05 percent, sparking a
debate among policy makers about whether to weaken the koruna
with interventions.  “Had it not been for inventories, the economy would have
grown at roughly 1 percent quarter-on-quarter,” Erste said.
“This is good news looking forward.”  The koruna has depreciated 2.7 percent this year, compared
with a 1.9 percent drop for the forint and a 4.5 decrease for
the zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at   wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  