-- Nadal Plays Djokovic in Semis as Sharapova Struggles
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-05T17:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/nadal-plays-djokovic-in-semis-as-sharapova-struggles.html
Defending champion  Rafael Nadal  will
play top seed  Novak Djokovic  for a spot in the French Open final
after both won in straight sets today.  Nadal beat  Stanislas Wawrinka  6-2, 6-3, 6-1 on the main
Court Philippe Chatrier and has yet to drop a set to the Swiss
in 10 matches.  “I played the best match of the tournament so far,” Nadal
said in a courtside interview after winning his 57th match at
Roland Garros.  Seven-time champion Nadal produced 31 winners and 17
errors, compared with 23 winners and 40 mistakes for Wawrinka.
The Spanish left-hander said he was “very happy” with the
warmer weather, which makes his heavy top-spin shots bounce up
higher on the clay. It was 24 degrees Celsius (75 Fahrenheit) in
Paris today after a cold first week with frequent rain delays.  In the other men’s quarterfinal on Court Suzanne Lenglen,
Serbia’s Djokovic stopped the run of  Tommy Haas , winning 6-3, 7-6 (7-5), 7-5.  “He’s dangerous, with a lot of good qualities and lots of
experience,” Djokovic told the crowd after beating the 35-year-old from Germany, the oldest quarterfinalist at Roland Garros
since 1971.  Although Nadal, the third seed, leads Djokovic 19-15 in
career meetings, he lost their last encounter on clay at the
Monte Carlo Masters in April.  ‘Incredible Record’  “That win has given me some confidence,” Djokovic said.
“But here at Roland Garros, he has such an incredible record.
It will be tough for me.”  Wawrinka had been the only Swiss man in the quarterfinals
after 17-time major champion  Roger Federer  was ousted yesterday
by France’s  Jo-Wilfried Tsonga  in straight sets. Tsonga plays
 David Ferrer , the No. 4 seed from Spain, in the other semifinal
in two days. Ferrer has beaten Tsonga twice in three matches.  Earlier today, defending women’s champion  Maria Sharapova 
fought back from being routed in the first set by  Jelena Jankovic  to win 0-6, 6-4, 6-3.  Sharapova had never before won a match on the women’s WTA
Tour or in a major championship after losing the first set 6-0.  “I had to erase that chapter and move forward,” the
Russian said afterward. “I still felt like I was in the
match.”  Early Struggle  The second-seeded Sharapova will play Australian Open
champion  Victoria Azarenka  in the semifinals tomorrow. The third
seed from Belarus defeated No. 12  Maria Kirilenko  of Russia 7-6
(7-3), 6-2. Women’s No. 1  Serena Williams  of the U.S. and last
year’s finalist  Sara Errani  of Italy moved into the last four
yesterday.  Sharapova struggled to keep the ball inside the lines in
the first half-hour against the former world No. 1 from Serbia,
dropping six games in a row as she made 20 unforced errors. The
18th-seeded Jankovic, who was loudly cheered on by a small group
of spectators waving the Serbian flag next to the presidential
box, made only four mistakes.  Sharapova then recovered and raced to a 5-1 lead in the
second set as she finally found her rhythm and halved her error
count. Jankovic, a three-time semifinalist in Paris, fought back
to 5-4 before Sharapova held serve to close out the set.  At 3-3 in the decider, Sharapova set up two break points
with a running forehand and broke as Jankovic misfired a
backhand. She won the match when the Serb sent a forehand wide.  ‘Better Player’  “In the end, she was the better player,” Jankovic, who
has been playing singles, doubles and mixed doubles in Paris,
told reporters. “I’m a bit tired. But overall, I had an amazing
tournament.”  Sharapova and Jankovic have played each other since they
were both juniors at the Nick Bollettieri Academy in Florida.
Sharapova has lost only once to Jankovic in nine previous
matches and today was their first match on red clay.  Sharapova won her first title on the Roland Garros clay
courts last year, completing the career Grand Slam of all four
majors. The 26-year-old achieved global fame when she won the
Wimbledon title at age 17 in 2004. She’s since become the
world’s best-paid female athlete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  