-- NATO Agrees to Outline of Future Afghanistan Training Mission
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-06-05T13:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/nato-agrees-to-outline-of-future-afghanistan-training-mission.html
NATO has agreed to guidelines for a
new training mission for Afghan security forces that will lead
to a smaller role for coalition troops after 2014.  “We have just endorsed the detailed concepts of our non-combat mission in  Afghanistan ,” North Atlantic Treaty
Organization Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said after
a closed-door meeting of alliance defense ministers and
officials from other contributing nations.  “It will be different and significantly smaller” than
NATO’s combat role has been, Rasmussen said at a press
conference at NATO headquarters in Brussels today.  Former U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said in February
that NATO has talked about leaving a force of 8,000 to 12,000
troops in Afghanistan for a post-combat training role. Rasmussen
and U.S. military officials declined to endorse any estimate of
how many coalition troops will be needed in Afghanistan to train
and advise local forces when NATO’s combat mission concludes at
the end of 2014.  “I feel confident we will get enough contributions to
ensure the Resolute Support mission will be fully manned,”
Rasmussen said, referring to the name of the training mission.  Training will take place at five locations throughout
Afghanistan, including one in Kabul, he said.  While NATO’s combat role will end, “Afghanistan will not
stand alone,” Rasmussen said. “We will still be there to
train, advise and assist the Afghan security forces.”  U.S. officials have declined to say how many American
troops will stay on after 2014.  “I am confident that by the end of 2014, the Afghan
security forces will be able to take full responsibility for
their security and provide that secure environment for the
Afghan people that is essential for further economic and social
development,” Rasmussen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  