-- Netanyahu Says He’s Paying Attention to Arab Initiative
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2013-06-05T18:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/netanyahu-says-he-s-paying-attention-to-arab-initiative.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  called on Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas  to
return to peace talks, citing a 2002 Arab initiative to resolve
the conflict between their two peoples.  Netanyahu, 63, addressed Abbas today in a speech to
parliament in Jerusalem after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
called on the leaders yesterday to renew peace negotiations.
Kerry is next week planning to make his fifth trip to the region
since taking office in February.  “We’re paying attention to every initiative -- the Arab
initiative has been mentioned -- and we are ready to discuss
initiatives that are proposals and not edicts,” the Israeli
prime minister said.  The  Arab League  adopted a plan in 2002 that called for
normalized diplomatic relations with Israel in return for a
retreat from all land captured in the 1967 Middle East war,
which Israel rejected. The league may modify the initiative to
accept land swaps between the two sides that would allow Israel
to annex land in the  West Bank  where most Jewish settlers live.  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks have been frozen for almost
three years. Abbas has refused to return to negotiations as long
as Israel continues construction in Jewish settlements in the
West Bank and east Jerusalem, a step Netanyahu rejects.  Knesset Message  Addressing Abbas by his nickname from the podium of the
Knesset, Israel’s parliament, Netanyahu said as he has on other
occasions that the two leaders should not miss the current
opportunity to come to a peace agreement.  “I want to send a message to  Abu Mazen  in a language that
both of us understand: Give peace a chance,” Netanyahu said.  Palestinians were unimpressed.  “No going back to negotiations or talking about the Arab
peace initiative will be discussed as long as settlements
continue and there is no recognition of the 1967 borders,”
Wasel Abu Youssef, a member of the Palestine Liberation
Organization’s Executive Committee, said in a phone interview.
The Israeli government “is the one that’s putting obstacles to
any political horizon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  