-- Newsweek CEO to Leave After Diller Puts Magazine Up for Sale
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-06-06T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/newsweek-daily-beast-ceo-to-leave-after-magazine-put-up-for-sale.html
Baba Shetty, chief executive officer
of  Newsweek /Daily Beast Co., is stepping down a week after owner
 Barry Diller  said he was putting the now-online-only  Newsweek
magazine  up for sale.  Shetty, who became CEO  last September , will be replaced on
an interim basis by Rhona Murphy, who has been serving as
international publisher, the New York-based company said
yesterday in a memo to employees.  “Baba Shetty is moving on as CEO, taking the summer off to
spend some time with his family,” Daily Beast/Newsweek  Editor-in-Chief  Tina Brown said in the memo. “We wish Baba great
success in his future ventures.”  Newsweek, the 80-year-old weekly magazine, shifted to an
online-only format at the end of last year after struggling to
maintain its circulation and newsstand sales. Last week, Diller
said he would seek buyers for Newsweek and focus on the Daily
Beast brand.  Diller acquired Newsweek as part of an agreement with the
late  Sidney Harman  in November 2010 and combined it with his
existing news website, the Daily Beast. The billionaire now says
he regrets the move.  “I wish I hadn’t bought Newsweek,” Diller told Bloomberg
Television in  an interview  in April. He said it’s become
difficult to publish a weekly magazine at a time when news has
become instantaneous.  Even so, the company reported last week that the online-only version of the magazine was making progress. It’s on pace
to break even by the end of this year, Brown and Shetty said in
a note to staff at the time.  “Our obligation was to turn the business around, and
develop a breakthrough digital product,” they said. “We’ve
done just that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  