-- Nigeria Banks Seen by Vetiva Capital as Returning 42% This Year
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2013-06-05T06:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/nigeria-banks-seen-by-vetiva-capital-as-returning-42-this-year.html
Nigerian  bank stocks , trading at a
discount to emerging-market lenders, will probably extend gains
to 42 percent this year as they boost capital and finance oil
and power projects, Vetiva Capital Management Ltd. said.  The Bloomberg NSE Banking Index, which tracks  Nigeria ’s 10
biggest banks by market value, is trading at a price-to-book
ratio of 0.8 times,  less than  the 1.4 times book value of assets
for lenders in the MSCI Emerging Market Banks Index. The gauge
for Nigerian banks has gained 34 percent this year compared with
a 0.5 percent drop in MSCI EM Banks Index. Nigeria’s all-share
index has rallied 37 percent this year, Africa’s best performer
after Ghana’s benchmark equities measure.  “What matters to us is the valuation of the banks, their
move to create risk assets and how well they manage those risk
assets,” Pabina Yinkere, an equity analyst at Lagos-based
Vetiva said in a May 31 interview from the commercial capital.
“We’ve seen emerging market banks with similar risk profile
with Nigerian banks, yet trading at higher multiples.”  Nigerian lenders are seeking to raise dollars by selling
international bonds to finance oil, power and other
infrastructure projects in Africa’s top oil producer after
returning to profit from near-collapse in 2008 and 2009.
Africa’s second-largest economy may expand 7.2 percent this year
compared with sub-Saharan Africa’s 5.6 percent average,
according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Welcome Funding  Diamond Bank Plc (DIAMONDB)  said May 30 it may issue $550 million of
Eurobonds this year to boost its operations, after the Lagos-based lender raised its annual loan-growth target to 40 percent
from 20 percent.  Fidelity Bank Plc (FIDELITY)  sold $300 million of five-year bonds on May 2 while  FBN Holdings Plc (FBNH) , owner of First Bank
Nigeria, plans to raise the equivalent of $500 million in
Eurobonds this year.  “The fundraising is welcome, especially for the mid-tier
banks that are somehow under-capitalized relative to their
growth aspirations,” Yinkere said. Vetiva ranked seventh for
equities traded by value in the week ending May 10 in Lagos,
according to the  Nigerian Stock Exchange .  The West African nation is selling majority stakes in  power
plants  and letting private investors acquire holdings of as much
as 60 percent in six transmission and 11 power-distribution
companies spun out of the former state-owned utility. Banks have
also increased lending to the oil industry as companies
including London-based  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL)  and Lagos-based Neconde
Energy Ltd. bought stakes in fields owned by  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ,  Eni Spa (ENI)  and  Total SA. (FP)   “Where there might be concern for the banks is what
becomes the quality of risk assets as the loan book grows,”
Yinkere said. “In this case we do not see cause to worry as the
deals are for viable projects and the companies have strong cash
bases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  