-- Obama and Xi Must Dispel U.S.-China ‘Strategic Distrust’
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-05T20:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/obama-and-xi-must-dispel-u-s-china-strategic-distrust-.html
This week’s meeting between U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and President Xi Jinping of China offers
an unprecedented opportunity for the two leaders to get to know
each other amid the therapeutic sunshine of the California
desert. Maybe the arid air will help clear the  “strategic
distrust”  that has grown between their two nations.  After all, it’s not as if they lack strong incentives to
forge a good working relationship. For starters, China’s
management of its economic slowdown will inevitably affect the
U.S.’s nascent recovery, and vice versa. Each also needs to
create some space to focus on huge domestic and external
challenges. Even as Xi seeks to engineer a soft landing, he must
mitigate the strains caused by urbanization and rising
pollution, and shore up the Chinese Communist Party’s legitimacy
by cracking down on corruption. Meanwhile, Obama’s ability to
resolve crises in Syria, Iran or North Korea depends in no small
part on  China ’s cooperation.  Both sides have  stressed  that the remarkable six-plus hours
of meetings over two days amid the well-tended cactus and rose
gardens of  Sunnylands  will be relatively unscripted. To be
productive, however, the discussion should include a few crucial
agenda items.  Cybertheft: The scale and boldness of Chinese theft of U.S.
corporate intellectual property, and incursions into commercial
networks, are  shocking . Obama needs to make clear to Xi just how
bad this larceny is. The two sides have agreed to start talks on
this issue. A protocol for investigating complaints within a
given time frame would be good. In the meantime, as we have
argued, Congress needs to pass mandatory cybersecurity standards
for companies that operate critical infrastructure. And don’t
hold your breath waiting for an agreement on not stealing
military secrets;  lackadaisical  U.S. defense contractors need to
be made to realize that eternal vigilance is the price of fat
profits.  North Korea: Xi has criticized Kim Jong Un’s nuclear
antics, with China showing new willingness to enforce sanctions.
Yet the U.S. and China see the future of the Korean peninsula
very differently. What the two sides need is a  sustained high-level dialogue  about how they would respond to a humanitarian
emergency, sudden collapse or other contingencies.  Regional tensions: China has become embroiled in
territorial spats with many of its maritime neighbors. Without
weighing in on individual claims, Obama needs to convey that the
U.S. will stand by its treaty commitments to its allies. China,
for its part, would be wise to focus on agreements to develop
resources and settle disputes instead of lectures about
sovereignty. The U.S. could help promote the success of that
approach by -- dare we repeat it -- ratifying the Law of the Sea
Convention, which provides a framework for resolving such
disputes.  Economic relations: With China slowing and the U.S.
growing, tensions are at a relative ebb. The  yuan  has
appreciated by 10 percent since Obama took office, and the trade
deficit with China has fallen. That could change if the U.S.
economy’s demand for imports grows. Obama needs to avoid fanning
protectionist flames. As recent U.S. solar tariffs on China
 show , such strategies are of dubious benefit. He also needs to
stress to Xi that Chinese failure to live up to economic
agreements will create a poor climate for more high-profile
investments such as the $4.7 billion purchase of Smithfield
Foods Inc. Xi, meanwhile, would benefit by prioritizing planned
structural reforms that also  improve  market access for U.S. and
other foreign companies.  Progress on any of these matters would be valuable and
worthwhile. Hovering over the meeting like the desert sun,
however, is a broader and more fundamental issue: China’s
overriding concern is that the U.S. seeks to contain it. Can the
U.S. do anything to allay that concern? While also advancing its
enduring interests in the Asia-Pacific?  As it happens, yes. First, it could give a more diplomatic,
and less militaristic, cast to its so-called pivot to Asia. For
the cost of deploying just one of four new littoral combat ships
to  Singapore  -- ships of dubious  effectiveness  -- the State
Department could more than double the  24 new personnel  it plans
to devote next year to Asia. Second, Obama could discuss with Xi
the possibility of China joining the Trans-Pacific Partnership
regional trade talks. Trying to move ahead without the world’s
second biggest economy seems like a shortsighted approach to
economic integration.  Shortsighted is the one thing that custodians of the U.S.-
China relationship can’t afford to be. And for more than three
decades, American and Chinese leaders have taken the long view,
recognizing that their relationship need not replay that of pre-World War I Great Britain and  Germany , or of the U.S. and the
Soviet Union in the Cold War. No doubt this is what Xi meant
when he called for “a new type of great power relationship.” You
don’t have to subscribe to the Great Man  theory of history  to
hope that Xi and Obama are great or even good enough to build
it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 