-- Home Investors to Buy Fewer Rentals as Prices Increase
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2013-06-05T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/home-investors-to-buy-fewer-rentals-as-prices-increase.html
Almost half of U.S. real estate
investors expect to buy fewer rental houses in the next 12
months as rising prices make it harder to profit, according to a
survey by polling firm ORC International.  About 48 percent of investors surveyed plan to reduce home
purchases over the next year, up from 30 percent in an August
poll, according to the Princeton, New Jersey-based market-research firm. Only 20 percent expect to buy more homes, down
from 39 percent in August.  “There’s a perception that the best time to buy is gone,”
Chris Clothier, a partner in Memphis Invest and Premier Property
Management Group, family-owned real estate companies that
sponsored the survey, said in a telephone interview. “There are
fewer homes to purchase. They have competition from larger
buying groups. You’ve just got fewer investors that are able to
take advantage of this market.”  Private-equity funds, real estate investment trusts and
individual investors have been buying houses in a hunt for  cash
flow  from rents and future price appreciation, with values still
28 percent below their 2006 peak. Investors were the buyers in
19 percent of U.S. home sales tracked by the National
Association of Realtors in March and April, compared with 20
percent in April 2012, the group  reported  last month.  House prices  rose 10.9 percent in the 12 months through
March from a year earlier, according the S&P/Case-Shiller  index 
of property values in 20 cities, as demand outstripped supply
amid rising  consumer confidence  and attempts by buyers to lock
in low  mortgage rates . The gain was the biggest in seven years.  CoreLogic Index  A separate index compiled by CoreLogic Inc. yesterday
showed that  home prices  in April jumped 12.1 percent from a year
earlier, the most since February 2006.  While small investors had long dominated ownership of
single-family rental homes, large buyers such as  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and  Tom Barrack ’s  Colony Capital LLC  have created a new
real estate asset class by aggregating thousands of properties.
Blackstone has spent $4.5 billion to buy 26,000 houses through
its Invitation Homes division. Barrack’s Colony American Homes
Inc. spent $1.8 billion on more than 12,000 houses as of May 17,
according to a  filing  last month.  Rising prices and competition have already spurred
investors such as Carrington Holding Co. to stop making
purchases. Returns aren’t high enough to continue to invest,
Carrington Chief Executive Officer Bruce Rose said in an
interview last month.  Renters occupy about 14 million single-family homes with a
total value of $2.8 trillion, according to an April report by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The U.S.  homeownership rate  fell to 65
percent in the first quarter, the lowest since 1995 and down
from a peak of 69 percent in June 2004, as fewer people
qualified to buy.  The ORC International survey results are based on replies
from 226 people who owned multiple homes among 3,020 people
surveyed by telephone land lines and mobile phones in May. The
results are being announced today at a National Association of
Real Estate Editors conference in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  