-- Hong Kong Sells Locals-Only Home Sites for $585 Million
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-06-05T16:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/hong-kong-sells-local-buyer-only-home-sites-for-hk-4-54-billion.html
Hong Kong sold two residential sites
on which apartments built can only be sold to local buyers at a
price higher than estimates.  A unit of  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688)  paid
HK$4.54 billion ($585 million) for the two sites in the city’s
Kowloon East district, according to a Hong Kong government
 statement  yesterday. That compares with a HK$4.23 billion mean
estimate of five property brokers surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Restricting sales of some units to Hong Kong residents was
a part of Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying’s plan to curb  home
prices  that have more than doubled since the beginning of 2009
amid record low mortgage rates and an influx of mainland Chinese
buyers. Home transactions fell for a third straight month in
May, following the introduction of extra transaction taxes and
higher minimum mortgage down payments in February.  “Whatever risks that come with the restrictions have
already been factored in the prices,”  James Cheung , a surveyor
at Centaline Property Agency Ltd., said before the tender
results were announced. “This is the first time sites that come
with such restrictions are sold so there isn’t much of a
reference for developers.”  The two sites, with maximum allowed gross floor areas of
38,855 square meters (418,232 sq. ft.) and 42,925 square meters,
attracted 16 bids and 13 bids respectively, the government said
yesterday. Developers must build a minimum of 545 and 600 units
on the sites, it said.  Rising Prices  Hong Kong home prices rose for three straight weeks to May
26, after dropping 3.4 percent in April, according to an  index 
compiled by Centaline.  The government doubled sales tax on all property
transactions over HK$2 million in February. Previously, it
charged an extra tax of as much as 20 percent of the value of
homes resold within three years and raised the minimum down
payment on mortgages for homes costing more than HK$7 million.
It has also imposed an extra 15 percent tax on all home
purchases by companies and non-residents, and promised to raise
land supply.  Home prices in the city may fall as much as 20 percent in
the next two years, Deutsche Bank AG said in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  