-- Monsanto Risks Linger With Suit as Wheat Futures Rebound
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-06-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/monsanto-risks-linger-with-suit-as-wheat-futures-rebound.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, may face more complaints from farmers even as
tests so far haven’t shown unapproved gene-altered wheat
anywhere beyond an Oregon farm where it was found.  The company was sued in federal court in Wichita by a
Kansas farmer who accused it of negligently releasing
genetically altered wheat seed in the U.S. and damaging the
market for his crop. The lawsuit filed June 3 by Ernest Barnes
of Morton County, Kansas, may be the first of many against St.
Louis-based Monsanto alleging contamination, his lawyers said in
a statement.  “Monsanto has failed our nation’s wheat farmers,” Stephen Sussman, a lawyer for Barnes with Houston-based Sussman Godfrey
LLP, said in the statement. “Monsanto knew of the risks its
genetically altered wheat posed and failed to protect farmers
and their crops from those risks.”  The discovery of the altered wheat in  Oregon , nine years
after Monsanto ended an effort to have the wheat approved for
commercial sale, prompted  Japan  to halt imports of western-white
and feed wheat. South Korean millers have suspended purchases of
U.S. white wheat, and the  Taiwan  Flour Mills Association said it
wants the U.S. to label cargoes by state of origin.  The European Union, which competes with the U.S. for
exports, said Monsanto provided a method to detect the rogue
strain of genetically modified wheat. The company also has
provided the test to regulators in Japan,  South Korea  and
Taiwan.  Tests Negative  Tests of U.S. wheat imported by Japan, South Korea and the
European Union have found no evidence of the unapproved gene-altered strain discovered in Oregon in April, Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack said yesterday. Wheat futures, which
entered a  bear market  in January because of rising global
supplies, have risen since the May 29 announcement of the Oregon
contamination, closing at $7.09 a bushel yesterday in  Chicago .  Information about the Oregon case appears to point toward
an isolated situation, according to Val Giddings, a senior
fellow at the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation
in  Washington . Still, if the wheat is found in more than one or
two other locations, it could lead to significant trade
disruptions, Giddings said in an e-mail. “If it is not, the
present disruptions will wane fairly quickly.  We are all
waiting on more data.”  Any estimate of any possible liability Monsanto may face is
highly speculative, said  Mark Gulley , a New-York based analyst
at BGC Partners LP who recommends buying Monsanto shares.  Scratching Head  “Based on the facts in front of us today, it would seem
the issue is difficult to quantify,” he said in a phone
interview. “You really start to scratch your head as to how
that GMO wheat grew on that farm.”  Past instances of genetic contamination have cost U.S.
companies and farmers. The 2000 release of  Aventis SA’s (SAN)  StarLink
corn cost as much as $288 million in lost revenue and a yearlong
drop in the grain’s price, according to a 2008 report by the
Government Accountability Office. The 2006 release of  Bayer AG’s (BAYN) 
Liberty Link rice cost as much as $1.29 billion in lost exports,
food recalls and other expenses, the GAO said, citing an
environmental advocacy group.  Bayer in 2011 agreed to pay $750 million to about 11,000
U.S. rice farmers who sued the company.  Barnes, who accused Monsanto in his lawsuit of negligence,
gross negligence and creating a nuisance, is seeking at least
$100,000.  Exclusive Control  The genetically engineered grain “has always been in the
exclusive control, or should have been in the exclusive control,
of Monsanto and its agents,” according to the complaint.  While some of that wheat was tested in  Kansas , the company
never disclosed that information to the state’s wheat farmers,
Barnes said in his complaint.  Genetically-modified wheat seed can’t be completely removed
from farming equipment and facilities, according to Barnes’
complaint, which asserts his damages aren’t limited to loss of
market revenue.  “Plaintiffs are taking a wild swing that’s unlikely to
connect,” Monsanto said yesterday in an e-mailed statement
responding to Barnes’ allegations.  “Tractor-chasing lawyers have prematurely filed suit
without any evidence of fault and in advance of the crop’s
harvest,” David Snively, Monsanto’s general counsel, said in
that statement. The program for “closing out” the wheat
development plan was “rigorous, well-documented and audited,”
according to the statement. The company said it will fight the
farmer’s claims.  Field Test  The USDA, in a May 29  statement , said Monsanto had been
authorized to field-test the genetically modified seed, altered
to resist the company’s Roundup herbicide, in 16 states from
1998 to 2005.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration , in a 2004
“voluntary consultation,” determined the engineered wheat was
as safe as unmodified varieties on the market, the USDA said in
last week’s statement. Still, it hasn’t approved any genetically
altered wheat for commercial production or sale in the U.S. or
elsewhere. The FDA, along with the Environmental Protection
Agency, also participate in approving genetically modified
plants.  The case is Barnes v. Monsanto Co., 13-cv-01218, U.S.
District Court, District of Kansas (Wichita).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  