-- Proxy Firms Recommend Three OTK Nominees to Morgans Board
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-06-05T21:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/morgans-says-iss-recommends-holders-deny-full-otk-slate.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC)  investors
should vote for three of the seven board nominees put forth by
the company’s largest stockholder, OTK Associates LLC, according
to two shareholder-advisory firms.  Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. recommended votes
for Jason Taubman Kalisman, Mahmood Khimji and Jonathan Langer,
according to separate statements today from Morgans and OTK.
Glass Lewis & Co. advised voting for Kalisman, Khimji and John
Dougherty at the annual meeting, scheduled for June 14.  OTK, owner of about 14 percent of Morgans’s  shares , is
seeking to overhaul the board after the company reported losses
for every quarter since 2007. New York-based Morgans has said it
would nominate six candidates for its seven-person  board ,
keeping an OTK representative as a director.  “We are very pleased that both ISS and  Glass Lewis 
recognize that change is urgently needed on the Morgans board,”
Michael Olshan, a founding member of OTK, said in a statement.  Morgans climbed 13 percent yesterday after saying it had
received five expressions of interest in a takeover. The
company’s board nominees would consider a sale if they are re-elected, the hotelier said yesterday in a statement.  “ISS correctly identified significant deficiencies in
OTK’s full slate of nominees that make them unfit to act as an
effective board and incapable of representing the interests of
all shareholders.” Morgans Chief Executive Officer Michael Gross said in a statement today.  The stock climbed 4.9 percent today to $7.90, a two-year
high. Morgans operates boutique hotels including the Delano in
Miami’s South Beach and Royalton in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  