-- Canada Housing Price Plunge Seen Averted Amid Low Rates
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-06-05T18:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/toronto-home-sales-fall-3-4-in-may-from-year-ago-as-prices-rise.html
Canada ’s housing  market  is showing
signs of a soft landing amid evidence of robust demand and
buoyant new construction plans.  Home prices  in Toronto, Canada’s most-populous city, rose
5.4 percent in May from a year ago, the biggest increase in five
months, the Toronto Real Estate Board reported today. Statistics
Canada said the value of April municipal building  permits  posted
a 10.5 percent gain.  Housing-market data are showing few signs of a sharp
correction even amid warnings from analysts and policy makers
that a bubble may have been forming. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened mortgage rules for a fourth time last year on
concern that an overbuilding of condos could lead to sharp price
declines. Former Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  identified
record  household debt  as the biggest domestic risk to the
economy.  “The base case scenario is a soft landing,” said  David Tulk , chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities in Toronto. “You’d have to see rates move
dramatically higher” for a major correction, he said.  Residential building permits rose 21 percent to C$4.35
billion in April, Statistics Canada said today, led by a 51.9
percent jump in condominium construction intentions.  Rising Permits  Some observers don’t think the rise in permits indicates
increased demand for housing.  “I’m pretty skeptical,”  John Andrew , a real-estate
professor at Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario, said in a
phone interview. “Condos are a sector of housing that’s already
overbuilt, so what could possibly justify that kind of surge
when we’ve already seen foreign investment start to drop off
significantly?”  Vancouver  made one of the largest contributions to the
national increase among 34 cities,  Statistics Canada  said, with
permits rising 50.7 percent led by multifamily dwellings.
Calgary permits also rose 40.6 percent to C$773 million on
commercial buildings.  The multiresidential figure “is absolutely huge,” Andrew
said. “That’s concerning, especially if developers have decided
the market has turned the corner and they think that’s enough of
a trigger to continue.”  Condos, Townhouses  In Toronto, the average sale price rose to C$542,174, from
C$514,567 a year ago, while a composite home benchmark price
index for the city was up 2.8 percent, the Toronto Real Estate
Board  reported . Unit sales dropped 3.4 percent from a year
earlier to 10,182, the board said in an e-mailed statement
today.  On a year-to-date basis, Toronto sales are down 9.6
percent, led by condominiums and townhouses. Detached-home sales
rose in May.  “The story continues to be one of weaker volumes,”  Derek Holt , vice-president of economics at Toronto-based Scotiabank,
said in a note to investors. “The question is how that will
carry over into construction and prices.”  Vancouver’s real estate board  said  yesterday home sales
rose 1 percent in May from a year ago, with composite prices
down 4.3 percent.  Home  construction , which helped lift Canada’s economy out
of recession, has been a  drag  on growth over the past year,
falling in the first quarter at an annualized 4.7 percent pace,
the third-straight drop, according to Statistics Canada data on
gross-domestic product data last week.  The impact of policy changes by Flaherty and others are
beginning to fade, Toronto Real Estate Board President Ann
Hannah said in today’s release.  “A growing number of households who put their decision to
purchase on hold as a result of stricter lending guidelines are
starting to become active again in the ownership market,”
Hannah said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  