-- Osborne Says Transaction Tax Unlawfully Extraterritorial
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-06-05T23:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/osborne-says-transaction-tax-unlawfully-extraterritorial.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said a European Union plan to tax financial
transactions with ties to participating nations is “unlawfully
extraterritorial” and would hinder growth in the region.  Responding to a May 21 letter by European financial-services lobby groups expressing their concerns about the
proposed levy, Osborne called for the plan to be limited in its
scope.  “If this FTT is to proceed, then I believe it should be
significantly scaled back, with the objective of growth central
to the thinking of policy makers in any redesign,” he said in
the letter, published by the Treasury in London yesterday. “The
U.K. stands ready to support in these discussions.” The plan is
“poorly designed” and “badly timed,” he said.  Britain began a legal challenge in April at the  European
Court  of Justice in  Luxembourg  to protect itself from the plan,
which would charge a 0.1 percent rate on stock and bond trades
and 0.01 percent on derivatives transactions, the same as a
previously failed proposal for all 27 EU countries. The tax
could be collected worldwide as soon as the start of next year
by the 11 EU nations that have so far signed up to talks.  The U.K. “strongly” objects to the “deemed establishment
basis of the tax which will penalize financial institutions in
non-participating member states and designate investors from
those countries as established in the FTT zone by virtue of who
their trading counterparty is,” Osborne said in the letter.  The EU estimates the tax could raise 30 billion euros ($39
billion) to 35 billion euros a year. To become law, it has to be
approved by the participating nations. The 11 countries that
have signed up to discuss the plan are  Belgium , Germany,
 Estonia , Greece, Spain, France, Italy,  Austria , Portugal,
Slovenia and Slovakia. All 27 EU nations can sit in on the talks
and have the option to join.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  