-- Moscow Evacuates 4,500 From Stalin-Era Subway System After Fire
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-06-05T09:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/moscow-evacuates-4-500-from-stalin-era-subway-system-after-fire.html
A fire in a Moscow metro tunnel led
authorities to evacuate about 4,500 people from stations by the
Kremlin, snarling traffic in the center of the Russian capital,
according to the Emergencies Ministry.  The power-cable fire at 8:20 a.m. local time sent billows
of smoke into the Okhotny Ryad and Lenin Library metro stations.
At least 47 people sought medical help and seven were
hospitalized, according the Emergencies Ministry.  Europe ’s busiest metro, opened by Soviet dictator  Josef Stalin  in 1935, now carries more than 8 million people a day on
average now through 188 stations, according to the Moscow
Metropolitan’s website. Moscow is planning $55 billion of
investment in roads, metro lines and infrastructure to boost use
of public transportation by 45% and ease traffic, Sergey
Cheremin, Moscow government minister for external economic and
international relations, said in February.  “We’re on our way, we’ve been on our way for three hours
already,” Ekaterina Goryacheva, 24, a logistics specialist,
said at the exit of the Oktyabrskaya metro stop, located on a
different line from where the fire occurred. “Nothing’s
working, there’s no information, nothing.”  Last year Moscow announced a plan to sell shares of its
subway system, one of the world’s busiest, to attract capital
for development through 2025.  Crowds formed at bus stops, and buses were so full that
people couldn’t get on. Thirty buses and six trolleybuses were
added to regular routes, the Moscow government’s transport
department said on its  website . Psychologists and rescue workers
were assisting passengers, the Emergencies Ministry said.  Smoke, Suspension  Transportation was suspended along the Sokolnicheskaya
metro line from Park Kultury to Komsomolskaya, which serves
three of the city’s biggest train stations. Service resumed
after 12 p.m. It was halted again within 40 minutes after smoke
was detected again, RIA Novosti reported.  Moscow Mayor  Sergei Sobyanin , a former chief of staff to
President  Vladimir Putin , made easing transportation and
uprooting corruption his focus after taking over in 2010 from
Yury Luzhkov, who had governed the city of 11.5 million for 18
years.  Sobyanin said yesterday he is seeking to hold the city’s
first direct election in a decade, two years before his term
ends, to capitalize on his popularity in a bid for a new five-year term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  