-- Hovnanian Reports Profit as Home Sales and Orders Climb
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-06-05T14:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/hovnanian-reports-profit-as-home-sales-and-orders-climb.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. , the  best-performing  U.S. homebuilder stock in the past year, rose the
most in almost three months after reporting a surprise quarterly
profit as it benefited from the U.S. housing recovery.  Net income for the fiscal second quarter ended April 30 was
$1.3 million, or 1 cent a share, compared with $1.8 million, or
2 cents, a year earlier, the Red Bank, New Jersey-based company
said today in a statement. The average of nine analyst  estimates 
was for a loss of 5 cents a share, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hovnanian, the largest homebuilder in New Jersey, has been
working to reduce costs and add more communities to benefit from
the recovery. A tight  inventory  of previously owned properties
has boosted demand for new houses.  Purchases  of new homes
advanced 2.3 percent in April to a 454,000 annual pace, the
second-fastest since July 2008, Commerce Department data show.  “Throughout the spring selling season, our communities
experienced strong demand,” Chief Executive Officer  Ara Hovnanian  said in the statement. “We raised home prices in many
of our communities across the country, which have more than
offset any increases in labor or material costs we have
experienced to date.”  Hovnanian climbed 5.7 percent to $6.31 at 10 a.m. in New
York, the biggest gain in the 13-company Bloomberg Industries
homebuilding  index . It earlier rose to $6.40, the highest
intraday price since March 19. The stock has jumped 271 percent
in the 12 months through yesterday, compared with a 96 percent
advance for the index.  Revenue, Contracts  Revenue  increased to $423 million in the quarter from
$341.7 million a year earlier. Net contracts climbed 9.9 percent
to 1,950 homes. Hovnanian’s contract backlog, an indication of
future sales, rose 23 percent to 2,827 homes.  Hovnanian will be profitable for fiscal 2013, excluding any
early retirement of debt, the CEO said. The builder has suffered
from relatively high borrowing expenses, preventing consistent
profitability and limiting its ability to replenish land as
sales improve.  Toll Brothers Inc., the largest U.S. luxury-home builder,
last month reported quarterly earnings that beat estimates and
the most orders since 2006.  “Hovnanian continues to trail the pace of recovery for the
group,”  Vicki Bryan , an analyst at New York-based debt
researcher Gimme Credit LLC, said before the results were
released. “They’re being pulled higher by the general
improvement in the  new-home  market but they’re struggling for
average.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  