-- How Larry Ellison Is Destroying the America’s Cup
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2013-06-05T22:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/how-larry-ellison-is-destroying-the-america-s-cup.html
After  Larry Ellison  finally took
possession of the America’s Cup in 2010, he had grand plans for
the race. He would transform this elite, gentleman’s sport into
a TV spectacle for the masses: Nascar on  San Francisco Bay .
Ellison  was going to  reinvent the cup for “the Facebook
generation, not the Flintstones generation.” Yes,  disruptive
innovation  was coming to sailing!  In a way, Ellison has been true to his word. The result is
the sports equivalent of Apple’s Newton or Microsoft’s Bob: a
disruptive, innovative, colossal failure.  The America’s Cup, which likes to  describe itself  as “the
oldest trophy in international sport,” dates to an 1851 race
around the Isle of Wight in which an American schooner beat 15
members of  England ’s Royal Yacht Squadron. The winning crew
donated the trophy to the  New York  Yacht Club, under the
condition that it be held in trust as a challenge trophy to
“promote friendly competition among nations.”  I’m not sure exactly what they meant by that. But I’m
pretty sure they didn’t have in mind the  years of litigation 
that accompanied Ellison successfully wrestling the cup away
from his longtime nemesis, the Italian-born Swiss billionaire
Ernesto Bertarelli. With the trophy safely in hand, Ellison set
about realizing his deluded dreams.  Drunken Skipper  As the greatest prize in yachting, the cup has long been
coveted by the world’s richest men. Tea magnate Thomas Lipton
tried five times between 1899 and 1930 to win the cup and never
did. More recently,  Ted Turner  won it in 1977, though he’s
probably better remembered for turning up drunk at his post-victory news conference than for the race itself. Now there is
Ellison, the founder and chief executive officer of Oracle
Corp., who has spent hundreds of millions of dollars over the
years in pursuit of the cup. He won it three years ago and will
defend it this summer.  Ellison, however, is no ordinary billionaire. He is a
Silicon Valley billionaire, and thus sees it as his sacred duty
to disruptively innovate -- or is it innovatively disrupt? --
every industry he can, whether it be software or yachting. The
America’s Cup was the perfect vehicle for his entrepreneurial
evangelism: One of its quirks is that the winner of the last
race basically gets to set the rules for the next one.  What Ellison wanted was bigger, faster boats. Specifically,
72-foot-long catamarans with massive, computer-controlled fixed
“sails.” (They’re not sails that you or I would recognize, the
sort that billow in the wind. More like the wing of a Boeing
747, only upright and 13 stories tall.) The boats can travel up
to 50 miles per hour, riding above the surface of the water on
rudders and carbon-fiber blades. Is this even “sailing”?  Ellison liked these big, fast boats because he thought they
would make better television. And  he was sure  that sailing
belonged on television. To that end, he hired the mastermind who
brought the virtual first-down line to the NFL’s broadcasts and
the glowing hockey puck to the NHL’s. Ellison was going to turn
sailing into a spectator sport. Even if that meant buying the
airtime himself to get any of the races leading up to the cup --
the “America’s Cup World Series,” as he called them -- on TV.  Where do Ellison’s dreams of revolutionizing sailing stand
now, with the start of the competition just weeks away? Instead
of 15 teams contending for the cup, as he had imagined, there
are just four. (Bertarelli is among those who dropped out.)
There are two main reasons for this.  Frightened Crew  First, amazingly enough, it turns out that not even
yachting billionaires are prepared to spend the $100 million it
takes to build and maintain boats that meet Ellison’s absurd
specifications. Second, it turns out that sailors don’t
necessarily want to sail them. Last month, one of the boats
capsized, killing the British Olympic gold medalist Andrew
“Bart” Simpson. (Like “sail,” the term “sailor” may need
updating: These aren’t guys in polo shirts and Sperry Top-Siders. America’s Cup racers now wear padded body armor and
crash helmets and carry oxygen tanks.)  Of course, no story of a megalomaniacal billionaire
imposing his will on a sport would be complete without the
fleecing of taxpayers. The city of  San Francisco  has spent
millions to redevelop its waterfront for the race, even as it
has come to grips with the reality that Ellison’s promises of
“economic activity” around the cup were mostly just hype.
Russell Coutts, his team’s CEO, is now acknowledging that
mistakes have been made, and suggesting that whoever wins this
year’s cup will probably opt for smaller, safer boats.  That’s a start, but it’s hardly enough. In Silicon Valley,
they  like to say  that failure is a prerequisite for success. In
yachting the lesson is slightly different: Innovation doesn’t
always equal progress. Also, it may be possible for one man to
singlehandedly destroy the sport’s oldest and most famous race.  So no hard feelings, Larry. But maybe yachting would be
better off if you spent a little more alone time on that
Hawaiian  island of yours . In the meantime, the America’s Cup can
go back to wooden yachts and Newport,  Rhode Island , where it
belongs.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
He is the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the
Bronx Is Burning” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 