-- How New Styles Made the ‘New Woman’ of the Roaring ’20s
-- B y   L i n d a   S i m o n
-- 2013-06-05T18:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/how-new-styles-made-the-new-woman-of-the-roaring-20s.html
“The Great Gatsby” is back, along
with the glittering splendor, opulent parties, nightclubs and
 slinky fashions  of the Roaring Twenties. Tiffany & Co. is
celebrating with Jazz Age jewels; Brooks Brothers Inc. has
rolled out a Gatsby line of menswear. Vogue featured the movie’s
star, the U.K. actress Carey Mulligan, on its cover.  In Baz Luhrmann’s rendering of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s 1925
novel, Mulligan is Daisy, the slender and rich young woman with
whom Jay Gatsby -- in this case, a suave Leonardo DiCaprio -- is
obsessively in love. She is perfect for the part of the
fashionable “new woman,” slim-hipped and small-breasted, who
can pull off wispy, knee-length evening dresses and lean, no-waist chemises.  By 1925, changes in fashion that had begun early in the
century had culminated in the “flapper” style. No longer did
women manipulate their bodies into the voluptuous hour-glass
shape that had prevailed in the late 19th century. They refused
fashions that accentuated bosoms and buttocks, features that
were meant to signal their suitability for motherhood. The new
look advertised sexuality, not procreation.  Flowing Lines  Fashion designers both created women’s desires and
responded to them. The French couturier Paul Poiret, for
example, proclaimed that he liberated women in 1903, when he
dispensed with styles that required a boned corset. Poiret,
Jeanne Lanvin, Coco Chanel and many other prominent designers
featured clothing that flowed sinuously over a woman’s body.
These designs, lauded in fashion magazines, were copied for
department stores and local shops; women who sewed for
themselves easily found patterns. Instead of being laced into
wasp-waisted gowns, a woman could slide on a soft jersey dress,
or Chanel’s unadorned little black dress, or a long, knit
cardigan over a jaunty, open-necked shirt.  Fashion historians offer various explanations for this
revolution: Women had moved into the workplace and refused to be
encumbered by heavy floor-length dresses and layers of
petticoats; they were engaging in sports, such as tennis and
golf, and needed clothing that allowed them to move freely; they
expressed their desire for power by wearing asexual, androgynous
or masculine styles.  Economic historians offer other explanations: The war
created a fabric shortage, so less was available for clothes;
also, with more employment opportunities in business and
factories, it became difficult to find domestic help, so women
preferred clothing that didn’t require excessive cleaning and
care.  Whatever the reasons, women’s fashion magazines, as early
as 1908, noted a new trend: “The fashionable figure is growing
straighter and straighter, less bust, less hips,” Vogue
announced, “and a wonderfully long, slender suppleness about
the limbs.” The ideal look for women was “boyish” and
youthful. But then, as now, few women had those attributes.
Then, as now, the fashion industry stepped in to help.  Corsets never went away. Instead, they were transformed
into rubber and elastic foundation garments that compressed the
breasts, stomach and hips to create the straight line that women
coveted. Only with these compression garments, Vogue admonished,
could women achieve the “uncorseted” look.  “To carry the look of youth, your form must radiate the
magnetism and virility of girlhood,” announced an advertisement
for one company’s “Feather-Light Elastic Vest.”  Dieting Craze  Fad diets became popular. Some women noticed that smoking
dulled their appetite; others opted to follow strict reduction
plans, sometimes prescribing no more than 700 calories a day.
 Lulu Hunt Peters ’s “Diet and Health, With Key to the
Calories,” aimed specifically at women, was America’s top-selling nonfiction book in 1924 and 1925. Besides playing tennis
and bicycling, women engaged in gymnastics as a means to control
their weight. Most drastically, some resorted to cosmetic
surgery to achieve the slim, shapely leg that now was revealed
by knee-length skirts. Surgeons who had treated wounded soldiers
discovered a new clientele: women who hated their bodies.  For women in the 1920s, a slender body was evidence of
self-discipline and will power. Control of one’s silhouette
became a statement of modernity, denoting moral, intellectual
and especially sexual freedom. Ironically, this freedom had to
be attained through repression. “The whole duty of a woman,”
Vogue said, “is to devote herself exclusively to the shrinking
of her shadow.”  The women who populate the new Gatsby movie are, as
Fitzgerald described them, “young and rich and wild.” They
wear diamonds, silver slippers and diaphanous dresses dripping
with beads. They flit, Fitzgerald wrote, “like moths among the
whisperings and the champagne and the stars” past tables laden
with “spiced baked hams” and “pastry pigs and turkeys
bewitched to a dark gold.” They will eat little, though, of the
feast. Fitzgerald’s novel is about desire, about what money can,
and cannot, buy. Women in the 1920s desired a new way of being;
the fashion industry translated that desire into baubles, beads,
jersey and silk -- and a body image as constricting as the most
unyielding whalebone corset.  ( Linda Simon  is the author of “Chanel” and “Dark Light:
Electricity and Anxiety From the Telegraph to the X-Ray.” The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Linda Simon at  lsimon@skidmore.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  