-- P&G Reorganizes Into Four Industry Groups Under New CEO
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-06-06T20:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/p-g-reorganizes-into-four-industry-groups.html
Procter & Gamble Co ., the world’s
largest consumer-products maker, will streamline its businesses
into four industry-based groups as recently returned Chief
Executive Officer A.G. Lafley works to reignite growth.  The groups will be global baby, feminine and family care;
global beauty; global health and grooming; and global fabric and
home care, the Cincinnati-based company said in a statement
yesterday.  “We expect this structure to facilitate faster global
expansion of brand and product innovations to win with
consumers,” Lafley said in the statement. “Taken together,
these organization changes will help us operate better and
faster as one unified team to win.”  P&G is reorganizing after bringing back Lafley as CEO two
weeks ago to replace Bob McDonald, who had succeeded him in
2009. The company had been losing market share in some of its
established businesses to competitors such as Unilever.  The shares  rose  0.2 percent to $76.82 at the close in  New
York . P&G has climbed 13 percent this year, compared with a 14
percent advance for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   The four units will be overseen by executives from within
P&G. Martin Riant will serve as president of the global baby,
feminine and family care unit, Deborah Henretta will head the
global beauty group and Giovanni Ciserani will be president of
global fabric and home care, the company said.  ‘Outside Interests’  David Taylor , currently president of global home care, will
become president of global health and grooming. Taylor will also
take over responsibilities of Jorge Mesquita, head of pet care,
who is leaving the company “to pursue outside interests,” P&G
said. Charles Pierce, president of global oral care, will also
take the duties for new business creation and innovation from
Mesquita. He will report to Taylor for oral care and to Lafley
for new business.  The four divisional heads will report directly to Lafley.
They may also be in line to succeed the newly returned CEO, a
person familiar with the matter, who requested anonymity because
the issue is private, said last week.  In addition to the structural changes, Dimitri Panayotopoulos, the current vice chairman of global business
units, will become vice chairman and adviser to Lafley as of
July 1. Lafley is both chairman and CEO of P&G.  Panayotopoulos will report to Lafley, as will Melanie Healey, president of  North America  and global hyper, super and
mass channel, and Werner Geissler, vice chairman of global
operations.  Renewing Focus  Lafley, who stepped aside almost four years ago, returned
to replace McDonald on May 23 with immediate effect. The 65-year-old executive has said he will continue a turnaround plan
that McDonald embarked on last year aiming at cutting $10
billion in costs through 2016 and renewing focus on the
company’s leading businesses.  P&G’s sales growth has averaged 2 percent over the past
three years, compared with 8.7 percent for Unilever, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. The company’s fourth-quarter forecast trailed analysts’ estimates, prompting the
shares to plunge the most in more than four years.  In established markets, P&G has lost customers in such key
categories as detergents. The beauty business, which last year
generated 24 percent of sales, is waning as competitors such as
 L’Oreal SA (OR)  gain share in  emerging markets .  McDonald, 59, will retire on June 30 after 33 years of
service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  