-- Palm Oil Reserves in Malaysia Seen Dropping for Fifth Month
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-06-05T10:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/palm-oil-reserves-in-malaysia-seen-dropping-for-fifth-month-1-.html
Palm oil  inventories in Malaysia, the
world’s second-largest producer, probably fell for a fifth month
in May to the lowest level in almost a year, according to a
Bloomberg survey. Futures climbed to a two-month high.  Stockpiles dropped 3.5 percent to 1.86 million metric tons,
the least since June 2012, the median of estimates from two
plantation companies and three analysts showed. Output rose 4.6
percent to 1.43 million tons and  exports  declined 2 percent to
1.42 million tons, the survey showed. The data are due for
release on June 10.  Palm oil prices have lost 19 percent over the past year as
supply outpaced demand for the commodity used in everything from
biofuels to noodles. While prices may gain this month as demand
grows ahead of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan in July, they
will resume the decline after that as output climbs and reserves
rebound, according to Dorab Mistry, a Godrej International Ltd.
director who’s traded the commodity for more than 30 years.  “We’re not really seeing a drawdown in inventories
globally, what we’re seeing is a reallocation of inventories
away from Malaysia into  China  and  India ,” said  Abah Ofon , an
analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in  Singapore . “That may put a
damper on how much more can be absorbed by these two big
importers over the next two months.”  India’s cooking oil stockpiles were 1.8 million tons on May
1 compared with 1.56 million tons a year earlier and a record
2.12 million tons in March, according to the Solvent Extractors’
Association of India. Palm oil inventories at major ports in
China rose to a record, exceeding 1.5 million tons in the week
of May 10, according to China Cereals & Oils Business Net.  Monthly Gain  Palm oil for delivery in August advanced 1.1 percent to
2,401 ringgit ($779) a ton on the Bursa  Malaysia  Derivatives,
the highest price at close for most-active futures since March
28. Prices gained 4.9 percent in May, snapping a run of three
monthly losses.  “Stockpiles could just range between 1.8 million to 2.1
million tons from now until the end of the year,” Arhnue Tan,
an analyst at Alliance Investment Bank Bhd., said by phone.
Prices may average at 2,600 ringgit a ton over the rest of 2013,
Tan said in a report yesterday.  While Ramadan is expected to help maintain buying interest
from importers, higher levels of stockpiles in India and China
may limit the upside in prices, Rabobank International analysts
led by Luke Chandler said in a report e-mailed on May 23.
Communal meals during the month lift palm oil consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  