-- Paul Smith Re-Enters China to Woo Wealthy Customers
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-06-05T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/paul-smith-re-enters-china-to-woo-wealthy-customers.html
Paul Smith Ltd., the British fashion
label, plans to open 25 outlets in  China  in the next five years
as it re-enters the world’s second-largest economy to tap
wealthy customers for growth.  The brand, worn by former English footballer  David Beckham 
and actor  George Clooney , will focus on establishing outlets in
Tianjin, Beijing, Shanghai and Chengdu and has no plans for
smaller cities in the next five years, Paul Smith, the founder
and designer of the fashion house, said in an interview.  “It’s starting to be the time when we can have a success
in China,” the 66-year-old owner with long silver gray hair 
dressed in navy blue suit said in Beijing at the opening of his
first flagship store in China yesterday. “Chinese people now
are traveling a lot to London, Paris, Milan and New York” and
they have becoming increasingly aware of the brand, he said.  Paul Smith  joins  Prada SpA (1913)  and  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  in
expanding in China as consumers’ rising purchasing power draws
global brands to Asia. Urban disposable income per capita in the
world’s most populous country jumped 10.8 percent to $1,196 in
the first quarter from $1,079 a year ago.  Known for slim-fitting suits and bold colors, Paul Smith is
returning to China after an unsuccessful first attempt in 2002
because at that time most consumers in the country with new
money preferred brands that could show off wealth, he said. The
company had exited China in 2007.  “We have more customers in China now who want discreet and
more understated simple design,” Smith said. “Paul Smith isn’t
a brand for people longing for an association of a logo.”  Flagship Store  Painted in pink and yellow, the 359-square-meter duplex
store is located in Sanlitun in Beijing, a shopping district
with stores including Prada’s Miu Miu and  Kering (KER) ’s Balenciaga.  The closely held company, owned 60 percent by the founder,
has shops in London, Paris, Hong Kong, Tokyo and New York. Its
Beijing flagship store, as well as other new outlets in China,
will be managed in partnership with ImagineX Group, a
distributor whose affiliate company is Hong Kong luxury
department store Lane Crawford.  “To expand in China as an independent designer, the
biggest challenge is getting the right store location,” Alice
Wong, executive director of ImagineX Group, the label’s  Greater
China  distributor, said in a separate interview. “The designer
must first persuade the landlord before courting customers.”  Chinese consumers last year overtook U.S. shoppers to
become the world’s biggest buyers of  luxury goods , accounting
for 25 percent of global sales through purchases at home and
abroad, Bain & Co. said in a report in December.  ImagineX is a Hong Kong-based brand management and
distribution company that represents about 20 international
brands in Asia, according to its  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  