-- Perion Will Announce New Search Partner: Israel Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-06-06T07:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/perion-will-announce-new-search-partner-israel-overnight.html
Perion Network Ltd. (PERI) , the Israeli
software maker whose partners include  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) ’s Bing, will announce an agreement with one of the world’s
biggest search engines in July as it seeks to diversify its
revenue sources, Chief Executive Officer Josef Mandelbaum said.  “We have signed with a fourth search partner, it’s a done
deal,” Mandelbaum said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in  New York  yesterday, declining to identify the
company. “We sign multiple deals because it is healthier for
the company, as opposed to growing with only one partner.”  Shares of Perion have surged 50 percent this year, even
after slumping 4.5 percent yesterday amid a global decline in
stocks spurred by concern that growth is slowing. The Bloomberg
Israel-US Equity Index of the most-traded Israeli companies in
the U.S. slipped for the second time in three days, led by
CaesarStone Sdot Yam Ltd. Drug developer  Prolor Biotech Inc. (PBTH) 
dropped 3.8 percent, the biggest among dually listed companies.  Perion is pursuing new partners after Google, which halted
automatic software downloads Feb. 1, contributed all of its
search revenue last year. The Tel Aviv-based company has since
entered accords with Bing and Oakland, California-based Ask.com
while announcing a two-year extension of its partnership with
Google. Mandelbaum said no single provider will make up more
than 50 percent of search revenue by the end of this year.  Record Revenue  The Bloomberg Israel-US Index fell 1 percent to 90.84, a
one-month low. The shares in Tel Aviv dropped 3.5 percent to
49.75 shekels, or the equivalent of $13.59, at 10:45 a.m. in
 Israel . The benchmark TA-25 Index of stocks slipped 0.1 percent
to 1,225.17.  The maker of products that simplify the use of e-mail and
social networking websites is keeping its record $110 million
annual revenue forecast announced in January, which would imply
an 83 percent increase from 2012, according to Mandelbaum. On
average, the four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate
revenue of $117 million for the company this year. Perion’s CEO
forecasts annual revenue of as much as $300 million in 2016.  “Any time you diversify sources of revenue, it’s a
positive for the company,” Jared Schramm, a  Newport Beach ,
California-based analyst at Roth Capital Partners LLC, said by
phone yesterday. He has a buy recommendation on the stock.
“Their acquisition strategy has been very successful. The
company enjoys a strong relationship with Google and is in a
pretty unique space based on what they do.”  ‘More Attractive’  Perion, which spent about $40 million on the purchase of
Israeli consumer Internet company SweetPacks in November, is
seeking other acquisitions and has “no immediate” buyback or
dividend plans, Mandelbaum said.  “We want to invest in growth,” he said. “The SweetPacks
acquisition really helped give us much more scale, which just
made us more attractive at the dance. I can’t buy a $100 million
company today, but there are things we can do.”  While the Nasdaq accounts for about 90 percent of trading
on Perion’s shares, Mandelbaum said the company has no current
plans of delisting in Israel.  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , which
makes data transferral and storage software, will be
“voluntarily” delisted from the  Tel Aviv  Stock Exchange, the
company said in a May 30 statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  