-- Pig-Disease Outbreak Detected in 11 States, University Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-06-05T23:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/pig-disease-outbreak-detected-in-11-states-university-says-1-.html
A hog disease called porcine epidemic
diarrhea virus, after spreading to 11 states in less than two
months, poses no risk to consumer safety, according to Greg
Stevenson of the veterinary diagnostic lab at  Iowa State
University .  “It’s been so important to communicate to people that it
doesn’t affect the quality of pork,” Stevenson, a senior
diagnostic pathologist at Iowa State in Ames, said in an
interview after a presentation at the World Pork Expo in  Des
Moines . “It doesn’t infect people. It’ll have no impact on the
quality of what you eat or the safety of what you eat.”  Twenty-six of the 103 confirmed cases are on sow farms,
which affects piglets, Stevenson said, citing data from Iowa
State and the  University of Minnesota . Some farms reported
mortality rates of 90 percent in suckling piglets, which are
typically three weeks old or younger, and the other cases were
non-sow farms with older animals that typically recover from the
illness, he said.  The disease “shouldn’t affect the market at all,”
according to Stevenson.  Iowa, the biggest U.S. pork producer, has the most
confirmed cases, he said. Ohio, Oklahoma,  South Dakota ,
Colorado, Illinois,  Indiana , Michigan,  Minnesota ,  Missouri  and
Nebraska had a least one each, he said.  USDA Announcement  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  reported a detection of
PEDV on May 17 and noted that it doesn’t affect people and is
not a food-safety concern. PEDV is not a trade-restrictive
disease and is widespread in many countries, said Paul Sundberg,
vice president of science and technology for the National Pork
Board.  The data doesn’t show how may litters were impacted, so the
groups don’t know how many animals died, said Liz Wagstrom, the
chief veterinarian for the National Pork Producers Council.  “We’re a long way from making a large impact on a large
number of pigs,” Wagstrom said, noting that it’s been “very
dramatic” for the affected farms. The U.S. sow herd was 5.83
million head as of March 1, USDA data show.  The Pork Board allocated $450,000 in research funds to find
out how this disease is spread and how to control it, the
industry group said in statement today.  The  American Association  of Swine Veterinarians, USDA,
National Pork Producers Council, Pork Board and state diagnostic
labs are working together to investigate the source of the
virus, Wagstrom said.  As part of the investigation, samples are being collected
from infected animals, and the groups are conducting an
epidemiological survey, which is a 15-page questionnaire sent to
the veterinarians of infected farms, assessing the inputs that
went into operations that had PEDV, Wagstrom said. They will
compare that to surveys of uninfected farms.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  