-- Pimco Sees Fed Refraining From Asset Sales for Up to Five Years
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2013-06-05T13:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/pimco-sees-fed-refraining-from-asset-sales-for-up-to-five-years.html
The Federal Reserve probably will
refrain from selling assets from its balance sheet over the next
three to five years as the U.S. falls short of a return to full
employment, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.,
manager of the world’s largest fixed income fund.  Writing in the company’s latest Secular Outlook, managing
director Josh Thimons said Pimco expects the U.S. economy to
grow in a range of 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent per year over the
next three to five years. While the economy will benefit from
such “pockets of strength” as increased energy output, it will
be held back by an “unsustainable fiscal situation,” he said.  As the expansion continues in the coming years, the Fed
will begin raising interest rates in a move toward “policy
normalization,” Thimons said. The central bank’s target for the
federal funds rate, the  interest rate  that commercial banks
charge each other for overnight loans, currently stands near
zero.  The Fed’s balance sheet though will “likely be elevated
for years to come and the proactive sale of assets is unlikely”
over the next three to five years, Thimons added.  The central bank currently is buying $85 billion of debt
per month in an effort to boost employment. The purchases have
expanded Fed assets to about $3.4 trillion.  The Newport Beach, California-based Pimco has said it is
shying away from risky investments because it sees a growing
disconnect between the performances of financial markets and the
global economy. Its  Pimco Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  suffered the first
client withdrawals since 2011 last month as global bond markets
tumbled the most in nine years.  Industrial Nations  Thimons said the U.S. economy is “much further along the
road to repair” than other developed nations. As such, the
dollar may strengthen in the longer term against the currencies
of other industrial nations, though it will probably weaken
against those of faster-growing  emerging markets , he said.  Writing in the same article to be posted today on Pimco’s
website, executive vice president Lupin Rahman said the medium-term outlook for Latin America is “broadly constructive.”  “We expect overall Latin American growth to be in the 4
percent to 5 percent range and inflation to be relatively
contained over the next three to five years,” she said.  Rahman singled out Colombia, Mexico and  Peru  as probable
strong performers over that time frame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  