-- Poland Cuts Benchmark Interest Rate to Record Low 2.75%
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2013-06-05T15:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/poland-cuts-benchmark-rate-to-record-low-2-75-.html
Polish central bank Governor  Marek Belka  signaled that the end of monetary easing may be nearing
after policy makers cut borrowing costs to a record low as the
economy grapples with its worst slowdown in four years.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw lowered the  reference
rate  by a quarter-point to 2.75 percent today, matching the
estimate of 38 of 40  economists  surveyed by Bloomberg. The
central bank will give more “decisive” guidance on its future
policy next month after receiving new projections for inflation
and growth, Belka said after the decision.  “It would be an over-interpretation to say the easing
cycle has ended,” Belka told reporters in Warsaw. “The cycle
is coming to an end, but we’re not there yet. We are close to an
interest rate level that the majority of policy makers would
regard as adequate.”  Policy makers have reduced borrowing costs by two
percentage points since November to battle the slowdown. The
easing reduces the risk of inflation remaining below the bank’s
2.5 percent target and supporting growth, the Council said in
today’s statement.  The zloty extended a decline after Belka’s comment, trading
0.8 percent lower at 4.2715 per euro at 5:07 p.m. in Warsaw. The
 yield  on the two-year government bond rose two basis points to
2.69 percent.  The central bank has cut borrowing costs as the euro-area
debt crisis curbed first-quarter growth to its weakest since
2009. While a report this week showed a contraction in
manufacturing was moderating,  inflation  is at the slowest in
seven years.  Kick-Start  Central bankers across eastern Europe have been easing
monetary policy to kick-start flagging economic growth. Hungary
cut its benchmark rate to a record-low 4.5 percent May 28, while
Czech policy makers are considering selling the koruna to boost
exports after reducing borrowing costs to effectively zero.  Poland’s central bank, which raised rates last May even as
the economic slowdown was under way, is facing outside calls to
ease policy. The International Monetary Fund last month urged a
reduction in interest rates “without delay” as the
government’s ability to spur growth through spending is limited.  The Finance Ministry narrowed last year’s  budget deficit  to
3.9 percent of gross domestic product, missing EU requirements
as the economic slowdown curbed tax revenue. It has until Oct. 1
to announce or take measures to trim next year’s gap to within
the 27-member bloc’s 3 percent limit.  ‘Ineffective Cuts’  Policy makers remain split about the need for further rate
cuts.  Jan Winiecki  said last month that reductions would be
“ineffective” in boosting investment. His colleague,  Andrzej Bratkowski , called on May 22 for a 50 basis-point reduction in
June as there’s “no way” the recovery will be speedy.  Economic growth  slowed to 0.5 percent from a year earlier
in the first quarter, the slowest pace in four years as the euro
area, which buys more than half of Polish exports, remains stuck
in a record-long recession.  GDP will rise 1.1 percent in 2013, the slowest in more than
a decade, as domestic demand “continues to suffer,” according
to  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets analyst at  Danske
Bank A/S  in Copenhagen. It’s “difficult to see much help from
the external environment,” he said June 3 in an e-mailed note.  Downturn Eases  Still, the trough may be near, according to HSBC Holding
Plc. While the increase in May’s purchasing managers index, a
gauge of manufacturing, to 48 from 46.9 in April kept it below
the 50 threshold that signals expansion, it showed “signs of
the downturn easing as new orders, output and employment all
fell at slower rates,” it said June 3 in a statement.  The economy should start to recover “later in the year,”
depending on the performance of the euro area, the IMF predicts.  Market reaction to comments last week by U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  may also deter policy makers
from further rate reductions. The zloty plunged to an 11-month
low and Polish 10-year bond yields jumped to the highest since
April 11 as some investors interpreted his remarks as a sign the
central bank may slow the pace of its bond purchases should the
world’s biggest economy improve.  Policy maker  Elzbieta Chojna-Duch  said last month that
further cuts should be “cautious” as the central bank needs to
maintain a “safety cushion” to protect against the risk of a
pullout by foreign investors from Polish bonds.  “Increased expectations for the Fed scaling down
quantitative easing combined with potentially overly aggressive
monetary easing from the MPC could escalate the currency
weakening and push bond yields higher,”  Radoslaw Bodys , chief
economist at  PKO Bank Polski  SA, said June 3 in an e-mailed
report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  