-- Poorest Euro Entrant Gets Nod as Crisis Quells Latvia Prices
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2013-06-06T09:37:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/poorest-euro-newcomer-gets-nod-as-crisis-quells-latvia-inflation.html
Five years after  Latvia  posted the
European Union’s fastest inflation this century, the Baltic
country where wages are less than a quarter of  Germany ’s has got
the green light to become the euro region’s 18th member.  The nation of 2.1 million yesterday won the European
Commission’s endorsement to switch to the euro in 2014, with a
final decision by European finance ministers due on July 9. Real
gross domestic product per capita of 6,800 euros ($8,900) makes
it the poorest newcomer to the currency area.  As euro membership boosts trade and investment, that wealth
gap makes Latvia more prone to inflation and a repeat of the
2008-2009 crash that erased a quarter of GDP and prompted an
international bailout, according to  ING Groep NV. (INGA)  Having met EU
inflation limits in the wake of its recession and with help from
tax tweaks, keeping prices in check will be a challenge, the
European Central Bank said yesterday.  “These tiny countries suffer from bigger boom-bust cycles
than larger ones,”  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING in
Brussels, said May 31 by phone. “Given the significant
differences in wealth levels, they can hardly be avoided.”  Yields on Latvia’s 2018 euro debt have plunged more than
900 basis points since peaking at 11.358 percent in 2009, when
the government collapsed. They rose 7 points to 1.90 percent at
11:30 a.m. in Riga, the capital.  Purchasing Power  The cost to insure Latvian government debt against non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps reached almost
1,200 basis points in March 2009. The swaps declined 3 points to
118 today, compared with 29 basis points for Germany.  While Latvia met targets for inflation, deficit, debt,
long-term interest rates and currency stability, it had 54
percent of the euro area’s average purchasing power in 2011,
according to Eurostat, the EU’s statistical arm.  That makes the Baltic nation, whose monthly wages are
equivalent to 692 euros compared with 3,391 euros in  Germany ,
poorer than Estonia, Slovakia, Cyprus, Malta, Slovenia and
 Greece  when they adopted the euro, the data show.  “Typically, poor countries have higher rates of inflation
than richer ones,” William Jackson, a London-based economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said May 31 by e-mail. “High inflation
within a currency union can quickly erode a country’s
competitiveness, creating the need for a painful adjustment via
internal devaluation further down the line.”  Eastern Wave  Latvian  inflation  peaked at 17.9 percent in May 2008 as the
wave of eastern nations joining the EU four years earlier drove
an unprecedented boom in the region. In the run-up to the Baltic
country’s crash, foreign banks boosted mortgages almost tenfold,
fueling a property bubble, while real wages doubled and foreign
loans widened the current-account gap to 27 percent of GDP.  In bringing consumer-price growth within EU boundaries,
 Latvia (LAGDCYOY)  relied in part on a sluggish economy in the wake of its
recession and a 2012 reduction of 1 percentage point in the
value-added tax rate. Prices fell 0.4 percent from a year
earlier in April, the first decline since August 2010.  “There are concerns regarding the sustainability of
inflation convergence,” the ECB said yesterday. “Maintaining
low inflation rates in Latvia will be challenging in the medium
term, given monetary policy’s limited room for maneuver.”  Lithuania became the first nation to be rejected for euro
adoption after it breached the inflation threshold amid the boom
in 2006. Estonia complied with the rules as its recession
ushered in 10 months of deflation. Price growth reached 5.7
percent in December 2010, the month before its currency switch.  Changing Fortunes  Much has changed since Latvia’s recession, the world’s
worst at the time. Austerity equal to 16 percent of economic
output helped the government narrow last year’s budget gap to
1.2 percent of GDP from 9.8 percent in 2009. The 7.5 billion-euro bailout was repaid almost three years early.  Following Estonia into the euro region will provide access
to ECB liquidity, helping shield Latvia from aiding banks in the
event of a crisis, Fitch Ratings said May 31 in a statement. The
government took over Parex Banka AS, the nation’s second-biggest
lender, in 2008 after a run on deposits.  Latvia must heed ECB advice to maintain competitiveness by
ensuring salary growth doesn’t outstrip productivity gains and
keep inflation under control by limiting lending, Prime Minister
Valdis Dombrovskis said yesterday in an interview.  “The budget is of course an important element but it’s not
the only element,” he said by phone. “It’s also a question of
credit development, also a question of wage development, of
several other factors.”  ‘Well Integrated’  Latvia’s economy grew 5.6 percent last year, the EU’s
fastest clip, and will probably pace the bloc again in 2013 and
2014 on higher exports of machinery, food and forestry products,
the European Commission predicted May 3. In making its
endorsement yesterday, the commission said the nation is “well
integrated” into the regional economy.  The open nature of Latvia’s economy, where net exports
accounted for 61 percent of GDP last year, means the nation must
keep wage growth in check in order to prosper, according to
Shekhar Aiyar, the IMF’s mission chief to the country. The best
way to cope with the wealth differential is to have rapid
productivity growth, he said.  “That enables a poorer country to join a richer union and
still prosper in it without becoming uncompetitive because of
inflation,” he said in a May 13 interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  