-- Porsche Resumes Cayenne Assembly After Floods Cut Supply
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-06-06T14:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/porsche-to-halt-cayenne-suv-production-as-floods-cut-supplies.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Porsche resumed
production of the Cayenne sport-utility vehicles at its plant in
Leipzig, Germany, after floods in the region brought the
assembly line to a standstill.  “We’re starting today with one shift,” Siegfried Buelow,
head of the plant, said a statement. “The supply situation
however remains critical.” The company will decide day-by-day
how many vehicles can be produced.  Porsche this morning paused production on the line, where
the Cayenne and Panamera four-door coupe are built, because high
water levels in the Czech Republic hampered freight train
delivery of components manufactured in Bratislava, Slovakia.  The floods, triggered by unseasonal heavy rainfall, are
part of the worst in central  Europe  since 2002, when rising
waters overwhelmed towns and cities in Germany,  Austria , the
 Czech Republic  and the Danube region. About 15,000 people have
been evacuated from their homes in the state of Saxony and
thousands more in Saxony-Anhalt and Bavaria. Rail, road and
river traffic has been disrupted by the rising waters.  Pre-assembly work for the Panamera continued during the
day. The plant normally makes 450 cars a day on three shifts,
Julia Pirlich, a spokeswoman of the sports carmaker  said on the
phone today.  The production halt in Leipzig, which is situated in
Saxony, affected several hundred of the 1,250 employees at the
plant, Pirlich said. “Because of our flexible production
system, we’re able to make up for the lost vehicles.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, which also has a plant in
Leipzig, is not facing any production disruption from the
floods, Frank Wienstroth, a company spokesman, said yesterday by
phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  