-- Premier League Revenue to Top 3 Billion Pounds for First Time
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-06-05T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/premier-league-revenue-to-top-3-billion-pounds-for-first-time.html
The combined revenue of teams in
English soccer’s Premier League will leap to more than 3 billion
pounds ($4.6 billion) for the first time next season, according
to Deloitte LLP.  That’s an increase of about 600 million pounds, or almost
25 percent, on the 2012-13 season as income is boosted by the
first year of new broadcasting deals, the accountant said in its
Annual Review of Football Finance.  The report, which focuses on the 2011-12 season, says
revenue rose 4 percent to a record of almost 2.4 billion pounds
in that year, boosted by sponsorship deals for  Manchester United 
and  Manchester City  with Deutsche Post AG’s DHL and  Etihad Airways .
The league’s revenue is estimated to have risen a further 5
percent in the season just ended.  “Despite operating in a challenging economic environment,
English club football’s profile, exposure and increasingly
global interest have continued to drive growth for the top
clubs,” Dan Jones, a partner in Deloitte’s Sports Business
Group, said in a statement.  While the Premier League has the highest revenue of any in
soccer, Germany remained  Europe ’s most profitable league as
stricter licensing rules curbed clubs’ spending on player wages.
Bundesliga clubs had a combined equivalent of 154 million
pounds of operating profit in 2011-12, compared with 98 million
pounds for the Premier League, Deloitte said.  Measured in euros, Premier League teams increased revenue
16 percent for the 2011-12 season, compared with a 7 percent
increase to 1.9 billion euros ($2.5 billion) for the Bundesliga,
Deloitte said.  Bundesliga Boost  Spain ’s La Liga, Europe’s third-richest by sales, had a
combined sales increase of 3 percent to 1.8 billion euros,
according to Deloitte. Revenue in  Italy ’s Serie A rose 1 percent
to 1.6 billion euros, and France’s Ligue 1 had a 9 percent
increase to 1.1 billion euros.  The lower revenue growth in Spain and Italy was because of
more sluggish economies in those countries, Deloitte said.
“Already relatively weak” match-day revenue fell 3 percent in
Italy, the report said.  As well as in profitability, the Bundesliga has the upper
hand in sporting terms in European soccer.  Bayern Munich  beat
Borussia Dortmund 2-1 in last month’s all-German Champions
League final at  London ’s Wembley stadium after Premier League
teams failed to reach even the quarterfinals.  The Premier League’s domestic and international broadcast
deals with British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc and other
companies are worth about 5 billion pounds over the next three
years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  