-- Principle Power Will Sell Stake to Fund Floating Wind Platforms
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2013-06-05T15:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/principle-power-will-sell-stake-to-fund-floating-wind-platforms.html
Principle Power Inc., a renewable-energy developer backed by Spanish oil producer Repsol SA, plans
to sell a stake to fund its floating wind-turbine foundations.  Principle Power will use the money to develop the  WindFloat 
platform and bring it to market,  Alla Weinstein , chief executive
officer of the Seattle-based company, said by telephone. She
declined to say how much the developer plans to raise.  Wind companies are seeking ways to lower costs for offshore
projects as cheaper land-based ventures face hurdles to planning
consent. Floating units can be assembled onshore and towed out,
making deployment easier and installation less expensive. They
also can be used farther from shore, where wind speeds increase.  “Floating wind platforms are potentially exciting because
they would be cheaper to build and maintain than those anchored
on the seabed and not necessarily limited to shallow water,”
 Kristian Rix , a Repsol spokesman, said by e-mail. The oil
company is able to transfer its knowledge of operating offshore
to wind developers at sea, he said.  In April 2012, Principle Power installed a prototype of its
floating foundation equipped with a turbine supplied by Vestas
Wind Systems A/S, as part of a venture with Repsol and Energias
de Portugal SA. The system has so far generated about 5,000
megawatt-hours of electricity off Portugal, where the partners
plan to install more turbines totaling more than 25 megawatts.  U.S., U.K.  Principle is also talking to investors to raise debt and
equity for pilot projects in the U.S. and U.K., Weinstein said.  Floating wind ventures aren’t yet sufficiently advanced to
win project finance,  Richard Simon-Lewis , a senior director at
Lloyds Banking Group Plc, said by e-mail. With only a handful of
prototypes in the water and no utility-scale projects, there’s
“little financing precedent to fall back on,” he said.  Once prototypes have been proven, utilities will probably
back one of the designs for full deployment, which may spur
equity and debt investment, according to Simon-Lewis. “Results
from the demonstration projects currently in operation are very
encouraging,” he said.  Offshore wind currently costs about three times coal-fired
power, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  