-- Productivity in U.S. Rises as Companies Try to Lower Costs
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-06-05T13:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/productivity-in-u-s-rises-as-companies-try-to-lower-costs-1-.html
The productivity of U.S. workers rose
in the first quarter as companies tried to contain labor costs.  The measure of employee output per hour increased at a 0.5
percent annual rate, after a 1.7 percent drop in the prior three
months, revised figures from the Labor Department showed today
in  Washington . The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists called for a 0.6 percent advance. Expenses per worker
slumped at a 4.3 percent rate after surging in the last three
months of 2012 by the most in more than a decade.  Even with the pickup last quarter, productivity grew 0.9
percent in the 12 months ended March compared an average 2.3
percent annual gain in the 11 years through 2011, indicating
companies are reaching the limit of how much efficiency they can
wring from existing staff. For that reason, employment probably
climbed last month at about the same pace as in April even as
the economy shows signs of cooling.  “Productivity is coming in a little on the weaker side,”
said  Jim O’Sullivan , chief U.S. economist at High Frequency
Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, New York, and the only economist in
the Bloomberg survey to correctly forecast the productivity
gain. “Outside of the fiscal drag, we’re getting decent private
sector demand. Companies will continue to hire at a solid
pace.”  Economists’ estimates ranged from gains of 0.1 percent to 1
percent. The reading on productivity was revised from a
previously reported 0.7 percent gain. The figure for the fourth
quarter was unrevised.  Private Employment  Another report today showed companies added fewer workers
than forecast in May. Private employment rose 135,000 after a
revised 113,000 gain in April that was smaller than initially
estimated, the ADP Research Institute reported. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a 165,000 increase in
May.  Stock-index futures remained lower after the figures. The
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index expiring this month
fell 0.3 percent to 1,626.2 at 9:25 a.m. in  New York .  The drop in labor expenses in the first quarter was the
biggest in four years and was revised from a 0.5 percent gain
previously reported. It followed a revised 11.8 percent surge in
the last three months of 2012 that was the biggest jump since
the first quarter of 2000.  The cost revisions reflect the income updates from the
Commerce Department’s gross domestic product figures released
last week. The surge in income in the fourth quarter reflects
early payouts of dividends and bonuses as companies tried to
beat tax increases set to take effect this year.  Labor Costs  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were forecast to rise 0.5 percent, the survey median showed.  Among manufacturers, productivity increased at a 3.5
percent rate compared with a 2.4 percent fourth-quarter gain.  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement chain,
is among companies trying to squeeze more productivity and
contain costs, in part by rearranging labor hours. The Atlanta-based retailer eliminated or switched some tasks, putting the
freed-up hours toward  customer service .  Payrolls probably grew by 167,000 workers in May, after
increasing by 165,000 in April, according to the median forecast
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of payrolls figures
due on June 5. The  unemployment  rate held at a four-year low of
7.5 percent, they predicted.  A slowing economy may prevent the jobless rate from
retreating enough for the  Federal Reserve  to scale back stimulus
any time soon.  The U.S., which expanded at a 2.4 percent annualized rate
in the January to March period, may cool this quarter to a 1.6
percent annualized rate as across-the-board cuts in planned
federal spending occur, according to the median forecast in a
separate Bloomberg survey conducted in May. Growth is projected
to accelerate in the last six months of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  