-- Protest Over Brazil Hydro Drives Delay and Boosts Cost
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-06-06T13:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/protests-over-brazil-hydropower-leads-to-delays-and-boosts-costs.html
(Corrects role of Norte Energia in fifth paragraph and
construction company in sixth in story published June 5.)  Protests by indigenous people in
 Brazil ’s Amazon region over hydroelectric projects are boosting
costs for companies building dams including Odebrecht SA and
Grupo Andrade Gutierrez SA, said Energy Minister Edison Lobao.  The developers “claim that the invasions raise the
projects’ costs, and in fact it does, and can even cause the
stoppage of works,” Lobao told reporters in Brasilia today.  Indigenous groups say the plants threaten the local
environment. The conflict between developers and local tribes
will become more pressing with about 10 new hydro projects
planned in the Amazon region with more than 10,000 megawatts of
capacity over the next decade, according to Erik Eduardo Rego,
director of the energy consulting company Excelencia Energia.  “There will be more problems with projects in the
future,” Rego said by phone today. “Nowadays, the Indians are
very organized. They travel to Brasilia and have good contacts
with media.”  Construction on the Belo Monte hydro plant, on the Xingu
River in Para state, was shut down after about 140 protesters
entered the construction site May 27, a spokeswoman for Norte
Energia SA, which will operate the plant, said today in a
telephone interview.  Work resumed May 31 and the protesters were flown to
Brasilia for meetings with government officials yesterday. She
didn’t want to be named because of company policy. Norte Energia
hired Consorcio Construtor Belo Monte to build the plant, a
group led by Sao Paulo-based builder Grupo Andrade Gutierrez
that includes Camargo Correa SA, Queiroz Galvao SA, Grupo OAS,
Odebrecht and five smaller partners.  Daily Costs  Work delays on a project as big as Belo Monte, which will
be the world’s third-largest hydropower plant when complete, may
cost as much as 3 million reais ($1.4 million) a day, Thais
Prandini, executive director of the Sao Paulo-based research
company Thymos Energia, said today in a telephone interview.  Delaying completion may prompt the government to build more
natural gas-fired plants, she said. “The protests create delays
that impede the development of Brazil’s electricity system.”  Belo Monte was initially expected to be complete in 2016,
and the delays may push that back by as long as two years, Rego
said.  Besides construction expenses, a bigger cost will be
purchasing electricity on the  spot market  that developers are
contractually obligated to deliver, to compensate for power
that’s not generated by incomplete power projects, he said.  Norte Energia may have to pay as much as 10 million reais a
day to buy power, Rego estimated. The developer may be allowed
to renegotiate its contract with the buyer to avoid fines, while
other companies may not be able to do so.  Brazil expects to build 38,375 megawatts of capacity
through 2020 and large hydroelectric plants will account for 68
percent of that, according to the nation’s  energy plan  through
2020.  The Belo Monte project is expected to produce enough energy
to light 18 million homes. The world’s largest hydro plants are
Brazil’s Itaipu site and  China ’s Three Gorges facility.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  