-- Publishers Didn’t Discuss Apple E-Book Talks, CEO Says
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-06-06T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/publishers-didn-t-discuss-apple-e-book-talks-ceo-says.html
The chief executive officer of  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster  unit testified she didn’t know the
details of negotiations between  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and rival publishers
in the weeks before they signed e-book sales agreements.  Carolyn Reidy, the second publishing CEO called as a
witness in the  Justice Department ’s civil antitrust suit against
Apple over e-book pricing, said in Manhattan federal court
yesterday that she didn’t recall talking to any other publishers
about their negotiations in the weeks before five of the six
biggest publishers signed e-book contracts with Apple.  “Not to my recollection, no,” Reidy testified, when asked
if she had discussed the negotiations with any rival publishers.  The government claims Cupertino, California-based Apple led
a conspiracy among the publishers to raise prices and to force
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the No. 1 e-book seller, to abandon its $9.99
price for e-book versions of bestselling books. Justice
Department lawyers claim Reidy and the other CEOs made dozens of
telephone calls to one another in December 2009 and January
2010.  Apple claims it did nothing wrong and is fighting the
government’s charges. The company claims it negotiated with each
of the publishers for its own commercial benefit and was
“indifferent” to how the publishers structured their
agreements with Amazon.  Reidy’s testimony at the non-jury trial before U.S.
District Judge Denise Cote followed that of Penguin Group USA
Inc. CEO David Shanks, who took the stand on June 4.  Apple is the last defendant remaining in the case after the
government reached settlements with the five publishers: Simon &
Schuster, Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH’s Macmillan
unit,  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s Hachette Book Group,  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin
unit and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins. A sixth publisher, Random
House Inc., isn’t involved in the U.S. suit.  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  