-- Publisher Springer Science to Raise $993 Million in IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-06-05T20:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/publisher-springer-science-to-raise-993-million-in-ipo.html
German academic publisher Springer
Science & Business Media GmbH said it plans to raise about 760
million euros ($993 million) in its initial public offering.  Shares of Springer Science, controlled by Swedish buyout
firm EQT Partners AB, are set to start trading in  Frankfurt 
before the summer break, according to a statement today. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. are managing the sale.  German companies including forklift-maker Kion Group GmbH
and the country’s largest residential landlord Deutsche
Annington Immobilien AG are planning to list shares as their
owners seek to tap a rally in equity markets, with the benchmark
 DAX Index (DAX)  gaining over a third in the last 12 months.  EQT is still accepting takeover offers for Springer Science
this month and may scrap the IPO, people familiar with the
matter said last week. The buyout firm hasn’t made a final
decision whether to do the IPO or sell the German publisher,
according to the people. Buyout firms BC Partners Ltd., which is
most interested, as well as KKR & Co. and  Providence Equity
Partners  have until about June 10 to hand in takeover offers,
the people said at the time.  If the IPO happens, about 760 million euros in new shares
will be issued. Springer Science reported adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 343.7
million euros in 2012, the company said.  Springer Science+Business Media Deutschland GmbH, based in
Berlin, has said it will be converted into Springer
Science+Business Media AG before the listing.  The company reported adjusted earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization of 344 million euros last
year, up 12.4 percent from 306 million euros of adjusted Ebitda
in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  