-- Punish the IRS -- by Giving It More Money
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-06-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/punish-the-irs-by-giving-it-more-money.html
Nothing riles up Americans quite like
the taxman. And the Internal Revenue Service, unloved in the
best of times, has had a rocky few weeks.  An inspector general  report  released May 14 said that IRS
employees had been improperly scrutinizing some conservative
groups seeking 501(c)(4) tax-exempt status. One group  alleged 
that the IRS had leaked confidential information about its
donors.  Another report , released this week, said the agency
spent some $49 million on training conferences, with the usual
list of dubious team-building activities, from 2010 to 2012.  The IRS is now under investigation by no fewer than six
congressional committees and faces a criminal probe from the
Justice Department related to the 501(c)(4) scandal. The public
 overwhelmingly  wants to see a special prosecutor appointed. Some
Republicans, overcome by fresh anti-tax enthusiasms, want to
 abolish  the agency.  That won’t happen, much as many Americans may fantasize
about it. But there are a few reforms Congress can undertake to
make the IRS more accountable.  The first concerns personnel. Several officials at the
agency have been placed on leave, and Danny Werfel, the acting
IRS commissioner, must determine if anyone else deserves to go
in response to the recent scandals. The problems go a bit
deeper, though. The agency remains  decentralized , with almost
100,000 employees in offices across the country, and thus
responsibility for errors tends to get diffused. Its agents
often treat even innocent or confused taxpayers as cunning
offenders. And its performance metrics aren’t sophisticated
enough to gauge accurately how well workers are doing.
Incompetent employees should be easier to fire, and the
disciplinary process should be accelerated. Similar problems
afflict the entire federal bureaucracy, and they won’t be easy
to fix. But addressing them might mitigate some of the  arrogance 
and callousness that the public associates with tax agents.  Purse Strings  The second reform has to do with money. Representative Hal Rogers, chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, said he
would consider restricting the IRS’s budget in response to the
recent scandals. “The power of the purse rests in Congress,”
 Rogers said . “We’re prepared to use that purse to get to the
truth.”  Rogers has this dynamic precisely backward. One reason the
IRS performs incompetently is that Congress keeps giving it more
and more complex assignments while giving it less and less
money. The agency’s budget has  declined  every year since 2010,
even as Congress has required it to address everything from
health-care reform to campaign finance to the  nightmarish 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. At the same time, the IRS
workforce decreased by 9 percent from 2010 to the end of 2012,
according to an inspector general’s  report .  The results are clear. The IRS has a backlog of a million
pieces of correspondence. Taxpayers must wait an average of 17
minutes to reach someone on the phone, and only two in three
actually get through. It takes  180 days  to resolve a case of
identity theft. The national taxpayer advocate, Nina Olson,
identified chronic underfunding as one of the  most serious
challenges  facing the agency in her most recent report: “Budget
cuts mean that the IRS will not have the trained personnel or
technology required to administer the laws properly,” she wrote.  Closing Congress’s purse to the IRS, as Rogers threatens,
would only exacerbate these problems while making it harder to
hire competent staff. The agency’s budget should instead be
increased. Olson even recommends fencing off the IRS’s funding
from the rest of the  federal budget  to protect it from political
manipulation. Before you object to this as a reward for failure,
consider that every dollar cut from the IRS would mean about $7
less in taxes collected from those who are gaming the system. To
spell it out: That means  larger deficits .  Simplify, Simplify  Finally, and perhaps most egregiously, the complexity of
the tax code -- at some 4 million words -- surpasses the power
of English adjectives to describe it. People and businesses
spend more than  6 billion hours a year  trying to comply with it.
It needs to be drastically streamlined. But remember: Your taxes
aren’t complicated because the IRS wants them to be. They’re
complicated because Congress made them that way.  That’s why we won’t be able to reform the IRS properly
until we reform our tax system. We’ve argued for an overhaul
that closes most loopholes, lowers rates and simplifies the tax
code. Excessive deductions and exclusions, in particular, foster
a culture in which special interests hold undue influence, IRS
employees must make judgments that exceed their competence and
the agency itself wields too much power.  Prospects for such a comprehensive reform  look dim  at the
moment. Here’s hoping the latest IRS fiasco will concentrate
congressional minds.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 