-- Qatar Ups ‘Efforts’ to Raise Foreign Caps Before MSCI Decision
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-06-05T14:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/qatar-ups-efforts-to-raise-foreign-caps-before-msci-decision.html
Qatar said it’s making “extensive
efforts” to raise foreign ownership limits of companies on its
bourse, a week before  MSCI Inc.  decides whether to upgrade the
nation to emerging market status.  The foreign ownership caps of “several large listed
companies is at or close to 25 percent of their market
capitalization,” the Qatar Exchange cited  Yousef Hussain Kamal ,
the Persian Gulf nation’s finance minister, as saying in an e-mailed statement today. “Several companies have actually
exceeded this percentage.” Most companies in Qatar limit
overseas holdings at 25 percent.  Qatar and the United Arab Emirates are under consideration
for a possible reclassification at MSCI on June 11 from their
frontier-market rankings for the fifth year. The index provider,
whose gauges are tracked by investors managing about $7
trillion, said last year foreign ownership limits in Qatar
needed revising. The caps are the main obstacle to an upgrade,
Citigroup Inc. analyst Maria Gratsova said in a report today.  “The increase in the number of shares available to foreign
investors significantly opens up the market in Qatar,” Kamal
said in today’s statement. “This affirms the commitment of the
government to transform Qatar into a regional investment hub.”  ‘Attractive’ Environment  The nation is “making extensive efforts to provide an
investment environment that is more attractive for foreign
investors to direct their investments towards the Qatari
market,” the statement cited Kamal as saying.  Commercial Bank of Qatar QSC  and  Qatar Islamic Bank  have
requested that the Qatar Exchange increase shares available to
foreign investors to 25 percent of their market capitalization
and changes can be implemented within nine months, with other
companies expected to follow, he said.  Some companies have expressed willingness to amend current
limits set at 25 percent of their free float shares to 25
percent of their full capital, according to the statement.  Industries Qatar, the petrochemicals company with the
second-heaviest weighting on Qatar’s bourse, raised its foreign
ownership limit in September to 12.25 percent from 7.5 percent.
The shares have surged 29 percent since the end of that month.  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. said in an interview on May 21
that Qatar deserves to be raised to emerging status. An upgrade
could result in $430 million flowing into the country, London-based HSBC Holdings Plc analysts Vijay Sumon and Joaquim de Lima
wrote in a research report dated May 31.  New York-based MSCI groups markets according to economic
development, trading volumes and accessibility and categorizes
seven bourses in the Gulf Cooperation Council as frontier
markets.  Qatar’s benchmark  QE Index  has rallied 11 percent this
year, outpacing a drop of 5.7 percent for the  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Tuttle in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  