-- Rand Weakens for Second Day as Yields Rise on Growth Outlook
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-06-05T08:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/rand-weakens-for-second-day-as-yields-rise-on-growth-outlook.html
The rand fell for a second day and
bond yields surged after South African Reserve Bank Governor
Gill Marcus said price stability remains the central bank’s
primary focus even as growth slows.  Inflation may be spurred by a weaker rand, which has
declined 14 percent against the dollar this year, the worst
performer of 16 major currencies monitored by Bloomberg, the
central bank said in its Monetary Policy Review yesterday. The
prospects for capital inflows in South Africa are “less
certain” than in recent years, increasing the risks of funding
the  current-account deficit , the central bank said.  “The rand seems to be the primary inflation risk,” Carmen Nel, a Cape Town-based analyst at Rand Merchant Bank, said in an
e-mail. “The Reserve Bank noted the economy’s vulnerability to
a moderation in capital inflows. This means that an orthodox
policy response to a balance-of-payments crisis, i.e. rate
hikes, is in play.”  South Africa’s currency depreciated 0.4 percent to 9.8674
per dollar as of 10:24 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on 13.5
percent bonds due September 2015 climbed 17 basis points to 5.80
percent, the highest since July.  Forward-rate agreements starting in 12 months jumped 28
basis points to 5.72 percent, the highest in more than a year.
The contracts are trading 60 basis points higher than the
Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating that investors
are pricing in a better-than-even chance of a 50 basis-point
rate increase within the next year.  ‘Higher Prices’  “If you have higher inflation, you’re going to have higher
prices, and you’re going to have higher wage demands,” Marcus
told economists and business executives in  Pretoria , the
capital, yesterday. “As far as we’re concerned the core mandate
of the central bank is price stability.”  The Reserve Bank said it may lower its economic growth
forecast again as mining strikes threaten production. On May 23,
Marcus cut this year’s projection to 2.4 percent from 2.7
percent, while keeping the benchmark interest rate at 5 percent,
the lowest in more than 30 years. The economy expanded an
annualized 0.9 percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace
since the 2009 recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  