-- Real-Linked Bond’s 13% Wipeout Hits Foreigners: Brazil Credit
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-06-05T18:10:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/real-linked-bond-s-13-wipeout-hits-foreigners-brazil-credit.html
Foreign investors are dumping
Brazilian real-denominated bonds sold overseas after the
currency posted the second-biggest plunge in emerging markets.  Yields on the country’s real-linked debt due in 2028 have
jumped 1.12 percentage points in the past month, touching a
record 8.73 percent on June 3. The bonds lost 13.4 percent in
dollars in the period, the worst among local-currency government
notes issued abroad after Peruvian debt. That exceeds the 12.3
percent loss in real-denominated bonds issued locally, which
foreigners had shunned because of taxes. The government pared
back those taxes late yesterday, eliminating a levy on foreign
investment on fixed-income assets that was implemented to slow
the real’s rally in 2009.  Investors are fleeing Brazil’s  $6.4 billion  market for
overseas real bonds after the real sank 6.5 percent in May, the
most among developing nations after South Africa’s rand and part
of a global selloff sparked by concern the Federal Reserve could
trim its bond buying. While central bank President  Alexandre Tombini  intervened for the first time in two months to shore up
the real after it fell to a four-year low on May 31, he said
this week the slide will have a limited effect on inflation,
fueling speculation he’s comfortable with the currency’s level.  “It will be difficult to get back the flows,”  Donato Guarino , a Latin America strategist at Barclays Plc, said by
telephone from New York. “You need to find a catalyst to say
these assets are going to go up in value.”  The central bank declined to comment.  Tax Removed  The real was little changed yesterday at 2.1251 per dollar
after central bank director  Aldo Mendes  said that there is
nothing the bank can do as long as the currency’s depreciation
is linked with that of its peers. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said later he was removing the 6 percent tax on foreigners’
purchases of local debt because the Fed’s signaling that it
could cut back monetary stimulus has reduced the “excess
liquidity” that Brazil was seeking to keep out.  As of April, foreigners held about 269 billion reais ($126
billion), or 14.55 percent, of the Brazilian government’s real-denominated debt sold in the domestic market. That compares with
273 billion reais in March and 220 billion reais a year ago.  Brazil’s central bank sold 17,600 currency swap contracts
worth $877 million on May 31 to stem the real’s decline. The
intervention was the first in the foreign-exchange market since
March 27, when it sold $995 million worth of swaps contracts.  ‘Less Aggressive’  “Our depreciation has been more moderate than some other
countries,” Tombini said in a June 2 interview at a conference
in Istanbul. “As far as pass-through to inflation, provided the
exchange regime is flexible, as is the case in Brazil,” it
should be limited.  Annual inflation, which was 6.49 percent in April, has
remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of the central bank’s
target range since Tombini took office in January 2011.  “Foreign-exchange intervention will be less aggressive
going forward,”  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky , a strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a telephone interview from
Stamford, Connecticut.  Marco Aurelio de Sa , head of the trading desk at Credit
Agricole SA’s brokerage unit, says real-denominated assets are
cheap with the currency trading above 2.1 per dollar. The yield
gap between Brazil’s overseas bonds and its local debt will
widen as the central bank raises interest rates, boosting the
allure of the securities, he said.  Brazil’s real-linked bonds due in 2022 yield 272 basis
points, or 2.72 percentage points, less than similar-maturity
notes sold locally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘It’s Attractive’  The central bank’s board voted unanimously on May 29 to
raise the target lending rate by a half-percentage point to 8
percent, surprising 38 of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
who had expected a second straight quarter-point increase.  “For those willing to take new positions, it’s
attractive,” de Sa said by phone from Miami.  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell one
basis point to 208 basis points at 11:02 a.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years was unchanged at 150 basis points, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
rose three basis points to 8.48 percent.  Growth Revision  Faltering economic growth is also reducing investor demand
for real-linked government bonds, according to  Edwin Gutierrez ,
who helps oversee $12 billion at Aberdeen Asset Management.  Latin America’s largest economy expanded 0.55 percent in
the first quarter, less than the 0.9 percent median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey. Analysts cut their 2013 growth forecast for
a third consecutive week to 2.77 percent, according to a central
bank survey published June 3.  “The Brazil story is just not as good as it used to be,”
Gutierrez said by phone from London. “It’s not getting the same
support for balance of payments. The current account deficit is
no longer financed by foreign-direct investment. There are
enough flows going out of Brazil these days that more than
offset the inflows.”  Brazil’s current account gap was the widest in almost 11
years in April.  The slump in the government bonds may also make it harder
for Brazilian companies looking to sell real-denominated bonds
abroad, Aberdeen’s Gutierrez said.  ‘Horrendous’ Liquidity  BRF SA, Brazil’s largest food company, sold 500 million
reais of real-linked bonds last month with a 7.75 percent
coupon. The bonds have fallen 3.7 cents since May 21 to 95.87
cents on the dollar, pushing the yield up 94 basis points to
8.79 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “When sovereign bonds are doing so poorly, and everyone
knows liquidity on this stuff is going to be non-existent, no
one has much appetite,” Gutierrez said. Liquidity in offshore
real bonds is “horrendous,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  