-- Rechler Said to Buying 49% of New York’s Worldwide Plaza
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-06-05T16:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/rechler-said-to-buying-49-of-new-york-s-worldwide-plaza.html
Developer  Scott Rechler ’s RXR Realty
agreed to buy a 49 percent stake in Manhattan’s Worldwide Plaza
for about $660 million, more than its owners paid for the entire
office tower in 2009, said two people briefed on the deal.  The agreement gives RXR an option to buy the rest of the
West Side property, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private. The owners are
a partnership led by New York-based George Comfort & Sons.  The deal is another indication that  New York office prices 
are approaching the boom levels reached in 2007, before a credit
meltdown caused values to plummet. Comfort, in a partnership
including RCG Longview and the Feil Organization, paid $590
million for Worldwide Plaza in July 2009 after developer  Harry Macklowe  turned the property over to lenders after the market
crash. Macklowe had paid $1.74 billion for it the year before.  Worldwide Plaza, a 49-story tower on Eighth Avenue between
West 49th and West 50th streets, has 1.8 million square feet
(167,000 square meters) of space. Adam Spies and  Doug Harmon  of
Eastdil Secured LLC are representing the tower’s owners.  Telephone calls to Rechler;  Peter Duncan , Comfort’s chief
executive officer;  Michael Boxer , a RCG Longview founding
partner; and  Jeffrey Feil , Feil Organization’s CEO, weren’t
immediately returned.  The agreement was reported yesterday by Real Estate Alert,
a newsletter that covers commercial-property sales.  In 2011, Nomura Holdings Inc. agreed to move its offices to
Worldwide Plaza from the World Financial Center downtown,
filling a large vacancy and increasing the building’s cash flow.
Other tenants include the law firm Cravath Swaine & Moore LLP.  For Rechler, the deal would continue a buying spree that
began in 2010, when commercial-property values started climbing
again. As of February, RXR had acquired or had deals to buy $4.3
billion of New York real estate, making it the biggest post-recession buyer of Manhattan commercial properties after SL
Green Realty Corp., the city’s biggest office-building owner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  