-- TriBeCa Penthouses Prove Easy Prey for Manhattan Burglar
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-06-05T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/tribeca-penthouses-prove-easy-prey-for-manhatttan-burglar.html
TriBeCa, the super-wealthy Manhattan
enclave sprinkled with movie stars, has attracted a daring
criminal who exploits the roof gardens of its converted
industrial and distinctive cast-iron buildings to make off with
jewelry and electronics, sometimes with residents still at home.  A man with climbing skills has been preying on penthouse-dwellers, letting himself in through unlocked terrace doors and
windows, according to the New York Police Department. The
incidents, coming at a time of historic lows in city crime, have
shaken some inhabitants of TriBeCa, which has been home to
celebrities such as  Meryl Streep ,  Gwyneth Paltrow  and  Justin Timberlake , according to Zillow.com. The neighborhood is the
site of the  TriBeCa Film Festival , co-founded by actor  Robert De Niro , who is also one of the area’s best-known property
developers.  With its century-old industrial buildings and tangle of
cobblestoned streets, the area appeals to the well-heeled and
artistic looking for interesting loft spaces and a community
feel, said  Robert Dankner , president of  Prime Manhattan
Residential .  “There are a lot of quiet rich people who live there,”
Dankner said, adding that he had once had a famous client who
“ended up in TriBeCa because he was surrounded by people like
him, who are of means and have a high level of taste.”  The recent home-invasions are “mind-boggling,” said  Sofia Song , a former TriBeCa resident and vice president of research
for property listings firm  StreetEasy.com . The area is known for
low crime, excellent schools and “a very wealthy demographic.”  Richest Neighborhoods  Short for the Triangle Below Canal Street, TriBeCa has the
second-highest median residential rent, at $8,000, in Manhattan,
according to StreetEasy.com. Only the area of Central Park South
in midtown Manhattan has a higher median price, at $8,225.  In an October 2011 analysis published by Forbes, TriBeCa
and nearby SoHo, short for South of Houston Street, contained
the richest zip codes in Manhattan.  Yet TriBeCa’s charms, such as secluded nooks, uneven blocks
and comparative quiet, also offer attractions to thieves,
residents said.  At least five penthouse burglaries have occurred since
April, all said to be the work of the same man, according to
police. Residents contend there were others as early as
December.  “Why do you rob banks? Because that’s where the money
is,” said longtime resident Mark Dimor, 64, in a telephone
interview. “There’s a rich vein of roof gardens in TriBeCa.
It’s easy cash,” he said, adding that people can be “sloppy”
and leave their doors unlocked.  Dashed Away  The suspected burglar, whom residents and police described
as a slim, light-skinned black man in his 20s or 30s, has tended
to strike in the early evening on Thursdays and Fridays,
sometimes even while residents are home. At least two residents
said they saw him in their buildings, one just outside her
bedroom, before he dashed away.  “He’s brazen right now,” said New York Police Captain
Brendan Timoney, speaking at a May 30 community council meeting
for Lower Manhattan’s  First Precinct . Despite his boldness,
there have been no reports of the man being armed or violent,
Timoney said.  Teri Hagedorn, who lives on the top-floor of an apartment
on TriBeCa’s Walker Street, said she discovered a man she
claimed was the burglar in her building’s stairwell in December.
The man, whom she described as “nicely dressed” in a gray
coat, quickly continued down the stairs after she confronted
him, she said.  “He was very apologetic, very polite,” said Hagedorn, a
39-year-old advertising consultant.  Just Ransacked  Hagedorn said she later learned that the apartment of her
neighbor, on the same floor, had just been ransacked.  “We just knew he shouldn’t be there,” she said. “I
didn’t get the sense that he was armed and dangerous, but we
weren’t sure.”  In another incident, a 38-year-old TriBeCa woman who asked
not to be identified said she was in a bedroom in her three-floor apartment on a January evening when she saw a similar-looking man coming down her stairs. The woman, whose two
children were on a lower floor with a nanny, said she screamed
at the man and chased him back up to a rooftop terrace where he
disappeared.  Police quickly responded after she called, sending a
helicopter to scan the roof, but couldn’t find him, she said.
Timoney said a suspect hasn’t been located yet. He is believed
to live outside of the neighborhood and may be using a Church
Street building as a staging ground for his home invasions, he
said.  Burglaries Rise  According to the  New York City  crime statistics, burglaries
in the First Precinct, which includes much of TriBeCa, are up
31.1 percent for the year to date as of May 26 when compared to
the prior year and up 40 percent over the past two years. In the
Fifth Precinct, an adjacent area, burglaries are up 8.3 percent
for the year to date and 30 percent over the past two years.  City-wide, the number of burglaries has dropped 9.9 percent
so far for the year and 6 percent over the past two years.  Shimon Zlotnikov, the manager of a commercial building on
Warren Street between Broadway and Church Street, said one of
his tenants may have also been a victim of the burglar. About
two months ago, a thief apparently climbed through a bathroom
window on the top floor of the five-story building and took
Apple Inc. products, Zlotnikov said.  Three other incidents have occurred on the same block in
the past few months, he said. Zlotnikov, whose family has owned
his building since the 1980s, said the transformation of the
neighborhood over the years has helped it to become vulnerable
to thieves.  ‘Breaking In’  “It’s gone from being more office and commercial to being
highly residential. There are a lot of families,” he said in a
phone interview. “Some of the blocks have a lot less people
walking on them, so there are a lot less people who could
potentially catch someone breaking in.”  Stanley C. Gale Jr. , a real estate developer who also lives
in a TriBeCa penthouse, said he has installed a camera system on
his terraces and is keeping his doors locked after learning
about the burglaries. He said he is hopeful the community will
band together to help catch the thief.  “Prices just continue to go up. It’s a great place to
be,” said Gale, whose firm, Gale International, is a developer
for a $35 billion Songdo International Business District in
South Korea and a Flatiron District condominium project in
Manhattan.  “In order to catch this guy, it’s going to be a matter of
the community” taking action, he said. “I’m willing to bet
that he knows the neighborhood pretty well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  