-- Rigby Murder Suspect Tells Judge He’s a Soldier at Bail Hearing
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-06-05T17:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/rigby-murder-suspect-tells-judge-he-s-a-soldier-at-bail-hearing.html
A man charged with murdering British
serviceman Lee Rigby outside his army barracks in London told a
judge at his bail hearing that he is a soldier and complained
about his treatment by police.  Michael Adebolajo, 28, is being held in custody ahead of a
trial and didn’t ask to be released on bail. During a hearing at
London’s Central Criminal Court today, Judge  Nigel Sweeney 
switched off the video link to the prison where Adebolajo is
being held because he repeatedly interrupted the proceedings.  “I’m a man, I’m a soldier, I’m a British citizen,” he
told the judge.  Adebolajo is one of two men charged with killing Rigby, 25,
outside his army barracks in southeast London on May 22 in an
attack that police are treating as an act of terrorism. The
other, Michael Adebowale, appeared at the same court on June 3
and didn’t seek bail.  Sweeney granted requests for prosecutors to hand over
medical documents and that Adebolajo be allowed to appear on the
video feed from Belmarsh Prison without handcuffs. He refused an
application for Adebolajo to appear in person for the bail
hearing.  Flanked by two police officers in protective helmets,
Adebolajo made references to “the good, decent, hard-working
British members of society, whether Muslim or non-Muslim” and
told the judge to “stop trying to stifle the truth.”  He complained that he had been forced to undergo strip
searches. When the judge ordered the removal of his handcuffs,
Adebolajo said “May Allah bless you.”  Woolwich  Both suspects, who were shot and wounded by police at the
scene of the attack in Woolwich, were treated in the hospital
before being charged with murder and possession of a revolver.
Adebolajo was also charged with the attempted murder of two
police officers.  Rigby, who had a 2-year-old son, was a drummer in the 2nd
Battalion of the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers. A fan of the
Manchester United soccer team, he served as a machine gunner in
Cyprus and then in 2009 as a member of a fire support group in
Helmand province, Afghanistan.  U.K. Home Secretary  Theresa May  has said that about 500
police officers and counterterrorism investigators are working
on the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  