-- Ringgit Gains Most in a Month as U.S. Stimulus Concerns Recede
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-06-05T07:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/ringgit-gains-most-in-a-month-as-u-s-stimulus-concerns-recede.html
The ringgit climbed the most in a
month before U.S. data that will provide clues on whether the
 Federal Reserve  will reduce asset purchases that have fueled
fund flows to  emerging markets .  The currency gained 0.3 percent, the most since May 8, to
3.0830 per dollar as of 3:08 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The ringgit fell 2 percent last
week, the biggest drop since February.  The ADP Research Institute in  New Jersey  will release May
employment numbers today, while a Labor Department report on
nonfarm payrolls is due June 7. Fed officials are committed to
record stimulus, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President
 Dennis Lockhart  said June 3. Malaysian exports rose in April
after a contraction in March, according to a Bloomberg survey
before data due June 7.  “We’re seeing some position adjustment ahead of the ADP
report and non-farm payrolls,” said Khoon Goh, a senior
strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
Singapore. “I think the market just got too long U.S. dollars
and we’re seeing some of that pared back.”  Malaysian exports grew 0.4 percent in April after falling
2.9 percent in March, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey before data due June 7. The
U.S. Institute for Supply Management’s factory index fell to 49
in May, a report showed June 3.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in exchange rates used to price options, fell 18 basis points,
or 0.18 percentage point, to 7.48 percent.  The yield on the 3.26 percent notes due March 2018 dropped
three basis points to 3.23 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 