-- Tronchetti Spearheads Camfin Buyout to End Pirelli Dispute
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 2013-06-05T13:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/tronchetti-spearheads-camfin-buyout-to-resolve-pirelli-dispute.html
A group led by  Pirelli & C SpA (PC) 
Chairman Marco Tronchetti Provera won backing from  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Clessidra SGR to gain more
direct control of Europe’s third-largest tiremaker, resolving a
shareholder dispute.  Malacalza Investimenti, which was seeking to exit its
holding, agreed to sell its 12 percent stake in Pirelli’s
largest shareholder  Cam Finanziaria SpA (CMF)  and its 31 percent stake
in the company controlling Camfin for a total 160 million euros
($209 million), according to an e-mailed statement. Newly
created Lauro Sessantuno, backed by Tronchetti, will seek to buy
out all Camfin stock, which has a market value of 622 million
euros, according to a statement.  The new holding structure ends a strategy dispute with
Malacalza, which was hanging over Pirelli as it pushed sales of
high-end tires to offset weak auto demand in  Europe . Pirelli’s
first-quarter earnings before interest and taxes fell 16 percent
to 179.8 million euros as revenue declined 1.3 percent.  Lauro Sessantuno will own 60.99 percent of Camfin after the
contribution of Tronchetti’s shares and will bid for the rest of
Camfin stock at 80 euro cents each, the investors said in the
statement. Following the bid, the investors intend to delist
Camfin.  Camfin  fell  as much as 9.7 percent to 77.3 cents in Milan,
and was down 7.4 percent as of 3:05 p.m. Pirelli was little
changed at 8.92 euros.  As part of the deal, Malacalza agreed to end legal
challenges over Tronchetti’s holdings, according to the
statement. Separately, Malacalza also bought a 7 percent stake
in Pirelli at 7.8 euros per share, according to the statement.  Four-Year Pact  Private equity fund Clessidra will invest as much as 150
million euros in case of a successful bid for Camfin. UniCredit
and Intesa are set to spend as much as 115 million euros each,
according to the statement.  The investors support Tronchetti’s management role at
Pirelli and agreed to bind their stakes in a shareholder pact
for four years.  Tronchetti controls Milan-based Pirelli through Camfin,
supported by an agreement with other investors including
 Mediobanca SpA (MB) ,  Italy ’s biggest publicly traded investment bank.
The investors pooled their shares totaling 32 percent of Pirelli
in a shareholder agreement, which was revised after today’s
transaction, according to a Pirelli statement today.  UBS advised Malacalza, while Banca IMI, Lazard, Rothschild
and UniCredit advised the bidding group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  