-- RTS Futures Signal Bear Market Isn’t Finished: Russia Overnight
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-06-05T22:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/rts-futures-signal-bear-market-isn-t-finished-russia-overnight.html
Russia’s dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$) 
entered a bear market and futures contracts pointed to further
declines as prospects for weaker commodity prices sour investor
sentiment in the world’s biggest energy exporter.  Futures on the gauge fell 0.5 percent to 128,490 in New
York after the  RTS  tumbled 1.6 percent to 1,301.08 in Moscow,
leaving it down 20 percent from a Jan. 28 peak. The ruble-based
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 1.1 percent and is trading 15 percent
below its January high. OAO Gazprom, the natural-gas export
monopoly, sank 2.5 percent in New York while  OAO Severstal (SVST) ,
Russia’s second-largest steelmaker, lost 4.5 percent in  London .  Russia, which counts on income from oil and gas sales for
about half of its budget revenue, is expanding at the weakest
pace since a 2009 contraction.  China , the world’s second-largest
consumer of crude oil, is facing “huge challenges” as it seeks
7 percent annual growth this decade, down from more than 10
percent in the previous 10 years, Premier Li Keqiang said last
month.  “The market is pricing in a fairly bleak outlook for
energy and materials,” Charles Robertson, the global chief
economist at Renaissance Capital in London, said by e-mail
yesterday. “Investors have not been keen to buy energy stocks.
Also emerging market growth has disappointed, from  Brazil  to
 India , and in Russia too.”  Russia’s economy grew 1.6 percent in the first three months
from a year earlier, slowing for a fifth consecutive quarter,
according to the statistics office. The federal budget deficit
will probably widen next year to more than the previously
planned 0.2 percent of gross domestic product on reduced oil and
gas revenue and a drop in other earnings, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said last month.  ‘Less Friendly’  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index fell 2 percent to
85.43, the lowest level since June 28 last year. The gauge,
which has dropped 14 percent so far this year, is poised to
decline for a fifth week.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded
fund dedicated to Russian equities, slid 2.4 percent to $25.09,
the lowest close in 11 months. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the stock futures, surged 5.3
percent to 29.67.  “ Emerging markets  are not in fashion at the moment and
there has been a focus of investors toward countries where there
is a positive dynamic going on,” Julian Mayo, the co-chief
investment officer at Charlemagne Capital Ltd. in London, said
by phone yesterday. “Russia is among the countries that are
seen as less shareholder friendly.”  Dividend Push  Government measures, such as a push to increase dividends
paid by state companies, and an improved global outlook for the
second half, may boost Russian equities later in the year, Mayo
said.  “Russia is very much an oversold market, a market that may
very much surprise on the upside in the next 12 months,” said
Mayo, who helps manage $2.7 billion in emerging-market assets at
Charlemagne. “There are some positive things going on in Russia
at the moment.”  Authorities are considering an increase in dividend payouts
by state-controlled companies to 35 percent of earnings,
Siluanov said in May. The  federal budget  will get 153 billion
rubles ($4.9 billion) in extra income in 2013 if all state
companies set their dividend payout at 25 percent, adding to
this year’s planned budget intake from dividends of 172 billion
rubles, the Finance Ministry estimates.  China Risk  “Russia will have a better second half, based on a better
global economy,” Michael Wang, an emerging-market strategist at
Amiya Capital LLP in London, said by e-mail. “The obvious risk
is what is going on in China. For the moment Chinese growth
looks pretty lackluster and that could cap the upside on
commodity prices even if the global economy is recovering.”  Crude for July delivery rose 0.5 percent to $93.74 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Brent for July
settlement was little changed at $103.04 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude ,  Russia ’s major
export blend, decreased 0.4 percent to $102.41 and is down 7.7
percent this year.  Ruble futures showed the currency gaining 0.7 percent to
31.02 to a dollar in U.S. hours. Russia’s ruble weakened 0.8
percent to 32.1650 per dollar yesterday and decreased 0.8
percent to 36.6423 against the dollar-euro basket used by the
central bank to manage swings that erode exporter
competitiveness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Walsh at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  