-- Republican Labrador Quits Bipartisan Immigration Talks
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-06-06T00:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/rubio-says-immigration-plan-needs-better-border-security.html
Republican Raul Labrador said he is
quitting bipartisan talks over immigration legislation in the
U.S. House because of a dispute over whether to provide health-care benefits for immigrants seeking legal status.  “It bothers me that they do not have to pay for their own
health care,” Labrador told reporters in Washington today. “If
they are going to have the benefit of living in the  United
States , which is a privilege not a right, they should provide
their own health insurance.”  Labrador, a Tea Party favorite, said he opposes an
agreement among the three other Republicans and four Democrats
in his chamber’s negotiating group to offer exceptions for
subsidized health care to undocumented immigrants in a
provisional legal status. He didn’t give specifics.  The Idaho congressman’s break with the group further
complicates efforts to craft a comprehensive measure that can
pass the Republican-led House. Republicans are insisting on
tighter border security as Democrats press for a path to
citizenship for an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants.  Labrador said that while all the negotiators “acted in
good faith,” he’ll likely oppose the group’s measure and opt
instead for adding to competing bills that the House will
consider piecemeal.  “If we can’t agree on language on health care, then I
think we have a long road to go,” Labrador said. “I am going
to try to find my own way to reform immigration. I think there’s
a better way. It has to pass the House.”  ‘Go Forward’  Members of the group said they agreed to keep drafting a
comprehensive measure that will include health-care provisions.  “We found a way to go forward,” one of the group’s
Republicans,  John Carter  of  Texas , told reporters today.
Representative Luis Gutierrez also said the group found a way to
proceed on health care.  Labrador is the second Republican lawmaker today to raise
doubts about whether bipartisan talks can result in an
immigration measure that can pass both chambers this year.  Senator Marco Rubio said earlier in the day that a
bipartisan immigration plan he co-authored won’t win enough
votes to pass the Senate or the House unless its border-security
provisions are strengthened.  Border Security  “If people want immigration reform, we’re going to have to
improve the border-security elements of the bill, and we’ll have
to make people confident that what we’re doing is enough,” the
Florida Republican and prospective 2016 presidential candidate
said after a closed-door meeting with a group of  House
Republicans .  “That’s what I’m going to focus on,” said Rubio, who has
said he wouldn’t vote for the bill as written.  Rubio is a member of a bipartisan group of eight senators
who wrote the immigration bill the Senate is scheduled to start
debating next week. Although they had agreed to reject major
changes that could imperil the measure, Rubio has said stronger
border-security language must be included to win Republican
backing.  The question is whether the legislation can gain enough
Republican support to win Senate passage and ease resistance in
the Republican-controlled House without losing Democratic votes
or splitting the bipartisan alliance behind the bill.  After the meeting with Rubio, House Republicans said the
measure wouldn’t pass the Republican-led chamber without
improved border security.  ‘Litmus Test’  “The discussion is very centered on border security and
there’s a consensus in that room that is a litmus test,”
Representative  John Fleming , a Louisiana Republican, told
reporters. “We don’t see this bill in either house moving
forward or ever coming to a law and agreement without a very,
very solid rock-ribbed border security aspect to it.”  Even with some of the changes proposed by Rubio, the Senate
bill still has a “long way to go from the House perspective,”
said Bob Goodlatte of  Virginia , who leads the House Judiciary
Committee. The House will take a “step-by-step” approach to
immigration law instead of one comprehensive measure, he said.  Many House Republicans -- including Goodlatte, Fleming  and
 South Carolina ’s Trey Gowdy, another senior member of the
judiciary panel -- remain reluctant to support a path to
citizenship for undocumented immigrants. They say they want to
first see what Fleming called “verifiable” border security.  “When you put amnesty ahead of border security all you get
is a bigger problem,” Fleming said.  The Senate measure would authorize $4.5 billion for tighter
border security and require 100 percent surveillance and a 90
percent apprehension rate along the U.S.-Mexico border before
any undocumented immigrant could qualify for legal permanent
residency.  Rubio said he was working with Republican senators on ways
to bolster border security in the bill. He has been helping to
develop a proposal to boost Congress’s role in writing and
overseeing a plan to secure the U.S.-Mexico border.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  