-- Rue21 Investors Have Nothing to Lose in Buyout Bet
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-06-05T13:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/rue21-investors-have-nothing-to-lose-in-buyout-bet.html
Rue21 Inc.  investors holding out for
a rival takeover offer may have nothing to lose.  Some traders have been betting a competing bid will emerge
to top Apax Partners’ $42-a-share buyout offer for the teen
clothing retailer, pushing the stock as high as $42.49 last
week. Even if no other offers surface, the deal gives Rue21’s
shareholders a $42 floor. The  stock  closed yesterday at $41.89.  “Your downside risk is very, very limited,”  Stephanie Wissink , a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., said
in a telephone interview. “It could be a done deal” with Apax,
she said. However, “the stock has been tip-toeing around $42.
Any time you spotlight a company through a buyout and you
establish market value, it always intrigues other exploratory
private-equity companies to look at it and ascribe value.”  Rue21’s board has through July 2 to solicit other buyers
and the break-up fee, equal to about 1 percent of the $1.1
billion deal value, is a smaller hurdle than other recent
takeovers in the industry, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. With  no debt  and free cash flow that’s projected to
almost triple by 2015, Wissink said Rue21 fits most private-equity firms’ wish lists.  Representatives for Rue21 and Apax declined to comment on
whether other suitors have expressed interest.  Apax’s offer is about 1.2 times the $902 million of  sales 
Rue21 generated in the year that ended in February, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The last takeover that valued a U.S.
apparel chain at more than its trailing 12-month revenue was the
buyout of J. Crew Group Inc. announced in 2010, the data show.
The median sales multiple for deals in the industry has been
just 0.5.  Locked In  The SKM II funds, which are associated with Apax, a London-based private-equity firm,  own  about 30 percent of Rue21’s
outstanding shares and have agreed to vote in favor of the
transaction, according to the May 23 statement announcing the
deal.  For that reason,  Adrienne Tennant , an analyst for Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC, said she expects the deal to close, which
would guarantee Rue21 shareholders receive at least $42 a share.  “We believe the deal will be consummated at the proposed
price,” Tennant wrote in a June 3 note to clients.  Still, Rue21 shares have risen above the $42 offer in  five 
of the last eight trading sessions since the deal was announced.
That’s a sign some investors are wagering other suitors will
surface with bids topping Apax’s. If that happens and the deal
with Apax is terminated, the SKM II funds have agreed to vote
for the superior transaction.  Today, Rue21 rose 0.2 percent to $41.99 at 9:47 a.m. New
York time.  Go-Shop  Should a better offer emerge by next month, the company
will need to pay Apax a $10.5 million break-up fee, which is
about 1 percent of the total deal value. That’s low compared
with Sycamore Partners’ $600 million buyout of Hot Topic Inc.,
which carries a termination fee of $21 million, or 3.5 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Last year’s takeovers of Charming Shoppes Inc. and
Collective Brands Inc. had termination fees larger than 2
percent, the data show.  Despite that,  Paul Lejuez , a New York-based analyst at
Wells Fargo & Co., said he doesn’t expect another retailer or
financial buyer to bid for Rue21.  “The ‘go-shop’ period is more a reflection of the insider
position held by Apax, and the need to ensure fairness in the
overall sale process,” he wrote in a May 23 report.  Cash, Growth  Still, the retailer offers something that most private-equity firms want,  Amy Hu Sunderland , a Hong Kong-based analyst
at Grandeur Peak Global Advisors LLC, said in April. Rue21 is
projected to generate more than $44 million of  cash flow  from
operations after deducting capital expenses in the 12 months
ending in January 2015, almost triple last year’s figure,
according to analysts’  estimates  and data compiled by Bloomberg.  The chain, which is located in what it calls “small and
middle-market communities” and competes with Wal-Mart Stores
Inc., has room to increase its number of  stores  and also boost
revenue by selling items through its website, said Piper
Jaffray’s Wissink.  Buyers tend to look for “growth, attractive cash
generation and some sort of niche positioning,” Wissink said.
“Rue21 has all three of those things.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  