-- MTS Said to Weigh Buying Moscow Broadband Provider Akado
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-06-05T15:18:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/mts-said-to-weigh-buying-moscow-broadband-provider-akado.html
OAO Mobile TeleSystems , Russia’s
largest wireless operator, is studying an acquisition of pay-TV
and Internet provider Akado to expand in the broadband business
in the Moscow region, a person familiar with the matter said.  MTS expressed interest in Akado and started preliminary
talks, which won’t necessarily result in an acquisition, said
the person who asked not to be identified as the discussions are
private. Moscow-based MTS needs to study Akado’s business and
evaluate compatibility and potential savings, the person said.  Akado may have an enterprise value of about $690 million to
$960 million,  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst at Sberbank
Investment Research, said in a note today. Excluding Akado’s
debt, this means MTS may need to pay as much as $580 million in
cash and “could well afford it,” she said. The deal would help
MTS boost its market share in the Moscow region to 48 percent,
ahead of  VimpelCom Ltd. ’s 23 percent, Lepetukhina said.  “MTS acquiring Akado would make it the indisputable leader
in broadband services on the Moscow market,” she said.  MTS  declined  as much as 3.2 percent in Moscow trading to
the lowest level since January and dropped 2 percent to $18.58 a
depositary receipt at 11:15 a.m. in  New York .  Broadband Focus  European phone companies are boosting investment in
broadband networks to offer services such as online movie
streaming, part of an attempt to broaden their revenue streams
as most people already have mobile phones. Telecom Italia SpA is
planning 10 billion euros ($13 billion) in fiber-optic
investments for its fixed-network unit, people familiar with the
situation said last week, and last year, Vodafone Group Plc
acquired Cable & Wireless Worldwide to boost its fixed-line
system in the U.K.  Akado, controlled by billionaire  Viktor Vekselberg , is the
sixth-largest broadband provider in Russia with 770,000
customers, with over 90 percent of them in Moscow, according to
iKS-Consulting. Akado boosted revenue 9 percent last year to
11.2 billion rubles ($350 million), while earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization were 38 percent
of sales, the company reported last month.  Irina Agarkova, an MTS spokeswoman; Denis Rychka, a
spokesman for Akado; and  Andrey Shtorkh , a spokesman for
Vekselberg, declined to comment.  The  Kommersant  newspaper today reported MTS’s interest in
Akado.  Billionaire Alisher Usmanov’s mobile operator  OAO MegaFon 
has said it considered acquiring Akado two years ago and failed
to agree on terms. State-run  OAO Rostelecom’s  affiliate
CenterTelecom attempted to buy Akado in 2010, yet the deal fell
apart, Kommersant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  