-- TSA Chat-Down Program Not Objective, Audit Concludes
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-06-05T16:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/tsa-chat-down-program-not-objective-audit-concludes.html
The U.S. Transportation Security
Administration can’t justify expanding a $878 million behavior-detection program because it isn’t objective, a U.S. audit
concluded.  The Department of Homeland Security’s inspector general
said TSA hasn’t developed adequate training for its 2,800 full-time behavior-detection officers or been able to assess the
program’s effectiveness. The agency also doesn’t have a
financial plan for the program.  “As a result, TSA cannot ensure that passengers at United
States airports are screened objectively, show that the program
is cost-effective, or reasonably justify the program’s
expansion,” the  inspector general said  in a report today.  The program known as Screening of Passengers by Observation
Technique, or SPOT, has been buffeted by accusations that
officers use racial profiling in targeting travelers for extra
security screening, allegations that the TSA has denied.  In August, agency officers at Boston’s Logan International
Airport were accused by the American Civil Liberties Union of
targeting black and Hispanic fliers for extra questioning.  Chatdowns, in which agents engage passengers in brief
conversations as they go through the screening line, became part
of the agency’s behavior-detection strategy last year. They’re
built on the broader SPOT program that started in 2004.  In its first 4 1/2 years, referrals to law enforcement from
SPOT officers led to 1,083 arrests, all on charges other than
terrorism, according to the Government Accountability Office. Of
353 arrests from November 2010 to April 2012, 68 percent were
for immigration offenses, drug charges or outstanding criminal
warrants, the GAO found.  In response to the racial-profiling complaints, Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  hired a consultant in
September to develop performance measures to deter the practice.
The TSA also changed the program’s metrics so airport managers
wouldn’t attempt to meet quotas for enforcement actions by
making referrals unrelated to terrorism.  TSA spokeswoman Ann Davis didn’t have an immediate comment
on the inspector general’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  