-- TSA Keeps Knife Ban After Protests From Unions, CEOs
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2013-06-06T03:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/tsa-keeps-knife-ban-after-protests-from-airline-ceos.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration , under pressure from airline executives, unions,
lawmakers and its own employees, reversed a plan to end a
decade-long ban on carrying pocket knives onto U.S. airliners.  Administrator  John Pistole  is backing off his proposal to
ease the rule blocking knives after a month of meetings with
industry stakeholders, some of whom have cited the Sept. 11,
2001, hijackers’ use of box cutters as weapons.  The decision to retain the knife ban was confirmed in a TSA
statement e-mailed today by spokesman  David Castelveter .  “The flight attendants were right to push back hard on the
issue, and the CEOs were right to join hands with the flight
attendants,”  William Swelbar , an aviation research engineer at
the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology , said by e-mail.
“Maybe common sense is breaking out in the halls of
government.”  The policy, announced in March, would have eased
restrictions on carrying on knives with blades less than 2.36
inches (6 centimeters) long, as well as hockey sticks and  golf
clubs . The agency had justified the change as an attempt to
match U.S. rules with those in other parts of the world and
better reflect intelligence on active terrorist threats.  Markey, Grimm  Members of the  House of Representatives  have been debating
a spending bill for the Homeland Security Department, which
includes the agency. Congressmen Ed Markey, a Massachusetts
Democrat who is running for the Senate, and Michael Grimm, a  New
York  Republican, offered an amendment that would cut off funding
to implement a change in the knife policy. The House passed the
measure on a voice vote late today, even after the agency
canceled the move.  The lawmakers had sent a letter to Pistole two weeks ago
signed by 145 members of Congress urging him to retain the
current rules.  One of the most prominent lawmakers to support lifting the
knife ban is Representative Michael McCaul, chairman of the
Homeland Security Committee. The Texas Republican said he
understood the move to abandon the change, given the opposition.  “He screwed up on that one,” McCaul said of Pistole.
“The flight attendants have a legitimate complaint.”  Bombing Pause  Pistole delayed the planned April 25 implementation of the
change following the detonation of two bombs at the Boston
Marathon. The explosions killed three people and wounded more
than 260.  He reversed his decision after meeting with groups such as
flight-attendant and screeners’ unions, which had said the
agency didn’t follow rule-making procedures and left them out of
the decision-making process.  Opponents of allowing knives on planes, including a
coalition of five unions representing 90,000 flight attendants,
said Pistole showed sound judgment in dropping the proposal.  “The result is better security policy and the assurance
that our nation’s aviation security system continues to be
vigilant for knives that could be used in a terrorist attack or
criminal act against passengers or crew,” said Veda Shook,
international president of the Association of Flight Attendants
union.  Executives from  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  and  US
Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  criticized the change as unions representing
flight attendants, pilots and screeners lobbied Congress for a
reversal.  ‘Good News’  “This is good news for Delta people and customers,
including Delta’s flight attendants who, together with Delta
Chief Executive Officer  Richard Anderson , lobbied Congress and
sent more than 3,000 e-mails to government officials and
lawmakers raising safety concerns about the proposed change,”
Trebor Banstetter, a Delta spokesman, said by e-mail.  American is pleased the agency “heard the concerns of our
people and customers and reconsidered,”  Andrea Huguely , a
company spokeswoman, said in a statement. The Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier looks forward to continued collaboration with the
agency on security, she said.  US Airways  is pleased the ban will remain, spokeswoman
Michelle Mohr said.  Senators from New York and  New Jersey  introduced a bill on
May 22 to reinstate the knife ban, with New York Democrat
 Charles Schumer  calling the policy change “dangerous.”  Unruly Behavior  In a statement today, Schumer said backing off the policy
change would allow agency officers to focus “on more important
things” than sorting out good knives from bad, based on blade
length.  “It seemed obvious to most travelers and airline employees
that the decision to allow knives on planes was wrong,” Schumer
said. “We’re glad the TSA, after further review and input, has
seen it our way.”  Appearing at a March 14 House hearing, Pistole said the
agency needed to revise its procedures as threats change. He
also told lawmakers the agency’s primary responsibility is to
prevent catastrophes, not police unruly passenger behavior.  Pistole drew initial support from some  House Republicans 
including McCaul, former Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee Chairman  John Mica  of Florida, and Representative
Richard Hudson of  North Carolina , chairman of a panel overseeing
the agency.  Screening Lines  While backing Pistole, Hudson chided him on the process he
used in the original decision, saying more outreach to industry
stakeholders was needed. Representative Bennie Thompson, the
senior Democrat on the Homeland Security Committee, agreed in a
statement issued today.  “When established processes for creating policy are
followed, common sense prevails,” Thompson said. “In the
future, I hope that TSA continues to keep the safety and
security of both the passengers and crewmembers a priority.”  The American Federation of Government Employees,
representing more than 45,000 security officers, one of nine
organizations that petitioned the agency in May to rescind the
decision, said keeping the knife ban will maintain safe working
conditions at airport screening lines.  “In addition to the lessons learned on 9/11 about the
threat of terrorists armed with knives, our concern is for our
members who are assaulted far too often by irate passengers,”
Cox. “Keeping the knife ban will help keep those confrontations
from escalating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  