-- San Bernardino Judge May Appoint Mediator for Calpers Fight
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-06-05T23:01:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/san-bernardino-judge-may-appoint-mediator-for-calpers-fight-1-.html
San Bernardino, the insolvent
 California  city, may need a mediator to help the city resolve
its bankruptcy court battles with the state’s pension fund, a
judge said.  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  Judge Meredith Jury asked the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and the city to
submit names of potential mediators.  “I do think it would be helpful,” Jury told lawyers today
at the end of a court hearing in Riverside, California, during
which Calpers accused the city of hiding cash in off-book
accounts and of repaying loans it made to itself before
creditors.  Since filing bankruptcy last year, the city has fought its
employee unions in an effort to cancel their contracts and quit
making certain payments to Calpers, the biggest U.S. pension
fund. At the hearing today, Calpers attorney Michael Lubic
accused the city of violating state law by withholding monthly
employment reports related to worker pensions.  City attorney Paul R. Glassman told Jury he would not
respond to Lubic’s allegations in court today, instead filing
court papers in the coming weeks.  San Bernardino, about 60 miles east of  Los Angeles , has an
unfunded pension liability of about $143 million and is in
default on $50.4 million in bonds issued in 2005 to help cover
pension obligations, according to court documents and the city
budget.  Back Payments  Calpers says the city also owes it $13 million in back
payments San Bernardino is required to contribute to its
employees’ pension. The city temporarily suspended the
contributions, saying it did not have enough cash. The payments
are set to resume next month.  Jury asked the city and Calpers to return to court July 17
when she will consider appointing the mediator.  Jury also set a tentative schedule to decide whether San
Bernardino can remain in bankruptcy. Under Chapter 9 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code , a municipality must show a judge it was
eligible to file bankruptcy before it can propose a plan to
adjust its debt to meet its revenue.  Calpers has asked Jury to throw the city out of bankruptcy,
arguing San Bernardino officials were not acting in good faith
when they sought court protection.  Jury set a hearing for Aug. 27 for the two sides to argue
about whether San Bernardino should remain in bankruptcy. The
city filed for bankruptcy on Aug. 1.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  