-- San Miguel Plans Meralco Stake Sale to Fund Oil, Gas Expansion
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-06-05T04:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/san-miguel-plans-meralco-stake-sale-to-fund-oil-gas-expansion.html
San Miguel  Corp. plans to sell its
32.8 percent stake in  Manila Electric Co. (MER)  worth $3.4 billion to
fund its expansion in oil and gas, President Ramon Ang said.  The  Philippines ’ largest company by sales may sell the
stake this year, Ang said in a mobile-phone message reply to
questions. San Miguel and units San Miguel Pure Foods Co. Inc.
and SMC Global Power Holdings Corp. own about 370 million  Manila 
Electric shares trading at 385.20 pesos each. The stake is worth
142.5 billion pesos, based on Bloomberg calculations.  San Miguel, in a stock exchange filing yesterday, said
parties have expressed interest to own a stake in the
Philippines’ largest electric utility and it’s considering
options including a strategic sale. Overseas oil and gas fields
that can produce a million barrel per day are projects that San
Miguel plans to add to its portfolio, Ang said on March 6.  The company that started brewing beer more than a century
ago acquired the bulk of its Manila Electric shares at 90 pesos
each in 2008, a fourth of today’s price, as it expanded from
food and drinks to industries including airlines, oil and energy
to triple returns and bolster sales.  San Miguel revenue climbed 30 percent to 698.9 billion
pesos or $16.7 billion in 2012, missing a $20 billion goal. The
company seeks to boost revenue to $50 billion in five years and
it’s looking at investing in oil and gas projects, one of which
generates $5 billion in sales annually, Ang said on March 15.  “San Miguel, after a series of acquisitions, is realigning
its portfolio,”  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at
Manila-based  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  analyst said. “It looks like it’s
just flipping assets but it’s not. It sees a good opportunity
and it has an asset in a venture that it doesn’t control so why
not shift the resource to a business it can control and generate
better returns.”  First Pacific Co. Ltd through Beacon Electric Asset
Holdings Inc. owns 48.3 percent of Manila Electric, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The share price of the utility,
which sells power to the capital and nearby provinces, has risen
48 percent this year.  San Miguel shares rose 0.8 percent to 94.30 pesos at the
noon trading break in Manila. Manila Electric declined 0.5
percent. The  Philippine Stock Exchange (PCOMP)  index dropped 1.3
percent, set for a third day of declines.  First Pacific may boost the group’s stake in the utility at
the right price, its Chief Executive  Manuel Pangilinan  said last
month. Ang and Pangilinan, known for his initials MVP, compete
for Philippine roads and airports.  “It’s really attractive for San Miguel to sell Meralco if
they find a buyer,” said George Ching, an analyst at  COL
Financial Group Inc. (COL)  “At market prices, the purchase is quite
substantial and that could make the transaction hard to
complete. For MVP, he would get an opportunity to have a partner
who doesn’t compete with his group in other sectors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  