-- SAP to Buy Hybris to Fight Salesforce in E-Commerce Push
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-06-05T16:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/sap-to-buy-switzerland-based-hybris-in-e-commerce-push.html
SAP AG , the largest maker of
business-management software, agreed to buy Switzerland-based
Hybris AG to bolster its electronic commerce applications and
counter market-share gains by Salesforce.com Inc.  Hybris, founded in 1997 and led by Chief Executive Officer
 Ariel Luedi  and co-founder  Carsten Thoma , will operate as an
independent unit after the deal is completed in the third
quarter, Walldorf, Germany-based SAP said in a statement today.  Financial details for the purchase of Hybris, whose
majority shareholder is Palo Alto, California-based private-equity firm HGGC LLC, weren’t disclosed.  Taking over Hybris will help SAP expand its presence in the
$37 billion e-commerce technology market, SAP said, citing
industry analysts’ estimates. SAP’s sales from so-called
customer relationship management software, or CRM, grew just 0.1
percent last year, dropping the German company to  number two 
behind San Francisco-based Salesforce.com, which grew 26
percent, research firm Gartner Inc. said in April.  “We fully wish to unleash the will of SAP on the CRM
market place and the competitors that decide to go against us,”
SAP co-Chief Executive Officer  Bill McDermott  said on a
conference call. “This is going to be fun.”  Collaborative Commerce  SAP has been expanding in collaborative commerce apps and
last year agreed to pay $4.3 billion for Ariba Inc., which
facilitates transactions between businesses. SAP plans to tie
its Hana data-crunching technology into the service so it’s
easier for clients to find and compare what they want, Marc
Geall, senior vice president of corporate strategy, said in an
interview today.  Hybris, based in Zug, Switzerland, has 650 employees and
its main offices are in Munich and Montreal. Its more than 500
corporate customers include General Electric Co., Hennes &
Mauritz AB and Ericsson AB. The company had revenue of about $85
million in the last 12 months, it said in a presentation.  SAP bought Successfactors Inc., which makes software used
to manage employee performance, last year for $3.4 billion, had
2011 sales of $328 million, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Salesforce yesterday agreed to buy ExactTarget Inc., which
helps customers run advertising campaigns via e-mail, for about
$2.5 billion. McDermott said he and other CEOs usually throw
marketing e-mails into the spam bin, calling rivals’ moves
“quite puzzling.”  SAP declined 0.6 percent to 57.20 euros today in Frankfurt,
giving it a market value of 70.3 billion euros ($92 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  