-- Scana Reactors Face New Delays and $200 Million Additional Costs
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-06-05T17:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/scana-reactors-face-new-delays-and-200-million-additional-costs.html
Scana Corp. , the owner of South
Carolina’s largest utility, says the twin reactors it’s building
in the state face new delays and about $200 million in added
costs as a subcontractor struggles to meet deadlines and quality
standards.  Scana sees the commercial start for its first reactor under
construction near Columbia, South Carolina, slipping to the end
of 2017 or early 2018, from March 2017, Steve Byrne, chief
operating officer of its South Carolina Electric & Gas unit,
told analysts during a webcast today. The second reactor will
also be delayed beyond its May 2018 target for producing power,
and neither Scana nor its construction partners can say by how
long.  Chicago Bridge & Iron Co. NV  has overhauled management and
production practices at the Lake Charles, Louisiana, factory
supplying prefabricated modules to Scana’s Summer project as
well as the Vogtle nuclear plant that  Southern Co.  is building
in Georgia,  Jeff Merrifield , a senior vice-president with the
Hague, Netherlands-based company said on the webcast.  The factory, which Chicago Bridge & Iron gained through its
acquisition of  Shaw Group Inc . this year, recently shipped some
modules ahead of schedule, Merrifield said. The large concrete
and iron components will be welded together onsite to form the
core of the new plants.  The delays are the latest setback as Scana, based in Cayce,
South Carolina, and Atlanta-based Southern build the first new
U.S. reactors to be licensed since the Three Mile Island
accident in 1979. Southern in February said its Vogtle project
was running about 18 months behind schedule because of licensing
delays and early construction glitches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  