-- Scene Last Night: Jets Fan Bisignano Feted at Carousel
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-06-05T15:10:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/scene-last-night-jets-fan-bisignano-feted-at-carousel.html
Frank Bisignano , co-chief operating
officer at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . until April, is settling into
his job as chief executive officer of First Data Corp., a
credit-card transaction processor in Atlanta.  “I have the same picture of  Joe Namath  in my office as I
did at 270 Park,” Bisignano said last night at a gala for the
Battery Conservancy, the private arm supporting Battery Park in
Lower Manhattan.  The Brooklyn native, 53, called Namath, former Jets
quarterback, a “boyhood idol” along with former Mets pitcher
Tom Seaver.  “1969 was one of the great years for New York, when the
Knicks, the Jets and the Mets all won championships,” he said.  The sports fan also appreciates U.S. history. He pointed to
Castle Clinton, a fort built to defend the U.S. in the War of
1812. It later served as the entry point for immigrants before
Ellis Island opened in 1892.  He’s made his own memories here too. “I walked through the
park every day as I worked on the merger of Shearson and
Hutton,” he said, of the Shearson Lehman acquisition of E.F.
Hutton & Co. in 1988.  Bisignano lives in Battery Park City. With his new job, he
now also has a home in the Buckhead section of Atlanta and a
favorite restaurant there, Bistro Niko, where he orders “steak
frites and mussels.”  The dinner at the gala by the  Cleaver Co.  featured spring
pea soup, mahi mahi roasted in a banana leaf, and lavender panna
cotta.  Battery Medal  It was served in a tent on the water as the sun set and the
Hornblower Hybrid yacht, in the  Statue Cruises  fleet, passed by.  Between courses, Bisignano, a board member of the  Battery
Conservancy , received the Battery Medal for Corporate
Leadership.  Warrie Price, the president of the conservancy, and  Bill Rudin , its chairman, praised Bisignano for his commitment to
helping the Battery recover after superstorm Sandy; 46 percent
of the plants in flooded gardens were lost, and the conservancy
had to find new office space.  Fortunately the under-construction SeaGlass was not
flooded. It’s a carousel-like attraction that will offer a ride
inside one of 30 fish. Project manager Pat Kirshner said it will
open in about five months.  Mark E. Almeida , president of Moody’s Analytics, and
 Jeffrey P. Hughes , vice chairman of the Cypress Group LLC, were
among the co-chairmen of the event, which drew 400 guests and
raised $1.1 million.  Light Show  The evening ended with a light show at SeaGlass set to
“Under the Sea” from “The Little Mermaid.” Standing along a
fence on the site, guests saw swirls of blue and green light up
the curves of the shell-like building.  “It’s the inky blue we first imagined,” said Claire
Weisz, founder of WXY Architecture & Urban Design, who conceived
and worked on the project.  Light patterns of pink and yellow fish scales were cast
inside the structure, where the fish, arriving this summer, will
be placed.  Ten of the SeaGlass fish are still available for
“adoption” for $100,000 each -- the rest are already spoken
for. To further help fundraising, the conservancy solicited
sealed bids (due Friday) for a first-preview experience of
SeaGlass, before it opens to the public.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 