-- Scientists Seek Order to Potential Confusion of Gene Data
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-06-05T19:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/scientists-seek-order-to-potential-confusion-of-gene-data.html
Scientists from research and health-care groups including  Harvard University  and the  U.S. National
Institutes of Health  are trying to create a way to standardize
and share genetic information before the DNA-scanning field
develops into a balkanized mess.  The effort would harmonize data valuable to researchers and
medical workers by creating technical, ethical and privacy
standards. The group wants to help create a format that would
let genetic information be used across institutions, rather than
be stuck in closed systems as it is now.  Gene-sequencing costs have fallen rapidly and may soon
approach $1,000 to code a person’s entire DNA. The analyses can
help diagnose and develop treatment for cancers, rare disease
and other conditions with a basis in genetics. It is projected
that more than 1 million people will have their genomes scanned
in a few years, said David Altshuler, a geneticist at the Broad
Institute, a research group affiliated with Harvard and the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  “We are not organized to seize this extraordinary
opportunity -- nor are we on a path to do so,” the group said
in a June 3  report .  If the information is shared widely, genome data “have the
potential to teach us a lot about the basis of cancer, inherited
disease and how to direct therapy,” said Altshuler, who was on
the group’s organizing committee. “Right now there doesn’t
exist frameworks -- both technical and in terms of protecting
privacy -- about how to exchange information.”  The collaboration is seeking to figure out how to share
genome data broadly while protecting patient privacy, he said.  70 Groups  About  70 groups  signed a nonbinding letter of intent urging
a path forward. The group also includes the American Society for
Clinical Oncology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in  New
York  and other universities and research hospitals. Researchers
plan to ask for-profit and nonprofit groups to join the
initiative. The report didn’t provide details of how the effort
would be funded.  The alliance called for a global regulations and standards
for the sharing of information, as well as a way to address
privacy issues. It compared the undertaking to the development
of the Internet and the  Human Genome Project ’s open-source
effort to first decode all of the body’s genes.  Breakthroughs based on genetics will need large samples of
data. Without an easy way to share that information, research
will be limited because of small sample sizes, the group said.
“There are so many diseases and so many different mutations,
you are not going to learn it from one person, it is going to
take a million,” Altshuler said.  Technical Standards  Sharing can’t happen without common technical standards for
volumes of data. “In the absence of an open and interoperable
solution, closed, proprietary systems will by necessity be
created,” the group said in the report. “This would create a
fundamental barrier to gaining the benefits of data aggregation
and slow the understanding, diagnosis and treatment of
disease.”  The group compared the current state of genetic data to
electronic health records being installed by hospitals and
doctors’ offices across the U.S., an effort that has suffered
from in compatibility problems as the industry tries to find a
single standard.  “If we remain on the current path, the likely outcome will
be a hodge-podge of balkanized systems -- as developed in the
U.S. for electronic medical records -- a system that inhibits
learning and improving health care,” the group said.  Cancer Cures  In cancer, a database of DNA information from hundreds of
thousands of tumor samples from many institutions linked to
patient treatments and outcomes, would help researchers develop
precision treatments customized according a tumor’s genetic
profile, far faster than if each institution worked on its own,
said Charles Sawyers, who heads the human oncology and
pathogenesis program at  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center ,
and is an organizer of the data-sharing alliance.  If researchers don’t come together with a plan for how to
share the genetic data, “there is this fear that commercialized
silos of DNA data would be created that would preclude open
sharing,” Sawyers said in a phone interview.  The DNA sharing project has “a utopian goal, but one that
is hard to argue against,” he said. “Can we pull it off? That
is a question I can’t answer.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  