-- SEC Proposes Floating-Share Price for Riskiest Money Funds
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-06-05T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/sec-proposes-floating-share-price-for-riskiest-money-funds.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission will vote today on a proposal that would impose a
floating-share value on the riskiest type of money-market mutual
funds or allow them to suspend redemptions when the fund is
under stress.  The measure being considered at a meeting in Washington
would apply to prime institutional funds, which invest in short-term corporate debt such as commercial paper. It wouldn’t apply
to funds that hold at least 80 percent of their assets in cash,
government securities or repurchase agreements collateralized
with government securities, the SEC said.  Prime funds would have a choice of adopting the floating-share value, putting gates on redemptions or doing both. A money
fund would be able to suspend redemptions for as long as 30 days
if its weekly liquid assets fell below 15 percent of total
assets, or half of the required level. Investors would be
charged a 2 percent fee to redeem shares if they still wanted to
withdraw funds.  Prime retail funds, defined as a fund that limits a
shareholder’s redemptions to $1 million per day, would be exempt
from the regulation. Institutional funds hold a majority of the
assets in the $2.9 trillion money-fund industry, according to
the SEC.  Today’s vote, which would release the proposal for 90 days
of public comment, will kick off a months-long burst of lobbying
from investors, fund companies and other stakeholders before SEC
commissioners consider a final version.  The proposal is regulators’ second response to
vulnerabilities exposed by the 2008 financial crisis, when the
$62.5 billion  Reserve Primary Fund  collapsed and money funds
temporarily required a U.S. government guarantee. The Reserve
Fund “broke the buck” when the value of its shares fell below
$1, sparking a run on money funds.  U.S. regulators have long warned that money funds, which
are commonly considered a safe, stable place to keep cash, could
pose systemic risk to the financial system. The Financial
Stability Oversight Council, an umbrella group of U.S.
regulators including the Federal Reserve, proposed its own
recommendations to further regulate money funds after the SEC
failed in 2012 to move forward with a proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  