-- Services Gains Show Companies Confident in Outlook: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-06-05T20:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/service-industries-in-u-s-expanded-at-a-faster-pace-in-may.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded at a faster pace in May as a pickup in orders showed
companies are confident demand will be sustained after a second-quarter slowdown.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index  climbed to 53.7 from 53.1 in April, according to a report
from the Tempe, Arizona-based group today. A reading above 50
indicates expansion in the industries that make up almost 90
percent of the economy. Other figures showed private payroll
growth slowed last month.  The gain in services shows the expansion is weathering a
downturn in manufacturing, propelled by a housing market rebound
that is driving sales at companies such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  At
the same time,  federal budget  cuts help explain why employers
are reluctant to accelerate hiring and give the economy a bigger
boost.  “The services portion of the economy is stable right
now,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, who projected an ISM
reading of 53.8. “We’ll continue to see demand that’s
supportive of a 2-2.5 percent” pace of economic growth.  Stocks fell, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a
one-month low, after the reports. The  S&P 500  dropped 1.4
percent to 1,608.9 at the close in  New York .  Manufacturing Slowing  Service industries are holding up as the nation’s factories
struggle. The ISM’s  factory index  earlier this week showed
manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, unexpectedly contracted in May, registering its lowest
reading since June 2009. The gauge fell to 49 from the prior
month’s 50.7, the third consecutive decline. Fifty is the
dividing line between growth and contraction.  In the U.K., services growth accelerated more than
economists forecast last month as signs mount that the recovery
may strengthen. A gauge of activity rose to 54.9, the highest in
14 months, from 52.9 in April, Markit Economics and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said in  London .  While  Europe  is showing signs of stabilizing,  Australia ’s
economy is cooling. Gross domestic product grew 2.5 percent in
the first quarter from the same three months last year, the
weakest reading since the second quarter of 2011, a Bureau of
Statistics report showed.  The  median  forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a rise
to 53.5 in the U.S. ISM non-manufacturing gauge. Estimates of
the 74 economists ranged from 51 to 55 for the services index,
which includes industries from utilities and retail to health
care, housing and finance.  Orders Climb  The survey’s measure of new orders increased to a three-month high of 56 in May after 54.5 a month earlier. The ISM’s
gauge of business activity improved to 56.5 from 55. The
 employment  gauge declined to 50.1, the weakest since July, from
52.  “We’re still seeing a little bit of growth, but it’s
slowed down based on the fact that we’ve not seen a strong
uptick in the levels of business,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman of
ISM’s non-manufacturing survey committee, said on a call today
with reporters. “There is still that degree of uncertainty in
the long-term outlook.”  Another report showed companies added fewer workers than
forecast in May. The 135,000 increase followed a revised 113,000
gain in April that was smaller than initially estimated,
according to figures from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Research Institute. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
called for a 165,000 increase.  Service Providers  Manufacturers, construction companies and other goods-producing industries reduced payrolls by 3,000 in May, the
report showed. Construction employment rose by 5,000 and
factories lost 6,000 jobs, today’s report showed. Payrolls at
service providers climbed by 138,000.  Uneven improvement in the economy has made it difficult to
project when the  Federal Reserve  may make changes to its
unprecedented accommodation program. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
said in a response to questions during congressional testimony
on May 22 that the central bank could consider reducing the
amount of its monthly purchases of Treasuries and mortgage debt
within “the next few meetings” if officials see signs of
sustained improvement in the labor market.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1
that it will keep buying $85 billion a month in bonds to bolster
growth and cut unemployment.  Growth will cool to a 1.6 percent annualized rate in the
second quarter after a 2.4 percent pace in the first three
months of the year, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 73 economists from May 3 to May 8. The
expansion is projected to average a 2.4 percent rate in the
second half of the year.  Factory Orders  Orders placed with U.S. factories rose less than forecast
in April as demand for non-durable goods dropped, probably
reflecting lower fuel costs, according to a Commerce Department
report in  Washington  today.  The 1 percent increase in bookings followed a revised 4.7
percent decline the prior month. Orders for durable goods, those
meant to last at least three years, rose 3.5 percent.  At the same time, further improvement in the housing
industry is helping lift retailers such as Atlanta-based Home
Depot, which last month posted first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates and raised its forecast for earnings this
year on gains in renovation spending.  Housing Market  “With the housing market there are a lot of positives,”
including property values, turnover, household formation and
affordability, Francis Blake, chairman and chief executive
officer of the largest home-improvement retailer, said at a May
29 conference. “Credit availability is still a major issue and
what we’d hope is that over the next half a year, year or so,
that that starts to improve and provide some further legs to the
housing market recovery.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values increased
10.9 percent from March 2012, the biggest 12-month gain since
April 2006, after advancing 9.4 percent in February, a report
showed last week.  Purchases of  previously owned  homes also climbed in April,
rising to a 4.97 million pace and the highest level in more than
three years, according to the National Association of Realtors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  