-- Sharapova Rallies Back From Bagel Set to Make Semis
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-06-05T14:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/sharapova-rallies-back-from-bagel-set-to-make-semis.html
Defending champion  Maria Sharapova 
overcame being routed in the first set by  Jelena Jankovic  to
reach the semifinals of the French Open.  Sharapova beat Jankovic of Serbia 0-6, 6-4, 6-3 on a gusty
main Court Philippe Chatrier at Roland Garros in Paris.  “Jelena played such a great match, from the beginning she
really was the aggressive player,” the second-seeded Russian
said in a courtside interview.  Sharapova had never before won a match on the women’s WTA
Tour or in a major championship after losing the first set 6-0.  “I had to erase that chapter and move forward,” she said.
“I still felt like I was in the match.”  Sharapova’s next opponent is Australian Open champion
 Victoria Azarenka , the third seed from Belarus who beat No. 12
 Maria Kirilenko  of Russia 7-6 (7-3), 6-2 in the other women’s
quarterfinal on Court Suzanne Lenglen.  In today’s men’s quarterfinals, defending champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain is playing  Stanislas Wawrinka  of Switzerland and
top-seed  Novak Djokovic  of Serbia is taking on 35-year-old  Tommy Haas  of Germany.  Sharapova struggled to keep the ball inside the lines in
the first half-hour against the former world No. 1, dropping six
games in a row as she made 20 unforced errors. The 18th-seeded
Jankovic, who was loudly cheered on by a small group of
spectators waving the Serbian flag next to the presidential box,
made only four mistakes.  Found Rhythm  Sharapova then recovered and raced to a 5-1 lead in the
second set as she finally found her rhythm and halved her error
count. Jankovic, a three-time semifinalist in Paris, fought back
to 5-4 before Sharapova held serve to close out the set.  At 3-3 in the decider, Sharapova set up two break points
with a running forehand and broke as Jankovic misfired a
backhand. She won the match when the Serb sent a forehand wide.  “In the end, she was the better player,” Jankovic, who
has been playing singles, doubles and mixed doubles in Paris,
told reporters. “I’m a bit tired. But overall, I had an amazing
tournament.”  Sharapova won her first title on the Roland Garros clay
courts last year, completing the career Grand Slam of all four
majors. The 26-year-old achieved global fame when she won her
first Wimbledon title at 17 in 2004. She’s since become the
world’s best-paid female athlete.  Sharapova and Jankovic have played against each other since
they were both juniors at the Nick Bollettieri Academy in
Florida. Sharapova has lost only once to Jankovic in nine
previous matches and today was their first match on red clay.  Women’s top seed  Serena Williams  of the U.S. and last
year’s finalist  Sara Errani  of Italy reached the semifinals
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Roland Garros at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  