-- Slovenia Ex-Premier Jansa Gets Two Years in Prison on Bribes
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-06-05T14:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/slovenia-s-ex-premier-jansa-convicted-of-graft-in-military-deal.html
Former Slovenian Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  was found guilty of taking a bribe in the procurement of
military equipment from Finland’s Patria Oyj and given a two-year prison term.  The district court in Ljubljana convicted Jansa of taking
money from the weapons maker in 2006, when Slovenia agreed to
buy 135 armored vehicles for 278 million euros ($363 million),
Judge Barbara Klajnsek said in the ruling today. Jansa has
denied wrongdoing and said he will appeal the verdict. He was
sentenced to two years in jail and must pay a fine of 37,000
euros, the judge said.  “The criminal offense in case of Jansa was proven in its
entirety,” Klajnsek said. “Claims by the defense lawyers that
accusations are not clearly defined are incorrect.”  He is the highest-ranking official in the country to be
convicted on criminal charges. Jansa was ousted as premier in
February after the nation’s independent anti-corruption agency,
the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, said he failed
to declare his private assets.  “This is a politically motivated trial,” Jansa told
reporters in Ljubljana after the verdict. “In the part that
relates to law, I will use all legal means and in the part that
relates to politics, I will use all political means so that this
ruling won’t stand anymore. We will fight till the end and we
will never give up.”  Two others, Ivan Crnkovic and Tone Krkovic, were also
convicted in today’s verdict and given the same fine and
sentenced to 22 months in prison.  Ruling’s ‘Message’  “This will send a message that the courts are acting to
address these issues that seem to have run deep through the
ruling establishment in Slovenia,”  Timothy Ash , an emerging-markets economist at Standard Bank Plc in London, said in an e-mail today. We can also see “shades of Sanader in neighboring
Croatia, and also Nastase in Romania, former prime ministers in
the region, who have fallen victim to similar claims.”  Jansa’s Slovenian Democratic Party currently leads in
opinion polls. Slovenia is now ruled by a coalition government
under Prime Minister  Alenka Bratusek  and her Positive Slovenia
party, which is struggling with a banking crisis and the second
recession since 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  