-- Smithfield Sale Has Implications for Food Safety, Stabenow Says
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2013-06-05T17:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/smithfield-sale-has-implications-for-food-safety-stabenow-says.html
Shuanghui International Holdings
Ltd.’s deal to buy Smithfield Foods Inc., the world’s largest
hog and pork producer, has implications for U.S. food
safety, U.S. Senator  Debbie Stabenow  said.  “American consumers have long been able to trust the food
they buy in the supermarket,” Stabenow, a Democrat from
Michigan and chairwoman of the Agriculture, Nutrition and
Forestry Committee, said in a  statement  today. “I am concerned
about Shuanghui International’s possible purchase of Smithfield
Foods and the implications it could have on food safety for
American consumers.”  Shuanghui’s $4.7 billion offer to buy the  Smithfield, 
Virginia-based meat processor would be the biggest Chinese
takeover of a U.S. company upon completion. The company plans to
export pork from the U.S., not import Chinese pork into the
country, Smithfield Chief Executive Officer  C. Larry Pope  said
on a conference call with analysts on May 29.  The agencies responsible for approving the deal must take
the “troubling track record” of China and Shuanghui in food
safety into account and “do everything in their power to ensure
our national security and the health of our families is not
jeopardized,” Stabenow said. Republican Senator Charles
 Grassley  of Iowa, the largest hog-producing state, on May 29
said the U.S. Department of Justice should take a “close
look.”  Chinese food companies “need to go outside to learn
advanced technology and experiences on food safety,” Shuanghui
Chairman Wan Long said in e-mailed responses to questions from
Bloomberg last month. Smithfield has “strict food safety
management and effective measures on environmental protection,”
he said.  Acquiring Smithfield would give Shuanghui, China’s biggest
pork producer, access to more advanced production technology as
well as 460 farms and production of about 15.8 million hogs a
year, according to Smithfield’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  