-- Snake Gall Bladders Ditched for Drugs by Balding Chinese
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T00:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/snake-gall-bladders-ditched-for-drugs-by-balding-chinese.html
After raw-ginger scalp rubs and
walnut snacks failed to counter Shi Yang’s receding hairline,
the 26-year-old Shanghai engineer says he’s ready to ditch his
mother’s advice and give Western drugs a go.  Traditional herbal remedies for male pattern baldness are
losing ground to treatments such as  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Propecia and
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Rogaine in  China , where a full head of black
hair on a man is a sign of health and virility. Shi, a slim,
bespectacled college graduate, has a better chance of landing a
girlfriend with a thick thatch of hair like President Xi Jinping
or Premier  Li Keqiang , both of whom are in their 50s, he said.  Sales of Western hair-loss treatments doubled in China the
past five years, growing almost twice as fast as the broader
hair-product segment, according to Euromonitor International.
The hair-loss market is still small because baldness is only now
being seen as a problem requiring pharmaceutical help, and
Western companies have only recently begun to seize on the
concern.  “China’s hair loss treatment market is still in the
development stage, and patients have many misconceptions about
the treatments available,” said Jane Wu, Merck’s communications
director for China. The  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based
drugmaker started a program with the  China Association of Health
Promotion and Education  two years ago to promote the use of
doctor-prescribed hair loss treatments.  Bald Love  “When we started our hair-loss clinic in 2000, we probably
saw three patients a day, and now I get about 30,” Yang Shuxia,
a dermatologist at the Peking University First Hospital, said in
an interview in Beijing. “There is increasing awareness that
baldness is a medical condition that can be treated.”  Yang commonly prescribes Propecia and generic versions of
Rogaine for her male patients and generic forms of  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Aldactone for women, she said. Her patients are typically
college students who feel losing their hair “affects their
chances of getting jobs, finding a girlfriend, or successful
match-making,” Yang said.  Propecia, approved in China since 2001, is “one of Merck’s
important, innovative drugs” there, Shanghai-based Wu said in
an e-mail. The drug, also known by the chemical name
finasteride, was required in April 2012 by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration to include warning labels linking it to
sexual dysfunction that can occur after patients stop using it.  Post-Finasteride Syndrome  The Post-Finasteride Syndrome Foundation was established in
July 2012 to support research into the biologic mechanisms of
the condition that would lead to effective treatments or cures,
according to the non-profit group based in Somerset,  New Jersey .
Post-finasteride syndrome is characterized by sexual,
neurological, hormonal and psychological side effects that
persist in men who have taken Propecia, the group said in e-mail.  China’s market for hair-care products expanded 51 percent
to 33.6 billion  yuan  ($5.5 billion) in the five years to 2012,
according to Euromonitor, a London-based researcher. Sales of
hair-loss treatments, most of which contain Rogaine’s active
ingredient, minoxidil, jumped 90 percent to 100.7 million yuan
over the same period.  Snake Gall Bladders  The China Association of Health Promotion and Education, a
government-supervised body, surveyed 1,280 balding men in
Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Chengdu last June and found 47
percent of respondents had sought help from hair-growth
shampoos, visited hair-loss centers, or even swallowed snake
gall bladders. More than 80 percent said they were
“dissatisfied” with those treatments, the association said in
a report.  BaWang International (Group) Holding Ltd. (1338) , the Chinese
maker of herbal shampoos endorsed by movie star  Jackie Chan ,
posted three straight years of losses after a 2010 report of a
cancer-causing substance in its hair-loss remedy caused a plunge
in sales.  The top-selling treatment for hair-thinning in China last
year was  Da Fei Xin , a minoxidil solution made by a unit of
Shanxi province-based  Zhendong Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. (300158) , with a
23 percent market share, Euromonitor said in a May 23 e-mail.  L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, is trying
to challenge with products such as  Arginine  lotions touted to
reduce fall-out by strengthening the hair, and the  Krastase 
line, including shampoos for thinning hair.  L’Oreal Strategy  The Paris-based company is pushing to expand its products
beyond Beijing and Shanghai to lower-tier cities in China, which
“gives us a huge reservoir of growth for the years to come,”
L’Oreal Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said on a Feb. 12
teleconference, according to a Bloomberg transcript of the call.  Cellmid Ltd. (CDY) , a Sydney-based drugmaker, also plans to start
selling in China this year a plant extract-based treatment to
which it acquired the rights through its purchase of Advangen
Inc.  Japan  last month.  “When I looked at the numbers, I was astonished,” said
Chief Executive Officer Maria Halasz, referring to China’s
market potential. Cellmid is looking for a distributor, she said
in an interview.  Halasz said she suffered from excessive hair loss herself
in the past and is counting on women being her main customers
based on her observations of hair-thinning in cities such as
Shanghai.  “Going up and down the escalators, you really see women,
even 30-something women, where there’s thinning on top of the
head,” she said.  Three-quarters of men and two-thirds of women will
encounter hair-thinning by age 80, researchers at the  University
of Melbourne  found in a study published in the Journal of
Investigative Dermatology in 2005. The hormone-driven
phenomenon, which doctors call androgenetic alopecia, follows
different patterns in men and women.  Men, Women  Men experience recession of the hairline, starting above
the temples and the uppermost surface of the head and
progressing to complete hair loss, in extreme cases. In women,
it causes diffuse thinning at or behind the hairline, Oklahoma
City hair transplant doctor O’tar Norwood reported in a study in
the  Dermatologic Surgery Journal  in 2001.  About 21 percent of adult males and 6 percent of females
have the condition in China, a  study  by the Peking University
People’s Hospital published in the British Journal of
Dermatology in 2010 found. The research was based on a survey of
17,886 people.  Hair loss may be more prominent among Asian women because
they have thicker strands of hair, but fewer hair follicles,
said Rod Sinclair, professor of dermatology at the University of
 Melbourne  and director of dermatology at the city’s Epworth
hospital.  Comb Over  “Because their hair is very strong, it sits up away from
their scalp,” Sinclair said in a telephone interview. “When
they have diffuse hair thinning, it’s instantly noticeable,
whereas in Caucasians, they can comb it over and conceal the
hair loss much better for longer.”  For  Shanghai  engineer Shi, who studied and worked in
 France , returning to China in 2011 has made him feel self-conscious about his thinning scalp.  “I have no idea why, but most of my French colleagues,
especially the engineers, were bald,” he said. “You will
definitely stick out more back in China because it’s much less
common.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Pham in Sydney at 
 lpham14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  