-- Spain Arrests 30 in Dismantling Italian Mafia-Led Hashish Ring
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-06-05T12:49:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/spain-arrests-30-in-dismantling-italian-mafia-led-hashish-ring.html
Spanish police arrested 30 suspects
and dismantled a seven-year-old hashish smuggling network run by
 Italy ’s Camorra crime syndicate that was responsible for sending
42 tons of the drug to Italy.  The suspects, mostly of Spanish, Italian, and Latin-American origin, are suspected of making annual profit of 60-million euros ($78 million) from smuggling 6 tons of hashish a
year since 2006. The ring laundered the money through purchasing
and selling luxurious properties along Spain’s Mediterranean
coast, Interior Minister Jorge Fernandez Diaz said in a press
conference in Madrid today.  About 200 of Spain’s civil guards were involved in the
arrests, that came a year after the capture of Giuseppe
Polverino in Cadiz, Spain. Polverino, known as Peppe the Baron,
is leader of a clan of the Camorra, the Naples, Italy-based
crime organization, and was one of the most wanted Italian
fugitives, according to a press release from the Spanish
Interior Ministry. About 69 Polverino clan members were also
arrested in Italy by local authorities as part of the operation,
he said.  “We can consider the Polverino crime structure
dismantled,” Diaz said. “It was such a complex web of crime
that it required the intervention of many institutions.”  About 136 properties, including homes and shopping centers,
and 263 bank accounts related to the Camorra have been seized by
Spanish and Italian authorities. A video by the Spanish civil
guard showed some of the suspects living in large beach houses
in cities such as Malaga and Tarragona, some with pools and
private boat docks.  Spain’s four-yearlong operation to dismantle the Polverino
network remains ongoing, Diaz said, as authorities continue to
investigate the suspects’ assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in  Madrid  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  