-- Statoil Delays Barents Sea Oilfield Project After Tax Boost
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d
-- 2013-06-05T11:25:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/statoil-delays-castberg-oil-project-amid-unexpected-tax-rise-1-.html
Statoil ASA  delayed an investment
decision on the Johan Castberg oilfield in the Barents Sea after
the government unexpectedly last month announced it would raise
taxes on oil and gas producers.  The tax increase reduces the attractiveness of marginal
fields and those that need infrastructure,  Oeystein Michelsen ,
Statoil’s head of development and production in Norway, said
today in a  statement . “This has made it necessary to review the
Johan Castberg project.”  Statoil, Norway’s biggest energy company, already warned on
May 24 that projects such as  Castberg , which consists of the
Skrugard and Havis discoveries, would be “more challenging.”
The project, located about 240 kilometers (150 miles) off the
coast of Hammerfest in northern Norway, needs new infrastructure
and was already a challenge, the company said.  The government has drawn criticism from producers,
including Statoil, ConocoPhillips and  Exxon Mobil Corp. , after
this month announcing a surprise tax increase. Norway, western
Europe’s largest oil and gas producer, is trying to boost
petroleum output by expanding off its northern coast as output
falls from maturing fields in the North Sea.  “The updated project estimates and the new uncertainty in
the tax framework has made it necessary to consider what
consequences this may have for the development concept,”
Michelsen said.  Attracted Criticism  Norway will limit the tax-deductible component of petroleum
income, cutting the exemptions on free cash flow to 22 percent
from 30 percent, the government said on May 5. It will also
raise its special petroleum tax to 51 percent from 50 percent,
keeping a top tax rate of 78 percent. The measures will raise
oil industry taxes by about 3 billion kroner ($517 million) a
year, it said.  Statoil Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  has criticized
the move, saying a stable political and regulatory environment
has been Norway’s “most important competitive advantage” in
the past 20 years. Political will is essential for the
development of the Arctic, he said in a speech near Oslo today.  While the delay of Castberg “isn’t good news,” it’s not
unusual given the size and complexity of the project, with
investments estimated at “close to” 100 billion kroner, Oil
and Energy Minister  Ola Borten Moe  also said near Oslo today.  Political Will  “We’ll see Johan Castberg developed and built,” he said.
“It’s very important for Norway, it’s very important for the
north of Norway and it’s also very important for Statoil.”  The Castberg project, which may hold as much as 600 million
barrels of recoverable crude, has helped rekindle interest in
the Barents Sea after a decade of disappointing results.  Statoil, based in Stavanger, is the operator of the field
and has a 50 percent stake. Italy’s  Eni SpA  has 30 percent, and
Petoro AS, which manages Norway’s direct stakes in its oil and
gas fields, holds 20 percent. Statoil had originally planned to
submit a plan for development and operation to the government
for approval next year before starting production in 2018.  Norway remains committed to developing the waters off its
northern coast and expects “a lot of licensing” in the Barents
Sea when the results of the 22nd licensing round are announced
“in the near future,” Borten Moe said today. The government
will consider regional support for oil and gas activities if
needed, as was done with the development of the Snohvit gas
field off the coast of Hammerfest, he said.  “The political will is there, the optimism is there and
personally I think we’re on the doorstep of large developments
and a huge increase in activities in the Barents,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alastair Reed  in Oslo on  at
 areed12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  