-- STX Pan Ocean Says Court Receivership Request Hinges on Creditor
-- B y   J u n g a h   L e e ,   S h i n h y e   K a n g   a n d   S h a r o n   C h o
-- 2013-06-05T09:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/stx-pan-ocean-says-court-receivership-request-hinges-on-creditor.html
STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) , the shipping arm
of South Korean conglomerate STX Group, will make a decision on
applying for court receivership after hearing from its largest
creditor  Korea  Development Bank on its request for funding.  “No decision has been made as we’re still waiting to hear
back from KDB,” Jang SJ, a spokesman at Seoul-based STX Pan
Ocean, said by phone today.  South Korea ’s MoneyToday newspaper
earlier reported the company will apply for court receivership
as KDB rejected its request for 200 billion won ($179 million.)
KDB cannot confirm STX Pan Ocean’s request for emergency
funding, nor has it made a decision on whether to acquire the
company, the bank said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Pan Ocean shares  slumped  by the daily limit 15 percent in
 Seoul  today and were temporarily halted from Singapore trading
as the company’s Chief Executive Officer Seon Ryung Bae stepped
down “due to personal matters,” according to a Singapore
Exchange filing. STX Group put its controlling stake in Pan
Ocean up for sale last year after a slump in the shipping market
in 2008 crippled the group’s ability to raise funds.  “The government was pushing to normalize the company by
having  Korea Development Bank  buy its stake, but it seems like
the bank came to the conclusion that the risk is too big,” said
Kang Dong Jin, a Seoul-based analyst at HMC Investment
Securities Co. “This indicates that the conglomerate’s
restructuring may be delayed or even become impossible, as STX
Group needed the cash from its STX Pan Ocean stake.”  Reviewing Options  Korea Exchange today requested STX Pan Ocean clarify its
position on reports that it will seek court receivership or debt
rescheduling by 6 p.m. on June 7. The company today asked for a
suspension in Singapore trading pending “clarification of the
rumor in the market in regard to the company will file for
company reorganization,” according to a statement.  Pan Ocean is reviewing options including court receivership
or restructuring after KDB decides whether to proceed with
acquisition, the company’s spokesman Jang said. “We haven’t
heard anything official from them yet,” he said.  STX Group was founded in 2001 by Kang Duk Soo, who used his
life savings from a 27-year career at another of South Korean
conglomerate or chaebol Ssangyong Group to build a business
group spanning the manufacture of  cruise ships ,  wind turbines 
and apartment blocks.  The group was built partly by buying financially struggling
companies. In 2001, Kang bought Daedong Shipbuilding Co., then-South Korea’s eighth-largest shipbuilder, which had just exited
court protection, and renamed it STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co.
Kang bought Pan Ocean Shipping Co. three years later while it
was in  bankruptcy protection .  Shares of  STX Corp. (011810) , STX Group’s listed holding company,
slumped 15 percent to their lowest close since 2002 in Seoul
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jungah Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1361@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  