-- Sucden Rejects Offer to Exchange Cocoa Deemed Unfit for Delivery
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-06-05T05:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/sucden-rejects-offer-to-exchange-cocoa-deemed-unfit-for-delivery.html
Sucres et Denrees SA rejected an
offer to exchange some of the bags of cocoa it bought last month
that were found to be unfit for delivery because the proposal
only covers part of the batch stored in the same warehouse.  The Paris-based company, known as Sucden, acquired the
1,000-metric-ton consignment at the expiry of the May futures
contract on NYSE Liffe. The bourse, on behalf of the seller,
offered to swap bags holding 100 tons, said Derek Chambers,
Sucden’s head of cocoa.  “I have no way of knowing what led them to the conclusion
on the other 900 tons that there was no underlying issue,”
Chambers said by e-mail on June 3. “No cocoa from this
warehouse keeper should have been delivered to the May futures
before an exhaustive inquiry by Liffe had taken place.”  The 100 tons were inspected by NYSE Liffe after water
stains were found on other bags stored in the warehouse in
Antwerp,  Belgium  by Commodity Centre (Holdings) Ltd. on behalf
of a client. The bourse, which certifies that cocoa is suitable
to be sold into its futures contracts, has yet to comment on the
scale of the damage. The May contract expired at 1,569 pounds
($2,400) a ton, valuing the 1,000-ton batch at about $2.4
million. Sucden took delivery of a total of 34,530 tons from the
contract.  Sucden might reject all the cocoa stored by Commodity
Centre, Chambers said. All the bags found to be unfit for
delivery were from the same vessel that loaded in Cameroon, he
said. Buyers have 10 business days to refuse the consignment
after payment is made, according to NYSE Liffe regulations
posted on its website.  Adaora Anunoby, a spokeswoman for Liffe, declined to
comment. Alec Gunn, a director at Essex, England-based Commodity
Centre, was unavailable for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  