-- Swiss Stocks Decline Amid Concern Fed Will Trim Stimulus
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2013-06-05T07:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/swiss-stocks-decline-amid-concern-fed-will-trim-stimulus.html
Swiss stocks  dropped as concern grew
that the  Federal Reserve  will scale back its stimulus in
September and as two U.S. central bankers reiterated their
support for reducing bond purchases.  Swatch Group AG, the biggest maker of Swiss timepieces, led
declines on the benchmark Swiss Market Index.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the
maker of Tracleer hypertension medicine, slid to the lowest
price in six weeks.  The  SMI (SMI)  fell 0.5 percent to 7,839.27 at 9:49 a.m. in
Zurich. The gauge has retreated in the past two weeks as
investors speculated that improving economic data will lead to a
paring of stimulus measures. The broader Swiss Performance Index
also lost 0.5 percent today.  The Fed will probably trim its monthly asset purchases by
almost a third in September if the labor market continues to
strengthen,  Joseph LaVorgna , Deutsche Bank AG’s chief U.S.
economist, wrote yesterday in a note to clients.  The first reduction will be $25 billion, consisting of $10
billion fewer mortgages and $15 billion of Treasuries. This will
bring monthly purchases down to $60 billion from the current
level of $85 billion, LaVorgna predicted.  Fed Bank of Kansas City President Esther George, who has
dissented against record stimulus at every policy meeting this
year, and Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  called for
a reduction in monetary support.  “Waiting too long to acknowledge the economy’s
progress and prepare markets for more normal policy settings
carries no less risk than tightening too soon,” George said in
the text of a speech. She didn’t speak because of illness.  Swatch declined 1 percent to 549.50 Swiss francs. Actelion
dropped 0.8 percent to 55.85 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  