-- Assad’s Forces Seize Strategic Town as Rebels Retreat
-- B y   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-05T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/syria-s-assad-controls-strategic-town-in-blow-to-rebel-forces.html
President Bashar al-Assad’s victory
in the strategic town of al-Qusair is just one battle in the war
for Syrian liberation and won’t be the last, according to the
acting head of the opposition forces.  As the rebel movement confronted the latest in a series of
defeats at the hands of Assad and allied Hezbollah militiamen
from neighboring Lebanon, the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency 
published pictures of troops standing on the rubble of shattered
buildings and waving government flags. Booby traps had been
defused and tunnels destroyed, the agency said.  Iran , Assad’s
most steadfast ally, congratulated the “Syrian people.”  “This is one small battle,” George Sabra, acting leader
of the Syrian National Coalition, said in a broadcast shown by
 Al Jazeera  and other stations yesterday. The engagement “will
be followed by other battles until the country is liberated.”  Rebel units in the city, sited about 30 kilometers (19
miles) southwest of Homs on the road to Lebanon, had been
fighting for more than two weeks to hold the town, which is
close to the highway linking the capital, Damascus, to the
coastal mountain region that forms the Alawite heartland.  Syria’s insurgents have also lost ground near the cities of
Aleppo and Damascus this year, with Otaibah to the east of the
capital falling after a 37-day battle, along with the southern
town of Sanamein and Aziza in the north. Assad told Hezbollah’s
Al Manar  television  on May 30 that the balance of power had
shifted in favor of his army.  ‘Heroic Battles’  “Heroic battles were fought by the Free Syrian Army to
defend civilians; however the tremendous gap in the balance of
power ended in causing heavy casualties within civilians,” the
coalition said in an e-mailed statement. “The Free Syrian Army
commits to carrying on with the fight.”  The rebels withdrew after running short of ammunition and
fighters, according an e-mail from the  Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights , a Coventry, U.K.-based opposition group.  Government forces killed unspecified numbers of
“terrorists,” while others surrendered and the rest fled al-Qusair, according to an army statement broadcast on state
television.  Yet the government victory is unlikely to prove decisive
and may well foreshadow an intensification of the fighting, said
Taufiq Rahim, a Dubai-based political analyst at GlobeSight, a
policy and strategy advisory firm.  “In the short term the Assad government will go on the
offensive in other areas like Aleppo,” he said. “However, we
may see an intensification of violence overall as proxy fighters
for both sides flow in from neighboring countries as a result of
what happened in Qusair.”  ‘Bloody War’  The loss of al-Qusair will lead to “open, sectarian,
bloody war to the end,” Colonel Abdel-Hamid Zakaria, a Free
Syrian Army spokesman in  Turkey , told  Al Arabiya  television on
May 20. The group has also promised to attack targets in Lebanon
and there have been reports from television stations including
Al Arabiya this month of clashes between Syrian rebels and
Hezbollah in Lebanon’s Bekaa Valley.  Hezbollah, a Shiite group designated a terrorist
organization by the U.S., is fighting alongside Syrian forces
loyal to Assad, whose Alawite sect is an offshoot of Shiite
Islam. Many rebels are  Sunni Muslims .  Iran, allied to Hezbollah and the Syrian government,
welcomed what it termed “the victory of Syrian people and the
army against terrorists in al-Qusair,” according to Deputy
Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian, who was cited in a
report by the state-run  Islamic Republic News Agency .  `Outside Interference'  Arab League foreign ministers meeting yesterday in Cairo
agreed on a resolution ``condemning all forms of outside
interference, especially the interference by Hezbollah,'' Arab
League Secretary-General Nabil el-Arabi said.  Assad’s attention may now turn to the northern province of
Aleppo, home to Syria’s second city and close to Turkey.
Thousands of Assad’s troops and Hezbollah militiamen are
preparing to enter the province, the Observatory said on June 2,
predicting a three-pronged assault against the area.  The proposed international peace conference on Syria won’t
take place before July, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said, according to an Interfax report, after a meeting
yesterday in Geneva between U.S., Russian and United Nations
officials. One of the main points of contention was who should
participate, the news service said.  At least 80,000 people have been killed in  Syria  since the
uprising began in 2011, Vuk Jeremic, president of the UN General
Assembly, said in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  