-- Syrian Bombs Empty Lebanese Tables as Conflict Hits Tourism
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-06T08:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/syrian-bombs-empty-lebanese-tables-as-war-hits-tourism-mainstay.html
Bassam al-Habr recalls the days when
his 420-seat restaurant in Lebanon’s Aley mountain resort town
was so crowded he had to turn away diners.  That was before the two-year uprising against Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad got lengthier, bloodier and spilled
over into neighboring countries. Business has slumped, with
income down another 60 percent this year, al-Habr, who runs the
Al-Koukh eatery, said this week.  “This is the worst in the five years the restaurant has
been open,” said the 44-year-old manager, gesturing toward the
sidewalk and empty tables. “We haven’t seen anything that would
indicate that things are going to get better.”  Tourism in Lebanon, the Arab world’s commercial center and
a playground for Gulf nationals and high rollers before a 15-year civil war started in 1975, has been turbulent at the best
of times with bombings, assassinations and clashes with  Israel .
Yet it accounts for about a fifth of the $40 billion economy and
hoteliers say the Syrian conflict is the biggest threat to the
industry for more than two decades.  Safir Bhamdoun Hotel ’s main glass doors in Bhamdoun, a
favorite summer mountain getaway for Kuwaitis, are still locked.
The terrace overlooking tree-covered mountain slopes that taper
down to a lush valley, is empty.  Trying to Adapt  Reservations are “very few” and the hotel, which operates
June till September, won’t open before guests start arriving,
said general manager Zaman el Khazen.  “We don’t have business travelers, we have leisure
travelers and they get affected by the political and security
conditions,” el Khazen said on June 3. “We’re trying to adapt
to the situation, but it’s depressing.”  Tourism, mainly catering to visitors from the Gulf, has
been hit as travel warnings against kidnap threats and a wave of
demonstrations kept those people away last year. The United Arab
Emirates and  Kuwait  issued similar advice again this year.  The Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes Saudi Arabia,
U.A.E., Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain and Oman, warned its citizens
against travel to Lebanon due to “the instability of the
situation there which makes the presence of GCC citizens
unsafe,” it said in a statement e-mailed yesterday.  In Saudi Arabia, Foreign Minister Prince Saud urged the
Lebanese to “put an end to the fighting and act wisely,” the
official Saudi Press Agency said.  Needing Tourists  People from the Gulf account for 60 percent of tourism
spending, Tourism Minister Fadi Abboud said in a May 29
interview. The industry has already shrunk 13 percent this year
as violence spilled over from Syria, he said.  “We are fully ready to receive tourists,” said Abboud,
who is a caretaker in the post as Tammam Salam, prime minister-designate since April, tries to form a government amid rising
sectarian violence. “The only thing we need is tourists.”  This is the worst year for the industry since the Lebanese
civil war, said Pierre Achkar, president of Lebanon’s Syndicate
of Hotel Owners since 1995. Business may pick up in the peak
summer months if political turmoil in  Beirut  comes to an end.  “A lot of miracles happen in Lebanon,” Achkar said this
week. “Sometimes we don’t understand why things happen, but
they do happen. The consensus would relax the situation a little
bit. Occupancy may go up.”  Contraction  Income at hotels has declined 30 percent so far in 2013
from last year, said Achkar. It declined 25 percent from the
previous year, he said.  Tourism contracted by 20 percent in 2012, according to
Abboud. The industry made up 22 percent of the economy in 2010
and dropped to 19 percent last year, he said. The figures
include real estate foreigners bought for personal use.  “We haven’t planned that we’re going to have a fruitful
summer,” Lebanese Finance Minister Mohammed Safadi said in an
interview in Beirut yesterday. “We have to work to change it
and we can only change it through stability.”  Receding tourism means that  gross domestic product  won’t be
able to grow by more than 2 percent this year, he said. The
country’s debt-to-GDP ratio won’t change, he said.  Borrowing amounts to 140 percent of economic output, said
Raza Agha, chief Middle East and Africa economist at VTB Capital
in  London . While less than  Greece , it’s more than Ireland, the
second euro country to seek an international bailout.  “Lebanon may be able to sustain low growth for a year or
two, but politics could unravel the situation sooner making the
situation unsustainable,” said Agha.  Bombed Beirut  The civil war devastated Beirut and turned its markets,
cafes and luxury shops into rubble. The country picked itself up
after the war ended in 1990, tourists returned to sit in cafes
overlooking Roman ruins in the newly renovated downtown or pack
narrow, winding streets in Lebanon’s mountains. They were
deterred temporarily by the 2005 assassination of Prime Minister
Rafik Hariri and the 2006 Israeli war on Lebanon.  The Syrian conflict has destabilized Lebanon, home to 18
religious sects. Clashes along the same sectarian lines as in
 Syria  have erupted between opponents of Assad and his supporters
mainly in the northern city of Tripoli.  Assad is a Alawite, an offshoot of Shiite Islam, while the
rebels are mostly Sunni. Artillery and aerial shelling from
Syria has targeted Lebanese Sunni and Shiite villages.  Hezbollah Risk  The risk of violence expanding to other areas in Lebanon
rose after the Shiite militant group Hezbollah openly said it’s
fighting alongside Assad’s troops, helping them recapture the
town of Al-Qusair this week. Syria’s opposition has vowed to
target the group’s strongholds all over the country.  “The single biggest risk for Lebanon is Hezbollah’s
involvement in Syria,” Agha said.  As tourism declines so do the services and agriculture that
revolve around it, said Jihad Azour, a former finance minister
who now serves as vice president and senior executive adviser at
consultancy firm  Booz & Co.  in Beirut.  In Bhamdoun, about 25 kilometers (15 miles) from Beirut,
traffic is light, shops and cafes that overflowed with Gulf
tourists are empty and some hotels won’t open this summer.  “We had more business during the war” from 1975 to 1990,
said Adib Fleihan, 60, who owns a boutique stacked with the
black cloaks that Gulf women wear. “We haven’t seen any signs
so far that it’s going to be a good season.”  At the  Safir Bhamdoun Hotel , manager el Khazen said the
town’s attraction for Kuwaitis is that many spent summers in the
town since they were children. Now that allure isn’t enough.  “I’ve been in the tourism sector since 1995,” he said.
“I don’t recall a worse year than 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  