-- U.K. to Share More Wind-Power Wealth With Local Residents
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-06-06T12:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-k-to-share-more-wind-power-wealth-with-local-residents.html
The U.K. will give residents more say
over onshore wind farms and higher payments to communities
affected by them, an effort to heal a rift over the technology
that’s divided lawmakers and sparked local resistance.  Wind farm developers must pay 5,000 pounds ($7,721) a
megawatt each year to communities that host projects, a five-fold increase from the current rate, the Department of Energy
and Climate Change said in a statement today.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s administration is seeking to
balance a need to boost renewable energy and meet climate goals
with the wishes of voters who are concerned about noise and
visibility of turbines. About 100 lawmakers in Cameron’s
 Conservative Party  last year called for subsidy cuts for the
machines, saying they’re a blight on the landscape.  “It is important that onshore wind is developed in a way
that is truly sustainable -- economically, environmentally and
socially,” Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  said. “Today’s
announcement will ensure that communities see the windfall from
hosting developments near to them, not just the wind farm.”  New planning guidance will require that communities are
consulted earlier on applications and that more weight is given
to concerns about the impact on the landscape. For significant
projects, such consultation will be compulsory before
applications are lodged. Housing and Local Government Minister
Mark Prisk said today in Parliament “significant” would depend
on turbine height, size and density of plants and wouldn’t
include a small turbine in a backyard.  Slippery Slope  Environmental group WWF urged government not to stifle
onshore wind plans -- which it called the cheapest form of clean
energy -- with the proposals “just to placate a vocal
minority.” Some industry went further, calling the announcement
an “attack” on the technology.  “This is just another government move against onshore wind
dressed up as localism,” Dale Vince, founder of U.K. wind
developer Ecotricity Group Ltd., said in a statement. “Will we
see the same logic being applied to the new generation of gas
plants and nuclear power stations? How about the third runway at
Heathrow, waste incinerators, new roads or is it only wind
power? This is a slippery slope.”  Industry will be expected to increase community benefit
payments for the lifetime of the wind farm. Residents agreeing
to a 20-megawatt park could receive 100,000 pounds a year, or as
much as 400 pounds a year off household electricity bills, if
local authorities decide to use the money that way.  Thwart Wind Parks  The requirements may thwart some wind parks that already
require significant upfront investment, according to
RenewableUK, an industry group.  “This guidance from government will help to shape the way
our industry engages with local people even more closely in the
future,” RenewableUK Chief Executive Officer Maria McCaffery
said. Funds have already been used to pay for sports facilities
and training programs for young people, she said. The rates
apply to new projects in England, according to the group.  “Too many communities have felt under siege from wholly
inappropriate applications and this brings them long-awaited
relief,” Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  said in Parliament.  The new rules will not apply retrospectively to plants
where decisions have already been made, Prisk said. For projects
in the planning system, authorities must now consider the
guidance, which does not amount to a veto on plans, he said.  “This government firmly believes renewables do have an
important role to play in a balanced  energy policy  but we also
feel that planning works best when local people are able to
shape their local environment,” Prisk said.  The U.K. also plans to boost community ownership and
investment in projects and will publish a strategy for that in
autumn, DECC said. It also opened a consultation today on how
local communities can manage and generate their own energy.  Britain is seeking to get about 30 percent of its
electricity from renewables by 2020, up from almost 12 percent
now. Onshore wind provided 3 percent of U.K. power in 2011,
according to DECC. Planning approvals in  England  have dropped
from about 70 percent of applications approved in 2008 and 2009
to 35 percent in 2012 and 2013, according to DECC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  