-- U.K. Services Growth Quickens to Fastest in 14 Months
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-06-05T10:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-k-may-services-growth-accelerates-to-fastest-since-march-2012.html
U.K.  services growth  accelerated more
than economists forecast last month as signs mount that the
recovery may strengthen, adding to the case for  Bank of England 
policy makers to refrain from further stimulus.  A gauge of activity rose to 54.9, the highest in 14 months,
from 52.9 in April, Markit Economics and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply  said today in London. Economists had
forecast 53.1, according to the median of 33 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Readings above 50 indicate expansion. The
pound advanced.  Britain’s economy may be gaining traction after Markit’s
reports this week on manufacturing and construction both showed
growth. Bank of England officials start their two-day policy
meeting today, and economists predict that they will probably
keep their quantitative-easing target on hold. The meeting is
the last for Governor  Mervyn King  before he retires and is
succeeded by  Mark Carney  of the  Bank of Canada .  The industry surveys “bode well for economic activity in
the months ahead,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING
Bank in London. “As such, there is little prospect of any BOE
action tomorrow and it diminishes the likelihood of any shift in
policy under Mark Carney in the next few months.”  The pound extended its advance against the dollar after the
index. It was trading at $1.5351 as of 11.23 a.m. London time,
up 0.3 percent from yesterday. Sterling strengthened to a two-week high against the euro.  Growth Accelerating  New business growth at services companies rose at the
fastest pace since February 2010, while payrolls also increased,
according to today’s report.  Markit said its three industry indexes indicate  economic
growth  may accelerate to 0.5 percent this quarter from 0.3
percent in the first three months of the year. That would match
a forecast published by the BOE last month.  “The U.K. economy has moved up a gear with all cylinders
now firing,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit
in London. “The increasingly buoyant picture and improved
outlook painted by the PMIs effectively kills off any chance of
the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee voting for more
stimulus such as asset purchases for the foreseeable future.”  The U.K. data contrast with the picture in the euro area,
where efforts by authorities to calm the currency bloc’s debt
crisis have yet to translate into an economic recovery.  Retail Sales  Markit said its index of euro-region services activity rose
to 47.2 last month from 47 in April, below an initial estimate
of 47.5 published on May 23.  Retail sales  dropped 0.5 percent in
April from March, the European Union statistics office said.
Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent decline, according to the
median of 22 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. From a year
earlier, sales were down 1.1 percent.  Separate data showed  the euro economy  shrank 0.2 percent in
the first quarter, confirming an initial estimate. Investment as
measured by gross fixed capital formation dropped 1.6 percent,
subtracting 0.3 percentage points from GDP. Government spending
and exports also fell, while  consumer spending  rose 0.1 percent.  Elsewhere today, a services index in  Russia  fell to 51.4 in
May from 53 in April. An index for  China  by HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit rose to 51.2 from 51.1. A  U.S. services index 
probably rose to 53.5 from 53.1, economists said before a report
from the Institute for Supply Management later today.  Australian GDP  Australia ’s economy expanded at the slowest annual pace in
almost two years as manufacturers and builders detracted from
growth, sending the nation’s currency lower as traders increased
bets on further  interest-rate  cuts.  Gross domestic product  expanded 2.5 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the weakest reading since the
second quarter of 2011. Economists predicted a 2.7 percent gain.  In the U.K., King said in an interview broadcast June 2
that “the economy is growing,” though “not as fast as we
would like it to grow.”  London-based  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  said May 16 it will
return to profitability in 2013, allowing the government to
start selling its stake. Lloyds, which ceded a 39 percent stake
to the U.K. state after its 20 billion-pound ($31 billion)
bailout in 2008, posted an almost threefold increase in first-quarter profit as impairments for souring loans dropped.  The BOE will probably hold its  bond-purchase plan  at 375
billion pounds, according to the median of 43 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. It will also keep the benchmark interest rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent, according to all 53 economists
in a separate poll. The bank will announce the decisions at noon
in London tomorrow.  “The latest data are cause for optimism, but underlying
weaknesses should remain a concern,” Scott Corfe, senior
economist at the Centre for Economics and Business Research in
 London , said in an e-mailed note. Amid the fiscal squeeze,
“questions should be asked about the sustainability of this
recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  