-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal
Reserve Board’s First District-- Boston.  First District business contacts generally report year-over-year
increases in economic activity, although some--notably in software and
information technology services and staffing --indicate the pace of
growth is slowing. Retailers mostly say demand is recovering well after
weather-related softness during the winter; manufacturing contacts’ sales
are also ahead of last year. With only a few exceptions, businesses are
not hiring much beyond replacement. Aside from food, input prices are
generally said to be unchanged, although a few manufacturers have raised
their own prices. The outlook is fairly positive, with most respondents
expecting the current pace to continue or pick up.  Retail and Tourism  Retailers are rebounding from the negative impact of harsh and prolonged
winter weather earlier this year, but the late arrival of warmer spring
weather has affected the sales of some seasonal items. Merchant contacts
report April year-over-year comp-store sales ranging from a 0.5 percent
decline to a 9 percent increase. Demand is strong for women’s apparel,
home furnishings, and furniture. Respondents say consumer sentiment seems
a bit more positive, especially over the last month or so, yet overall
expectations remain cautious. Contacts continue to predict low-single
digit sales increases for 2013.  Greater Boston tourism revenues are up after softer performance
attributed to harsh winter weather earlier in the year. Through Q1 2013,
hotel revenues are up 2 percent year-over-year, and occupancy rates are
also up 2 percent. Restaurants revenues are 1.5 percent ahead of a year
ago. Much of this increase is attributed to strong domestic and foreign
business travel. Attendance at museums and attractions is down, perhaps
due to weather affecting leisure travel plans. Boston-area tourism was
reduced by the marathon bombings as some groups were forced to reschedule
visits.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Three-quarters of contacted manufacturers report higher sales compared
with the same period a year ago. Geographically, firms say that Europe
remains weak and that both the U.S. and Asia are growing but slightly
below expectations; by contrast, one contact called Europe a bright spot
because it exceeded somewhat low expectations. An electrical equipment
manufacturer reports low to middle single-digit growth across the board
except for their products going into residential construction, which
consistently rack up double-digit growth versus the year-earlier period.
Several contacts, including the electrical equipment manufacturer and a
supplier to the semiconductor industry report unusually volatile month-to-month readings.  All of our contacts report little or no pricing pressure on the input
side and several say they were able to make price increases stick on the
sell side. A dairy firm says food prices are up because of drought
conditions, but notes that recent rainfall may change that. Winter storms
had some temporary effect on energy prices for some firms.  Five of eight contacts are hiring, although only one is hiring in any
significant way and their hiring is outside the U.S. Of the contacts not
adding to headcounts, only one is laying off workers; this firm--a maker
of parts for machinery--is planning to reduce headcount by 2 percent to 3
percent over the next six months on top of a similar reduction over the
last six months.  Six of eight respondents are increasing capital expenditures and one of
the others says its expenditures are low only relative to some
exceptional investments in 2012. One contact in the electrical equipment
business says they have “too much cash” and are looking for investments.
Firms cite mixed opportunities to acquire other companies, with one
having a “full pipeline” of acquisitions and another saying there is
nothing to buy.  Three-quarters of contacts are reasonably optimistic about the outlook.
Several who reported some softness in the winter said their customers
were talking about demand growing in the second half.  Software and Information Technology Services  New England software and information technology services contacts
generally report continued sluggishness through May to date, with year-over-year revenue increases moderating further in the most recent quarter
to the low or middle single digits. Two contacts attribute the slowdown
to economic uncertainties in the U.S. and Europe, which they say have led
many manufacturers to delay the execution of long-term license
agreements. A healthcare contact, by contrast, attributes the dip to the
ending of federal stimulus funding for electronic health records
software. Only one contact, a provider of cloud-based payment and banking
software, reports accelerated growth, with revenues in the first quarter
up more than 15 percent relative to Q1 2012. Lackluster activity has led
the majority of contacts to slow the pace at which they are hiring; many
now plan to maintain their current headcounts through the end of the
year. Selling prices and capital and technology spending are largely
unchanged. Looking forward, software and IT firms in New England remain
cautiously optimistic, with most expecting more robust growth in the
second half of 2013.  Staffing Services  First District staffing contacts report weaker-than-expected demand in
recent weeks, with billable hours generally falling towards their year-earlier levels. The dip in activity reportedly reflects a leveling off in
the IT sector and downticks in temporary and permanent hiring in the
light industrial and manufacturing sectors. There is, however, renewed
activity in the healthcare sector, with one contact reporting a
substantial increase in demand for ambulatory nurses. In terms of labor
supply, candidates with high-end skill sets, such as mechanical and
electrical engineers and software developers, remain hard to find.
Nevertheless, bill rates and pay rates have gone largely unchanged in
2013. Looking forward, staffing contacts are generally less upbeat than
they were three months ago, with most expecting only modest growth
through the end of 2013.  Commercial Real Estate  Commercial real estate leasing and sales activity held roughly steady or
improved in recent weeks in the First District. A Hartford contact notes
a modest increase in foot traffic for downtown and suburban office space
but no significant changes in rents or vacancy rates since the last
report, virtually no construction, and a flat industrial market. In
Boston’s inner-suburban corridor, office rents are up and vacancies down.
In Boston proper, prime retail rents are up at least 5 percent over the
quarter; office I-3  fundamentals continue to improve across the city, very slowly in the
financial district and at a brisker pace in the Seaport/Innovation
district. Leasing volume dipped slightly in downtown Providence and
mostly improved in suburban Rhode Island, with rents about flat. Defense-industry tenants in southern Rhode Island are reducing their space needs
in response to federal spending cuts, moves that are likely to put
downward pressure on rents in the local submarket in coming months. In
Portland, retail leasing activity picked up and apartment rents rose
while the office leasing market was flat. Business confidence in southern
Maine reportedly improved but no major expansions or hiring plans were
announced.  Values for prime downtown Boston properties--including office buildings
and apartment buildings--continue to rise, leading to talk of
overheating. Investors are purchasing empty retail space in Boston for
the first time since the onset of the Great Recession. Continuing a
recent trend, investors are increasingly purchasing prime, well-leased
commercial properties in Hartford, Providence, and Portland, markets
which are seen as value propositions in comparison with higher-priced
Boston. So far in the cycle, however, new construction in these markets
has been very limited. Commercial real estate loan demand rebounded at
one regional lender as competition for such loans drove mortgage interest
rates to new lows.  Contacts are mostly optimistic that commercial leasing fundamentals will
continue to improve at least slowly in the coming months. The outlook
includes upside potential for absorption in Providence, Hartford, and
Boston based on deals in progress and current employment trends. In Rhode
Island, however, the upcoming gubernatorial election and state and local
budget deficits--as well as the defense cutbacks noted above--present
downside risks. In Connecticut, negative effects of sequestration on
defense-industry tenants seem inevitable, but the commercial leasing
implications are uncertain.  Residential Real Estate  Throughout much of the First District, the median sales price of single-family homes and condos rose year-over-year in March and April. Sales of
single-family homes also increased from a year earlier in most of the
region during April, after weaker sales results in March. According to
contacts, demand for homes remains strong due to low interest rates,
relatively low prices, and improving confidence among buyers. However,
contacts continue to report that shrinking inventory levels are slowing
sales and placing upward pressure on prices. In Massachusetts and the
Greater Boston area, dwindling inventory levels have been a significant
source of concern; contacts in the other states also express worry about
falling inventory levels, but to a lesser extent. Several respondents
note that much of the housing recovery has been centered around urban
areas while rural areas have experienced more modest improvements. Within
the Greater Boston area, realtors have observed an increasing frequency
of multiple offers on properties.  Contacts anticipate that single-family home and condo prices will
continue to rise over the next several months, with inventory levels a
significant factor determining the degree to which sales can grow.
Overall, contacts say they feel optimistic about the trajectory of the
housing market and believe the market will continue to recover as general
economic conditions improve.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 