-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  After many months at a generally more modest pace of growth, aggregate
business activity in the Third District has accelerated somewhat to a
moderate pace of growth during this current Beige Book period. In
particular, the growth rate of residential construction, general retail
sales, general services, staffing services, and tourism appears to have
accelerated somewhat from a more modest rate of growth to join auto sales
and existing home sales at a moderate growth rate. Commercial real estate
leasing continued to expand at modest rates, while commercial real estate
construction continued to expand only slightly. Manufacturing appears to
have declined somewhat after expanding slightly last period. Loan volumes
at Third District banks resumed growing slightly across most categories,
while credit quality continued to improve. General price levels, as well
as wages and home prices, were reported to have increased slightly
overall - similar to the last Beige Book period.  The overall outlook for growth has improved slightly since the last Beige
Book to anticipate a continuation of the current moderate pace of growth.
Despite lingering uncertainties, contacts expressed greater confidence in
the underlying strength of the economy, especially as the housing market
recovery begins to gain strength. Firms are more comfortable reinvesting
where necessary; however, many continue to hold off on major expansion
plans of capital and labor until the recovery gains more momentum.  Manufacturing.  Since the last Beige Book, Third District manufacturers have reported
that orders and shipments have fallen somewhat. The makers of food
products, lumber and wood products, paper products, and fabricated metals
have reported gains since the last Beige Book. The makers of primary
metals, electronic equipment, and instruments reported lower activity.
Reports were mixed for makers of industrial machinery. Firms supplying
the home-building sector reported strong orders and ongoing hiring to
keep pace. Other contacts attributed growing demand to the oil and gas,
auto-related, and aerospace sectors. Firms supplying other sectors
reported flat or weakened demand. Employment levels were generally
reported as flat to down.  Across all sectors, Third District manufacturers remained optimistic that
business conditions will improve over the next six months. One contact
from a housing-related manufacturer reported that orders from contractors
were 22 percent ahead of last year; still, another stated that “firming
in the housing market is key to a more favorable outlook” from his firm’s
dealers. Overall, firms have somewhat increased their expectations of
future hiring and their plans for capital spending since the last Beige
Book.  Retail.  Third District retailers reported moderate growth overall. Since Easter
sales shifted to March this year, April began with a continuation of
modest growth; however, retailers reported strong sales for Mother’s Day
weekend. Restaurants were booked with moms and their families, which
generated heavy traffic and sales for adjacent retailers. Volatile spring
temperatures created challenges for apparel retailers as shoppers shifted
their interest between winter and summer lines with the rise and fall of
the thermometer. Promotional sales remained critical for producing the
best results for many retailers.  Auto dealers have continued to report a moderate pace of sales growth
since the last Beige Book, with some weekly variability. Sales in the
Philadelphia market were described as strong. Dealers continued to
maintain lean inventories and have retained a positive outlook. However,
hiring plans remain tentative and modest; expectations of rising health-care costs further constrain the willingness of dealers to expand their
workforces.  Finance.  Overall, Third District financial firms have reported slight increases in
total loan volume since the previous Beige Book. Banking contacts cited
stronger demand for C&I loans and real estate loans - commercial and
residential. Credit card loan volumes were relatively unchanged, while
reports of other consumer lending were mixed. A nascent housing recovery
in many Third District markets has increased demand for new mortgages and
the ratio of purchases to refinancings. A small amount of hiring has been
prompted at banks and bank servicing companies by the moderate recovery,
as well as by changing compliance regulations.  Banking contacts reported little change in lending standards overall;
however, a few banks reported some easing for commercial real estate
loans. Most banks continued to report improving credit quality. Many
banks cited strong competition within their local markets. Financial
institutions remain generally optimistic about future growth.  Real Estate and Construction.  Following a little softness, homebuilders throughout most of the Third
District resumed a moderate growth of contracts signed for new
construction. Contracts signed from January through May - “Five good
months in a row!” one builder exclaimed - have generated significantly
greater construction activity than last year for many builders, large and
small. Significant cost pressures face builders as the long housing
recession has disrupted the supply chain for materials and the pool of
skilled workers. In addition, some builders have faced labor shortages
due to higher wages offered for certain trades that are in demand for the
Hurricane Sandy recovery. Residential brokers reported moderate activity
during April and May for the Third District overall. Existing home sales
that closed during the period varied geographically with strong growth
reported in the Philadelphia market. Brokers were also pleased by even
stronger growth of sales contracts pending, which was more widely
reported  throughout the District. The estimated months’ supply of the existing
inventory of homes continued to fall significantly. Brokers still expect
that a shadow inventory of homes held by reluctant, if not underwater,
owners will emerge as prices begin to rise once more.  Nonresidential real estate contacts continued to report little change in
the modest pace of overall leasing activity and slight growth of
construction. New office construction remains limited to an occasional
build-to-suit client, while most construction activity is related to
ongoing demand for industrial warehouse space, multifamily residential
units, higher education facilities, and public utility infrastructure.
Contacts continue to report the presence of too many firms chasing too
few projects, such that margins are squeezed thin on winning bids.
Overall, contacts expect slow steady growth but remain optimistic, citing
greater prospect activity and a greater willingness to make decisions.  Services.  Third District service-sector firms are reporting a moderate pace of
growth overall - a bit stronger than the last Beige Book. On the heels of
a strong winter/spring season, resorts in the Poconos are entering their
summer season with strong bookings and many sold-out weekends. Stronger
cash flows are allowing properties to reinvest by refurbishing and adding
new amenities. At least one major new resort is making plans to enter the
market. Early bookings are also up along the shore in Delaware and New
Jersey. In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, the state of New Jersey has
launched a sizeable marketing campaign to remind people that most of the
shoreline tourist area remains intact and ready for vacationers.  In other sectors, staffing firms have reported strong increases in
billable hours - an improvement since the prior Beige Book. Staffing
contacts cited no wage pressures and expressed more positive outlooks for
future growth. Other service-sector firms reported steady growth and
credited the recovering housing markets with strengthening and expanding
the base of consumer spending. Firms are hiring, although not
aggressively. Overall, service-sector firms remain generally optimistic
about future growth.  Prices and Wages.  Overall, price levels continued to increase slightly, similar to the
previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms continued to report slight
overall increases for prices paid and slight overall decreases in prices
received. Auto dealers reported no changes in pricing. Despite passing
along some costs, homebuilders continued to face tight margins with
lumber and skilled labor commanding high prices. Most real estate
contacts reported stable, if not rising, prices for lower priced homes,
and contacts in some markets noted stable prices for higher priced homes.
Wage pressures remain constrained, according to most contacts other than
homebuilders. Rising costs associated with medical insurance benefits
remain a concern for many employers.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 