-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District-- Minneapolis.  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy posted moderate growth. Increased
activity was noted in consumer spending, tourism, commercial
construction and real estate, professional services and
manufacturing. Residential construction and real estate grew at
a fast pace, the energy and agriculture sectors were steady and
mining decreased. Labor markets tightened since the last report,
particularly in the western part of the district. Wage increases
were generally modest, and overall prices were stable, with some
exceptions noted.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending grew slightly due in part to a late spring. A
Minneapolis area mall reported that recent traffic was level
with a year ago, but sales for most tenants were up. A mall
manager in Montana noted that apparel sales were slow, but
jewelry sales were much higher than a year ago. A Minnesota-based retailer reported that the extended winter weather slowed
spring sales of apparel and other items. A Minnesota auto dealer
reported level sales over the past couple of months. A
representative of an auto dealers association in Montana noted
moderate growth in recent auto sales compared with a year
earlier at dealerships in the state.  Winter tourism finished very strong in northern Wisconsin and
Minnesota as snowpack remained into May in some areas. A tourism
official in northwestern Wisconsin noted that summer bookings at
resorts were strong. Recent hotel occupancy in Billings, Mont.,
was down somewhat from 2012, but still at high levels compared
with the prior few years.  Construction and Real Estate  Despite the inclement weather, commercial construction activity
continued to increase since the last report. The value of April
commercial permits in Billings increased 11 percent from last
year, while hotel building rose to $11 million in April compared
with zero in the first four months of 2012. In Sioux Falls,
S.D., April permits were up 2 percent from a year ago. A
Minnesota manufacturer plans to build an office building.
However, in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, April nonresidential
construction activity decreased from a year ago, according to a
market research firm. Residential construction increased rapidly
over past year. The value of April residential permits in Sioux
Falls more than quadrupled from a year earlier. In the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area, April residential permitted units
more than doubled compared with April 2012. The value of April
residential building permits in Billings was up 77 percent from
last year, mostly due to multifamily building.  Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the
last report. A real estate analytics firm noted that
Minneapolis-St. Paul area industrial vacancy rates dropped in
the first quarter and are forecast to fall throughout 2013.
Residential real estate market activity increased at a solid
pace. In the Sioux Falls area, April home sales were up 28
percent, inventory was down 19 percent and the median sale price
increased 6 percent relative to a year earlier. Recent home
sales were up 16 percent from the same period a year ago in the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the inventory of homes for sale was
down 28 percent, and median sale prices rose 12 percent.
Multifamily vacancy rates in Minneapolis-St. Paul dropped in the
first quarter, but are forecast to rise for the remainder of
2013.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms increased at a
moderate pace since the last report. Preliminary results of the
Minneapolis Fed’s annual survey of professional services
companies (conducted in May) showed that over the past four
quarters, sales revenue, space usage, productivity and profits
grew, and these are expected to increase over the next year.
Contacts from the trucking industry expect minimal growth in
freight volumes during the second half of the year.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing activity continued to expand moderately. An April
survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha,
Neb.) found that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota
and the Dakotas at a slightly faster pace than in recent months.
A Minnesota tractor manufacturer announced a $43 million
expansion plan, while a vehicle producer is investing $20
million to expand research and development at a North Dakota
facility. Plans were announced for a $1 billion fertilizer plant
in North Dakota.  Energy and Mining  The energy sector remained strong, while mining activity slowed.
Late-May oil and gas exploration activity increased in North
Dakota and was flat in Montana compared with the last report. In
North Dakota, a $400 million oil refinery will break ground this
spring and a 120-car rail terminal is in the works to handle
crude oil. Exports of coal from Montana’s Powder River basin hit
record levels even as domestic demand dwindled. Meanwhile,
production at Minnesota iron ore mines through April was about 5
percent lower than for the same period in 2012.  Agriculture  While a late spring delayed planting, recent rains brought
drought relief for District agricultural producers. According to
the Minneapolis Fed’s first-quarter (April) survey of
agricultural credit conditions, nearly 90 percent of respondents
said farm incomes increased or held steady over the previous
three months, with similar results for farm household and farm
capital spending. Expectations for the second quarter were more
moderate. District corn, soybean and spring wheat planting
progress was behind average for late May, but producers were
catching up quickly after a delayed spring. Prices increased
from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans, hay, eggs,
chicken and dairy products; prices fell for hogs, turkey and dry
beans, while cattle prices were flat. USDA forecasts call for
substantially lower prices for corn and soybeans for the coming
year, with slight reductions in wheat prices.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets tightened since the last report, particularly in
the western part of the District. Labor markets remained very
tight in and near the oil boom area in western North Dakota and
eastern Montana, although some easing in the pace of growth was
noted over the past six months. Contacts in manufacturing and
agribusiness in eastern South Dakota expect to increase
employment slightly over the next six months. Results from the
aforementioned professional services survey show that
respondents saw employment growth over the past 12 months and
expect more growth in the next year.  Meanwhile, employment levels declined in Minnesota during March
and April, partially due to extended winter weather. A Minnesota
employment services firm noted that temporary placements in
light industrial companies were level during the second quarter
after posting strong gains since early 2012. A paper mill in
northern Minnesota recently announced 300 layoffs.
Wage increases were generally modest. The professional services
survey indicated that respondents on average expect wages and
benefits to increase 2 percent over the next 12 months.  Overall prices remained stable, with some exceptions noted.
Lumber prices decreased since the last report after making
strong gains since October 2012. Gold and silver prices also
decreased since the last report. Average Minnesota gasoline
prices spiked to $4.34 per gallon toward the end of May, about
85 cents per gallon higher than a month earlier, as major
refineries that supply the Midwest closed for maintenance.  SOURCE: Federal Reserve Board
 