-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Second District-- New York.  Economic activity in the Second District has continued to expand at a
moderate pace since the last report. Price pressures have abated somewhat
among manufacturers, though they remain more widespread in the service
sector; contacts continue to report that selling prices are steady to up
modestly. Labor market conditions continue to improve, and businesses
increasingly report difficulty finding well-qualified workers. Retailers
report that sales were tepid in April but picked up in early May, and new
automobile sales have remained strong. Tourism activity has been mixed
but generally robust. Commercial and residential real estate markets have
strengthened further since the last report. Finally, credit conditions
improved across the board, with bankers reporting increased loan demand,
widespread narrowing in loan spreads, and declining delinquency rates
across all loan categories.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales were generally soft in April but strong in
early May. One major retail chain reports that same-store sales were
somewhat below plan in April--partly due to cool weather--but picked up
in early May; another indicates that sales have been running somewhat
ahead of plan in both months. Both retailers indicate that their New York
City stores performed relatively strongly. Two malls in upstate New York
report that business was sluggish in April, partly due to cool weather,
but has been brisk in the first half of May; a number of new stores are
scheduled to open in the weeks ahead. Inventories remain at desired
levels, prices are characterized as steady, and no unusual discounting is
reported.  Auto dealers in the Buffalo and Rochester areas report that new vehicle
sales were robust in April and early May, running well ahead of
comparable 2012 levels. On the other hand, sales of used automobiles
softened further and are down from a year earlier; this is partly
attributed to better deals on new vehicles. Wholesale and retail credit
conditions for auto purchases remain in good shape.  Tourism activity has been mixed but generally fairly robust since the
last report. Manhattan hotels report that business was steady at a strong
level in April and picked up in early May; occupancy rates have been
roughly on par with a year ago, with room rates up 2 to 4 percent.
Bookings for Memorial Day weekend are described as very strong. Albany
area hotels indicate a pickup in business in April, with occupancy and
room rates rising for the first time since last summer. On the other
hand, overall attendance at Broadway theaters remains tepid, running 10-20 percent below a year ago in April and the first three weeks of May;
this mainly reflects a reduction in the number of shows running. Finally,
consumer confidence in the region has been mixed: The Conference Board’s
April survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa)
shows confidence surging to its highest level in more than a year;
however, Siena College’s survey of New York State residents shows
consumer sentiment little changed in April, at its lowest level since
then end of 2011.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate markets in the District have strengthened further
since the last report. New York City’s home sales and rental markets have
shown further signs of tightening--on both the sales and rental sides.
Both apartment sales prices and transaction volume continue to run well
ahead of a year ago in Manhattan and especially in prime areas of
Brooklyn, reflecting a low inventory of available units. The rental
market also remains tight: rents continue to rise at a roughly 6-7
percent annual rate in Manhattan and at a somewhat faster pace in
Brooklyn; the Queens rental market is also seeing a pickup. Long Island,
where the housing market had been generally flat until recently, has seen
a recent sharp pickup in pending home sales and a drop in the inventory
of homes for sale. Northern New Jersey continues to see modest, steady
improvement in its housing market. With a relatively low inventory of new
homes, prices are rising gradually; however, a sizable overhang of
distressed properties is reported to be restraining price appreciation. A
real estate contact in western II-3  New York reports increasingly strong market conditions: inventories have
fallen, bidding wars have become increasingly common, and home prices
have been rising.  Commercial real estate markets across the District have also shown signs
of improvement thus far in the second quarter. Manhattan’s office market
has been particularly robust: vacancy rates are little changed, despite a
sizable block of new development coming onto the market; asking rents are
up roughly 5 percent over the past year. Elsewhere in the region, office
markets are mostly steady to stronger: vacancy rates fell in Long Island,
northern New Jersey, Rochester and Albany and were little changed in the
Long Island and Buffalo markets. One exception is the
Westchester/Fairfield county market, where vacancy rates have risen to a
ten-year high, and office rents have been declining. The market for
industrial space has been steady to stronger: vacancy rates have declined
modestly in the Long Island and Westchester/Fairfield markets and held
relatively steady in northern New Jersey and across upstate New York.  Other Business Activity  Manufacturing contacts again report steady business activity in recent
weeks, while their optimism about the near-term outlook has waned
somewhat. In contrast, contacts in other sectors generally report some
pickup in business activity and employment; they also express increased
optimism about the business outlook, and a growing number of them plan to
add workers and increase capital spending. Price pressures are mostly
reported to be steady and moderate in the manufacturing sector but more
widespread among service-sector businesses; still, relatively few
service-sector contacts say they are increasing their selling prices.  The labor market continues to improve gradually but steadily. A growing
proportion of business contacts say they are adding workers, except in
the manufacturing sector, where employment is reported to be little
changed. Two major employment agencies report that hiring activity has
been fairly robust, particularly for information technology workers.
There is also  reported to be fairly strong demand in fields such as auditing and
compliance. Large financial firms, typically a major source of jobs in
New York City, are reported to be hiring only sporadically. While the
temp business remains strong, a growing number of firms are hiring full-time workers. Although qualified job candidates are said to be
increasingly hard to find, most employers are still said to be holding
the line on compensation, though some are becoming more negotiable.  Financial Developments  Small- to medium-sized banks report an increase in demand for all types
of loans except for commercial & industrial loans, where demand was
unchanged. Bankers report little change in demand for refinancing, on
balance. Contacts report that credit standards are unchanged across all
loan categories. Bankers continue to indicate narrowing in spreads of
loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--most notably in
commercial mortgages. Interest rates on deposits continue to decline, on
balance. Finally, bankers report fairly widespread decreases in
delinquency rates for all loan categories.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 