-- U.S. May ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-05T14:06:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-may-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S.
non-manufacturing conditions from the Institute for
Supply Management.  TEMPE, Ariz., June 5, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in May for the 41st consecutive month, say the
nation’s purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.
The report was issued today by Anthony Nieves, C.P.M., CFPM, chair of the
Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee. “The NMI™ registered 53.7 percent in May, 0.6 percentage point
higher than the 53.1 percent registered in April. This indicates
continued growth at a slightly faster rate in the non-manufacturing
sector. The Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index registered 56.5
percent, which is 1.5 percentage points higher than the 55 percent
reported in April, reflecting growth for the 46th consecutive month. The
New Orders Index increased by 1.5 percentage points to 56 percent, and
the Employment Index decreased 1.9 percentage points to 50.1 percent,
indicating growth in employment for the 10th consecutive month. The
Prices Index decreased 0.1 percentage point to 51.1 percent, indicating
prices increased at a slower rate in May when compared to April.
According to the NMI™, 13 non-manufacturing industries reported growth in
May. The majority of respondents’ comments are optimistic about business
conditions. However, there is a degree of uncertainty about the long-term
outlook.”
INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE
The 13 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in May -- listed in
order -- are: Accommodation & Food Services; Transportation &
Warehousing; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Educational Services;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Wholesale Trade;
Construction; Public Administration; Information; Retail Trade;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Finance & Insurance; and
Utilities. The five industries reporting contraction in May are: Mining;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Other
Services; and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting.
WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …  “Sales remain slightly higher than the same period last year, but
still below pre-recession sales figures.” (Public Administration)  “The job order market slowed in April/May. We saw a slight increase
in employment due to working down the order/inquiry backlog.”
(Professional, Scientific & Technical Services)  “Business seems to be improving through the second half of the
year.” (Information)  “Fairly stable the last month; overall optimistic going forward.”
(Accommodation & Food Services)  “The flat sequential sales -- which began in January 2012 -- are
still continuing. At this point, we do not predict any lift in the
foreseeable future. We do not see any negatives; it appears that
business has reached its ’cruising altitude’ and is staying there.”
(Wholesale Trade)  “Healthcare reform and sequestration are having a strong negative
impact on business.” (Health Care & Social Assistance)  “North America continues to improve at a modest rate. Europe is
still a problem for global recovery.” (Mining)
COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY
Commodities Up in Price
Airfares; Beef (6); #1 Diesel Fuel; #2 Diesel Fuel; Construction
Subcontractors; Consulting Services; Fuel (5); Gasoline*; Lab Services;
Labor; Petroleum Based Products; Reagents; and Shrimp.
Commodities Down in Price
Copper Cable; Gasoline* (3); Lumber -- Pine, Spruce and Treated; Paper;
and Produce.
Commodities in Short Supply
Medical Supplies is the only commodity reported in short supply.
Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed is
indicated after each item.
*Reported as both up and down in price.
MAY 2013 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES
NMI
In May, the NMI registered 53.7 percent, indicating continued growth in
the non-manufacturing sector for the 41st consecutive month. A reading
above 50 percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector economy is
generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates the non-manufacturing
sector is generally contracting.
Business Activity
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in May registered 56.5
percent, 1.5 percentage points higher than the 55 percent registered in
April. Thirteen industries reported increased business activity, and
three industries reported decreased activity for the month of May.
Comments from respondents include: “Number of work orders increased” and
“Improved economic environment.”
The industries reporting growth of business activity in May -- listed in
order -- are: Accommodation & Food Services; Management of Companies &
Support Services; Construction; Transportation & Warehousing; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Wholesale Trade; Utilities; Public Administration; Educational Services;
Finance & Insurance; Information; and Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services. The industries reporting decreased business activity
in May are: Mining; Other Services; and Health Care & Social Assistance.
New Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in May for the 46th
consecutive month. The index registered 56 percent, an increase of 1.5
percentage points from the 54.5 percent reported in April. Comments from
respondents include: “Award of new contracts” and “[Increase in new
orders] due to active marketing activities and sales initiatives.”
The 14 industries reporting growth of new orders in May -- listed in
order -- are: Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Accommodation & Food Services; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Utilities; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade; Public Administration;
Educational Services; Construction; Finance & Insurance; and
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services. The three industries
reporting contraction of new orders in May are: Other Services; Health
Care & Social Assistance; and Mining.
Employment
Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in May for the
10th consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment Index
registered 50.1 percent, which reflects a decrease of 1.9 percentage
points when compared to the 52 percent registered in April. Eleven
industries reported increased employment, and five industries reported
decreased employment. Comments from respondents include: “New projects
starting” and “Continued outsourcing.”
The industries reporting an increase in employment in May -- listed in
order -- are: Educational Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Public
Administration; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food
Services; Wholesale Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Construction; Retail Trade; Finance & Insurance; and Other Services. The
industries reporting a reduction in employment in May are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Health Care & Social Assistance;
Utilities; and Real Estate, Rental & Leasing.
Supplier Deliveries
The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 52 percent in May, indicating
that supplier deliveries were slower in May for the fifth consecutive
month. A reading above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries, while a
reading below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries.
The six industries reporting slower deliveries in May -- listed in order
-- are: Educational Services; Other Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Accommodation & Food Services; Wholesale Trade; and
Retail Trade. The four industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in
May are: Mining; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Transportation
& Warehousing; and Finance & Insurance. Eight industries reported no
change in supplier deliveries in May compared to April.
Inventories
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in May for the fourth
consecutive month. The index registered 51.5 percent, which is 4.5
percentage points lower than the 56 percent reported in April. Of the
total respondents in May, 26 percent indicated they do not have
inventories or do not measure them. Comments from respondents include:
“Long-term strategy of reducing inventory levels” and “Reflection of
lower census.”
The nine industries reporting an increase in inventories in May -- listed
in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining;
Utilities; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Retail Trade; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Public
Administration; and Construction. The six industries reporting decreases
in inventories in May -- listed in order -- are: Other Services;
Transportation & Warehousing; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Finance & Insurance; Information; and Health Care & Social
Assistance.
Prices
Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased materials
and services increased in May for the 44th consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for May registered 51.1 percent, 0.1
percentage point lower than the 51.2 percent reported in April. In May,
the percentage of respondents reporting higher prices is 20 percent, the
percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 69 percent, and 11
percent of the respondents reported lower prices.
Ten non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in prices paid
during the month of May, in the following order: Accommodation & Food
Services; Educational Services; Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Wholesale Trade; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Public Administration; Construction; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; and Retail Trade. The two industries reporting a decrease in
prices paid during May are: Information; and Finance & Insurance. Six
industries reported no change in prices paid in May compared to April.
Backlog of Orders
ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index registered 51.5 percent
in May, which is the same reading that was reported in April. Of the
total respondents in May, 36 percent indicated they do not measure
backlog of orders.
The six industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in May --
listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Utilities; Construction; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; and Health Care & Social Assistance. The
six industries reporting a decrease in order backlogs -- listed in order
-- are: Other Services; Mining; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale Trade;
Public Administration; and Retail Trade
New Export Orders
Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing activities
to be provided outside of the United States by domestically based
personnel remained unchanged for the month of May. The New Export Orders
Index for May registered 50 percent, which is 3.5 percentage points lower
than the 53.5 percent reported in April. Of the total respondents in May,
60 percent indicated they either do not perform, or do not separately
measure, orders for work outside of the United States.
The six industries reporting an increase in new export orders in May --
listed in order -- are: Mining; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Retail
Trade; Information; Accommodation & Food Services; and Wholesale Trade.
The five industries reporting a decrease in export orders in May are:
Management of Companies & Support Services; Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Other Services; Finance & Insurance; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services. Seven industries reported no change in
new export orders for the month of May compared to April.
Imports
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index contracted in May after four
consecutive months of growth. This month’s reading at 49.5 percent is 9
percentage points lower than the 58.5 percent reported in April. Fifty-seven percent of respondents reported that they do not use, or do not
track the use of, imported materials.
The five industries reporting an increase in imports for the month of May
are: Information; Finance & Insurance; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Accommodation & Food Services; and Wholesale Trade. The four industries
reporting a decrease in imports for the month of May are: Mining; Other
Services; Educational Services; and Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services. Nine industries reported no change in imports for the month of
May compared to April.
Inventory Sentiment
The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in May registered
62.5 percent, which is 2 percentage points higher than the 60.5 percent
reported in April. This indicates that respondents believe their
inventories are still too high at this time. In May, 30 percent of
respondents said their inventories were too high, 5 percent said their
inventories were too low, and 65 percent said their inventories were
about right.
The 11 industries reporting a feeling that their inventories are too high
in May -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Other Services; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Finance & Insurance; Management of Companies
& Support Services; Wholesale Trade; Utilities; Transportation &
Warehousing; Retail Trade; Public Administration; and Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services. The only industry reporting that their
inventories are too low in May is Construction.
About this Report
The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-manufacturing
supply managers based on information they have collected within their
respective organizations. ISM makes no representation, other than that
stated within this release, regarding the individual company data
collection procedures. Use of the data is in the public domain and should
be compared to all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.
Data and Method of Presentation
The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is based on data compiled
from purchasing and supply executives nationwide. Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is diversified by NAICS, based on
each industry’s contribution to gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee responses are divided into the
following NAICS code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Educational Services; Health
Care & Social Assistance; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation
& Food Services; Public Administration; and Other Services (services such
as Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering Religious
Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-Cleaning & Laundry
Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care Services, Pet Care Services,
Photofinishing Services, Temporary Parking Services, and Dating
Services).
Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current month
compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators measured
(Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Inventory Change, Inventory Sentiment, Imports, Prices, Employment and
Supplier Deliveries), this report shows the percentage reporting each
response, and the diffusion index. Responses represent raw data and are
never changed. Data is seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New
Orders, Prices and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are
supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The remaining
indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.
The NMI™ (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on the
diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal weights: Business
Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders (seasonally adjusted),
Employment (seasonally adjusted) and Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion
indexes have the properties of leading indicators and are convenient
summary measures showing the prevailing direction of change and the scope
of change. An index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates that it is generally declining. Supplier Deliveries is
an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index above 50 percent indicates
slower deliveries and below 50 percent indicates faster deliveries.
The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® survey is sent out to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the first part of
each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report on information for the
current month. ISM receives survey responses throughout most of any given
month, with the majority of respondents generally waiting until late in
the month to submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture
of current business activity. ISM then compiles the report for release on
the third business day of the following month.
The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business® monthly reports, are listed in the order of most
growth to least growth. For the industries reporting contraction or
decreases, those are listed in the order of the highest level of
contraction/decrease to the least level of contraction/decrease.
The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is published monthly by the
Institute for Supply Management™, the first supply institute in the
world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to lead and serve the supply
management profession and is a highly influential and respected
association in the global marketplace. ISM’s mission is to enhance the
value and performance of procurement and supply chain management
practitioners and their organizations worldwide.
The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is
posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the third business day of every
month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).
The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® featuring the June
2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Wednesday, July 3, 2013.                                                                                                                                                                                                     SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  