-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  Overview.  Economic activity strengthened modestly across the District, however
growth was constrained by softness in manufacturing, federal spending
limits, and unusual weather conditions. Retail sales flattened, although
auto sales generally remained strong. Business was also strong at most
non-retail services firms, but tourism in some areas fell below
expectations as a result of an unseasonably cool spring. Banking
conditions were mixed; residential mortgage demand increased, commercial
lending varied, and competition for business was sharp. Residential real
estate prices strengthened. Commercial real estate construction also
improved, with positive reports across the District. Heavy rainfall and
fluctuating temperatures delayed spring plantings, but forage crops were
developing well. In the energy sector, demand continued to shift from
coal to natural gas. Labor markets were uneven, although many employers
plan to increase hiring in the months ahead. Reports on prices and wages
were mixed.  Manufacturing.  Fifth District manufacturing activity softened since our last report,
although there were scattered reports of improvement. A machinery
producer said that his company was struggling to hit the break even mark
again this month and that the volume of new orders was down considerably.
Impacts of sequestration and tax changes were noted by several firms. A
manufacturer of automobile convertible tops reported that the uncertainty
of tax issues had slowed investment at his firm. Moreover, a producer of
defense equipment cited government sequestration and orders being
canceled or delayed as major concerns facing his company. In contrast, a
lumber producer mentioned that, because of the improvement in the housing
market, his company had earned a profit in the first four months of this
year, and a flooring manufacturer also reported improving business. Price
growth in raw materials slowed in recent weeks and finished goods prices
grew at a somewhat quicker pace.  Ports.  Shipments increased at District ports, especially for container exports.
Specialty chemicals were particularly strong, and one contact noted that
pharmaceutical manufacturers were changing from air to ocean transport as
rising fuel costs drive up air freight rates. Both auto exports and
imports were robust. Furniture and flooring imports were up overall, and
imports of auto parts remained solid. Port administrators commented that
more manufacturers were evaluating plans for moving product through the
ports as they plan to shift production to this country. Some port
officials are considering how to better accommodate large container ships
coming to the East Coast via the Suez Canal. Those ships have nearly
double the container capacity of ships that could pass through the Panama
Canal. However, one port contact expressed concern that the current truck
driver shortage could slow container shipping.  Retail.  Retail sales varied by category but were flat overall since our last
report. Several contacts told us the unusually cool spring weather held
down sales. Retailers commented that their labor costs were rising as a
result of the healthcare legislation, leading them to change employees’
hours. The manager at a discount chain store in the Tidewater region of
Virginia noted that her store was “struggling” to make sales goals. In
contrast, a central Virginia retail contact observed “less of a roller
coaster” in retail sales than a year ago, noting stability and even
strength in categories related to home  building and home sales, such as furnishings and decorative accessories.
Auto dealers reported that availability of used cars improved since our
last report. Auto sales remained generally strong for both domestic and
imports. Surveyed contacts indicated that retail price increases slowed
in recent weeks.  Services.  We received reports of renewed vigor at non-retail services firms.
Architectural and technology services were among the firms noting
increased revenues. A financial services contact commented that his
clients were “feeling good” as asset values rose and real estate
improved, leading them to free up and move cash. Although healthcare
organizations reported stable demand, executives in some areas remarked
on financial pressure from the decline in their Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement under the Affordable Care Act. Prices at non-retail
services firms edged up slightly faster.  Reports from the tourism industry were mixed. Resorts in Virginia and
North Carolina had good growth in bookings, and business was up for full-service conference space. However, unseasonably cool weather reduced
weekend stays at a West Virginia resort and lessened weekend traffic on
the Outer Banks of North Carolina. A contact in Washington, D.C. said
visitor traffic remained consistent, but that some summer activities
could be affected by reductions in security staffing under the federal
budget cuts. Hoteliers anticipated a solid finish to the summer months,
and most had raised rates slightly.  Finance.  Reports on banking conditions varied since our last assessment. Demand
increased for residential mortgages. Refinancing was strong in North
Carolina, whereas lending in Virginia went primarily to new home
purchases. Across the District, the limited increase in commercial
mortgage activity was generally confined to refinancing existing loans
from other institutions. Nevertheless, a bank official in North Carolina
noted a pick up in demand from home builders, and said that his bank was
reconsidering whether their credit standards were too tight given the
improving economy. The demand for commercial and industrial loans was
weak, according to lenders in South Carolina and West Virginia, due to
customers’ high cash balances and low confidence. However, bankers in
North Carolina and Virginia saw an uptick in activity. Several lenders
commented that competitors continued to offer very low rates that “made
no sense” in an attempt to take away business.  Real Estate.  Residential real estate activity strengthened in recent weeks. A contact
in Hampton Roads, Virginia reported that contracts were up twenty-two
percent over a year ago and that inventories were low. She added that
buyers were looking for owner-occupied homes in good condition and noted
that multiple offers were driving up prices. Similarly, a Realtor in the
Washington, D.C. area described the market as “accelerating,” noting that
decreasing inventory had led to multiple offers and higher selling
prices. A Richmond Realtor mentioned that new construction demand had
increased, which had pushed up the prices of building lots. A homebuilder
in South Carolina reported an increase in lot shortages. His company
raised prices on single family homes this year to offset supplier price
increases.  Commercial real estate and construction markets tightened slightly in
recent weeks. A commercial Realtor in Charleston, South Carolina said
that activity had improved and that he expects nonresidential
construction to increase significantly in the next twelve to eighteen
months. He also stated
that the region is on the precipice of strong growth but will be limited
by infrastructure. A source in Richmond expected further improvement in
commercial real estate activity during the next year, noting a rise in
construction in the Richmond and Hampton Roads regions. According to a
contact in West Virginia, more hotels have come online and retail space
was absorbed at a faster pace. Leasing there has risen to pre-recession
levels, according to one report. With vacancies declining and increased
demand for space in many areas, commercial lessors have stopped granting
concessions. There is strong demand in the Baltimore corridor for multi-family rentals and purchases, with occupancy rates at 95 percent. Another
source said that the Washington, D.C. market was growing with a
concentration in rentals, but that there was little speculative building.  Agriculture and Natural Resources.  Fluctuating temperatures coupled with heavy rainfall tempered plant
growth and delayed spring plantings throughout the District. Despite wet
conditions, forage crops were having a great spring, and pastures and
hayfields were in good condition.  Assessments of energy activity were mixed in this reporting period. The
coal industry remained depressed and businesses that supplied the
industry were negatively impacted. A source in West Virginia said that
reduced coal production led to a decline in diesel fuel sales as more
heavy equipment was idled. He indicated that natural gas had displaced
coal in power plants due to the low price of natural gas and concerns
regarding environmental regulatory changes. He noted that some of the
decline in domestic coal demand was offset by increased thermal coal
exports to Europe.  Labor Markets.  Labor activity was uneven, although contacts were upbeat about additional
hiring in the months ahead. A manufacturer in North Carolina laid off
employees because of fewer federal orders. However, an auto dealer in the
Washington, D.C. area noted that he had to hire more sales people, and a
flooring manufacturer said he added an additional large crew at one of
his plants. A national trucking firm executive remarked that
implementation of new federal restrictions on driver hours of service
will exacerbate the shortage of drivers for long-haul trucking. Further,
a temp agency in Maryland saw somewhat stronger demand for workers in
most industries. Contacts in the tourism industry indicated that seasonal
hiring was about on par with a year ago, and permanent jobs were
plentiful in locations along the outer banks of North Carolina. Looking
ahead, firms in several categories expected to increase hiring. For
example, a lumber firm expected to hire more workers later this year, and
a West Virginia manufacturer planned to add jobs early next year as a
result of reshoring. According to our latest surveys, manufacturing
employment edged down and average wage growth slowed. Retail employment
declined, but wage increases were more prevalent. Hiring flattened at
non-retail services providers, while average wages rose.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 