-- Treasuries Climb as Drop in Global Equities Spurs Safety Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-06-05T21:25:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-five-year-butterfly-yield-near-14-month-high-before-adp.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10- and 30-year yields down the most in almost two months, as a slide in
stocks around the world increased demand for the relative safety
of U.S. government securities.  Bonds extended gains after ADP Research Institute said U.S.
companies added fewer workers than forecast. The government will
report June 7 that nonfarm payrolls increased by 165,000 jobs
last month, matching April’s gain, a Bloomberg survey estimated.
Investors are weighing whether the  Federal Reserve  will slow its
bond purchases under quantitative easing amid stronger growth.
The economy has expanded at a “modest to moderate” pace in
most of the U.S., the central bank said today.  “There’s been a general de-risking,” said Jacob Oubina, a
senior economist in  New York  at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC
Capital Markets , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the
Fed. “The downward trajectory in yields started around the
moment we got the data. If we get a soft payrolls report, in the
150,000 zone or lower, that will hit the reset button for
tapering.”  The U.S. 10-year note  yield  decreased six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 2.09 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the
biggest drop on a closing basis since April 12. The price of the
1.75 percent security due in May 2023 gained 1/2, or $5 per
$1,000 face amount, to 96 31/32.  Thirty-year (USGG30YR)  bond yields slid seven basis points, also the
most since April 12, to 3.25 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index fell 1.4 percent. The Stoxx
Europe 600 Index sank 1.5 percent, and the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index tumbled 1.8 percent.  Volatility Increases  Volatility in Treasuries as measured by the Bank of America
Merrill Lynch MOVE index climbed to 83.6, the highest level
since June 2012. It has averaged 62.5 in the past year.  Trading  volume  rose for the first time in three days,
increasing 1.4 percent to $369 billion, from $363 billion
yesterday, according to ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer
broker of  U.S. government debt . Volume surged to $662 billion on
May 22, the highest level in data going back to 2004. The
average daily volume this year is $304 billion.  U.S. government securities due in a decade or more are at
almost the cheapest level relative to global peers with
comparable maturities in almost two years, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes. Yields on  U.S. debt  were 57 basis
points higher than those in an index of other sovereign debt
yesterday, down from 60 basis points higher in the two previous
trading days, the cheapest level since July 31, 2011.  Treasuries, benchmarks for company and sovereign borrowing
costs around the world, have eked out a 0.1 percent return in
June as of yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
bond indexes.  ‘Closely Scrutinized’  Companies in the U.S. added 135,000 workers, figures from
the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP showed today. The median
forecast of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
increase of 165,000.  “With the Fed now data-dependent, these reports are being
more closely scrutinized to discuss the potential for tapering
QE,” said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “There’s more
volatility in the markets because of that.”  A Labor Department report on June 7 is forecast to show the
U.S.  unemployment rate  remained at a four-year low of 7.5
percent, while job gains matched April’s stronger-than-forecast
total, Bloomberg surveys of economists said.  Beige Book  The Fed said today in its  Beige Book  business survey that
11 of its 12 districts have experienced mild to medium growth,
with broad-based gains ranging from business services to
construction and manufacturing. Growth in the Dallas Fed
district was described as “strong.” Policy makers will
consider the data at their next meeting June 18-19.  “Hiring increased at a measured pace in several districts,
with some contacts noting difficulty finding qualified
workers,” the central bank said the survey, which is based on
reports from its regional banks. The previous Beige Book,
released April 17, said “overall economic activity expanded at
a moderate pace.”  Treasuries remained higher today after Commerce Department
data showed  factory orders  increased less than forecast in
April. They gained 1 percent, versus a Bloomberg survey’s
estimate of 1.5 percent. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
non-manufacturing index rose to 53.7 in May, from 53.1 the prior
month, compared with a Bloomberg survey’s call for a rise to
53.5. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  called for a
reduction in the central bank’s monthly bond buying, while
saying he sees an end to a three-decade  bull market  in bonds.  ‘Dial Back’  “This is the end of a 30-year rally” in bonds, Fisher
said yesterday to reporters after a speech in Toronto. “It
would be prudent to dial back the  rate of purchases  we are
making in mortgage-backed securities” now that “the housing
market is in a good state, construction has started again,
housing prices are appreciating significantly.”  The Fed buys $85 billion of government and mortgage-backed
securities each month to support the economy by putting downward
pressure on borrowing costs. It purchased $1.54 billion in
Treasuries today maturing from February 2037 to February 2043.  Ten-year yields were at or near the highest levels for at
least three months in 14 of 46 developed and local-currency
emerging bond markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Germany , the Netherlands,  Switzerland  and Canada were among
the developed nations with yields at the top of their three-month range, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the
same for  South Korea ,  Colombia  and  South Africa  among the
emerging economies, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  