-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal
Reserve Board’s Eight District-- St. Louis.  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary  Economic activity in the Eighth District has expanded at a moderate pace
since the previous report. Recent reports of planned activity in
manufacturing and services have been positive, on net. Reports of retail
and auto sales over the past three months have also been positive.
Residential real estate market conditions have continued to improve, and
commercial real estate markets have also improved. Lending activity at a
sample of large District banks was little changed during the first quarter
of 2013. Prices, wages, and employment levels over the past three months
have stayed the same or increased for a majority of contacts across the
District.  Consumer Spending  Contacts reported that retail sales in the past three months were up, on
average, relative to the same period last year. Forty percent of contacts
noted moderate increases in sales, while 40 percent noted minor decreases
and the rest saw no changes. Forty percent of retailers reported that
sales levels met their expectations, and the rest reported that sales fell
short of expectations. About sixty percent of retailers noted that their
inventories were at desired levels, while the rest reported that their
inventory levels were too high. The sales outlook over the next three
months was slightly positive: 40 percent of retailers expect sales to
increase over 2012 levels, and the remaining contacts expect sales to stay
the same. The general outlook for the retail industry over the next three
months was largely positive. Contacts noted increases in new store
openings, but some expressed concern about the effects of the online sales
tax bill on their sales. Reports from auto dealers about sales in the past
three months were generally positive. Fifty-seven percent of the car
dealers surveyed saw increases in sales, while 29 percent saw decreases
and the rest saw no changes. Fifty percent of car dealers reported an
increase in used car sales relative to new car sales, and 17 percent
reported the opposite. About 36 percent of respondents reported that their
inventories were too high, while 14 percent reported that their
inventories were too low. The sales outlook for the next three months was
optimistic: 64 percent of car dealers expect sales to increase over 2012
levels, while 21 percent expect sales to decrease.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our
last report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers,
expand operations, or open new facilities in the District, while a smaller
number of contacts reported plans to reduce employment. Firms in
automobile, automobile parts, appliance, asphalt products, plastics
packaging, chemical, steel, and furniture manufacturing plan to hire new
workers and expand operations. In contrast, firms in medical devices,
commercial printing, and beverage manufacturing reported plans to lay off
workers. A recent survey of manufacturers showed increased new orders and
capacity utilization for the majority of firms.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector have also
been positive since the previous report. Firms in information technology,
financial, distribution, business support, healthcare, engineering, and
hospitality services reported new hiring and expansion plans. In contrast,
firms in retail and wireless communication services reported plans to
reduce employment.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth
District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012,
April 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 16 percent in Louisville, 32
percent in Little Rock, 7 percent in Memphis, and 13 percent in St. Louis.
April 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the
majority of the District metro areas compared with the same period in
2012. Permits increased 20 percent in Louisville, 4 percent in Little
Rock, 27 percent in Memphis and 20 percent in St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to
improve moderately. Compared with the fourth quarter of 2012, the first
quarter 2013 industrial vacancy rates declined in St. Louis and Memphis
and increased in Little Rock and Louisville. During the same period,
downtown office vacancy rates increased in Louisville, Little Rock,
Memphis, and St. Louis, while suburban office vacancy rates declined in
St. Louis and Little Rock and increased in Memphis. Contacts in central
Arkansas noted large ongoing retail construction projects. Contacts in
Louisville and Memphis reported build-to-suit construction plans for
industrial space  Banking and Finance  A survey of senior loan officers at a sample of large District banks found
little change in overall lending activity during the first quarter of
2013. During this period, credit standards for commercial and industrial
loans ranged from unchanged to eased somewhat, and the demand for such
loans ranged from moderately stronger to moderately weaker. Credit
standards for commercial real estate loans ranged from basically unchanged
to eased somewhat, while demand ranged from mostly unchanged to moderately
stronger. Credit standards for prime residential mortgage loans remained
unchanged and demand ranged from unchanged to moderately stronger.
Meanwhile, credit standards and demand for consumer loans remained mostly
unchanged. Demand for auto loans ranged from moderately stronger to
moderately weaker, while demand for other consumer loans was unchanged.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Because of persistent rains, District farmers are behind their average
planting schedules. Planting progress for cotton, rice, and soybeans in
Mississippi was approximately half the 5-year average. Across all other
District states, soybean planting progress was approximately 15 percent
slower than its 5-year average. As of mid-May, well over 90 percent of the
District’s winter wheat crop was rated in fair or better condition and
close to 70 percent was rated as good or excellent. Year-to-date coal
production across the District states (excluding eastern Kentucky) for
April was 3.3 percent lower compared with the same period in 2012, while
coal output for April 2013 was similar to April 2012.  Prices, Wages, and Employment  Fifty-five percent of contacts indicated that prices charged to consumers
over the past three months have stayed the same, while 34 percent
indicated that prices have increased relative to the same period last
year. In turn, 30 percent of contacts noted that wages over the past three
months have stayed the same, while 66 percent noted that wages have
increased. Meanwhile, 45 percent of contacts reported that employment
levels have remained the same over the past three months, while 37 percent
reported that employment levels have increased, compared with the same
period last year.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 