-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal
Reserve Board’s Seventh District-- Chicago.  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District again expanded at a
modest pace in April and May. While most contacts remained optimistic
about growth prospects in the second half of the year, many also
expressed a greater sense of caution due to elevated uncertainty over the
economic outlook. Growth in consumer spending increased slightly, while
growth in business spending slowed. The decline in manufacturing
production growth flattened out. In contrast, construction picked up, led
by continued improvement in the residential sector. Credit conditions
eased somewhat. Cost pressures were steady, and wage pressures remained
moderate. Corn, soybean, milk, and hog prices increased, while cattle
prices were stable.  Consumer spending. Growth in consumer spending increased slightly in
April and May. The delayed arrival of warmer weather spurred sales of
spring and summer items such as clothing, building materials, and lawn
and garden items. In contrast, furniture and restaurant sales slowed.
Promotional activity was heavy during the reporting period. Even absent
from sales, contacts noted a more general tendency for customers to move
to lower-priced items within shopping categories, especially in food and
clothing. Several retail contacts also pointed to the expiration of the
payroll tax credit and less spending out of tax refund checks as having a
negative effect on their sales. Auto sales were moderately higher. New
vehicle sales fell short relative to expectations, but used vehicle sales
increased at a faster pace. Small, fuel efficient, crossover vehicles
were the strongest sellers, while pick-up truck sales were a little soft.  Business spending. Growth in business spending slowed in April and May.
Inventory investment decreased. Retail contacts reported that inventories
were at comfortable levels, and, because of low sales expectations, they
did not anticipate any substantial stockbuilding over the remainder of
the year. Manufacturers also noted closely monitoring inventories given
recently weaker demand. Capital expenditures were limited. A number of
contacts reported that elevated uncertainty was curtailing their capital
spending, pointing to doubts about the durability of the recovery as well
as concerns over national fiscal policy. Labor market conditions
continued to improve slowly. Uncertainty over health care costs and the
pending implementation of the Affordable Care Act caused some firms to
delay hiring plans or increase usage of temporary workers. Demand for
skilled workers, however, remained strong, with a recruiting firm noting
an increase in client orders for healthcare, information technology, and
engineering occupations. Contacts indicated that even in the mining
industry, where activity has weakened substantially, firms continue to
hire engineers at a rapid pace.  Construction/real estate. Growth in construction and real estate activity
picked up in April and May. Demand for residential construction grew
steadily, as multifamily construction remained strong and conditions for
single-family construction continued to improve. Activity in the
residential real estate market increased, with home sales, prices, and
residential rents rising. Contacts noted that the still large number of
underwater mortgages, extended foreclosure processes, and low level of
new construction meant that the inventory of existing homes on the market
was tight and that this was restraining sales. Nonresidential
construction increased at a modest pace. Contacts noted, however,
increased activity in the manufacturing sector, particularly from the
auto industry. Commercial real estate conditions continued to improve,
although vacancy rates remained elevated. Contacts also reported an
increase in demand for leasing was pushing up commercial rents, with
demand from the healthcare sector noted as being particularly strong.  Manufacturing. The decline in manufacturing production growth flattened
out in April and May. Although the auto industry remained a source of
strength, it too grew at a more moderate pace. An increase in imports of
steel displaced domestic production; nonetheless, a steel industry
contact reported that capacity utilization gradually increased over the
reporting period. Specialty metal manufacturers reported small increases
in new orders, noting that their customers had become more cautious,
ordering only as necessary with very short lead times and reassessing
supply chains in an effort to cut costs. Exports of heavy machinery were
lower, due to weaker demand in Europe and Asia. Contacts in the heavy
equipment industry reported that equipment dealers continue to reduce
their inventories and that most mining companies have trimmed their
orders due to cutbacks in mining investment. In contrast, demand for
heavy trucks increased. Suppliers to the aerospace industry noted a pick-up in orders following resolution of the issues affecting the Boeing 787.
Improvement in the housing sector also continued to benefit manufacturers
of household products such as appliances and fixtures.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions eased some over the reporting period.
Corporate borrowing costs declined and demand increased in corporate debt
markets as investors continue to reach for higher yields. Banking
contacts reported modest growth in business loan demand, with greater
competition for high quality assets among larger banks leading to some
downward pressure on pricing. Mortgage refinance activity, while still
strong, began to slow, but contacts noted a slight increase in purchase
applications. Several contacts also reported that the new rules regarding
eligibility for GSE backed mortgages are likely to limit the number of
people who qualify. With demand deposits growing and comfortable
liquidity levels, banks are increasing their willingness to lend. Smaller
banks, however, continue to lag behind larger ones, with many noting
greater regulatory uncertainty in their traditional areas of lending as a
key reason why. Contacts also noted that risk profiles remain slow to
change, indicating that a lack of secondary loan market demand and low
appraisals of commercial real estate values continue to constrain
lending.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures were steady in April and May. Commodity
prices were generally somewhat lower, although some contacts noted
increases in the prices paid for natural gas, lumber, drywall, copper,
steel, and aluminum. Retailers again reported mostly modest increases in
wholesale prices, with the exception of continued cost pressures for some
food items originating from last year’s drought. Overall, pass-through to
downstream prices remained limited. Wage pressures were again moderate,
although many contacts noted rising healthcare costs and uncertainty
about future employee healthcare obligations associated with the
Affordable Care Act.  Agriculture. Heavy precipitation in the District aided the recovery from
last year’s drought by replenishing subsoil moisture. The rain also
dramatically slowed planting of corn; farmers almost caught up, often by
working around the clock once fields had dried sufficiently. However, the
emergence of corn plants significantly lagged that of a typical year.
Soybean planting progressed at about its normal pace once the corn crop
was in the ground. Flooding from the heavy rains also resulted in river
closures, delaying deliveries of agricultural products and farm inputs,
particularly fertilizer. Current corn and soybean prices rose, as stocks
remained low. Late planting pushed back the availability of new supplies
into September. However, price declines were anticipated for the new crop
in the fall, as concerns over major yield losses abated. Milk and hog
prices moved higher; cattle prices were flat.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 