-- Two-Dose Contraceptive Must Be Made Available to All Ages
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-06-05T21:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-must-make-two-dose-contraceptive-available-to-all-ages.html
The U.S. government lost a bid to
delay a ruling that abolished age restrictions for buying the
two-pill version of the emergency morning-after contraceptive
over the counter.  A federal appeals court in New York agreed to stay part of
a lower-court’s ruling making the one-pill version, such as  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) ’s Plan B One-Step, available to
all women over-the-counter. The government didn’t obtain a delay
of the two-pill version because it “failed to meet the
requisite standard,” the court said in an order filed today
without elaborating.  “After more than a decade of politically motivated delays,
women will no longer have to endure intrusive, onerous and
medically unnecessary restrictions to get emergency
contraception,” Nancy Northup, president of the Center for
Reproductive Rights, said in a statement.  A lawyer for the government, F. Franklin Amanat, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the decision.  The U.S. is challenging an April 5 order by U.S. District
Judge Edward R. Korman in  Brooklyn , New York, requiring the
medication to be made available without a prescription to all
women and girls regardless of age.  Politics, Science  Korman said the U.S. Food and Drug Administration kept
restrictions on obtaining  levonorgestrel -based contraceptives
without a prescription for political reasons.  Currently, the FDA allows women 17 and older to obtain
generic and non-generic versions of the morning-after pill
without a prescription. In April, the agency approved Teva’s
application to sell Plan B One-Step over the counter to girls as
young as 15.  FDA spokeswoman Stephanie Yao said in an e-mailed statement
that the agency is “reviewing the decision, and we will
determine the next steps.”  Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius
overruled the FDA’s decision in December 2011 to approve sales
of Plan B One-Step without a prescription. The action was the
first time an FDA finding has been reversed by a presidential
administration. Sebelius said at the time that her decision to
overrule the agency was merited by “cognitive and behavioral”
differences in girls of the youngest reproductive age.  Faces Criticism  Separately, Sebelius is also facing criticism over her
refusal to sign a waiver that would allow a 10-year-old girl who
needs a lung transplant to receive one from an adult donor. A
policy prevents children younger than 12 from being added to the
list for adult transplants because of the differing biological
needs of children and adults.  The family of the girl, Sarah Murnaghan, sued Sebelius
today in federal court to prevent her from enforcing the
regulation.  In a May 10 order regarding the morning-after pill, Korman
called Sebelius’s overruling of the FDA “politically motivated,
scientifically unjustified, and contrary to agency precedent.”  At a hearing also in May, Korman said the approval of
Teva’s application to sell its one-step pill over-the-counter to
younger teens offered little benefit to women because they would
still be subject to age restrictions, requiring photo
identification that some might not possess.  Branded Drug  Younger teens lacking prescriptions would also only be able
to obtain Teva’s branded drug, costing as much as $60 per dose,
rather than less expensive generics, Korman said during the
hearing.  The morning-after pill, which contains a larger amount of
the hormone levonorgestrel than found in other birth control
pills, prevents pregnancy by inhibiting fertilization. The drugs
are most effective when taken within 24 hours of intercourse.  Anti-abortion groups have alleged that the pill can kill
embryos by preventing implantation. In April, Charmaine Yoest of
Americans United for Life called the pill “a potent and
potentially life-ending drug” that young girls should need
medical supervision to take.  The government argued to the appeals court that a delay of
Korman’s ruling was necessary to prevent confusion among
consumers in the event that the status of the drug changes. The
appeals court hasn’t yet considered whether it will ultimately
reverse Korman’s decision.  The case is Tummino v. Hamburg, 12-cv-00763, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is
Tummino v. Hamburg, 13-1690, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  