-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal Reserve
Board’s Tenth District-- Kansas City.  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy grew at a modest pace in late April and early
May, while expectations for activity over the summer months strengthened
further. Retail sales and tourism activity increased since the last survey,
but automobile and restaurant sales declined. District manufacturers
reported modest growth with an increase in production, shipments and new
orders in May. Robust growth continued in the residential real estate
sector, while commercial real estate activity improved modestly. Slightly
higher loan demand and improving loan quality led to improvements in the
District banking sector. Falling crop prices and rising production costs
limited farm income growth, while the brisk pace of farmland price
appreciation moderated slightly. District drilling and mining activity held
steady, though energy contacts expected oil and natural gas drilling to
accelerate over the next few months. District contacts from most sectors
reported moderate price increases, particularly for food, building supplies
and raw materials. Wage pressures and labor shortages picked up slightly,
but were limited to skilled positions.  Consumer Spending.  Consumer spending rose slightly in late April and early May, with an
increase in retail and tourism spending and a decline in automobile and
restaurant sales. Contacts in all sectors expected consumer spending to
improve substantially over the next three months. District retail sales
grew at a slightly faster pace over the survey period, with appliance and
seasonal bridal purchases particularly strong. Tourism activity also rose,
and hotel occupancy rates moved sharply higher due to an increase in
tourists and business travelers. Average daily room rates moved higher and
were expected to rise slightly in the months ahead. Restaurant sales
declined slightly since the last survey but were expected to improve over
the next few months. Automobile dealers reported fewer sales, increased
inventories and fewer incentives offered. However, the majority of dealers
still expected faster sales growth in the coming months due to pent-up
demand, low interest rates and increased consumer confidence.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity.  After contracting for seven months, District manufacturing activity
increased modestly in May. Contacts reported a rise in production,
shipments and new orders, though hiring activity and average employee work
weeks continued to decrease. Manufacturing expectations were strong for the
coming six months, led by optimism for increased shipments, new orders,
production, and capital spending. High-tech service firms reported that
sales activity and capital spending increased modestly in late April and
early May, and were expected to grow over the next three months.
Transportation activity slowed with some contacts reporting weather
disruptions affecting the industry. Many transportation contacts reported
that they planned to adjust cost structures and hiring practices to offset
anticipated health care and fuel cost increases.  Real Estate and Construction.  Residential real estate activity remained strong, and commercial real
estate improved modestly in late April and early May. Residential real
estate sales continued to rise sharply. Prices trended upward and
inventories are lower compared to the prior survey period. District
contacts reported that low inventories have slowed sales and put upward
pressure on prices in some areas. They also reported concerns that
appraisals were not keeping pace with price increases. Contacts expected
residential sales and prices to increase further, supported by low interest
rates and a rise in consumer confidence. As a result of improved sales
activity and higher traffic of potential buyers, many agencies hired
additional real estate agents over the past month or expected to hire in
coming months. Residential builders reported steady construction activity
with expectations of moderate growth over the next three months. Commercial
real estate activity rose modestly during the past month. Construction
activity strengthened and prices and sales inched up, while vacancy rates
fell slightly. Contacts expected stronger activity in coming months, noting
that several future projects are currently in planning stages. Optimism
differed across District states, with commercial real estate construction
in Oklahoma expected to be particularly strong, and construction in New
Mexico and Missouri fairly soft.  Banking.  In the recent survey period, bankers generally reported slightly stronger
loan demand, improving loan quality, and steady deposit levels.
Respondents, on average, reported stable demand for residential real estate
loans, commercial real estate loans, and consumer installment loans, while
demand for commercial and industrial loans increased modestly. All bankers
reported steady or improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and they
expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or remain the same
over the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in
all major loan categories, and respondents reported average deposit levels
remained stable. Bankers reported that the main factors driving positive
expectations for future activity were continued economic improvements and
increased consumer confidence. Agriculture. Farm income growth softened
since the last survey period, and farmland value gains moderated slightly.
Farm income growth was limited by falling crop and livestock prices and by
high production costs, particularly for fertilizer, seed and livestock feed
and forage. Crop prices fell in early April with an announcement that grain
supplies were higher than earlier estimates, although some District
contacts expressed concerns about crop progress. Winter wheat crop
conditions deteriorated further with much of the crop in relatively poor
condition. The corn and soybean crops were behind schedule as unseasonably
cold weather and late snows delayed spring planting in many areas. Demand
for new farm loans remained weak, and contacts reported fewer requests for
farm loan renewals and extensions. Farmland values continued to rise, but
at a slightly slower pace than last year.  Energy.  Energy activity was stable over the survey period, while expectations for
future activity improved. Overall, drilling activity held steady for both
oil and natural gas in late April and early May. District contacts reported
that drilling in areas rich with natural gas liquids was particularly
strong over the past month, and that they expected drilling activity for
both oil and natural gas to pick up further in coming months. Wyoming coal
production held steady in late April and early May, though demand has
weakened over the past year with a shift toward coal alternatives for power
generation due to low natural gas prices and environmental regulations.
Ethanol production rebounded since the previous survey period due to lower
corn prices and steadily improving profit margins.  Wages and Prices.  Wage pressures increased slightly but remained weak during the survey
period, while prices rose for raw materials and most finished goods across
industries. Labor shortages and wage pressures inched up, with strong
demand for skilled workers including technicians, truck drivers, engineers
and software developers. Many employers remained concerned about the impact
of recent healthcare legislation on labor costs and how these costs might
be passed onto consumers or impact profit margins. Retail prices increased
moderately over the survey period, and retailers planned to raise prices at
a similar pace over the next few months. Food costs continued to rise, and
restaurant owners increasingly expected to raise menu prices in response.
Similarly, raw material prices rose moderately for manufacturers. While
finished goods prices remained fairly flat over the survey period,
manufacturers planned to raise finished good prices over the next few
months to partially offset higher input costs. Builders and construction
supply firms continued to report higher prices for construction materials,
particularly lumber. In some cases, construction supply costs rose faster
than anticipated, which resulted in more frequent price adjustments and
reduced margins. Transportation firms also noted an increase in input
prices.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 