-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the Federal
Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  Summary.  On balance, Sixth District business conditions improved modestly in April
and May. The outlook for most sectors remained positive as contacts
anticipate further improvement in activity for the remainder of the year.  Most retailers noted an increase in sales activity since our previous
report. The hospitality sector continued to be a bright spot for the
District as occupancy and room rates and revenues remained solid.
District real estate activity continued to strengthen from positive but
uneven sales growth, rising home prices, and declining home inventories.
Commercial real estate contacts have seen improvements in construction
since the beginning of the year. Manufacturers cited growth in new orders
and production. Bankers asserted that the demand for new loans remained
weak. Hiring activity was positive, but muted. Prices continued to remain
stable and most firms indicated having little pricing power.  Consumer Spending and Tourism.  District retail contacts noted an improvement in consumer spending but
were cautiously optimistic regarding their outlook. Reports indicated
that consumers remained focused on deals and discounts but high-end
luxury stores continued to perform well. Relatively stable gasoline
prices along with improvements in the housing market were cited as
contributing positively to consumer behavior. Automobile sales remained
steady at high levels.  Hospitality contacts reported that the sequestration has not
significantly deterred travel bookings. Leisure and international travel
continued to experience healthy demand, with several contacts reporting
that activity exceeded expectations. Hotel occupancy, average daily
rates, and revenue per room showed strong increases across the District
from the same period last year. Contacts also noted uncertainty regarding
the impact of gasoline prices on summer travel but their outlook remained
positive, with expectations that activity would be robust through the end
of the year.  Real Estate and Construction.   Similar to our last report, District brokers reported that existing home
sales remained ahead of last year’s level. Sales growth still remained
the strongest among Florida contacts. Brokers continued to report that
low home inventories were restraining sales. Homes were also noted as
appraising below market price which was either slowing sales or in some
cases halting sales altogether. Existing home prices continued to rise on
a year-over-year basis and brokers indicated that price growth was a bit
stronger than in our last report. The outlook for sales growth remained
positive, with the majority of brokers anticipating sales gains over the
next several months.  District homebuilders reported that new home sales and construction
activity were stronger than in our last report and from a year ago. Buyer
traffic continued to increase, as well. However, despite improved sales,
access to financing and a shortage of developed lots continued to
constrain construction activity. Most contacts reported that new home
inventories were below the year earlier level and prices have risen
slightly. Once again, the outlook for construction activity and new home
sales remained positive with most anticipating levels to be slightly
ahead on a year-over-year basis.  District commercial real estate contacts indicated that demand continued
to improve from earlier in the year. Construction activity rose modestly
again. Activity remained dominated by build-to-suit projects. Commercial
brokers reported that demand for space, particularly office and
industrial, increased from earlier in the year while retail continued to
lag. Brokers cautioned that most markets still favor tenants but that
concessions had eased somewhat and increases in rental rates were noted
in select submarkets. Apartment development continued to grow at a strong
pace across the region and absorption remained positive. The outlook
among District commercial real estate contacts continued to be positive
and further improvements were expected this year.  Manufacturing and Transportation.  District manufacturers continued to report expanding activity in April
and May. Growth was driven by increases in new orders, production, and
employment. Much of this expansion was attributed to the region’s large
auto and energy manufacturing presence. Nearly half of the region’s
purchasing managers expect production to be higher in the near term.  District railway contacts reported increased intermodal traffic; however,
total volume was flat to slightly down compared with a year ago. Movement
of petroleum products was up significantly on a year-over-year basis, as
were volumes of primary forest products, lumber and wood products, and
metallurgical coal. Volumes of grain products, metallic ores, military
machinery, and transportation equipment decreased notably. Orders for
heavy duty trucks increased considerably from a year ago; however, this
pickup in demand reflected equipment replacement rather than additions to
overall trucking capacity. District ports reported solid growth in
containerized traffic and general cargo, especially imported steel,
export chemicals, and petrochemical products.  Banking and Finance.  Overall demand for new loans remained weak as banks faced significant
pressure to improve net interest margins and increased competition from
non-bank providers of capital, such as private equity groups. Bankers
noted that businesses were taking on  debt where necessary to maintain and refurbish equipment to meet current
demand rather than making capital investment aimed at future growth.  Employment and Prices.  District payrolls grew at a mild pace since our last report. The bulk of
jobs added were concentrated in Florida and Georgia. Hiring in
professional and business services was especially strong in these states;
in addition, employment in retail and real estate was notably strong in
Florida. Hiring in leisure and hospitality services, particularly
accommodation and food services, increased in Alabama, Georgia,
Louisiana, and Tennessee. Government employment decreased in every
District state except for Georgia, where gains were meager.  Most firms continued to experience fairly stable input costs. The Atlanta
Fed’s Business Inflation Expectations survey showed input cost
expectations hovering around 2 percent in April and May, roughly
unchanged since the beginning of the year. Though most firms continued to
report having little pricing power, retailers indicated that profit
margins continued to improve since the beginning of the year as they have
been able to successfully contain costs.  Natural Resources and Agriculture.  Low natural gas prices continued to provide cost savings for industrial
contacts in the region. Refiners along the Gulf of Mexico completed the
seasonal process of switching from winter to summer gasoline blends and
were ramping up production to meet higher demand from the summer driving
season. Although the total number of rigs operating in the Gulf was
roughly constant over the reporting period, drilling activity continued
to shift from gas to oil, in part as a response to the ongoing price
disparity between the two natural resources. In line with historical
seasonal patterns, inventories of crude oil in the region rose
considerably, supported by rising national oil production and soft
demand.  Additional rains continued to improve drought conditions in Georgia and
Florida. However, prolonged rainy periods and cool temperatures delayed
planting of some crops. Since our last report, monthly prices paid to
farmers for beef, broilers, corn for grain, and soybeans decreased while
cotton prices increased slightly. Contacts continued to voice concern
about citrus greening and its effect on Florida citrus crops while cotton
producers reported China’s large cotton stocks were becoming a growing
risk factor for domestic cotton production. Agricultural producers also
reported that they are turning more and more to technology and other
capital investments to improve production and reduce the need for labor.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 