-- U.S. Arms May Stay Longer in Jordan Amid Stability Fears
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-06-05T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-arms-may-stay-longer-in-jordan-amid-stability-fears.html
U.S. F-16 combat aircraft and Patriot
missile defense batteries sent to  Jordan  on a military exercise
may remain in the country longer amid growing U.S. concerns that
the pro-Western country could collapse.  Secretary of State John Kerry said yesterday that
neighboring Syria is at risk of “complete and total
implosion,” and three U.S. officials said that Jordan’s pro-Western monarchy, already suffering economic and political
strains, may buckle under the added pressure of more than 1.3
million Syrian refugees. The three officials asked not to be
identified to discuss internal and international deliberations.  Kerry may stop in Jordan next week, when’s he’s scheduled
to return to Israel and the West Bank as part of the Obama
administration’s attempt to revive talks between  Israel  and the
Palestinian Authority, according to another U.S. official who
wasn’t authorized to speak for attribution about travel plans.  The American aircraft and missiles are being dispatched to
Jordan for long-planned annual war games with the country’s
armed forces, the three officials said. Jordan hasn’t decided if
the weapons should remain in the kingdom after the exercises
end, Media Affairs Minister Mohammad Momani said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  “Given our strong alliance with Jordan and in light of
circumstances in the region and escalating violence along
Jordan’s borders, if requested” some missiles and planes “may
remain,” State Department spokeswoman Jennifer Psaki said.  Islamic Extremists  The U.S. officials said the American government is less
worried about a Syrian attack on Jordan than it is about Islamic
extremists from  Iraq  and other countries who are now battling
the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad taking their
fight to Jordan’s King Abdullah.  Kerry and his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov are seeking
to organize a peace conference in Geneva to end the two-year
civil war in Syria. The top U.S. diplomat yesterday described
the effort as “a very difficult process” to stop the country
from sliding “into a complete and total implosion where it has
broken up into enclaves, and the institutions of the state have
been destroyed.”  The military exercise in Jordan, called Eager Lion 2013,
will involve about 15,000 personnel from countries including the
U.K.,  France ,  Canada , Iraq, Lebanon, Qatar,  Turkey , the United
Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, Defense News reported on May 25.
The exercise will last about two weeks, according to a military
official quoted on its website.  Outside Powers  Outside powers are “pumping foreign weaponry into a
volatile region,” Russia’s Foreign Ministry said on its website
yesterday, commenting on the possible U.S. deployment in Jordan.  The U.K. and France plan to arm the Syrian rebels if the
Geneva meeting fails to make progress, according to U.K.
officials cited May 31 by the Financial Times. The same
officials, who weren’t identified, said the U.K. and France
expect the U.S. to send weapons, too, if the talks fail.  U.S. officials said yesterday that President  Barack Obama ’s
administration remains reluctant to do so for fear that
extremist groups could obtain some of the arms.  Without the threat of outside nations increasing military
aid to rebel forces, the Syrian regime appears unwilling to
revise its calculus that it’s winning the war and Assad isn’t
likely to make concessions, said a State Department official who
briefed reporters on May 23 on condition of not being
identified.  Rebel Stronghold  Thousands of troops loyal to Assad, along with Hezbollah
militia allies from neighboring Lebanon, are preparing to enter
the province of Aleppo, a rebel stronghold close to the Turkish
border, the U.K.-based pro-opposition Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights said this week.  Hezbollah is already engaged in an attempt to recapture the
key central city of Al-Qusair. Rebels have threatened the Shiite
group with retaliatory attacks inside Lebanon, raising the
specter of a transnational conflict, and there have since been
reports of engagements between Syrian rebels and Hezbollah in
Lebanon’s Bekaa Valley.  Turkish tanks and other armored vehicles took up positions
on hillsides overlooking  Syria  near the town of Suruc in
Sanliurfa province yesterday as part of an exercise, the state-run Anatolia news agency reported. The muzzles of the Turkish
guns pointed toward Syria, it said.  About 80,000 people have died in Syria’s civil war, a
United Nations official estimated last month.  Human-Rights Abuses  Both government and rebel forces are increasingly engaging
in human-rights abuses including summary executions, according
to a UN report published yesterday.  Syrian opposition forces recruited a 14-year-old boy from
Homs as a fighter and had a child take part in beheading two
government soldiers, according to the report presented in Geneva
to the UN Human Rights Council.  Mass executions are publicly carried out in locations such
as Daraa and Aleppo, where the rebels have established judicial
and administrative authority, the 29-page report said. The
number of extra-judicial killings and kidnappings by the
opposition has risen, and about 86 child soldiers have been
killed during combat, it said.  Commenting on the report, the Syrian National Coalition,
the main opposition group, said in an e-mailed statement that it
rejects any violations of the law and would punish anyone
involved in such crimes.  “Still, there’s no comparison between those who use tons
of explosives every day against an unarmed people” and those
carrying light-to-medium weapons to defend themselves, the group
said in a statement.  Chemical Allegations  With Assad barring access to Syria by outsiders, the report
is based on 430 interviews with victims and firsthand witnesses
to atrocities.  As reports alleging use of nerve gas multiply -- with at
least six possible incidents reported to the UN so far -- the
human-rights panel said it “is possible that anti-government
armed groups may access and use chemical weapons.” Each side in
the conflict has accused the other of chemical attacks and
denied its own involvement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  