-- U.S. Federal Reserve June Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-june-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  Overall economic activity increased at a modest to moderate pace since
the previous report across all Federal Reserve Districts except the
Dallas District, which reported strong economic growth. The manufacturing
sector expanded in most Districts since the previous Beige Book. Most
Districts noted slight to moderate gains in consumer spending and a
moderate increase in vehicle sales. Tourism showed signs of strength in
several Districts. A wide variety of business services expanded, and
transportation traffic increased for producer, consumer, and trade goods.
Residential real estate and construction activity increased at a moderate
to strong pace in all Districts. Commercial real estate and construction
activity grew at a modest to moderate pace in most Districts. Overall
bank lending increased since the previous report. Credit quality and
deposits increased, while credit standards were largely unchanged.
Agricultural conditions remained mixed across Districts, as weather
patterns varied. Overall activity in the energy sector was flat, and
mining was down.  Hiring increased at a measured pace in several Districts, with some
contacts noting difficulty finding qualified workers. Wage pressures
remained contained overall, although several Districts reported a modest
or moderate rise for selected occupations. Districts reported level
prices to mild price increases; some manufacturers raised prices and some
increases for input prices were noted.  Manufacturing  The manufacturing sector expanded in most Districts since the previous
Beige Book. Activity increased in the Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta,
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco
Districts. Manufacturing contacts in the New York District reported
steady business activity. In the Philadelphia District, manufacturers
reported that orders and shipments have fallen somewhat, and in the
Richmond District, manufacturing activity softened since the previous
report, although there were scattered reports of improvement. Most firms
in the Boston District are reasonably optimistic about the outlook, and
many contacts in the Cleveland District believe that business conditions
will continue to improve slowly during the second half of the year.
However, the near-term outlook has waned somewhat in the New York
District.  Continuing a theme from the previous report, strength in residential
construction was a boon to manufacturers who supplied that industry.
Firms in the Philadelphia District supplying the home- ii  building sector reported strong orders, and the Cleveland District noted
that suppliers to residential construction were among those seeing the
strongest activity, while the Richmond, St. Louis, Dallas, and San
Francisco Districts all reported increased demand for lumber or wood
products. Growth in the auto industry was noted by the Philadelphia,
Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and St. Louis Districts, although the
Chicago District reported that the auto industry grew at a more moderate
pace. Producers of inputs for the oil and gas industries saw growth in
the Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Atlanta Districts. The food processing
industry grew in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts. Electrical
equipment saw increased activity in the Boston and San Francisco
Districts but lower activity in the Philadelphia District. Demand for
fabricated metals expanded in the Philadelphia District, while specialty
metal manufacturers in the Chicago District reported small increases in
new orders, noting that their customers had become more cautious.
Fabricated metals producers in the Dallas District reported that demand
remained steady for both private and public projects. The defense
industry experienced weakening activity in the Cleveland District, and a
producer of defense equipment in the Richmond District cited government
sequestration and orders being canceled or delayed. Steel production was
mixed. Steel producers in the Cleveland District reported that shipping
volume was stable but remains below levels seen early in the first
quarter, and both the Cleveland and Chicago Districts noted an increase
in imports of steel. The St. Louis and San Francisco Districts reported
an increase in demand for steel. Lower demand for primary metals was
noted in the Philadelphia and Dallas Districts.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Most Districts noted that consumer spending increased during the
reporting period, ranging from slight to moderate gains. Retail activity
in the Boston, Philadelphia, and Dallas Districts was characterized as
modest or moderate, while the Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts reported slight
growth. Retailers in the New York District reported that sales were tepid
in April but picked up in May. Meanwhile, the Richmond District noted
that sales were flat during the reporting period. The Boston, New York,
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts
reported that late winter weather slowed retail sales; the Chicago
District noted that sales picked up once warmer weather arrived. Demand
for home furnishings and furniture was strong or picked up in the Boston,
Cleveland, and Richmond Districts; however, furniture sales slowed in the
Chicago District. The Kansas City District reported that appliance
purchases were particularly strong. Inventories were generally at desired
levels in the  New York and Chicago Districts. The outlook for retail spending was
positive in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts, while more cautious
expectations were noted in the Boston, Cleveland, and St. Louis
Districts.  Vehicle sales generally increased moderately across Districts. The New
York, Richmond, and San Francisco Districts reported that sales remained
strong or at high levels. Meanwhile, the Minneapolis District reported
modest growth in auto sales, and contacts in the Kansas City District
reported that sales declined. Used car sales increased in the Chicago and
St. Louis Districts, while the Richmond District noted that the
availability of used cars improved. Meanwhile, the New York, Cleveland,
and San Francisco Districts reported a shortage of used cars or a decline
in used car sales. Inventories increased in the Cleveland and Kansas City
Districts, while inventories were lean in the Philadelphia District. More
respondents to a St. Louis District survey indicated that inventories
were too high than too low. The Philadelphia, Cleveland, St. Louis,
Kansas City, and Dallas Districts noted that the outlook for future sales
was generally positive.  Tourism showed signs of strength in several Districts. The Boston
District reported increased tourism revenues but noted that attendance at
museums and attractions was down, perhaps due to weather affecting
leisure travel plans. The New York District noted that tourism activity
was mixed but fairly robust since the previous report. The Richmond
District reported that unseasonably cool weather negatively affected some
resorts. Leisure and international travel continued to experience healthy
demand in the Atlanta District. Extended winter weather boosted skiing in
parts of the Minneapolis District. The San Francisco District reported
that travel and tourism activity in Hawaii was robust, while activity in
southern California declined a bit. Hotel occupancy and room rates were
higher in the Atlanta and Kansas City Districts. Advanced bookings and
the overall outlook for summer travel were optimistic, but the San
Francisco District noted some concern that the flow of international
visitors could taper off in coming months due to potential weakness in
the global economy.  Nonfinancial Services  Nonfinancial services activity grew at a modest to moderate pace since
the previous report. The Philadelphia District noted steady gains, while
moderate growth was reported in the Minneapolis District. The San
Francisco District saw flat demand for health care and legal services.
The Boston District noted sluggish activity in information technology
services, while the Kansas City District saw increased demand for high
tech services. Information technology, distribution, business support,  health care, engineering, and hospitality firms expanded in the St. Louis
District. The Richmond District reported “renewed vigor,” especially for
technology and architectural firms. The Dallas District saw strong demand
for accounting services and modest increases in legal services.  Transportation activity increased. The Cleveland District noted strong
activity, while both import and export traffic increased in the Richmond
District. The Atlanta District reported increased movement of petroleum
products and wood products but decreased shipments of grain products,
metallic ores, military machinery, and transportation equipment. The
Dallas District saw increased cargo and container volumes. The Kansas
City District reported slower transportation activity due to poor weather
conditions. Minneapolis District contacts expected small increases in
freight traffic in the second half of the year.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate and construction activity increased at a moderate
to strong pace in all Districts. Several Districts reported that higher
demand and low inventory of homes available for sale are resulting in
multiple offers on properties. Almost all Districts reported higher home
sale prices. The Kansas City District reported concerns that appraisals
were not keeping pace with price increases. Foreclosed properties
available for sale have declined significantly in the San Francisco
District. The rental market remains tight with noticeable increases in
rental rates in the New York District. Residential construction increased
across all of the reporting Districts. Several Districts noted increases
in multifamily projects. The Minneapolis District reported that many
markets saw huge percentage increases in building permits from a year
ago. Builders are cutting back on discounting in the Cleveland District.
The Richmond District noted that increased construction has pushed up the
price of building lots, and the Atlanta District reported that the lack
of available lots has constrained building activity. The Philadelphia
District commented that builders are facing problems, as the long housing
recession has disrupted the supply chain for materials and the pool of
skilled workers. Commercial real estate and construction activity
expanded at a modest to moderate pace in most Districts. The New York
District reported that the Manhattan market is particularly robust. The
Chicago District noted that an increase in demand for leasing was pushing
up commercial rents, with strong demand from the health care sector.
However, a market in the Boston District indicated no change in
commercial rents or vacancy rates since the previous report. A market in
the Richmond District had more hotels complete construction, and retail
space was absorbed at a faster pace. Commercial construction continues to
expand. The Philadelphia District said that most construction  activity is related to ongoing demand for industrial warehouse space,
higher education facilities, and public utility infrastructure. The
Atlanta District reported that most activity was coming from build-to-suit projects. The Dallas District noted an increase in office building
construction. The Cleveland District said that many projects are in
development, but new inquiries are weak. The San Francisco District noted
that in some regions, construction of publicly funded commercial projects
has slowed due to funding constraints from state and local governments.  Banking and Finance  Overall bank lending increased modestly since the previous report. The
Cleveland District noted that consumer demand for auto loans increased
and that demand for residential loans shifted from refinancing to new
purchases. The Chicago District indicated modest growth in business loan
demand. The Dallas District reported robust growth in residential
mortgages and auto lending with continued weakness in corporate
transactions. The New York District saw an increase in demand for all
types of loans except commercial and industrial loans, where demand was
unchanged. San Francisco District banking contacts reported ample
liquidity and competition among lenders for well-qualified business
borrowers but limited credit availability for small businesses. The
Philadelphia District noted slow loan growth, and the Atlanta District
reported weak loan activity.  Credit quality improved, on balance. The New York and Cleveland Districts
reported widespread decreases in delinquency rates for business and
consumer loans. Several Districts reported that credit standards have not
changed much since the previous report.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Agricultural conditions remained mixed across Districts, as weather
patterns varied. Recent rains brought drought relief to the Atlanta,
Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts but delayed or slowed plantings in the
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Kansas City
Districts. Meanwhile, drought conditions worsened in the Dallas District,
and contacts in the San Francisco District remained concerned that
limited water availability in parts of the District could pass through to
lower seasonal hiring and reduced agricultural output in coming months.
Farm incomes increased in the Minneapolis District, while farm income
growth softened in the Kansas City District. Well over 90 percent of the
St. Louis District’s winter wheat crop was rated in fair or better
condition, but winter wheat crop conditions deteriorated further in the
Kansas City District, with much of the crop in relatively poor condition.
Forage crops were having a great spring in the Richmond District, and
pastures and hayfields were in good condition.  Overall activity in the energy sector was flat, and mining was down. The
San Francisco District saw decreased natural gas drilling. The Cleveland,
Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts noted that oil activity was flat and
that natural gas activity was up. The Minneapolis District reported that
the energy sector remained strong. The Dallas District said that drilling
activity was up. Coal mining was down slightly in the Cleveland and St.
Louis Districts, while coal mining in the Kansas City District was
steady. Iron ore mining production was down in the Minneapolis District.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Hiring increased at a measured pace in several Districts, with some
contacts noting difficulty finding qualified workers. Labor markets
continued to improve in the New York District. The Boston District
reported that with only a few exceptions, businesses were not hiring much
beyond replacement, while labor markets in the Richmond District were
uneven. Labor markets continued to improve slowly in the Chicago
District. The St. Louis District reported that employment levels over the
past three months have stayed the same or increased for a majority of
contacts. Labor markets tightened in the Minneapolis District,
particularly near the oil boom area in western North Dakota and eastern
Montana, although some easing in the pace of growth was noted over the
past six months. Labor markets were steady in the Dallas District. The
New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas
Districts cited examples of contacts reporting difficulty finding
qualified people to fill vacancies. The Richmond and Cleveland Districts
noted that new hours of service regulations may exacerbate difficulty
finding truck drivers. A number of Districts reported solid demand for
workers in information technology, health care, and engineering. The
Richmond and Atlanta Districts cited employment reductions due to
cutbacks in government orders or staffing at government offices. Among
staffing services firms, billable hours increased in the Philadelphia
District but decreased in the Boston District. Meanwhile, staffing
services were steady in the Dallas District and mixed in the Cleveland
District. The outlook for hiring was generally positive in the Richmond
and Minneapolis Districts.  Wage pressures remained contained overall, though several Districts
reported a modest or moderate rise for selected occupations. The
Cleveland, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts indicated
that overall wage pressures were subdued. The Philadelphia and Kansas
City Districts reported that wage pressures increased slightly, while
reports were mixed in the Richmond District. The New York District noted
that although qualified job candidates were said to be increasingly hard
to find, most employers were holding the line on compensation. Exceptions  included increased wages for home builders in the Philadelphia District,
and legal and financial services in the Dallas District. Contacts in the
Richmond, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts expressed concern over the
effect of health care reform on labor costs. The Philadelphia and
Cleveland Districts reported increased costs for health insurance.  Districts reported level prices to mild price increases. The Boston
District reported that aside from food, input prices were generally
unchanged, although a few manufacturers have raised their own prices.
Manufacturers in the Richmond District indicated that finished goods
prices grew at a somewhat quicker pace. The Kansas City District reported
that while finished goods prices remained fairly flat, manufacturers
planned to raise finished good prices over the next few months to
partially offset higher input costs. However, most firms in the Atlanta
District continued to report having little pricing power, and the Chicago
District noted that pass-through to downstream prices remained limited.
The Philadelphia and Cleveland Districts reported higher construction
materials prices. Meanwhile, the San Francisco District noted that prices
for cement, logs, and lumber edged up, while prices for wood products,
steel, and some metals declined. Gasoline prices spiked higher in the
Minneapolis District, and several Districts noted that natural gas prices
increased since the previous report. The Dallas District reported that
most contacts expect price increases to remain modest for the remainder
of the year.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 