-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District-- San Francisco  TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a modest pace
during the reporting period of early April through late May. Price
inflation was subdued for most final goods and services, and upward wage
pressures were limited overall. Retail sales were a bit soft, while
demand for business and consumer services was mixed. District
manufacturing activity rose on net. Production and sales of agricultural
items increased modestly. Residential real estate activity expanded
robustly, and commercial real estate activity trended up, although
somewhat unevenly across geographic areas. Contacts from financial
institutions reported slight increases in overall loan demand.  Prices and Wages  Price inflation was subdued for most final goods and services. Food
industry contacts noted decreased prices of grain products but increased
prices of some fruit and nut items. Contacts from retail grocery and
restaurant chain establishments reported that overall food price
inflation appears to have leveled off at a relatively modest pace. Fees
for legal services declined a bit. Several construction inputs, such as
cement, logs, and lumber, edged up further. However, prices for other
wood products, steel, and some metals declined.  Contacts reported that wage gains were limited overall. Labor market
slack continues to put downward pressure on wages and compensation for
most sectors, occupations, and regions. However, various contacts
indicated some upward wage pressure for skilled construction workers,
software developers, and certain technical and managerial positions in
high-tech manufacturing.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales were fairly soft overall. Sales of various digital and
technology products slowed. Among computer and electronic products, sales
of personal computers remained weak relative to sales of mobile computing
devices, including smart phones and tablets. Demand for some gaming and
entertainment products grew slightly, as did demand for apparel.
Traditional retail grocers reported flat sales, with intensifying
competition from discount and online retailers. Suppliers of food and
beverage products noted increased sales. Automobile sales remained at
high levels, although a shortage of used vehicles has restrained the pace
of activity in some parts of the District.  Demand for business and consumer services was mixed. Food service
providers reported strong sales on net, with some discount chains faring
particularly well. Robust activity in Hawaii supported the District’s
travel and tourism sector, although there is some concern that the flow
of international visitors could taper off in coming months due to
potential weakness in the global economy. Travel and tourist activity in
Southern California has declined a bit. Demand for both health-care and
legal services was flat. Compared with previous months, contacts dialed
back their expectations for robust growth of various technology services
such as cloud computing and data processing this year.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity rose on net in the reporting period of
early April through late May. New orders for electronic components were
up a bit, and contacts indicated that they expect demand for
semiconductors to pick up over the next couple of quarters.
Pharmaceutical producers reported that innovative product launches
contributed to continued modest gains for some firms, although overall
activity seemed to be on a slight downward trajectory. Wood product
manufacturers stated that demand grew further, fueled by rebounding
domestic residential construction activity. However, contacts noted
potential headwinds such as limited labor availability and transportation
capacity. Demand for steel products used primarily in transportation
infrastructure and nonresidential construction projects continued to
increase, and capacity utilization ticked up.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Agricultural sales and production increased modestly. Demand for most
crop and livestock products grew further. Grain production was robust,
but contacts reported some variability in vegetable production. Some
contacts remained concerned that limited water availability in parts of
the District could pass through to lower seasonal hiring and reduced
agricultural output in coming months. Reports indicated that industry
demand for electricity and natural gas grew robustly, although demand
from households grew more sluggishly. While natural gas inventories rose
slightly, the number of natural gas drilling rigs has fallen
significantly since last year, due in part to the sustained low relative
price of natural gas. Demand for gasoline was up in most regions.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential real estate activity expanded robustly, and commercial real
estate activity trended up at a more moderate pace overall. Home sales
climbed in many regions, and tight inventories coupled with healthy
demand supported continued house price appreciation. Reports indicated
that the number of foreclosed properties available for sale has continued
to decline significantly. Construction of multifamily residential
projects increased in many areas, driven by low vacancy rates and strong
demand for rental properties. Commercial real estate leasing and
development activity expanded in most major metropolitan areas. However,
several contacts in less-urban areas reported persistently high vacancy
rates for office properties. In some regions, construction of publicly
funded commercial projects has slowed due to funding constraints from
state and local governments.  Financial Institutions  Financial institutions reported that loan demand improved slightly on
balance. Increased demand for mortgage and automobile loans drove growth
in overall loan demand. However, some contacts recognized softness in
business loan demand, due to continuing caution among borrowers. Banking
contacts highlighted ample liquidity and generally stiff competition
among lenders for well-qualified business borrowers. However, contacts
reported that credit availability for small businesses remains limited.
Although in past months contacts had pointed to a buildup of privately
held technology companies poised for public offerings, the actual pace
remains slow for initial public offerings, new venture capital deals, and
private equity financing in the District’s Internet and digital media
subsectors.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 