-- U.S. House Votes to Pay For More Veterans’ Claims Processors
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2013-06-05T00:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-house-votes-to-pay-for-more-veterans-claims-processors.html
The U.S. House voted to give the
 Veterans Affairs Department , which was exempted from this year’s
budget cuts and furloughs, the money to hire more staff in
fiscal 2014.  The spending bill, which advanced on a vote of 421-4, would
allow the department to hire 94 new employees to help handle a
backlog of disability claims that has drawn the ire of
lawmakers. The department has 56 regional benefits offices
serving more than 20 million veterans.  “I will not accept any further excuses; the VA must make
progress,” Representative Nita Lowey, the top Democrat on the
panel that wrote the appropriations bill, said today.  Average wait times for first-time disability claims range
between 316 days and 327 days, according to a May 28 bipartisan
letter signed by 165 House lawmakers.  The legislation was the first of its 12 annual spending
bills to reach the House floor. It would increase resources for
military veterans and reduce funding for  Pentagon  construction
projects.  The bill’s $157.8 billion total is almost $13 billion more
than current funding levels.  The Veterans Affairs Department would be given 3.5 percent
more in fiscal 2014, in part to help reduce its backlog of
disability claims, while funding for Defense Department
construction spending would decline by about 7 percent.  “Clearly this is an austere budget year, to put it
mildly,” Kentucky Republican Hal Rogers, chairman of the  House
Appropriations Committee , said today. “Virtually all areas of
the government will face cuts.”  Medical Records  The bill would place restrictions on some funds in order to
require the Pentagon and VA to develop a single system for
housing medical records.  The Pentagon said last month that it plans to buy a new
electronic health records system, instead of building a single
system to handle current and former troops’ health records with
the VA. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel promised to work closely
with VA Secretary Eric Shinseki to develop a “seamless
system,” according to a Pentagon statement on May 22.  The measure “does not mandate the adoption of a particular
system, only that it be a single system,” said Sanford Bishop
of  Georgia , the top Democrat on the Appropriations  Military
Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies
Subcommittee , said today. “I don’t think that we should get
into the business of picking software.”  Companies including Palo Alto, California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Armonk,  New York-based International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and McLean, Virginia-based  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  have won
contracts for work on the Pentagon’s existing system for
maintaining medical records.  Guantanamo Bay  The bill would prohibit using funds for new construction or
renovations to facilities in the U.S. to house individuals
detained at Guantanamo Bay, creating a potential roadblock for
President  Barack Obama , who on May 23 said he is directing the
Defense Department to designate a U.S. site where trials by
military commissions can be held. Obama said that he’ll ask
Congress to lift restrictions on transferring Guantanamo
detainees to other countries and lift a moratorium on transfers
to Yemen.  Obama pledged in 2009 to close the prison at Guantanamo.  Lawmakers didn’t include the $185 million requested by the
Obama administration to cover a 1 percent civilian pay raise.  That omission is one of the reasons that the White House
objected to the way the bill was written.  Other objections included the prohibition on funding to
house Guantanamo Bay detainees in the U.S.; and incremental
funding for a military construction project at Aberdeen Proving
Ground in  Maryland , which “runs counter to sound budgeting
principles and fiscal discipline.”  The bill is H.R. 2216.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  