-- U.S. Treasury Plans to Sell 30 Million More GM Shares
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-06-05T20:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-treasury-says-it-intends-to-sell-30-million-more-gm-shares.html
The U.S. Treasury Department
announced plans to sell additional shares of  General Motors Co. (GM) 
common stock on the eve of the automaker returning to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index after a four-year absence.  The government said it will sell 30 million more shares of
GM common stock in a 50-million-share offering that also
includes a sale by the UAW union’s GM retiree health-care trust.  Revisions in the  S&P 500  may prompt money managers to shift
holdings to match the index. That could be a boost for Detroit-based GM, which under Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson, has
seen its shares this year surge past its November 2010 initial
public offering price for the first time in two years.  “There’s definitely real buying that needs to take
place,” Joseph Spak, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets , said
today in an interview. For the government, “there’s a sort of a
natural buyer for them to offload some shares.”  The U.S. said in December that it would sell its remaining
GM stake in 12 to 15 months. Treasury didn’t revise that timing
today.  GM replaces H.J. Heinz Co., which will be purchased by
 Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and other investors, in
the S&P 500 at the close of trading tomorrow. Berkshire Hathaway
is also an investor in GM, which had been in the S&P 500 since
the index was established in 1957 until its 2009 bankruptcy.
About $5.58 trillion is benchmarked to the gauge, according to
S&P’s website.  ‘Government Motors’  “The stock is doing well right now, so this is
opportune,” said Michelle Krebs, an analyst with automotive
researcher Edmunds.com, who is based in Royal Oak, Michigan.
“Getting back into the S&P 500 is an important milestone. But
the real celebration is the day the government is totally out of
the business.”  GM fell 2.7 percent to $34.02 at the close in  New York . The
shares have gained 18 percent this year, eclipsing its $33 IPO
price, compared with a 13 percent increase for the S&P 500.  “We appreciate the opportunity to assist in this offering
made possible by our rejoining the S&P 500,” GM Chief Financial
Officer Dan Ammann said in a statement. “Our focus remains on
continuing the progress we are making in the marketplace.”  The U.S. invested $49.5 billion in GM, the biggest piece of
an industry bailout that became a centerpiece in the first term
of President  Barack Obama . Critics of the bailout labeled GM
“Government Motors.”  Dividend Possibility  “GM is always going to be tainted with, ‘They took the
money,’” Krebs said. “I’m not convinced it’s going to make a
lot of difference in the minds of car-buying consumers.”  The U.S. owned 241.7 million shares in GM, or 16.4 percent,
as of April 1, according to the automaker’s proxy statement.  The government’s sale of additional GM shares also opens
the door for GM to restore its dividend, RBC’s Spak wrote in a
note to investors today.  “The accelerated sell-down by the government should be
viewed positively,” the New York-based Spak wrote. The
government could exit GM “by the end of the year. This could
open the door for additional capital actions, including a
potential dividend.”  The retiree health-care trust, created following contract
negotiations in 2007 between GM and the Detroit-based United
Auto Workers union, is selling 20 million shares. The trust,
which pays medical bills for union retirees, is the No. 2
shareholder behind the U.S. with 160.2 million shares, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley are
acting as the joint book-running managers of the proposed
offering, the Treasury said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  