-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Rise as Investors Weigh Fed Stimulus
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-06-05T21:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-rise-before-report-on-factory-orders.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose to the highest level in two months amid speculation on the
future pace of Federal Reserve stimulus.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
3.8 basis points to a mid-price of 85.7 basis points at 4:20
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the highest level since April 5.  Investors are weighing whether the economy has strengthened
enough to prompt the central bank to begin curtailing its $85
billion in monthly debt purchases, known as quantitative easing.
The economy expanded at a “modest to moderate” pace in 11 of
12 Fed districts, with broad-based gains ranging from business
services to construction and manufacturing, the central bank
said today in its Beige Book business survey.  “We see a lot of people trying to anticipate when the Fed
may act,” Greg Tornga, the Seattle-based head of fixed income
at Edge Asset Management, said in a telephone interview. “There
are people who are clearly trading based on specific headlines
as opposed to longer-term trends.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Factory Orders  Fed officials, who next meet June 18-19, will consider the
Beige Book report alongside other economic data as they debate
when to start curbing the pace of bond purchases.  Kansas City Fed President Esther George and Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  separately called for stimulus
reduction yesterday. Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said
earlier this week that “very mixed” economic data makes him
“more cautious” about a near-term reduction of quantitative
easing.  Orders placed with U.S.  factories  rose 1 percent in April
following a revised 4.7 percent decline the month before,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of 61 economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted
orders would climb by 1.5 percent.  Companies in the U.S. hired 135,000 workers in May, ADP
Research Institute reported today, fewer than the 165,000
expected by analysts.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index rose 18.7 basis points to 426.3 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt widened 16 basis points to 540.1 basis points, the
biggest jump since April 8, Bloomberg data show. High-yield,
high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service
and less than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  