-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District-- Cleveland.  The economy in the Fourth District grew at a moderate pace since our last
report. Manufacturing orders and production were steady or higher. The
momentum seen in residential construction since the beginning of the
year, including multifamily, has been maintained. In nonresidential
construction, projects are moving very slowly from the development to the
construction phase. Retail sales were below our contacts’ expectations
during April, while new motor vehicle sales posted moderate gains on a
year-over-year basis. Conventional and unconventional natural gas and oil
production was flat, and drilling has declined during the past few
months. Output at coal mines trended lower. Freight transport volume
exceeded projections made at the beginning of the year.  Demand for business credit increased more slowly, whereas large numbers
of consumers continue to apply for auto loans. Hiring picked up in the
manufacturing and freight transport sectors. Reports by staffing-firm
representatives on the number of job openings and placements, primarily
in the service industries, were mixed. Wage pressures are contained.
Input and finished goods prices were stable, apart from increases in
construction materials and natural gas.  Manufacturing.  Reports from District factories indicated that new orders and production
were largely stable or increased during the past six weeks. Domestic
sales were stronger than those to offshore customers, with declines in
Europe being more acute than in China. Companies seeing the strongest
activity were suppliers to the oil and gas, residential construction, and
transportation industries. Defense contractors and suppliers to the coal
industry experienced weakening activity. Compared to a year ago,
production levels were mixed. Steel producers and service centers
reported that shipping volumes were stable but remain below levels seen
early in the first quarter. Several contacts expressed concern about the
quantity of steel produced in China and Europe that is now being imported
into the United States. Motor vehicle production at District plants rose
at a robust pace during April on a month-over-month and year-over-year
basis. Looking forward, many of our contacts believe that business
conditions will continue to slowly improve during the second half of the
year.  Capacity utilization rates stood within their normal ranges. Several
manufacturers noted that they have considerable excess capacity. For the
most part, finished goods inventories are in-line with demand. Capital
expenditures are on plan for the fiscal year. Outlays are primarily
allocated for productivity enhancements and equipment replacement. Little
capacity expansion is planned due to lingering uncertainty about future
demand. Raw material and finished goods prices were flat or trended
lower. Our respondents said that their ability to raise prices during
2013 is likely to be limited. We heard numerous reports from
manufacturers who intend to increase payrolls at a modest to moderate
pace during the next few months. Wage pressures are contained, while
premiums for healthcare insurance spiked higher.  Real Estate.  Sales of new and existing single-family homes trended higher and they
were above year-ago levels. Our contacts attributed this trend to low
interest rates, favorable prices, and an improving labor market. One
builder commented that young people are less inclined to buy a house than
were their parents due to a perceived lack of value and a desire for  mobility. He believes that this reluctance may put downward pressure on
the housing industry for years to come. New home contracts were found
mostly in the mid- to higher-price-point categories. Demand for
multifamily housing remains strong. Builders expressed confidence that
the turnaround in the housing market will persist in the upcoming months.
However, they cited difficulty in obtaining financing and low inventory
as barriers to more robust growth in their industry. List prices of new
homes increased by as much as 10 percent in certain markets this year due
primarily to rising construction costs. Builders have cut back on
discounting. Nonresidential builders told us that while inquiries have
weakened, there were still a large number of projects in the development
phase. However, backlogs are lower than what most builders would like.
The strongest activity was in multifamily housing, energy, and
manufacturing. The office and large-footprint retail segments were
relatively weak. Our contacts are cautious about near-term activity.
While they expect some growth, especially in the second half of the year,
many of their clients are not in a rush to move projects into the
construction phase. A substantial rise in commercial and industrial
leasing is seen as a positive indicator by builders. They believe that
some of their clients may commit to new building in the upcoming months.  There were many reports about large price increases for building
materials, especially lumber (softwoods) and drywall. Residential
builders felt the brunt of these increases. Little change in payrolls or
wages was reported. Hiring for the prime construction season is expected
to be limited. Subcontractors are having difficulty obtaining working
capital and attracting skilled labor.  Consumer Spending.  Most retailers reported that April sales fell short of expectations. Some
of our contacts cited colder-than-normal weather for holding down
consumer spending. Others saw a pickup in purchases of large home goods
such as furniture and exercise equipment. On a year-over-year basis,
volume was up slightly. Going into summer, sales are projected to be
modestly higher, when compared to the same time period last year. Vendor
and shelf prices held steady. A food retailer commented that his
customers remain sensitive to changes in gasoline prices, with any hike
in gas prices negatively impacting his sales. Capital expenditures were
on plan for the fiscal year. Monies are allocated primarily for
improvements to distribution systems and new store construction. No
hiring is anticipated, except for staffing new stores.  Year-to-date sales of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase
during April compared to the same time period a year ago. Buyers
preferred smaller, fuel-efficient cars, crossovers, and SUVs, and the
number of customers opting to lease continued to trend higher. Large
pickup trucks were big sellers in regions with significant shale gas
activity. New vehicle inventories are rising, but a majority of dealers
said that they are satisfied with their inventory positions. Our contacts
are cautiously optimistic about sales prospects for the year, with a few
projecting 5 percent growth over 2012. Used vehicle purchases declined in
April on a month-over-month basis. Several dealers commented that it is
difficult to find a quality used car. However, they believe that as lease
rollovers start to come in this year, the availability of low mileage
used cars will improve. Two of our contacts noted that financing activity
in the  subprime market is starting to pick up. Dealers want to hire a small
number of sales and technical personnel, but they are having a difficult
time finding qualified workers.  Banking.  Demand for business credit has increased, but at a slower rate, since our
last report. Although loan requests originated from many sectors,
commercial real estate and industrial production stood out. A few bankers
commented that insufficient collateral was the primary reason behind
small business owners being denied credit. Consumer credit demand rose
slightly, especially for auto loans. Installment loans are growing in
popularity, whereas drawdowns on home equity lines of credit trended
lower. Residential mortgage activity was stable. The shift in
applications from refinancing to new purchase grew. Delinquency rates
declined across consumer and commercial loan categories. No substantive
changes were made to loan-application standards. Aggregate core deposits
grew at a steady pace, with a movement from CDs to demand deposits still
taking place. Customer preferences for online banking, rising use of
ATMs, and shrinking net interest margins were factors cited by some of
our contacts for cutting payrolls and reducing the number of branches.  Energy.  Coal production continued to trend down across the District, although
lower production numbers are showing signs of stabilizing. One producer
noted that demand from domestic utility companies is up slightly, while
offshore demand is slowing or stagnant. Spot prices for steam-coal rose
slightly, whereas metallurgical coal prices were flat. The number of
drilling rigs across the District was little changed over the past six
weeks but has fallen since the beginning of the year. Ohio and West
Virginia issued shale gas drilling permits at a robust pace. Output from
conventional and unconventional oil and natural gas wells was flat during
the past couple of months. In the wet gas regions of Ohio and West
Virginia, output should begin to increase later in the year as newly
constructed gas processing units come on line. Well-head prices for
natural gas are trending higher, but not to the point that would
encourage aggressive drilling. Capital expenditures were at targeted
levels, with little change expected. No change in production equipment
and material prices was reported. Energy payrolls held steady. Labor
costs were stable except for increases in health insurance premiums.  Freight Transportation.  Our contacts described shipping volume as robust and higher than
expected. Demand was particularly strong from motor vehicle and energy-related customers. Freight executives are optimistic about growth
prospects for the remainder of the year. Diesel-fuel prices trended
lower, and costs associated with equipment and maintenance items were
stable. The biggest concern facing trucking companies at this time is the
potential impact on operations (number of trucks and drivers,
productivity, and pricing) due to the new hours of service (HOS) rules
that go into effect on July 1. Capital spending is on plan for the fiscal
year. Two of our contacts reported that they will be investing heavily in
equipment that will service their energy customers. Another commented
that his firm will order more trucks than originally budgeted to add
capacity. Hiring is for replacement and capacity expansion. The industry
is still experiencing a shortage of drivers and skilled mechanics. The
former may worsen under the new HOS regulations.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 