-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2013-06-05T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District--Dallas.  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a stronger pace over
the past six weeks than in the previous reporting period.
Manufacturing activity increased overall, and many contacts were
more optimistic in their outlooks. Retail sales activity
improved during the reporting period, and auto sales held
steady. In the nonfinancial services sector, demand for
accounting services was strong, legal firms reported modest
growth, and most transportation services firms noted
improvement. Staffing services contacts said demand was steady.
The housing sector continued to improve, with further gains in
sales and construction. Office and warehouse leasing activity
remained steady. Financial institutions noted modest growth in
loan demand, and energy activity improved during the reporting
period. Drought conditions worsened across the Eleventh
District. Prices remained stable at most firms, and employment
levels were steady.  Prices  Most responding firms said prices were steady and they expect
increases to remain modest for the remainder of the year. One
exception is home prices, which have risen strongly due to pent-up demand and low inventories. While some contacts said prices
for construction materials were up, others said increased
competition had lowered prices. There were some reports that
builders expect less price pass-through going forward.
Transportation service industry contacts noted increased
shipping rates earlier in the year, but expect price gains to
ease with recent declines in the price of jet fuel. Automobile
dealers said prices held steady. Cattle prices trended lower
over the past six weeks while retail beef prices rose to a
record-high due to strong demand.  Oil prices fell slightly over the reporting period. A late
winter brought natural gas inventories back into the seasonally
normal range and pushed prices above $4. Gasoline and diesel
prices declined since the last report.
Labor Market Employment held steady at most responding firms.
There were scattered reports of hiring from some transportation
manufacturing and transportation services firms. Financial firms
added employees to comply with regulatory stress testing and
wealth management, and noted employment growth in Austin and the
Eagle Ford Shale area. Several contacts reported difficulty
finding qualified people to fill vacancies, particularly in
staffing services, accounting, machinery manufacturing, IT and
IT-related retail. A construction-related manufacturer noted
truck drivers were in short supply. Wage pressures remained
largely subdued, although increased compensation was reported in
legal and financial services.  Manufacturing  Reports on construction-related manufacturing were mixed,
although firm outlooks remain mostly optimistic. Some lumber
producers noted increased activity, while others said sales were
less than expected. A cement producer noted strong growth in
residential demand--especially in Houston--and a recent boost
from commercial infrastructure construction in Dallas.
Fabricated metals producers said demand remained steady for both
private and public projects. Primary metals producers said
demand had slowed slightly since the last reporting period, and
outlooks were cautious.  Contacts in the high-tech manufacturing industry reported that
orders and shipments were flat to slightly improved since the
last survey. Respondents who reported a slight improvement in
orders said that growth was broadly based across sectors.
Inventories were reported to be lean in general and at or near
desired levels. Respondents expect demand to improve slightly in
the second half of this year.  Paper manufacturers said demand increased to normal levels after
the decrease reported in the last report. Contacts are slightly
more optimistic. Food producers said demand was about 15 percent
higher than last year at this time. One contact noted the
successful introduction of new products to schools and said
sales in that market were up 30 percent. Inventories were at the
right levels for contacts, customers and suppliers.  Transportation manufacturing contacts said orders were steady to
up. Outlooks were generally positive, although aviation contacts
were more uncertain than in the last report.  Petrochemical producers reported a slowdown in activity since
the last report, mostly due to weakness in Europe. Still,
contacts remain very optimistic in their outlooks. Refiners said
operating rates and margins were up over the reporting period.  Retail Sales  Retail sales volumes increased over the reporting period and are
up from a year ago. According to one national retailer, Texas
continued to outperform the nation. Outlooks for the upcoming
quarter and the rest of the year are positive.
Automobile sales were steady over the reporting period, and
demand remains above year-ago levels. Contacts are positive in
their outlooks for the remainder of the year, although
increasing costs were a concern.  Nonfinancial Services  Staffing services contacts said demand was flat over the past
six weeks. Placements were strong in mortgage-related finance
and residential construction jobs. One firm noted an increase in
the number of jobs but a decline in workweeks as businesses
redistribute hours to minimize the impact of health care reform.
Since the last Beige Book, accounting demand was strong and
firms noted a moderate increase in non-tax-related work over the
reporting period, with advisory work leading the way. Legal
firms reported modest demand growth, particularly for
intellectual property litigation, real estate, wealth planning
and health care work. Outlooks were mildly optimistic, with
strength expected in real estate and corporate work.  Transportation service firms said overall cargo and container
volumes increased over the reporting period. Railroad contacts
reported notable increases in motor vehicles, petroleum, lumber
and wood and crushed stone volumes, while volumes for grain and
metallic ores declined. Small parcel shipments picked up, with
demand growth led by retail trade. Air cargo volumes were flat
both domestically and internationally.  Reports from airline contacts were mixed. Some said demand
increased during the reporting period while others noted flat
travel demand due to bad weather and reduced demand from the
government sector. Outlooks were fairly strong for the near
term, but contacts are less optimistic about demand in the
longer-term due to sluggish economic growth and fiscal
uncertainties.  Construction and Real Estate  The Texas housing sector continued to improve over the past six
weeks. Contacts said home sales remained strong with inventories
still low, despite some reports that more homes were being
listed. New home construction activity picked up pace since the
last report, although some contacts mentioned higher prices may
slow sales growth later in the year. Apartment construction
remained at high levels and investment activity for multifamily
projects continued to be strong, according to respondents.  Contacts in the commercial real estate sector said leasing
activity for office and industrial warehouse space continued at
a steady pace. Contacts noted a pickup in building activity in
the office sector.  Financial Services  Financial institutions experienced modest growth in loan demand,
with robust growth in residential mortgages and auto lending and
weakness continuing in corporate transactions. Non-performing
loans continue to improve and debtors are rapidly paying down
mortgages and auto loans. Loan pricing remains very competitive.
Deposits increased modestly and deposit rates remained mostly
unchanged. Employment and compensation growth were flat for the
most part. Mortgage lending is expected to remain robust.  Energy  Energy activity improved since the last report. The Texas rig
count increased, and contacts noted strong global demand.
Respondents expect further improvement in the second half of the
year, especially due to anticipated increases in rig activity
and production from the Gulf of Mexico.  Agriculture  Drought conditions continued to worsen slightly across most of
the District over the reporting period, despite scattered
rainfall. The Texas wheat crop suffered from dry weather and
late freezes and production is expected to be significantly
below average. Conditions for other crops are generally worse
than at this same time last year but not quite as bad as in
2011.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 