-- Lufthansa Tests Electric Taxiing to Reduce Fuel Spending
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2013-06-05T11:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/lufthansa-tests-electric-taxiing-to-reduce-fuel-spending.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Europe’s
second-largest airline, is testing electric ground-handling
vehicles at  Frankfurt  airport to help cut a fuel bill that
reached a record 7.39 billion euros ($9.7 billion) in 2012.  Lufthansa is taking part in a 15.7 million-euro project at
the airport, Europe’s third busiest by passenger numbers, to use
electric service vehicles such as pusher tugs for plane taxiing,
and to upgrade landing gear,  Germany ’s Transport Ministry said
in a statement. Government funding amounts to 8.1 million euros.  “Electric vehicles used in ground handling and taxiing of
planes can noticeably reduce noise and emissions around an
airport,” Transport Minister Peter Ramsauer said in an e-mail.
“That’s an important contribution to environmental and climate
protection.”  The price of the kerosene used as  jet fuel  reached a 4 1/2-year high in September, though it has fallen this year in  Europe 
amid recessions in the region that have prompted carriers to
reduce flights. Cologne, Germany-based Lufthansa predicted in
May that it will spend 7 billion euros this year on fuel.  Chief Executive Officer Christoph Franz has a target of
adding 1.5 billion euros to Lufthansa’s earnings by 2015 in the
airline’s most ambitious efficiency push ever. Fuel was the
company’s biggest single cost last year, accounting for 23
percent of operating expenses.  Government Strategy  The project in Frankfurt is part of a 1.5 billion-euro
campaign by the German government to subsidize electric
mobility. Partners include airport operator Fraport AG and
Lufthansa’s LSG Sky Chefs catering unit. In addition to
equipment to move aircraft,  electric vehicles  being tested
include units that load catering goods onto planes or carry
ground-handling crews.  Researchers will evaluate the project to allow results to
be applied elsewhere and in other processes, the ministry said.
Pusher tugs developed by Lufthansa and Swedish manufacturer
Kalmar Motor AB will be capable of handling as much as 570
metric tons, enough to pull an  Airbus SAS (EAD)  double-decker  A380 .  Spokesmen for Lufthansa and Fraport declined to provide
details on the electric-vehicle initiative before a press
conference scheduled for June 10.  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Germany’s second-largest carrier, said
yesterday that it’s  planning  to work with supplier WheelTug Plc
on an electric-drive system for landing gear on its Boeing Co.
and Airbus single-aisle aircraft to reduce the use of plane
engines for movements on the ground.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  