-- UN Atomic Agency Says 70 Countries Join Iran Shirking Duty
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-06-05T17:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/un-atomic-agency-says-70-countries-joined-iran-in-shirking-duty.html
Iran, in the second decade of a
nuclear investigation, isn’t the only country shirking its
responsibilities to United Nations nuclear monitors charged with
ensuring material isn’t diverted to make weapons.  Seventy-one countries, or 45 percent of IAEA members,
failed to provide “timely responses to agency requests,” the
Vienna-based group reported yesterday in an 82-page restricted
report obtained by Bloomberg News. The IAEA conducted 1,962 on-site inspections in 2012, with 215 taking place in Iran.  “Problems continued in some states during 2012 with regard
to a number of issues,” the IAEA said. Nuclear inspectors
struggled to gain access to sites and didn’t receive inventory
reports showing that uranium and plutonium reserves hadn’t gone
missing.  Though the scale of the nuclear-reporting failures aren’t
as great as in Iran -- where atomic sites were built for years
without being declared to investigators -- the report shows that
countries routinely ignore their responsibilities to the IAEA.
Iran, with the world’s No. 4 proven oil reserves, has repeatedly
said it has been unfairly singled out for pursuing nuclear
technologies.  Iran Inspections  Inspections in Iran, which has one operating nuclear
reactor, consumed over 12 percent of the IAEA’s 97.8 million-euro ($127.8 million) budget to verify nuclear material inside
its member states. Only Japan, with 50 nuclear reactors,
demanded more of the IAEA’s resources.  IAEA investigators spent 1,356 calendar days in Iran last
year visiting the country’s 16 declared nuclear facilities. They
spent 180 calendar days in France, Europe’s biggest nuclear
power. Russia and the U.S., which maintain the world’s biggest
atomic-weapon arsenals and aren’t required under rules to allow
inspections of all facilities, received 16 and 50 calendar-day
visits respectively.  Brazil, China and Georgia were among the 159-member
countries that most consistently responded late to IAEA
requests, according to the report. Iran wasn’t late on any of
the reports it’s bound to file, the IAEA said.  While the agency continued “to verify the non-diversion of
declared nuclear material” in Iran, the IAEA has  “serious
concerns about possible military dimensions to Iran’s nuclear
program,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  