-- Turkey Clashes Persist Amid Crackdown on Social Media Posts
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2013-06-05T07:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/turkey-clashes-persist-amid-crackdown-on-social-media-posts.html
Anti-government demonstrators clashed
with police in several Turkish cities overnight and arrest
warrants were issued for dozens of people charged with spreading
false information on social media about the past week’s
protests.  Police used tear gas and water cannons against protesters
in about 10 cities including the western city of Izmir, where
police are under orders to detain 38 people for postings on
social media, the state-run Anatolia news agency said today. Of
those, 25 were already detained and have been interrogated at
the police organized crime unit, it said. There were also
clashes in the southeastern provinces of Tunceli and Elazig.  Protesters throughout the country returned to the streets
yesterday, the fifth day since the movement spread nationwide
after it was sparked by police attacks on demonstrators opposing
plans to develop an Istanbul park. The protesters called for the
resignation of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , accusing him
of an autocratic style and citing grievances including alleged
police brutality, curbs on alcohol sales and restrictions on
labor unions.  Turkey ’s  benchmark stock index  fell 1.1 percent at the
opening in Istanbul today. The measure plunged 10.5 percent, the
most in more than a decade, on June 3 after a weekend of violent
clashes, and recouped almost half of that loss yesterday.
Benchmark  two-year lira bonds  also fell today, pushing yields up
17 basis points to 6.20 percent at 10 a.m. in Istanbul.  Not Ending  “There is not much evidence to suggest that these
demonstrations are ending any time soon,” with the possibility
of counter-rallies by government supporters, Timothy Ash, chief
 emerging markets  economist for Standard Bank Plc in  London , said
by e-mail today. He said it remains unclear how the government
will clear the streets of cities such as Istanbul and Ankara,
where protesters erected barriers blocking traffic.  Two of Turkey’s main labor groups, Kesk and Disk, along
with the Turkish Medical Association and the union of architects
and engineers, called a strike today to protest the government.  Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc sought to defuse the
protests yesterday, apologizing to victims of excessive police
force and saying the government has learned some lessons.
Initial rallies against plans to develop a park in Taksim square
in Istanbul were “rightful and legitimate,” he said. Arinc is
due to meet representatives of an environmentalist platform
today to discuss the Taksim project.  Erdogan, who’s in North Africa on a previously scheduled
visit, has taken a tougher line, blaming “extremist” forces
and the main opposition party for the protests. He also
criticized the role of social media, telling Haberturk TV on
June 2 that Twitter was one of society’s biggest problems and
accusing people of using it to spread lies during the
demonstrations.  Muharrem Ince, a member of parliament for the opposition
 Republican People’s Party , said by phone early today that raids
for posts on Twitter and Facebook are “the height of fascism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  