-- Turney Duff Found Partying Had Subprime Effect on Career
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-06-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/turney-duff-found-partying-had-subprime-effect-on-career.html
As a junior trader at the now-defunct
hedge-fund company Galleon Group LLC, Turney Duff was surprised
by how eagerly he was courted by securities-firm salesmen.  He later concluded that in their hunt for commissions, Wall
Streeters buy options on people much like options on stocks.  “Today I might not be the head of the desk or control most
of Galleon’s order flow, but it’s in their best interest to
befriend me early in my career,” he writes in his absorbing
memoir, “ The Buy Side .” “Take care of me now, and I’ll
remember you later.”  Taken care of he was, with nightly business dinners, all-expenses-paid junkets to Miami,  Las Vegas  and the  Super Bowl ,
and lines and lines of cocaine from brokers he traded with.  He frequented an East Side apartment he calls the White
House, “but it’s more like a Wall Street crack house.”  “They like to please all of their clients,” he writes.
“Tonight they were kind enough to order in: Chinese and Mexican
escorts.”  The all-night alcohol and Bolivian Marching Powder binges
had a subprime effect on his career.  Duff’s 308-page account provides a timely window into
practices that have been a focus of federal prosecutors. His
spectacular fall is also perplexing, as he initially comes off
as smart, albeit green.  Journalism Degree  After graduating from Ohio University with a degree in
journalism, he pursued finance after failing to land an
interview at newspapers or magazines.  “I have no idea what  Goldman Sachs (GS)  is,” he writes of his
young self when he hears the name from a buddy. “It sounds like
a fancy department store.”  With help from an uncle, he landed a job as an assistant in
private-wealth management at  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  He didn’t show an
interest in security analysis, but excelled at introducing
senior male traders to attractive young female assistants at a
bar and in planning a staff party to boost morale.  He moved on to Galleon in 1999, where he went along with
the sleazy practices that eventually helped bring down the firm.
(Co-founder Raj Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence
after being convicted in 2011 on 14 counts of conspiracy and
securities fraud.)  Part of Duff’s job was to place a multitude of trades, even
losing ones, to generate commissions for securities firms so
that, in return, they would offer access to hot initial public
offerings and early word on analyst upgrades.  He says Rajaratnam and co-founder Gary Rosenbach oversaw a
bullying culture.  Politically Incorrect  “Belittling was a way of life there,” Duff writes.
“Always politically incorrect, Raj and Gary one day walked into
the office with a dwarf, whom they introduced as an analyst
hired to cover ‘small-cap stocks.’” Douglas Koff, a lawyer for
Rosenbach, declined to comment.  Duff doesn’t whitewash his own conduct. At Argus Partners,
where he moved after about two years at Galleon, he said broker
contacts helped him manipulate stocks to boost year-end
performance.  “The more stocks I can rip today, the better our number
will be for the year,” he writes.  Duff names names, to a point. The men who live in the
cocaine-filled White House, for example, are identified by the
pseudonyms Randy and James. Their employers aren’t disclosed.  While he portrays himself as courtly with women, his
descriptions may strike some as jarring. Take his account of
learning about  Meredith Whitney ’s 2007 call that Citigroup Inc.
would suspend its dividend.  “Initially I find out a few things about her: she’s hot,
she’s a cougar” and she looks like someone he wouldn’t mind
getting to know better.  Bright Lights  Duff doesn’t delve into the cause of his drug and alcohol-fueled implosion, which starts like a scene from Jay McInerney’s
novel “ Bright Lights, Big City ” and descends from there. He
says a diagnosis of low-grade depression he received later in
life may have actually helped him trade.  “The old adage on Wall Street is ‘Don’t get too
emotional,’” he writes. “I never have that problem. I never
get angry when a stock goes against me, and neither do I get too
excited when ones goes up. People around me see this as a kind
of cool-hand detachment, but I really don’t have control over
it. And it gives me a clarity that many other traders lack.”  With his marriage and career kaput and finances a mess,
Duff left  Wall Street  for an endeavor he prefers -- writing.  Given the promise of “The Buy Side” and the corners he
cut in finance, it was a wise trade.  “The Buy Side: A Wall Street Trader’s Tale of Spectacular
Excess” is published by  Crown Business  (308 pages, $26). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  (Philip Boroff writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Katya
Kazakina  on art.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 