-- Musk Says Tesla Gross Margin to Approach Porsche’s
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-06-05T20:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/musk-says-tesla-s-gross-margin-can-approach-porsche-over-time-.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , which has almost
tripled in market value this year, can make its electric cars
efficiently enough to achieve a gross profit margin approaching
Porsche SE’s, Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  said.  Tesla, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , has set a goal of
attaining a 25 percent gross margin this year, Musk told
investors yesterday at the company’s annual meeting. Capital
expenditures to expand Model S production and begin assembling
the electric Model X sport-utility vehicle next year will hold
back Tesla’s profitability, compared with that of Stuttgart,
Germany-based Porsche, he said.  “I would expect our capex to be higher than Porsche’s for
some time to come,” Musk, 41, said at the gathering, held at
the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California. “On
gross margin, I think we can get close to exceeding Porsche’s
over time.” Gross margin is the percentage of revenue that
remains after production costs are deducted.  Porsche, which in past years had a gross margin of more
than 50 percent on its luxury sports cars, was acquired by
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and no longer reports that ratio separately. Tesla
reported a 17 percent gross margin in the first quarter.  Tesla last month established its best financial footing
since its founding a decade ago. The company’s first quarterly
profit was followed by a top rating from  Consumer Reports  for
the Model S sedan and a share-price surge. Investor demand
created an opportunity to raise $1 billion from selling equity
and debt and to retire a $465 million U.S. Energy Department
loan nine years early.  Cash Management  The company’s cash position is “in great shape” after
last month’s fundraising, Musk said.  The financing “gives us the ability, even if we basically
suck at cash management, we’ll still do OK,” he said. “We
don’t want to suck.”  Musk last week announced an expansion of the company’s
supercharger stations that rapidly repower its all-electric cars
to let customers drive across the U.S. from coast to coast by
the end of the year.  The mood of the few hundred shareholders attending the
Tesla meeting, led by the South African-born Musk, was upbeat.  “I’m very happy with the performance this year and the
course they’ve laid out,” said Russell Kinsella, a Chicago-based small investor who initially bought Tesla shares in
January 2012 for about $29 each. “I’m not going to be selling
anytime soon.”  Mass-Market Cars  Tesla’s plan to offer lower-priced electric cars in a few
years is important to generating higher revenue and becoming
more of a mass-market company, Kinsella said.  Musk also said the company, named for inventor  Nikola Tesla , is willing to let electric vehicles from other automakers
use its supercharger network.  “There would have to be some compensation” for Tesla to
allow that, he said, without elaborating.  Tesla’s goal this year is to deliver at least 21,000 of its
battery-powered Model S sedans, priced from $69,900. It plans to
introduce the Model X mid-sized SUV in late 2014.  Tesla rose 0.6 percent to $95.37 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 182 percent this year, compared with a 13
percent increase for the Russell 1000 Index.  CEO Musk is Tesla’s largest stockholder, with  24 percent  of
company shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Rising
share prices for Tesla and  SolarCity Corp. (SCTY) , a solar power
company where Musk is chairman, have increased his net worth to
$5.7 billion, according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  “Forgot to say one thing at Tesla annual shareholders
meeting,” Musk wrote in a post on Twitter. “Just as my money
was the first in, it will be the last out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Mountain View , California, at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  