-- Venezuela Expels U.S. ‘Spy’ Ahead of Meeting With John Kerry
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v
-- 2013-06-05T19:40:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/venezuela-expels-u-s-spy-ahead-of-meeting-with-john-kerry-1-.html
Venezuela  expelled a U.S. citizen who
had been held on accusations of spying, ahead of the first
ministerial meeting between the two countries since elections in
April.  Timothy Tracy, 35, left Venezuela after almost two months
of detention, Interior Minister Miguel Rodriguez Torres said in
a message posted on his Twitter account today. Tracy was
detained as he was attempting to take off from Caracas airport
on April 14.  “Gringo Timothy Hallet Tracy, who was captured spying in
our country, has been expelled from national territory,”
Rodriguez Torres wrote, using a term often used to describe
Americans in the region.  While the Venezuelan government says he was financing
opposition groups to generate violence following a contested
April 14 presidential election, his lawyer said Tracy was making
a documentary about political divisions in Venezuela. The
release and expulsion come as Foreign Minister Elias Jaua met
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  today on the sidelines of the
Organization of American States General Assembly in  Guatemala .  “We have faith and confidence that this meeting marks the
start of a good relationship between our countries,” Jaua said,
according to comments posted on the Twitter site of Venezuela’s
state television channel.  Tracy was escorted to the airport after public prosecutors
failed to find evidence for the case against him, Gloria
Stifano, a member of the filmmaker’s legal team, said in a text
message.  The Return  April’s election, which produced the narrowest victory in
45 years, is being contested by the opposition. Maduro had
accused the U.S., which didn’t send officials to his
inauguration, of infecting late President  Hugo Chavez  with
cancer.  Interior Ministry spokesman Jorge Galindo didn’t return
messages left on his phone.  Tracy met with his brother, Emmet Tracy III, on his return
to the U.S., his sister, Tiffany Klaasen, said in a phone
interview. She declined to disclose their location, saying the
family wanted privacy.  Klaasen, 40, of Grosse Pointe Farms,  Michigan , said the
family was relieved and expressed gratitude to the U.S.
Department of State and her brother’s advisers. She said family
members spoke with him frequently by phone and that he was
treated well in captivity. She said they did not fear for his
life.  “He was valuable,” Klaasen said. “If he was harmed it
would have been worse. Everyone is relieved and happy to put
this behind us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Kurmanaev in Bogota at 
 akurmanaev1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  