-- Vietnam Eyes Foreign Investors to Expand Stock Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-06T08:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/vietnam-eyes-foreign-investors-to-expand-stock-market.html
Vietnamese regulators will submit a
proposal next month to ease restrictions on foreign ownership in
companies as they lure more international investors to a stock
market that’s 14 times smaller than  Singapore ’s.  The proposal would raise the foreign ownership limit for
publicly-traded companies from the existing 49 percent, Vu Bang,
chairman of the State Securities Commission, said in an
interview yesterday. The Ministry of Finance will submit the
plan, which the commission has helped prepare, to the government
next month for consideration, he said, adding that the
government will decide the new ownership limit.  Vietnamese regulators see foreign investment as one key to
the stock market’s growth, as the biggest year-to-date stock
purchases by international investors since 2008 made the
benchmark  VN Index (VNINDEX)  Southeast Asia’s best performer. The nation’s
stocks are valued at $45 billion, compared with $614.7 billion
in Singapore, the region’s largest market.  “If there is a breakthrough in foreign investment, it will
positively impact the development of the stock market,” Bang
said. “In previous years, there were recommendations, but they
were just at a low level. Now we are having official discussions
and have been consulting with the relevant ministries.”  The proposal will include allowing foreign investors to buy
non-voting shares to boost their holdings, he said.  Largest Advance  The VN Index closed 1.2 percent higher today, the biggest
increase in  Asia , at a one-week high of 520.9. The gauge has
climbed 26 percent this year, at least 10 percentage points more
than any other Southeast Asian benchmark gauge tracked by
Bloomberg. The Jakarta Composite Index was the next best
performer with a 16 percent gain.  Under the proposal, ownership limits may be raised for
certain industry groups or approvals may be granted on a case-by-case basis, Bang said. Changes to foreign ownership limits
are subject to the government’s approval and no time frame has
been set, he added. The government will consult with ministries
and others before making a final decision, he said.  “Expectations are high,” said Dominic Scriven, chief
executive officer of Ho Chi Minh City-based fund manager Dragon
Capital, which oversees about $1.1 billion. “We would need to
see exactly what comes out, but certainly there’s scope for the
market to be positively impacted.”  About $51 million of securities traded daily on average
this year on the  Ho Chi Minh City  Stock Exchange, the country’s
main bourse, compared with $1.34 billion for Singapore,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Impressive Growth  International investors bought a net $244 million of
Vietnamese stocks since the start of the year to June 5, the
biggest purchases for the same period dating back to 2008. The
VN Index has rallied 48 percent since the start of 2012 to
yesterday as the central bank cut  interest rates  eight times and
the government approved the formation of a debt asset management
company to soak up banks’ bad loans that were hampering growth.  Vietnam ’s stock market has expanded “impressively” as the
government succeeded in curbing  inflation , interest rates fell
and foreign-exchange reserves rose, Bang said.  The central bank has reduced policy interest rates by 8
percentage points since March 2012 as inflation slowed to 6.36
percent in May, the lowest since August 2012. Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung approved on May 22 the formation of the  asset
management company  to address bad loans in the banking system
and boost sluggish credit growth.  The VN Index rallied 3.8 percent since then to a 27-month
high on May 30 before falling 1.3 percent to yesterday. The
 gauge  trades for 14.7 times reported profit, more than the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 11.9 multiple, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Fund Access  The market’s rebound “hasn’t been really sustainable”
because companies still face many difficulties, Bang said,
adding that one in five publicly traded companies may post
losses this year. Investors are awaiting the results of the
government’s plans to resolve non-performing loans,
restructuring banks and state-owned enterprises, Bang said.  Non-performing loans reported by commercial lenders stood
at 4.51 percent at the end of March, Deputy Prime Minister
Nguyen Xuan Phuc told the National Assembly on May 20, down from
the central bank’s estimate of 7.8 percent at the end of last
year. Credit-rating companies estimate bad debt at between 10
percent and 20 percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  In the first five months, the number of companies that were
able to raise capital through the stock market dropped between
50 percent to 60 percent from the same period last year,
according to Bang.  “When companies are more easily able to access bank funds,
their businesses will fare better,” he said. “The stability of
the stock market will definitely come back.”  Exchange Merger  The commission will also submit this year a proposal to
merge the country’s two main exchanges in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh
City by the end of the year, he said. Bang announced the merger
in March last year and had initially set a target for the
proposal in the third quarter of 2012.  To help further attract investors, the two exchanges plan
to add more products such as covered warrants, he said. The
regulator will also offer a plan for derivatives by the end of
this year, Bang said.  Earlier this year, the regulator expanded trading bands on
the country’s two exchanges and raised the margin-financing
ratio limit. The commission has also proposed extending tax
exemptions and reductions for  stock trading  this year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  