-- Vinda Reports Slowing Paper-Products Sales Growth in China
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-06-05T22:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/vinda-reports-slowing-paper-products-sales-growth-in-china.html
Vinda International Holdings Ltd. (3331) , a
Chinese maker of household paper products, said it has told
analysts that the strength of its brand hasn’t been completely
protected from slowing growth in the industry.  Sales growth of paper products in  China  in the first
quarter of 2013 was weaker than in the same period last year,
according to Vinda’s Hong Kong stock exchange filing yesterday,
issued in response to an Apple Daily  article  June 4. While the
company reported gross margin of more than 30 percent in 2012,
it can’t provide “absolute assurance” it will repeat that
performance this year.  “Without commenting on the particular percentage, the
company would consider the current year growth to be weaker than
that of the immediately preceding year,” Hong Kong-based Vinda
said in its filing. Brand strength had helped “mitigate” the
effects of the slowdown, it said.  Vinda’s statement comes after  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) 
and Kim Eng Securities HK Ltd. cut their recommendations on the
company this month, citing slower sales growth and a weaker
outlook. The toilet-paper maker said yesterday it hadn’t
provided any insider information to analysts. The stock was
suspended from trading yesterday pending the statement, after
 dropping  15 percent since May 28. It resumes trading today.  The company said it plans to upgrade upgrade existing
facilities and accelerate construction of new production
capacity. Vinda said it has no plans to to cut its annual
production capacity target of 1 million metric tons for 2015.  It’s “hard to foresee” wood-pulp prices, which rebounded
this year, falling in time to help the company’s gross margin
for 2013, Vinda said in yesterday’s filing. The company also
makes paper towels, boxed facial tissues and paper napkins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  