-- Voestalpine Advances as Higher Earnings Drive Dividend Increase
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   W e b e r
-- 2013-06-05T12:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/voestalpine-advances-as-higher-earnings-drive-dividend-increase.html
Voestalpine AG (VOE) ,  Austria ’s biggest
steelmaker, rose the most in nine months in Vienna trading as a
gain in profit underpinned a 13 percent jump in the dividend.  Voestalpine climbed as much as 5.8 percent, the biggest
increase since Sept. 6, and traded up 5.5 percent at 26.75 euros
as of 2:04 p.m. local time. The company proposed to raise the
dividend by 10 cents to 90 cents a share, exceeding the
 estimates  of 19 of 21 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “Voestalpine was able to beat expectations in a very
challenging environment,” Christian Obst, an analyst at Baader
Bank in Unterschleissheim,  Germany , wrote in a note to clients.
That reflects the “strong strategic positioning of the company
and underlying operating performance.”  Net income rose by a third to 444.9 million euros ($582
million) in the year through March, the company said today. It
benefits from selling high-quality specialized steel in long-term contracts to clients in the transport, energy and consumer-product industries. Profit a year earlier was hurt by provisions
for an antitrust fine following a probe into railway steel.  “Voestalpine is doing well,” Chief Executive Officer
Wolfgang Eder told reporters in Vienna. “We boosted profit and
reduced debt, so we’re heading in the right direction.”  Free  cash flow  rose to more than 500 million euros in the
year, allowing Voestalpine to reduce net debt to 2.26 billion
euros, or 45 percent of equity, while raising the dividend. The
payout must be approved at the annual general meeting on July 3.  ‘Remarkable’ Yield  “For the last 18 years, we had an average dividend yield
of almost 4 percent,” Eder said. “For a cyclical company, that
is remarkable.”  The steelmaker is expanding capacity in the U.S. with a 550
million-euro iron-ore pellet factory in  Texas . Back home in
Europe, Voestalpine has scaled back its forecast for a recovery,
saying in April that budget cuts were weighing on demand.  Voestalpine plans to boost revenue from regions outside
 Europe  to at least 40 percent from 23 percent in the long term,
Eder said, without specifying a timeframe. “This is also where
our investment focus will be,” he said.  Eder expects earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization of about 1.45 billion euros in the current
fiscal year, little changed from a year earlier. He sees sales
of 11.5 billion euros to 12 billion euros, matching analyst
estimates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Weber in Vienna at 
 aweber45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  