-- Volvo Cars May Export China-Made Vehicles, CEO Samuelsson Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-06-05T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/volvo-cars-may-export-china-made-vehicles-ceo-samuelsson-says.html
Volvo Cars Chief Executive Officer
Hakan Samuelsson said the Swedish luxury carmaker may eventually
use spare capacity in  China  for exports.  “First things first and that is to open up the factory,
secure quality,” Samuelsson said yesterday in an interview in
 Chengdu , south central China, where Volvo opened its first
Chinese plant. “But this could be something we could also
utilize for exports.”  China-made vehicles may be shipped to  Asia  and other
regions, he said. Still, the priority is on China, where the
company has become a latecomer after Chinese tycoon Li Shufu
bought the Swedish brand three years ago only to find that the
Chinese government subjected the Swedish brand to the same
regulatory approval procedures as all foreign automakers.  “It’s the biggest market in the world -- 15 million cars
sold per year -- and taking a reasonable slice of that would be
impossible without industrial presence,” Samuelsson said in a
separate interview. “That’s why this factory is important.”  Volvo Cars, owned by Li’s  Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co. (175) ,
expects the Chengdu factory to have an annual capacity to make
120,000 vehicles. It plans to open another plant in the northern
city of Daqing late next year to increase Volvo’s combined China
capacity to about 200,000 vehicles a year, Samuelsson said.  China is a cornerstone to Volvo’s strategy as the company
projects selling 200,000 vehicles in the country in five to six
years’ time, Samuelsson said. Globally, Volvo has set a goal to
double deliveries to 800,000 units by the end of the decade.  Li, 49, yesterday likened Volvo to a tiger that needs to
recover its strength.  “Once this tiger returns to the mountains and carves out
its own territory, it will enjoy the market share that it is
due,” Li said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  