-- Wal-Mart Should Say Who Returned Pay in Mexico Mess
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M .   E l s o n   a n d   C r a i g   K .   F e r r e r e
-- 2013-06-05T22:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/wal-mart-should-say-who-returned-pay-in-mexico-mess.html
Amid the investigations into alleged
bribery at  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Mexico unit, some shareholders
are demanding the company show whether it is holding senior
management accountable.  That’s why a number of global investment and pension funds
led by the  United Auto Workers  Retiree Medical Benefits Trust
have filed a proposal asking Wal-Mart to disclose whether the
company has reclaimed the pay of executives found responsible
for serious and costly misconduct. The proposal, which has
received the backing of the proxy advisory firms Institutional
Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis & Co., will go to a vote at
the company’s shareholder meeting on June 7.  For large companies with far-flung operations, some
misconduct is inevitable. There is simply no way to police the
actions of hundreds of thousands (in Wal-Mart’s case, millions)
of employees. Wal-Mart isn’t immune to this problem. The
important thing is that those responsible are held to account --
and that such efforts are made transparent, so that the misdeeds
don’t become larger or systemic.  Predictable Response  Wal-Mart’s  response  to the proposal has been predictable.
The company says it has strong policies to claw back pay from
executives who engaged in wrongdoing. But it hasn’t said whether
these policies have ever been invoked, despite having some of
them in place for more than a decade.  Policies to recover or cancel compensation to an executive
found to have engaged in misconduct play a much larger role in
corporate governance today than they did before the financial
crisis of 2008, when bankers reaped large short-term profits on
trades that later pushed the companies they worked for to the
verge of insolvency, requiring government bailouts. Most big
companies now have these policies in place, with the idea being
that employees won’t aim for short-term gains that prove to be
illusory if some of their past pay can be reclaimed by their
employer.  Pending controversies aside, Wal-Mart in fact has one of
the most rigorous clawback policies in the corporate world,
which allows for both forfeiture of compensation for any conduct
that violates the company’s code of ethics and the recapture of
compensation already paid or not yet granted. But Wal-Mart
doesn’t provide  investors  with information on whether the board
has actually enforced the policy.  Without this information, these policies lose their
effectiveness, particularly if some employees interpret a lack
of disclosure as management indifference to unethical behavior.
Some companies argue that disclosure of reclaimed compensation
is already required under rules mandating public reporting of
pay for certain senior executives. But disclosure rules that
apply to just a few executives in large multinationals with
hundreds of thousands of employees and numerous business
segments are inadequate.  Investors want greater disclosure. Consider the positive
response when JPMorgan Chase & Co. announced that it had
recouped pay from those employees responsible for the London
Whale trading losses.  So far, Wal-Mart has spent more than $200 million on the
corruption investigations and expects to incur significant costs
in the future. Should the disclosure proposal receive
substantial support, Wal-Mart might realize that a little
sunlight can go a long way.  (Charles M. Elson is a finance professor at the  University
of Delaware . Craig K. Ferrere is a research fellow at the
University of  Delaware .)  To contact the writers of this article:
Charles K. Elson at  elson@udel.edu 
Craig K. Ferrere at  cferrere15@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  