-- Westpac Leapfrogs ANZ Amid Record May Sales
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-06-05T23:11:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/westpac-leapfrogs-anz-amid-record-may-sales.html
Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  climbed to top
position among bond arrangers in Australia as offerings by the
federal government, states and companies propelled the market to
its busiest month on record.  The Australian Office of Financial Management and New South
 Wales  state opted for syndicated sales to open new bond lines
this year, helping to push Westpac’s 2013 market share to 18.9
percent, surpassing the 14.4 percent for  Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , the No. 1 arranger in 2012, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Thirty-four borrowers sold A$18.4 billion ($17.5
billion) of bonds in May, the most in data compiled by Bloomberg
since 1999.  Issuers including Queensland state and National Australia
Bank Ltd. have sought to lock in borrowing costs near the lowest
level in almost six years following the quietest start to a year
since 2009. Offerings still trail 2012 even as total sales in
the U.S. run at a record pace.  “The federal government via AOFM, which doesn’t often
syndicate new bonds, did a big chunky transaction and we’ve also
seen a few of the states doing syndicated deals in addition to
their usual offerings,” said Peter Dalton, the Sydney-based
head of syndicate at Westpac. “There’s also been a really good
selection of different names coming, across so many different
sectors.”  Bond Maturities  A surge in bond maturities last month gave investors more
cash to spend, according to Dalton. The Australian government
repaid A$16.7 billion to investors on May 15, part of a record
A$29.5 billion of debt that fell due last month, Bloomberg-compiled data show.  Monetary easing by central banks from  Washington  to  Tokyo 
has also helped to repress  interest rates  globally, spurring
investor appetite for higher-yielding debt.  Westpac was the only domestic bank involved with managing
the A$4 billion sale of 2025 federal  government bonds  on May 22,
the biggest nominal bond transaction on record by the sovereign.
It was the first time a local bank had been named as a lead
manager by the federal authority, with Citigroup Inc.,  Deutsche
Bank AG (DBK)  and UBS AG also working on the deal.  Australia’s oldest lender joined  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  in managing New South Wales’ A$2.5 billion sale of
three-year floating-rate notes on March 26. Westpac, which still
tops the 2013 bond rankings if debt-raisings for its own
treasury are excluded, was sole arranger for  Western Australia ’s
A$400 million sale on May 29 and for Toyota Finance Australia’s
A$300 million deal on Feb. 18.  New Hires  Westpac announced last week that it had appointed John Chauvel as head of debt  capital markets . Dalton joined the
lender from Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in December.  While ANZ has helped manage transactions for a greater
variety of borrowers this year than Westpac, the average size of
those deals has been smaller.  The Melbourne-based bank, which topped bond rankings for
three straight years ending 2012, was involved in debut
Australian issues this year for Hyundai Capital Services Inc.
and  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , and was a manager of Korea
Finance Corp.’s second-ever Aussie deal last month.  “There continues to be strong demand for Australian dollar
assets globally despite lower rates and a more volatile
market,” said  Paul White , the global head of ANZ’s debt
syndicate in Sydney. “Our continued focus has been on offering
diversification for both issuers and investors and bringing new
credits to the market, particularly from  Asia .”  Record Sales  The record Australian bond sales last month eclipsed the
A$17.7 billion of issuance in March 2010, the next biggest
period in Bloomberg data. The state and federal government deals
were joined by A$1.325 billion in sales by Westpac and A$1.2
billion from National Australia Bank Ltd.  Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. led a surge
in foreign issuance, raising A$850 million apiece.  “The Aussie bond market has patches where it’s busier and
times where it drops off a bit, so when the market is strong you
want to be in the flow,” said Westpac’s Dalton. “We’ve seen
issuance across all sectors and that’s been pushing up volume
across the market this past month.”  Deutsche Bank is the leading arranger among foreign banks
in the Australian market this year, climbing one place to
displace UBS for fifth position. It is ranked first among
underwriters of Kangaroo bonds, Bloomberg data show. The
Frankfurt-based lender has also been involved in recent months
with sales for Qantas Airways Ltd., Bendigo & Adelaide Bank Ltd.
and Treasury Corp. of Victoria.  Market Share  “Deutsche Bank has gained market share as a broader range
of borrowers have entered the Kangaroo market,” said Grant
Bush, head of capital markets and treasury solutions in Sydney.
“While Australian-domiciled borrowers historically often chose
to use domestic players because of commercial considerations,
more recently they have seen how getting an objective global
perspective from us can enable them to tap the deep pools of
offshore demand.”  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  climbed eight places to 12th, the
biggest increase among last year’s top 20 arrangers.  Japan ’s
biggest securities firm is making a concerted push into the
Australian dollar market, Andrew Macgonigal, its head of debt
capital markets in Sydney, said in an interview last week.  The average yield premium over government debt for a broad
index of Australian bonds dropped to 48 basis points last month,
the least since August 2007, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. It was at 50 basis points yesterday.  Bond Yields  Benchmark  10-year bond yields  were at 3.36 percent as of 9
a.m. in Sydney, having rebounded from their 2013 low of 3.01
percent. The Australian dollar was at 95.23 U.S. cents after
dropping 8.2 percent since the end of April.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia this week kept its key
lending rate at a record-low 2.75 percent, having implemented a
quarter-point cut last month. Swaps data compiled by Bloomberg
indicate an 85 percent chance that the RBA will lower its
benchmark by at least another 25 basis points by year-end.  The spate of new bonds in May followed a lackluster start
to the year, which saw the lowest volume of bond sales through
banks since 2009. Even with last month’s issuance bonanza, the
A$51.3 billion of notes issued this year is still less than the
A$52 billion sold at this stage in 2012.  Westpac’s market share this year has increased from 17.9
percent in 2012, while ANZ’s dipped from 18.8 percent, according
to Bloomberg-compiled data. Commonwealth Bank climbed to third
position in 2013 with 13.4 percent, while National  Australia 
Bank slipped to fourth even as it boosted its share to 12.2
percent.  “Both the rate markets and credit markets have been active
in terms of primary supply this year,” said ANZ’s White. “It’s
still relatively early in the year, but liquidity and new
issuance have been healthy so far and assuming the underlying
markets are supportive we would expect that to continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  