-- What to Do When the Invisible Hand Stops Working
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2013-06-05T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/what-to-do-when-the-invisible-hand-stops-working.html
Economists rave about the power of
the market to deploy productive resources better than any
central planner possibly could. A mysterious process, which Adam Smith called the “invisible hand,” guides countless individuals
with conflicting aims to somehow coordinate into a remarkably
effective economic organization. Usually.  But as the British economist John Maynard Keynes famously
argued, markets can also fall into dysfunction. A crisis can set
off a downward spiral: Spending declines, companies fail, people
lose jobs, spending declines further. Much of the wonderful
coordination disappears, as if the invisible hand were injured.  None of this is controversial. But if you ask how best to
cure an afflicted economy, you get vicious and sometimes
hysterical argument, typically polarized along political lines.
Should markets be left alone, because the invisible hand is
self-healing and intervention can only make matters worse? Or
does an economy, like a real living thing, sometimes need direct
medical (or governmental) intervention?  Resolving the debate is difficult, largely because we know
surprisingly little about how the invisible hand actually
achieves such precise economic coordination. Even more
surprising, few economists over the past 30 years have been
focusing on this area of ignorance.  Perfect Rationality  If that sounds hard to believe, consider the “state-of-the-art” mathematical models currently used by economists. They
ditch all the complexity of the real economy in favor of a
peculiar scheme in which one ideal household and one ideal firm
meet and optimize their behavior with perfect rationality. Adam
Smith would be mystified -- I think even horrified. Such
“rational expectations” models can be tweaked to back up just
about any story you like, so it is little wonder that the
vicious arguments over policy persist.  Happily, there is hope. A few economists have been trying
to go deeper by exploring the actual coordinating mechanisms of
the invisible hand, how they emerge and also how they can break
down.  One notable example is a line of research initiated about a
decade ago by Robert Clower and Peter Howitt. They noted that
useful economic coordination comes about over time as people
interact, discovering where to find the goods they like as well
as the companies they trust and find useful. Businesses get
started after people learn about one another’s needs and wants.
In other words, there’s a necessary and usually messy growth
history behind the familiar structures -- firms, shops, and
other intermediaries -- that provide the coordination for a
functioning economy.  To get a sense of how the process works, Clower and Howitt
set up a computer simulation. They let lots of virtual people
interact with one another, following fairly simple rules to
trade among themselves while seeking their desired goods. People
finding many potential trading partners for certain goods could
choose to set up a specialist firm trading that good, profiting
while also making it easier for others to find that good. Over
time, a vast web of useful firms covering all goods emerged,
without any central planning, to solve the coordination problem
of getting goods to the people who wanted them. Something else
happened, too: One of the goods in the economy came to be valued
universally by all as a convenient medium of exchange. The
market discovered money all on its own.  Unlike traditional economic models, Clower and Howitt’s way
of looking at an economy respects Adam Smith’s core heroic
insight: that coordination emerges in a wholly natural way, from
the interactions of ordinary people (For more on this
fascinating research, see my  blog ). It can also offer insight
into practical policy matters, including those that so
interested Keynes.  Valuable Infrastructure  In recent work with Quamrul Ashraf and Boris Gershman, for
example, Howitt finds an important effect of financial crises
that rational-expectations models miss: the hard-to-reverse
failure of firms. The disappearance of firms destroys valuable
coordinating infrastructure, making economic life more
challenging for others. As other firms lose key sources of
income, supplies and customers, they might also go bankrupt,
furthering the destruction.  Afterward, the recovery of an economy won’t be only a
matter of restoring confidence, letting prices and wages adjust,
or keeping interest rates low. Recovery requires the time-consuming rebirth of entire networks of firms. Although the
research doesn’t model that process explicitly, it’s pretty
clear that government action could easily help, by providing
individuals with unemployment benefits until they find a new
job, or by intervening to keep crucial firms alive (remember the
U.S. automaker bailouts of 2009).  The work of Howitt and colleagues is only a beginning, but
a huge step in the right direction. The unfortunate reality is
that most economic theory today still rests on analyses of
extremely intelligent people acting in unrealistic situations.
We need to explore the way people of ordinary intelligence
manage in the face of an incredibly complex world. Until we can
really understand the coordination mechanisms that help us do
it, policy making will remain a dark art.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mark Buchanan at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net  