-- Why Smart Russians Are Fleeing
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-06-05T16:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/why-smart-russians-are-leaving-their-country-behind.html
The regime of  Vladimir Putin  has
always presented successful, liberal-minded Russians with a
quandary: To what extent are they willing to put up with an
authoritarian government in return for making a life in their
native country?  Lately, a number of well-known Russians have decided that
the bargain isn’t worth it.  Sergei Guriev , a highly respected Russian economist,
quietly left Moscow last week to join his family in Paris, where
he plans to remain. He asked to be struck off the list of
candidates for the supervisory board of Russia’s largest bank,
the state-controlled Sberbank. He mailed in his resignation as
head of the New Economic School, a research and learning
institution with the best economics faculty in Russia.  In terms of public profile, Guriev is the closest thing
Russia has to  Paul Krugman . He is a serious academic with more
than 1,600 citations in international publications, according to
Google Scholar -- about 75 times fewer than Krugman’s, but
respectable for Russia. He writes a widely read newspaper
column, and has advised the government on matters of public
policy.  The advisory role backfired for Guriev. In 2011, then-President  Dmitri Medvedev ’s Human Rights Council gave Guriev and
other experts a tough assignment: Analyze the verdict in the
trial of  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , once Russia’s richest individual
and, since 2003, a prisoner convicted of economic crimes. An
avowed political enemy of Putin, Khodorkovsky has stood two
trials. In the most recent one, in 2011, he was convicted of
stealing a vast quantity of oil from the subsidiaries of Yukos,
the hydrocarbon conglomerate he controlled.  In their  report , the experts ripped into the verdict,
saying Khodorkovsky was convicted for what amounted to standard
business practice. Guriev wrote that what the judge considered
theft was merely transfer pricing, used by all holding companies
to concentrate profits at the corporate center. The report
provided ammunition to Khodorkovsky’s lawyers appealing to the
European Court for Human Rights, and to former Yukos
shareholders suing in the West for damages caused by the
company’s demise. It was an embarrassment to Putin and the
Russian courts.  In 2012, the Investigative Committee, Russia’s FBI, started
delving into the backgrounds of the reports’ signatories,
looking for Yukos funding. They found that in 2003, the New
Economic School had received money from a Yukos-financed
foundation. Guriev was away lecturing at Princeton at the time,
and he says he had no hand in either receiving or spending the
money. Nonetheless, the investigators keep looking for conflicts
of interest. The digging has intensified ahead of Khodorkovsky’s
scheduled release in October 2014.  In an  interview  with Kommersant FM radio, Guriev said that
on April 25, investigators demanded access to his personal
emails since 2008. “It took them two days to copy them,” he
said. “I write a lot of emails, so it must have been 40 or 45
gigabytes.” According to Guriev, his interrogators hinted that
he was under scrutiny because of his “political activity” and
asked pointedly whether he intended to emigrate. After
consulting with friends close to the ruling elite, Guriev
decided that it was no longer safe to stay in Moscow. “I think
my family deserves for me to stay out of prison,” he told
Kommersant FM.  Guriev’s emigration caused a storm of anguished comments
from other liberals, as well as dismissive ones from Putin
supporters. “This is not just a big loss,” economist  Irina Yasina   told  radio Echo Moskvy. “It’s a very bad sign for
educated people in their 30s and 40s who hoped they would be
needed in their country.”  Maxim Trudolyubov, opinion editor for the daily Vedomosti,
which has run Guriev’s columns for the last ten years and even
published them as a book, wrote that Russian authorities “will
now have more time to catch real criminals. Readers will have
fewer good columns to read and more time for their families.
What else? Our ties with the outside world are being severed,
that’s what.”  Political scientist Vladimir Guelman saw a parallel with
recent reprisals against independent sociologists for receiving
foreign funding. “It is hard to say how long the purge of
disloyal scientists will go on and how far it will go,” he  wrote 
on Slon.ru. “There are no objective obstacles to this purge in
today’s Russia.”  On the other side of the political spectrum, fiery pro-Putin commentator  Mikhail Leontyev   dismissed  Guriev as a “banal
economic thinker.”  “Maybe this really is a case of evil people persecuting a
guiltless one. I do not know,” Leontyev wrote in his magazine,
Odnako. “But the scientific, public and social role of this
individual appears negligible to me.”  Putin and Medvedev were similarly disparaging. “Godspeed to
those who leave,” Medvedev, now Russia’s prime minister, told a
gathering of managers on May 29. “I do not mean to say you are
not needed, but if that’s the path you see for yourselves, why
should we hold on to you?”  Putin commented on the Guriev case during a Russia-EU
summit on June 4. “I only recently heard his name,” Putin was
 quoted  as saying by the state-owned RIA Novosti news agency. “He
works in economics, so let him do it anywhere he pleases.”     The
president added, “I don’t know if he has any problems with the
law. If he’s done nothing wrong, he is 100 percent safe, 100
percent.”  Putin’s guarantee didn’t impress Guriev. “As a free man, I
have the right to disagree with the president’s assessment of my
risks,” Guriev said in the Kommersant FM interview.  Guriev was only the latest public intellectual to declare
his disenchantment with living in Russia. Earlier, the writer
and editor Masha Gessen, who authored a popular book on Putin,
“The Man Without a Face,”  said  she was leaving for New York with
her three children.  “It’s one thing to bring up your kids in a place that’s
risky and difficult; I think in many ways it’s enriching them,
and I’m glad my kids have that experience,” she said in an
interview with the Lumiere Reader. “It’s another thing to bring
up your kids in a place that’s hopeless. Now that I’ve lost
hope, I need to take them out.”  Gessen’s specific problem is the recent legislative
backlash against homosexuals. As a lesbian living openly with
her partner, she fears losing custody of her children.  Popular columnist  Oleg Kashin , member of the anti-Putin
opposition’s coordinating council,  said  he had moved to
Switzerland at least temporarily, in part because he was finding
it hard to find work in Moscow. “I think the trend is
beginning,” he told TV Rain. “People are treading the path to
the West.”  Irina Khakamada , a liberal politician who once ran for
president against Putin,  summed up  the new trend on Snob.ru: “It
looks like it’s time for all honest and principled professionals
to pack their bags. A sad outcome.”  In an interconnected world, emigration is hardly as final
or crippling as it could be in Soviet times. Sberbank’s
shareholders on May 31 voted overwhelmingly to elect Guriev to
the supervisory board, taking advantage of the fact that the
bank had not had enough advance notice to strike him off the
ballot. Even the bank’s CEO,  German Gref , received fewer votes.
Gref immediately said Guriev would take part in board meetings
via a video link.  Perversely, the Russian government, which has forced Guriev
out, will end up paying him through one of its business
entities: Sberbank supervisory board members receive
compensation of about $140,000 a year.  ( Leonid Bershidsky , an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 