-- Wilson Sonsini Advises Salesforce on ExactTarget Takeover
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-06-05T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/wilson-sonsini-advises-salesforce-on-exacttarget-takeover.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest
maker of customer-management software, agreed to buy  ExactTarget
Inc. (ET)  for about $2.5 billion, making its biggest acquisition ever
to expand in online marketing.  Wilson Sonsini  Goodrich & Rosati
PC and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP worked on the deal.  From Wilson Sonsini representing Salesforce are corporate
partners Larry Sonsini, Martin Korman, Michael Ringler, Todd
Cleary and Kathleen Rothman; intellectual property-technology
transactions partner Parag Gheewala; employee compensation and
benefits partners John Aguirre and Michelle Wallin, tax partner
Ivan Humphreys and employment law partner Laura Merritt.  The partners leading the team at Gibson Dunn representing
ExactTarget are Howard Adler and Christopher Dillon. Others on
the deal are benefits partner  Michael Collins , corporate partner
James Moloney, tax partner David Sinak and antitrust partner
Adam Di Vincenzo.  Shearman & Sterling LLP represented  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
the financial adviser to ExactTarget. From Shearman is partner
Steve Camahort.  Salesforce Chief Executive Officer Marc Benioff has spent
at least $4 billion in five years on more than 40 deals,
including ExactTarget as well as social-media marketing firms
Buddy Media Inc. and Radian6 Technologies Inc.  Salesforce, based in San Francisco, is buying ExactTarget,
which helps companies run advertising campaigns via e-mail,
social networks and mobile devices, as Benioff strives to take
market share from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  SAP AG (SAP)  in Web-based business
applications and add more tools for corporate marketers who work
outside sales and customer-service departments.  For more on the deal, click here.  Lawsuits  Simon Investors Can Proceed With CEO Pay Suit, Judge Rules  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)  investors can proceed with a
lawsuit accusing company directors of improperly increasing
Chief Executive Officer  David Simon ’s compensation without
shareholder approval, a judge ruled.  Simon investors unhappy with the CEO’s 2011 compensation
package, which included a $120 million stock award for staying
with the real-estate firm, raised legitimate questions about the
failure to hold a shareholder vote on the pay deal, Delaware
Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine ruled May 30.  Given the company’s earlier statements that Simon’s pay
would be tied to performance, a challenge to a stock grant based
solely on his continued employment is “frankly, hard for anyone
to argue with,” Strine said in rejecting the company’s bid to
have the suit thrown out, according to a court transcript.  Last month, a majority of Indianapolis-based Simon’s
shareholders  approved  modifications to the CEO’s compensation
plan, which reduced the amount of performance-based awards he
can earn. The executive can still receive the $120 million if he
stays with Simon, the largest U.S. shopping-mall owner, through
July 2019.  Simon officials said in an e-mailed statement the company
will “vigorously defend” itself against the “meritless
charges” that directors erred in failing to hold an investor
vote on the executive-compensation plan’s changes.  Simon investors sued in Delaware last year over the CEO’s
stock grant after 73 percent of the Simon shares voted at the
company’s 2012 annual meeting  opposed  the retention award.  Company officials defended Simon’s compensation prior to
last year’s “say-on-pay” vote, noting total stockholder
returns for the past 10 years were 597 percent compared with 58
percent for the  S&P 500 .  Simon had been one of the company’s top executives during
that period. The son of the company’s co-founder, Simon has been
CEO since 1995 and chairman since 2007.  Simon directors had authority to amend the stock plan and
the move was a “classic business-judgment decision,” Paul Rowe, one of the company’s lawyers, said at the hearing,
according to the transcript. Rowe is a partner at Wachtell,
Lipton, Rosen & Katz.  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for the investors, said the
amendments involved a “fundamental change” to the company’s
“pay-for-performance culture” that required shareholder
approval. Grant is a partner at Grant & Eisenhofer PA.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System v. Bergstein, CA No. 7764, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  Law Firms  Cozen O’Connor Opens Office in Minneapolis  Cozen O’Connor LLP is opening an office in  Minneapolis  with
eight transactional and commercial litigation attorneys from
Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP.  Thomas Wallrich, Steven Silton, Thomas Kane, Peter Crema,
Nadia Hasan, Heather Marx, Joel Nesset and Kristi Zentner are
all joining the firm as partners.  “This group will help to quickly establish Cozen O’Connor
as a presence in the Minneapolis area,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael J. Heller said in a statement.  Wallrich concentrates his practice in commercial
transactions, banking, bankruptcy, real estate finance and
development, and commercial litigation. In the past 20 years, he
also has developed a practice in international trade in  China ,
 Mexico  and  Canada . He also represents clients before the
International Trade Commission and the U.S. Trade
Representative, according to the statement from the firm.  Silton, who will serve on Cozen O’Connor’s board, focuses
his practice on sales and purchases of businesses, financing,
securities placements and related work for mid-size
corporations, banks,  credit unions , financial groups and
professional athletes and sports franchises. He also works with
distressed businesses in their reorganization efforts.  Kane is a commercial trial lawyer with a focus on the
representation of employers, the defense of large employment
class actions and major commercial litigation. He also has
represented real estate lenders and developers in litigation.  According to the firm’s statement, Crema, Hasan and Marx
have experience in business litigation, employment and related
matters. Nesset focuses on bankruptcy and finance matters, and
Zentner focuses on business transactions.  Gardere Wynne Gets Two New Partners in Houston Office   Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP added two partners in its Houston
office: Michael A. Stafford and Katharine D. David in the trial
practice group.  Stafford served as county attorney in Harris County,  Texas ,
before moving into private practice in 2009 as the co-founder of
the public law practice group at his former firm. His clients
include private companies, government entities and public
officials, in addition to property owners and other entities
involved in condemnation actions.  David represents public entities and companies that do
business with them, including providing legislative and
statutory analysis for clients in a variety of industries. Her
expertise includes litigation and appellate matters on behalf of
cities, counties and elected officials in condemnation, election
law and constitutional tort matters. She also handles property
tax disputes.  Both partners join Gardere from Haynes & Boone LLP.  Alston & Bird Adds IP Litigator Shelton in Los Angeles Office  Dominique R. Shelton, a litigator who focuses on privacy,
unfair-competition and intellectual-property matters, joined the
 Los Angeles  office of Alston & Bird LLP as a partner.  With experience in digital media and privacy issues,
Shelton represents large corporations, startup ventures and
closely held companies in industries including media and
entertainment, technology, digital sales and marketing,
advertising, telecommunications and manufacturing.  Her clients include television and film studios, cable
channels, technology companies, semiconductor distributors and
major arts institutions in Los Angeles.  She serves on the Magistrate Judge Merit Selection Panel
for the U.S. District Court for the Central District of
 California . She’s also a member of the executive committee of
the Entertainment & Intellectual Property Law Section of the Los
Angeles County Bar Association and was its chairwoman from 2011
to 2012.  She sits on the board of the Federal Bar Association of Los
Angeles and was co-chair of the Intellectual Property Law
Section of the  American Bar Association  from 2009 to 2010.  Interviews  Former Lawyer Prefers the Salty Life of Slicing Lox, Herring  Mark Russ Federman , a Georgetown Law graduate, grew up
helping his father buy whitefish and herring for the family’s
“appetizing” shop. In 1978, he gave up a career as a trial
lawyer to slice lox (and the occasional finger) behind the
counter at his family’s Manhattan shop.  Founded in 1914 by Federman’s grandfather Joel Russ, an
immigrant who sold pickled herring for a nickel from wooden
barrels,  Russ & Daughters  is a rare survivor.  The narrow storefront is visited by tourists from around
the world and its owners have been asked to discuss Jewish food
at the Smithsonian Institution.  Federman, 67, came to lunch at Bloomberg’s world
headquarters to discuss his recent memoir, “ Russ & Daughters:
Reflections and Recipes From the House That Herring Built .”  Federman, when asked how lox became a New York tradition,
said that the original lox “were taken from the Pacific
Northwest. They were preserved by throwing them in a giant cask
of heavily salted water when there was no refrigerated
transportation, and they were sent east on trains to New York,
and then shipped to Europe. Some of it stayed in New York. It
was cheap, and Jews are more experimental than other ethnic
groups with their food.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  