-- Yen Strengthens as Fed Easing Debate Intensifies; Aussie Slides
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-06-05T21:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/yen-rises-as-abe-s-growth-plan-fails-to-boost-stocks-won-climbs.html
The yen strengthened versus the
dollar and euro as speculation intensifies about  Federal
Reserve ’s path of monetary stimulus.  Japan ’s currency rallied against all 31 of its most-traded
counterparts as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe failed to provide
additional detail on stimulus measures. Australia’s dollar fell
after the nation’s gross domestic product grew at the slowest
pace in almost two years. Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President  Richard Fisher  called for a reduction in the central
bank’s $85 billion in monthly asset purchases. A volatility
measure of Group-of-Seven currencies approached the highest
since February.  “People have been backing off their weaker yen view, at
least for now,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “We’ve seen this
over the last couple of months where it’s been maybe a 2, 3
percent retracement lower in dollar-yen before it goes higher.”  The yen advanced 1 percent to 99.06 per dollar as of 5 p.m.
in  New York  after reaching 98.87 on June 3, the strongest since
May 9. Japan’s currency appreciated 0.9 percent to 129.70 per
euro.  Europe ’s shared currency rose 0.1 percent to $1.3093.  The South African rand declined versus all 31 of its most-traded counterparts after  Reserve Bank  Governor Gill Marcus said
 price stability  remains the central bank’s primary focus even as
growth slows. The currency fell 1.9 percent to 10.0073.  Topix Decline  Poland’s currency fell as its central bank cut borrowing
costs to a record low as the European Union’s largest eastern
economy grapples with its worst slowdown in four years.  The zloty lost 1.1 percent to 4.2845 per euro.  Japan’s currency gained after the  Topix index  of shares
closed down 3.2 percent. Abe said a legislative campaign to
loosen rules on businesses won’t begin for months as he outlined
his “third arrow” of an economic revival plan that seeks to
build on fiscal and monetary stimulus.  “There’s general disappointment that Abe didn’t announce
anything that was surprising or new,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head
of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
 London . “There’s some disappointment in Japanese stocks and
that’s pushing the yen up. The Aussie is likely to remain
pressured after the  GDP (AUNAGDPC)  data.”  Yen Path  The yen depreciated to 103.74 per dollar on May 22, the
weakest since October 2008, after the  Bank of Japan  announced in
April it will buy more than 7 trillion yen ($70 billion) of
bonds every month.  “I don’t think you can safely conclude that dollar-yen has
peaked,”  Adam Cole , the head of G-10 currency strategy at Royal
Bank of  Canada  in London, said in a telephone interview. “I do
have a slightly off-consensus view that it does roll over.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Group-of-Seven Volatility Index,
based on currency option premiums, touched 10.2 percent after
reaching 10.24 percent on May 31 and June 3, the highest level
since Feb. 26.  The euro-area economy shrank 0.2 percent in the first
quarter, in line with an initial estimate on May 15, the EU’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. The  European Central
Bank  will announce any changes in policy tomorrow. The central
bank cuts its benchmark  interest-rate  by 25 basis points, or
0.25 percentage point, to 0.5 percent on May 2.  Fed View  “This is the end of a 30-year rally” in bonds, Dallas
Fed’s Fisher said yesterday to reporters after a speech in
Toronto. “It would be prudent to dial back the rate of
purchases we are making in mortgage-backed securities” now that
“the housing market is in a good state, construction has
started again, housing prices are appreciating significantly.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City President Esther George
yesterday urged a reduction in the central bank’s bond-buying
program, known as quantitative easing, as growth quickens. San
Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said this week a “modest
adjustment downward” in purchases is possible “as early as
this summer.”  Companies in the U.S. boosted employment by 135,000 workers
in May, figures from the Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP Research
Institute showed today. The median forecast of 40 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg called for an advance of 165,000.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
bonds each month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs
under its quantitative-easing stimulus strategy, which tends to
debase the dollar. Market volatility has risen as traders
speculate about a reduction in the stimulus measures.  Policy Review  “U.S. data surprises are now playing out through U.S.
policy expectations,” said Cole of Royal Bank of Canada. “Weak
data imply later tapering, and that’s the primary way the market
is trading now rather than through risk appetite.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, dropped 0.3 percent to 82.547.  The Australian dollar weakened for a second day against the
greenback after a report showed GDP grew 2.5 percent from a year
earlier in the first quarter, boosting speculation the Reserve
Bank will lower  interest rates . That’s the slowest pace since
the three months ended June 30, 2011, a statistics bureau report
released in Sydney showed.  The Aussie fell 1.1 percent to 95.42 U.S. cents after
dropping 1.2 percent yesterday. A measure of three-month
volatility on the  currency pair  climbed to as much as 11.67
percent, the most since June 29, 2012.  The pound approached a three-week high against the dollar
after a gauge based on a survey by  Markit Economics  and the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply of purchasing
managers in  service industries  rose to 54.9 last month, the
highest reading since March 2012.  The pound gained 0.6 percent to $1.5406, touching the
highest since May 10. Sterling strengthened 0.5 percent to 84.99
pence per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  