-- Zimbabwe Needs Police Reforms for Fair Vote, HRW Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-06-05T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-06-05/zimbabwe-needs-police-reforms-for-fair-vote-hrw-says.html
Zimbabwe  has little chance of holding
free and fair elections unless steps are taken to ensure
security forces aren’t biased toward President  Robert Mugabe ,
Human Rights Watch said.  “The security forces have a long history of partisanship
on behalf of President Robert Mugabe and the Zimbabwe African
National Union–Patriotic Front,” the New York-based rights body
said in a report released today. Reforms are needed to rein in
police, the military and internal security agents, the group
said.  Zimbabwe’s  Supreme Court  ruled elections must be held
before July 31, three months sooner than the previous Oct. 31
deadline set by the constitutional life of parliament. Mugabe,
89, has ruled the southern African nation since its independence
from the U.K. more than three decades ago.  “As things stand, the chances of having free, fair and
credible elections are slim, particularly given the shortcomings
of security sector reforms and reforms in other sectors,” Human
Rights Watch said.  Mugabe’s Zanu-PF shares power with the Movement for
Democratic Change, led by Prime Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai , in a
coalition government that was brokered by a regional political
bloc after disputed elections in 2008. The MDC has repeatedly
called for reforms of the security services ahead of new
elections.  Charity Charamba, police spokeswoman, didn’t answer three
calls to her phone when Bloomberg called seeking comment
yesterday.  Political Interference  “Violence has always characterized our elections,”
Tsvangirai said in an interview on May 10. MDC spokesman Luke Tamborinyoka said May 31 the Supreme Court ruling was evidence
of the country’s executive imposing an election date “under a
cloak of judicial authority.”  “Zimbabwe’s security forces, notably the military, have,
for several years, interfered in the nation’s political and
electoral affairs in ways that have adversely affected the
ability of Zimbabwean citizens to vote freely,”  Human Rights
Watch  said in the report, titled “The Elephant in the Room:
Reforming the Security Sector Ahead of Zimbabwe’s Elections.”  Mugabe and his party won a series of elections between 2000
and 2008 that were described by observers including the European
Union as flawed by violence and intimidation.  The MDC narrowly won parliamentary elections in 2008,
though Tsvangirai failed to garner the necessary 51 percent
votes to avoid a run-off against Mugabe in a presidential ballot
held at the same time. The MDC leader withdrew from a runoff
vote, citing violence against party supporters.  Vocal Support  The election was declared void by the 15-nation  Southern
African Development Community , which brokered the power-sharing
agreement between the two parties.  During that election, Zimbabwe’s military “played a major
role in supporting political violence that resulted in over
2,000 beatings and cases of torture and the killing of at least
36 MDC supporters,” Human Rights Watch said.  Zimbabwe’s military, police and intelligence chiefs haven’t
altered their “clear, public and vocal support for President
Mugabe and Zanu-PF,” the group said.  SADC and the  African Union  should press Zimbabwe’s
government to ensure political neutrality among security and
police forces, Human Rights Watch said. SADC should also advise
Zimbabwe that violence may result in the group’s refusal to
endorse any election held this year, it said.  Zanu-PF will respect SADC’s call for a peaceful ballot,
 Rugare Gumbo , a spokesman for the party, said on March 26. He
didn’t immediately answer his phone when contacted by  Bloomberg
News  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  