-- Abortion Provider Hospital-Access Law Halted in Wisconsin
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-03T00:31:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/abortion-provider-hospital-access-law-halted-in-wisconsin.html
A  Wisconsin  law requiring abortion
providers to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30
miles (48 kilometers) of their clinic was put on hold by a U.S.
judge at least until a trial in November.  U.S. District Judge William M. Conley in Madison, who
temporarily blocked the law last month, extended the freeze
today, saying he doubts the state can win the case brought by
Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin and the American Civil Liberties
Union.  “Defendants are not likely to succeed in demonstrating
that the admitting privileges requirement is reasonably related
to maternal health,” Conley said in his ruling, adding that the
plaintiffs can probably show the law goes too far in restricting
a woman’s right to an abortion.  Conley’s ruling is the second by a judge this week to delay
enforcement of a hospital affiliation measure, legislation being
pushed by abortion opponents across the country. North Dakota
state court Judge Wickham Corwin in Fargo blocked a similar law
on July 31, ruling that the state hadn’t shown a compelling need
for it.  The North Dakota law, set to take effect yesterday, would
have forced that state’s only abortion clinic to close. The
Wisconsin law would have led to the closure of clinics in
 Milwaukee  and Appleton and caused Planned Parenthood to cut
staff and services at another clinic in Milwaukee, the state’s
biggest city, according to the complaint.  Dana Brueck, a spokeswoman for Wisconsin Attorney General
J.B. Van Hollen, said in a statement that the office is
reviewing the ruling.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin Inc. v. Van
Hollen, 3:13-cv-00465, U.S. District Court, Western District of
Wisconsin (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  