-- Al-Qaeda Threat Leads to Some U.S. Embassy Closings
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-08-04T15:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/al-qaeda-threat-leads-to-a-day-of-u-s-embassy-closings.html
The U.S.  closed 21 embassies  and
consulates from  Egypt  and Libya to Yemen and Afghanistan today
after issuing a worldwide travel warning of potential terror
attacks by groups linked to al-Qaeda.  “The Department of State has instructed certain U.S.
embassies and consulates to remain closed or to suspend
operations on Sunday,” as a precautionary step, a department
spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said last week. Embassies are open on
Sunday in some predominantly Muslim countries, where it’s part
of the workweek.  While U.S. officials didn’t disclose specific risks to
embassies and other facilities this weekend, the travel advisory
issued Aug. 2 described potential terrorist attacks in the
Middle East, North Africa and South Asia for the rest of this
month, possibly emanating from the Arabian Peninsula.  “Current information suggests that al-Qaeda and affiliated
organizations continue to plan terrorist attacks both in the
region and beyond, and that they may focus efforts to conduct
attacks in the period between now and the end of August,” the
department said. The attacks “may involve public transportation
systems and other tourist infrastructure.”  The information includes communications among known
terrorists intercepted by the National Security Agency in recent
days, according to two U.S. officials who asked not to be
identified discussing classified intelligence matters. They
declined to offer specifics about the exchanges, although they
called the content of them credible and disturbing.  Yemen Connection  “This is the most serious threat that I’ve seen in the
last several years,” Senator Saxby Chambliss of  Georgia , the
top Republican on the chamber’s Intelligence Committee, said
today on NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “There’s been an
awful lot of chatter out there” among terrorists planning
attacks, Chambliss said, noting that this was “reminiscent of
what we saw pre-9/11.”  The primary focus is on al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
a terrorist group based in Yemen and a remote part of Saudi
Arabia, according to U.S. Representative Peter King and the two
American officials.  The possible Yemen connection was underscored as the U.K.,
 Germany  and  France  announced temporary closings of their
embassies in that country.  “We’ve been informed directly and indirectly of threats”
on French buildings and people abroad, French President Francois Hollande said yesterday in a video on the  website  of the Elysee
Palace.  Potentially Misleading  Canada’s embassy in Dhaka,  Bangladesh , is closed today as
well, the Canadian Press reported, citing a spokesman for the
Foreign Minister.  King, a  New York  Republican, called the threat intelligence
“the most specific I’ve seen” since the attacks on the U.S. on
Sept. 11, 2001.  “It is coming out of Yemen, and it is al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula,” King said Aug. 2 on CNN. “There is a plot,
the attacks are planned, but it’s not certain as to where.”  It’s possible that the terrorists’ discussions of planned
attacks may be intentionally misleading in an attempt to divert
attention and security from the location, timing or nature of an
actual plot, cautioned one of the officials, who called the
intelligence credible but not ironclad.  Obama Briefings  Amid worldwide debate over U.S. surveillance techniques,
the intercepted messages also could be an effort to test what
communications the NSA is monitoring, or whether certain
computers, mobile phones or individuals have been compromised,
according to the U.S. officials.  The warning surfaced as President  Barack Obama ’s
administration argues that the agency’s surveillance programs
are essential to fight terrorist threats. Top-secret documents
disclosed by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden showed the
collection of data is more extensive than previously known.  Obama instructed his national security team last week to
“take all appropriate steps to protect the American people in
light of a potential threat occurring in or emanating from the
Arabian Peninsula,” according to a press release issued by the
White House press secretary’s office yesterday. “The president
has received frequent briefings over the last week on all
aspects of the potential threat and our preparedness measures.”  Ayman al-Zawahiri  The State Department pledged to increase security at
embassies and consulates after the attack on a U.S. mission in
Benghazi, Libya, on Sept. 11, 2012, led to the death of U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. The Central
Intelligence Agency said it had warned the State Department
repeatedly of terrorist threats in Benghazi before the attack,
according to e-mails released later by the White House.  The State Department had issued a similar warning of
possible attacks before that.  The alert and embassy closures may be an effort to disrupt
al-Qaeda operations, according to Michael Hayden, who served as
director of the Central Intelligence Agency under the George W.
Bush administration.  The announcements may be designed to put al-Qaeda “on the
back foot, to let them know that we’re alert and we’re on to at
least a portion of this plot line,” Hayden said today on “Fox
News Sunday.”  The latest U.S. warning came days after al-Qaeda leader
Ayman al-Zawahiri urged his followers in a speech posted on
jihadist websites to attack U.S. sites as a response to American
drone strikes in  Pakistan  and Yemen, according to the SITE
Intelligence Group, which monitors terrorist groups.  Prison Break  Interpol said in a statement yesterday that it suspects al-Qaeda of involvement in prison breaks in Iraq, Libya and
Pakistan that have freed hundreds of terrorists and other
criminals. The international police force is asking its 190
member countries to determine if the events are linked or
coordinated.  Interpol said in the release that August is the anniversary
of terrorist attacks in Mumbai; Gluboky,  Russia ; and Jakarta,
 Indonesia , and that this week is the 15th anniversary of U.S.
Embassy bombings in Nairobi,  Kenya , and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.  The significance of today as a day to close embassies
wasn’t spelled out by the State Department, leaving room for
speculation about possibilities. Today is Obama’s birthday, and
it’s also a holy day on the Muslim calendar because it falls in
the final 10 days of Ramadan, the month of fasting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  