-- Al-Qaeda Threat Cited by U.S. in Issuing Global Travel Alert
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-08-03T15:53:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/al-qaeda-threat-cited-by-u-s-in-issuing-global-travel-alert-2-.html
The U.S. State Department issued a
worldwide travel alert warning citizens of potential terror
attacks in the  Middle East , North Africa and South Asia by al-Qaeda or its affiliates.  “Current information suggests that al-Qaeda and affiliated
organizations continue to plan terrorist attacks both in the
region and beyond, and that they may focus efforts to conduct
attacks in the period between now and the end of August,” the
department said yesterday. The U.S. will close 21 embassies and
consulates in those regions this weekend as a precaution.  The information includes communications among known
terrorists intercepted by the National Security Agency in the
past 10 days, according to two U.S. officials who asked not to
be identified discussing classified intelligence matters. They
declined to offer specifics on the exchanges, although they
called the content credible and disturbing.  The primary focus is on al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
a terrorist group based in  Yemen  and a remote part of Saudi
Arabia, according to Representative  Peter King  and the two U.S.
officials.  King, a  New York  Republican, yesterday called the threat
intelligence “the most specific I’ve seen” since the attacks
on the U.S. on Sept. 11, 2001.  “It is coming out of Yemen, and it is al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula,” King said on CNN. “There is a plot, the
attacks are planned, but it’s not certain as to where.”  Obama Updated  Before departing today for a round of golf with friends at
Andrews Air Force Base in  Maryland , President  Barack Obama  was
updated on the terror threat by  Lisa Monaco , White House
counterterrorism and homeland security adviser, according to the
White House.  Interpol said in a statement today it suspects al-Qaeda of
involvement in prison breaks in Iraq,  Libya  and  Pakistan  that
have freed hundreds of terrorists and other criminals. The
international police force is asking its 190 member countries to
determine if the events are linked or coordinated, and to
closely follow and process information linked to the escapes or
escaped prisoners.  Interpol notes in the release that August is the
anniversary of terrorist attacks in Mumbai, Gluboky, Russia and
Jakarta, Indonesia, and that this week marks the 15th
anniversary of U.S. Embassy bombings in Nairobi, Kenya, and  Dar
es Salaam , Tanzania.  Embassy Closings  Attacks are seen potentially occurring in or emanating from
the Arabian Peninsula, according to the State Department
warning, and “may involve public transportation systems and
other tourist infrastructure.”  The U.S. embassies and consulates scheduled to be closed
this weekend are in the Mideast, North Africa and South Asia,
including in Libya, Egypt, Yemen and Afghanistan, according to a
list posted on the  department’s website.   “The Department of State has instructed certain U.S.
embassies and consulates to remain closed or to suspend
operations on Sunday,” spokeswoman Marie Harf said Aug. 1.  The U.K. Foreign Office said yesterday on its Twitter Inc.
feed that its embassy in Yemen will be closed Aug. 4 and Aug. 5,
with some staff being temporarily withdrawn. It said embassies
in  Saudi Arabia , Qatar, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq
and Bahrain will be open tomorrow, though employees are advised
to be extra-vigilant.  German Embassy  Germany  joined the U.K. in closing its embassy in the Yemen
capital of Sanaa on Aug. 4 and Aug. 5 for security reasons, a
spokesman for the Federal Foreign Office said by telephone from
Berlin.  The U.S. Embassy in Pakistan will open on Aug. 5 as
scheduled, Meghan Gregonis, an embassy spokeswoman, said.  “Pakistan is a high-threat post so we are constantly at a
high level of alert,” Gregonis said by phone today. “We
continue to be on a high level of alert and we anticipate to re-open on Monday.”  The embassy in Jakarta said it will be closed as normal
tomorrow and isn’t taking extra security precautions. No
warnings were posted on its website today.  The top Democrat on the House intelligence committee,
Representative C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of Maryland, said
the information coming in to security officials warranted a
broad warning to citizens.  Giving Notice  “We got intelligence, and not just the normal chitchat,
that there could be an attack on Americans or our allies,”
Ruppersberger told reporters at the U.S. Capitol. “Putting it
out there, that also gives notice to the people that are
planning it: We know something’s out there.”  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, said, “there is a significant threat stream, and
we’re reacting to it.” In excerpts released from an interview
to air on ABC’s “This Week” program this weekend, Dempsey said
the threat is “more specific” than previous ones.  “The intent is to attack Western, not just U.S.,
interests,” he said.  U.S. Central Command, which is responsible for military
operations in the Middle East, yesterday declined to comment on
whether any troops have been moved or placed on higher alert in
response to the latest terrorist threat warning.  Protection Measures  “As a matter of policy, we do not discuss specific force
protection measures or changes,” said Major Ian Phillips, a
spokesman at command headquarters in Tampa, Florida.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , US Airways Group Inc. and AMR Corp.’s
 American Airlines  are monitoring the travel situation and
haven’t issued waivers letting passengers rebook flights without
paying fees, spokesmen said.  United Airlines , a unit of United
Continental Holdings Inc., declined to comment.  It’s always possible that the intelligence on the planned
attacks is intentionally misleading in an attempt to divert
attention and security from the location, timing or nature of an
actual plot, cautioned one of the U.S. officials, who called the
intelligence credible but not ironclad.  Intelligence officials and lawmakers didn’t specify whether
information about the threats came to light through an informer
or through electronic surveillance. The warning surfaced as
Obama’s administration argues that National Security Agency
surveillance programs are essential to fight terrorist threats.
Top-secret documents disclosed by former contractor Edward Snowden showed the surveillance is much more extensive than
previously known.  Yemeni Groups  Newly discovered 2011 papers suggest that for several years
the Yemeni terrorist group has been considering taking hostages
in an effort to stop attacks on it by unmanned U.S. aircraft.  Documents purportedly from al-Qaeda fighters in  Mali  and
obtained by the  Associated Press  outline a strategy of
kidnapping “in exchange for the drone strategy.”  Kidnappings would “bring back the pressure of the American
public opinion in a more active way” against drone strikes,
according to the papers, which the New York-based news service
translated from Arabic. The document is focused on Yemen.  The State Department warning came days after al-Qaeda
leader  Ayman al-Zawahiri  urged his followers in a speech posted
on jihadist websites to attack U.S. sites as a response to
American drone strikes in Pakistan and Yemen, according to the
SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors terror groups.  U.S. Drones  U.S. pilotless aircraft have carried out three attacks in
the last five days in the remote area that spans eastern Yemen
and Saudi Arabia and is the homeland of former al-Qaeda leader
Osama bin Laden, who was killed by American forces in Pakistan
in 2011. The area is controlled by AQAP, and the strikes killed
at least five suspected terrorists, said one U.S. official.  In all, the U.S. has conducted almost 50 such strikes in
Yemen since the beginning of 2012, killing some of the group’s
leaders, including its deputy emir, Said al-Shihri, whose death
the group acknowledged in a video last month. The American-born
cleric and propagandist Anwar al-Awlaki was killed by a drone
strike in Yemen in September 2011.  Both U.S. officials said the strikes have been carried out
with the tacit approval of the Yemeni government, which AQAP
wants to overthrow. Obama met at the White House this week with
Yemen’s President Abdurabu Mansur Hadi, and both praised their
nations’ cooperation in fighting terrorism.  The announcement that embassies will be closed this weekend
also came after terrorist groups freed hundreds of prisoners in
several countries.  Prison Escapes  On July 22, more than 500 prisoners, including senior al-Qaeda figures, escaped from Iraq’s Abu Ghraib prison. On July
27, more than 1,000 detainees escaped from detention in
Benghazi. A July 30 Taliban attack on a prison facility in
northwest Pakistan freed more than 250 prisoners.  Harf also pointed reporters to a “ Worldwide Caution ” the
department issued in February of this year warning Americans
that “current information suggests that al-Qaeda, its
affiliated organizations, and other terrorist organizations
continue to plan terrorist attacks against U.S. interests in
multiple regions.”  That caution said that security threat levels remain high
in Yemen and that Iraq is “dangerous and unpredictable.” It
also said al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is active in  Algeria ,
has attacked Westerners near the borders with Mali and Libya,
and has claimed responsibility for kidnapping and killing of
Westerners throughout the region.  The State Department pledged to increase security at
embassies and consulates after the attack on a U.S. mission in
Benghazi, Libya, on Sept. 11, 2012, led to the death of U.S.
Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans. The Central
Intelligence Agency said it had repeatedly warned the State
Department of terrorist threats in Benghazi before the attack,
according to e-mails released later by the White House.  Muslim Calendar  The significance of Aug. 4 as a day to close embassies
wasn’t spelled out by the State Department, leaving room for
speculation about possibilities. Tomorrow is Obama’s birthday,
and it’s also a holy day on the Muslim calendar because it falls
in the final 10 days of Ramadan, the month of fasting.  This evening may be considered the holiest because this
year it’s Laylat al Qadr, or the Night of Power, when Muslims
believe their holy book the Koran was revealed to the prophet
Mohammed.  While Muslims observe the evening with prayer, good works,
and spiritual retreats, an extreme fringe could interpret it
differently, said Mohammed Mattar, a senior research professor
at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International
Studies in  Washington .  “Maybe they would be interpreting an act of terror as an
act of Jihad,” or Holy War, Mattar said in a telephone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  