-- Super Bowl-Winning Coach Parcells Enters Football Hall of Fame
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-04T04:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/bill-parcells-headlines-2013-class-for-pro-football-hall-of-fame.html
Bill Parcells , who coached the  New
York Giants  to two Super Bowl titles, made it into the Pro
Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio, yesterday, even if not on
roller skates.  Parcells, 71, who would recognize premiere players by
saying they would skate into Canton, fell short three times
before being voted in by the 46-member selection committee in
February.  Former National Football League wide receiver Cris Carter
was also among the seven-member class was inducted yesterday,
along with offensive linemen  Larry Allen  and Jonathan Ogden, and
defensive tackle Warren Sapp. Completing this year’s class were
senior candidates Curley Culp and Dave Robinson, who played in
the 1960s and 1970s.  Parcells had a 172-130-1 regular-season record with the
Giants,  New England Patriots ,  New York Jets  and  Dallas Cowboys .
He had an 11-8 playoff record, including 8-3 with the Giants,
the team he led to Super Bowl championships after the 1986 and
1990 seasons.  “I found out over the years that commitment has varying
degrees in the NFL,” said Parcells. “I’ve seen coaches go to
these franchises and get fired very quickly because the
situation would not allow them to succeed. Fortunately for Bill
Parcells, I was never in one of those situations.”  Vital Information  In 19 years as a head coach, Parcells had five losing
seasons, and his teams finished first or second place in their
division 11 times. He turned around four teams, including the
Giants, who had one winning season in the 10 years before he
took over in 1983, a stretch in which co-owner  John Mara  called
the team a “laughingstock.”  Parcells said Dean Pryor, who gave him his first coaching
job at Hastings College, taught him an important lesson.  “He taught me one vital piece of information when he said,
‘Bill, the players deserve a chance to win and you as an
organization, a university, coaching staff, individual coach, or
head coach have an obligatory responsibility to give it to
them,’” Parcells said. “I preached it all my life.”  After a 3-12-1 record in Parcells’s first year, the Giants
made the postseason as a wild-card team the next two years. In
1986, the Giants went 14-2 and finished with a Super Bowl
victory over the  Denver Broncos . Four years later, the Giants
beat the  Buffalo Bills  20-19 for their second Super Bowl title
under Parcells.  ‘Right Players’  Parcells said those early years were pivotal for his
career.  “It was touch and go, another loss or two and it could
have gone either way,” he said. “I had the exact right kind of
players.”  Parcells then spent two years out of the NFL before
returning to coach the Patriots.  New England  was 2-14 the year
prior to his arrival and went 10-6 in his second season, with
their first playoff appearance in eight years. The Patriots won
the American Football Conference championship two years later.  Parcells performed a similar turnaround with the Jets,
where he started in 1997. Two years after going 1-15 in 1996,
the Jets went 12-4 and reached the AFC title game.  Parcells led the Cowboys to two playoff appearances before
taking front-office roles with the Jets and Miami Dolphins.
Among his former assistants who are now NFL head coaches are the
Patriots’  Bill Belichick , the Giants’  Tom Coughlin  and the New
Orleans Saints’  Sean Payton .  Human Lab  Parcells recalled Hall of Famer  Steve Young  describing the
locker room as “a great laboratory for human behavior.”  “Talent aside, the only prerequisite for getting
acceptance is you have to be willing to contribute to the
greater good,” he said. “And if you are willing to do that,
you are readily accepted and if you’re not you’re pretty much
quickly rejected. If you’re willing to help, ‘come on in,’ if
you’re not, ‘get out of here.’”  Carter, 47, had 1,101 receptions and 130 touchdown catches
over his 16-year NFL career, ranking fourth in both categories.
He led the  Minnesota Vikings  in receptions from 1991 to 2000,
including an eight-year stretch in which he had 1,000 yards
receiving each season.  Ogden, 39, was the fourth pick in the 1996 draft and voted
to the Pro Bowl 11 times in a 12-year career with the Baltimore
Ravens. He won a Super Bowl title after the 2000 season and in
2003 anchored an offensive line that helped Jamal Lewis become
the fifth player in NFL history to rush for more than 2,000
yards.  ‘Striving for Perfection’  “Talent isn’t enough,” Ogden said. “A lot of people have
talent, they don’t always live up to it. For me it is about
maximizing, striving for perfection.”  Sapp, 40, had 96 1/2 quarterback sacks over 13 seasons with
the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  and  Oakland Raiders . A seven-time Pro
Bowl selection, Sapp won a Super Bowl title with the Buccaneers
after the 2002 season.  Allen, 41, made the Pro Bowl 11 times over his 14-year NFL
career and won a Super Bowl title with the Cowboys after the
1995 season.  “I just knew I had to win every play,” said Allen,
wearing sunglasses as he sniffled through his speech. “That’s
the reason I am here. I knew if I lost a play, I had 45 seconds
to get even.”  Culp, 67, was an pro lineman for 14 seasons and played for
the  Kansas City Chiefs ’ Super Bowl-winning team after the 1969
season. The six-time Pro Bowl selection also played in the AFC
Championship Game after the 1978 and 1979 seasons with the
Houston Oilers.  Robinson, 72, spent 10 of his 12 NFL seasons with the  Green
Bay Packers  and had 27 career interceptions from his linebacker
position.  “The Hall of Fame is the closest thing a football player
can get to immortality,” Robinson said. “Now I am
immortalized.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  