-- BP Says Loss on Spill Claims Appeals Could Scuttle Settlement
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   L a u r e l   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-08-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/bp-says-loss-on-spill-claims-appeal-could-scuttle-settlement-1-.html
The settlement  BP Plc (BP/)  reached last
year with most private parties over the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil
spill could be scuttled if a U.S. appeals court doesn’t throw
out the interpretation of payments being used by the claims
administrator, the company said.  BP is fighting to avoid potentially billions of dollars in
business economic-loss payments that are being made under what
the company claims is a misinterpretation of settlement terms by
Patrick Juneau, its oil-spill claims administrator.  The oil company is appealing a ruling by U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier , who has three times refused to order Juneau
to adopt an interpretation of deal terms that BP prefers.
London-based BP claims Juneau’s decision results in different
levels of compensation for victims with similar injuries, which
it contends violates the legal requirements of a class, or
group, settlement.  “If the district court’s decision in the variable-profit
appeal were to be affirmed, the class certification and class
settlement at issue in this case would be rendered invalid,
which is one of the reasons why reversal is required in that
appeal,” Ted Olson, BP’s lawyer, said in a filing yesterday in
the U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans.  Olson’s statement was made in a request for expedited
handling of a separate appeal by victims challenging the
economic settlement as unfair.  ‘Best Interest’  “We took this action because we believe it is in the best
interest of all parties for these issues to be resolved as
quickly as possible,” Geoff Morrell, a BP spokesman, said in an
e-mail.  Businesses in five southern states have received hundreds
of millions of dollars in payments for “fictitious” losses BP
claims are unrelated to the worst offshore oil spill in U.S.
history, according to court filings.  As of July 28, BP has paid $4.2 billion in total
compensation under the economic settlement, according to
yesterday’s filing. Since July 8, the Deepwater Horizon Claims
Center has paid an average of $119 million a week for all kinds
of claims, including the disputed business-loss claims.  In a separate court filing yesterday, BP said it will
appeal Barbier’s order limiting the company’s right to challenge
specific economic-damages awards. Barbier, who oversees
consolidated spill-related litigation in New Orleans, ruled in
May that BP can’t appeal any damage awards by claims
administrators that were made in accordance with his prior
rulings.  Settlement Rights  BP has said the settlement gives it the right to challenge
individual damages awards, first to a claims appeals board and
ultimately to Barbier. Barbier and the appeals court both
refused to halt  spill-compensation  payments while the company
appeals the Juneau interpretation.  BP initially valued its economic-loss settlement at $7.8
billion. The company increased its settlement estimate to $9.6
billion in regulatory filings last month.  The accord doesn’t cover loss claims by state and local
governments, financial institutions, casinos or companies harmed
by the deep-water drilling moratorium imposed by the Obama
administration after the April 2010 spill.  Lawyers for spill victims are opposing BP’s attempt to
reinterpret its deal.  David Falkenstein, a spokesman for the committee of lawyers
representing spill victims, declined to immediately comment
yesterday on BP’s filing.  The appellate case is In Re: Deepwater Horizon-Appeals of
the Economic and Property Damage Class Action Settlement,
13-30315, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The main case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig
Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010,
MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana
(New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Calkins in Houston at 
 lcalkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  