-- China Stops Importing New Zealand Milk Powder, Minister Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-04T04:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/china-asks-importers-to-recall-contaminated-fonterra-products.html
China  has stopped all imports of New
Zealand milk powders after Auckland-based dairy producer
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. warned of a contaminated
ingredient, Trade Minister Tim Groser said.  The decision by Chinese authorities is “appropriate,”
Groser told Television New Zealand in an interview broadcast
today. Fonterra has said that an ingredient used in baby formula
and other food showed strains of bacteria.  Fonterra, the world’s largest dairy exporter, is issuing
the warning as China steps up scrutiny of local and
international food companies after a spate of safety scandals.
Any restrictions would be a blow to the South Pacific nation as
China is the biggest buyer of New Zealand dairy products, mainly
milk powder.  “This could be quite a big deal for New Zealand’s
prospects, certainly in the near term,” said Paul Bloxham,
chief  Australia  and New Zealand economist at HSBC Holdings Plc
in Sydney. “This is likely to have an influence in the short
run on the New Zealand dollar and on markets in New Zealand on
Monday.”  Dairy products make up about a quarter of New Zealand’s
total overseas sales. China last month disclosed a probe into
pricing of baby formula, prompting companies from Danone to
 Nestle SA (NESN)  to cut prices. Fonterra in July said it would cut
prices in China for Anmum supplements for pregnant women.  Whey Ingredient  Fonterra said yesterday that three batches of a whey
ingredient made at a New Zealand plant last year may contain a
bacteria that can cause a rare illness called botulism. The U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  describes  botulism as
a rare but serious paralytic illness.  The batches were mixed with other ingredients to form
products sold in other markets, and several countries including
China are affected, the New Zealand Ministry for Primary
Industries said.  “It’s reputational risk more than anything,” said Stephen Toplis, head of research at Bank of New Zealand in Wellington.
“I doubt there will be any long-term economic impact provided
the process is handled properly,”  Four Chinese companies including units of Hangzhou Wahaha
Group Co. imported possibly tainted products from Fonterra ,
Chinese quality supervision regulators said in a statement
today. The products have been recalled, the regulator said.
China yesterday yesterday asked local agencies to step up
inspections of milk products from New Zealand.  ’Serious Situation’  New Zealand officials are working closely with Chinese and
other authorities, Groser said, adding that the trade issues
“are not just about China.”  “This is a very serious situation” for New Zealand, he
said in the TV interview. “How serious it is depends obviously
on the extent of the problem and how long it lasts.”  Calls made today to the offices of China’s commerce
ministry and national quality inspector went unanswered. Chinese
infant formula maker  Yashili International Holdings Ltd. (1230)  sources
its milk from New Zealand, the company has said in its annual
report. Yashili’s media relations department couldn’t be reached
outside of working hours.  No Fonterra-branded consumer products are affected by the
quality issue, the company has said. Fonterra separately markets
a range of commercial ingredients that are sold to other food
companies. The New Zealand company got about 14 percent of its
revenue from China in the six months ended Jan. 31.  Fonterra said it had told eight clients about a quality
problem after tests showed the possible presence of a strain of
the bacteria Clostridium in a whey protein that the company’s
customers use in infant formula, types of milk powder and sports
drinks. There have been no reports of any illness linked to
consumption of the affected product, it said.  Fonterra said Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings, who
is visiting China for scheduled meetings, will speak with
customers there.  Serious Illness  In New Zealand, five batches of Nutricia Karicare follow-on
formula products for children from 6 months old were identified
as potentially containing contaminated protein, the Ministry for
Primary Industries said. Nutricia said it recalled two baby
formula products in New Zealand.  Fonterra in January had to assure China that traces of an
agricultural chemical found in some milk posed no health risks.
In 2008, locally made melamine-contaminated milk powder may have
killed at least six infants in an industrywide scandal in China,
causing the collapse of Fonterra’s partner Sanlu Group.  Groser said the government wants to know why the
contamination occurred and why it took so long for the extent of
the threat to surface.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Tracy Withers in
Wellington at   twithers@bloomberg.net ; Michael
Heath in Sydney at   mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  