-- China Services Growth Picks Up in Sign Economy Stabilizing
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-04T06:20:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/china-s-service-industries-expand-at-faster-pace-survey-shows.html
China ’s service industries showed the
first pick-up in growth since March, adding to signs the world’s
second-largest economy may be stabilizing after a two-quarter
slowdown.  The non-manufacturing  Purchasing Managers’ Index (CPMINMAN)  rose to
54.1 in July from 53.9 in June, the Beijing-based National
Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said yesterday. An official gauge of manufacturing
released Aug. 1 showed an unexpected expansion.  Faster growth in non-manufacturing industries may bolster
Premier  Li Keqiang ’s confidence that China can achieve its 2013
target for expansion in gross domestic product amid a campaign
to rein in financial risks and control local government debt.
State Council measures to help small businesses and the overhaul
of the value-added tax system will provide more support for
services companies, according to Barclays Plc and Reorient
Financial Markets Ltd.  “The services sector PMI has been doing much better than
manufacturing for some time and the corporate expectations index
was at its highest this year, which shows confidence is
returning,” said  Steve Wang , Reorient’s Hong Kong-based chief
China economist. “The PMI is supposed to be a leading indicator
so we are witnessing a stabilization and a sign the economy
isn’t slowing down at a faster rate.”  Longest Streak  China’s  economy  grew 7.5 percent from a year earlier in the
April-June period, slowing for a second straight quarter and
extending the longest streak of sub-8 percent expansion in at
least two decades. Wang says he sees second-half growth of 7.6
percent, the same as the pace in the first six months.  The government set a 2013 expansion target of 7.5 percent
after  gross domestic product  rose 7.8 percent last year, the
least since 1999. Policy makers have this year rolled out
targeted measures to support the economy, including boosting
infrastructure, cutting taxes and helping small companies, amid
signs growth may slow too far below the state’s goal.  The National Development and Reform Commission said today
that demand from the transport industry will show stable growth
as key projects proceed. Ten new infrastructure projects may
begin in the second half of the year and construction work for
Beijing’s new airport may start early, it said in a statement on
its website.  Good Start  The non-manufacturing PMI hasn’t dropped below 50, the
dividing line between expansion and contraction, since a new
data series started in March 2011, and a services gauge from
HSBC Holdings Plc and  Markit Economics  has shown expansion for
at least four years. An index of business expectations in
yesterday’s  report  rose to 63.9 from 61.8 in June, the highest
since December.  The July readings indicate a “relatively good start to
second-half economic activities,” Cai Jin, a vice chairman at
the logistics federation, said in a statement. “The foundation
and conditions to ensure stable economic growth are there even
though we continue to face challenges.”  HSBC and Markit Economics will release their services
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index for China tomorrow.  Stocks in China rose for a second week, after the NBS’s
official manufacturing PMI survey unexpectedly strengthened and
the government pledged to prevent economic growth from slipping
below a “reasonable” level. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose
0.9 percent last week, paring its annual loss to 11 percent.  Brighter Spot  The PMI rose to 50.3 for July from 50.1 for June, an Aug. 1
report showed, compared with the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey for 49.8. A separate gauge released the same day by
HSBC and Markit Economics fell to 47.7, an 11-month low and the
third straight month of below-50 readings. Both surveys showed
businesses cutting workers and weakness in export orders.  “In contrast to disappointing industrial performance,
service sector development has been a brighter spot” this year,
Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist at Barclays, said before
the data release. “Service industries have seen faster growth
in value-added output, fixed-asset investment and foreign
investment.”  Investment in services rose 23.5 percent in the first half
of this year, outpacing the 15.6 percent growth in manufacturing
spending, and its value-added output also rose faster, she said.  Employment Gains  The American depository receipts of Nasdaq-listed  Ctrip.com
International Ltd. (CTRP)  rose 19.5 percent on Aug. 1 after the
Shanghai-based online travel company unexpectedly reported a 76
percent jump in second-quarter net income from a year earlier on
higher hotel reservations and air-ticket sales.  While the  employment  index in the July official
manufacturing PMI had a below-50 reading for a 14th month, the
gauge in yesterday’s report showed expansion, with a figure of
51.3, down from June’s reading of 51.5.  “Jobs aren’t being created in manufacturing, it’s services
where all the growth is going to come from, especially sectors
like e-commerce, with companies like Alibaba,” Reorient’s Wang
said, referring to China’s biggest e-commerce company that runs
online shopping platform Taobao Marketplace.  Industries including leisure, e-commerce and transport are
becoming a bigger part of the economy, supporting the
government’s efforts to shift the focus of growth away from
investment and exports. Their contribution to GDP in the first
quarter exceeded that of manufacturing for the first time, the
central bank said in April.  Boosting Share  Service industries  accounted for about 45 percent of GDP
last year, according to  statistics bureau  data, up from 41
percent in 2003. The government is seeking to increase the share
to 47 percent by 2015, according to its five-year plan. In the
U.S., services comprise about 90 percent of the economy.  The official non-manufacturing survey is based on responses
from purchasing managers at 1,200 companies in 27 industry
groups including catering, retailing, construction and
transportation. A new seasonally adjusted series began in March
2012 and the data were revised back to March 2011. HSBC’s index
rose to 51.3 in June from 51.2 in May.  --Alan Wong, Luo Jun, Nerys Avery. Editors:  Garry Smith , Nerys
Avery  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  