-- Dempsey Joins MLS Sounders After Seven Years in Premier League
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-08-04T04:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/clint-dempsey-to-return-to-major-league-soccer-tottenham-says.html
U.S. national team captain Clint Dempsey has signed with the  Seattle  Sounders FC of  Major League
Soccer  after seven years in the English Premier League.  “Having recently played in Seattle with the national team,
I experienced the incredible atmosphere and the passion from the
supporters first-hand,” the midfielder said in a statement on
the Sounders website.  Dempsey joins the Sounders from the Premier League’s
Tottenham Hotspur who didn’t disclose financial terms of the
move. NBC Sports reported the Sounders will pay Spurs an MLS-record $9 million transfer fee and have guaranteed Dempsey $32
million over the next four seasons, making him one of the most
expensive players in league history.  “In doing something of this magnitude, we had to make sure
we had the right player,” said Adrian Hanauer, Sounders’ owner
and general manager. “ Clint Dempsey  fits that mold. Clint is a
proven winner, a leader and a competitor who we believe will
raise the bar for this organization on and off the field.”  Dempsey, 30, leaves the Premier League as holder of the
record for the most goals by an American at 57. He ranks second
to  Landon Donovan  for most goals in U.S. national team history
with 35 in 99 games since 2004.  Dempsey spent the past 6 1/2 seasons in the Premier League.
He began his career in MLS with the New England Revolution in
2004 before moving to England with Fulham in January 2007.  He joined Tottenham from Fulham last season and scored 12
goals in 43 games in all competitions. He had a total of 72
goals during his time in  England .  Dempsey played at the 2006 and 2010 World Cups and is a
three-time winner of U.S. Soccer’s Male Athlete of the Year
award.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  