-- Dollar Rallies as Fed Fails to Erase U.S. Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/dollar-rallies-as-fed-fails-to-erase-u-s-stimulus-speculation.html
The dollar rallied as a weaker-than-forecast unemployment report and the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to
keep buying bonds failed to erase speculation that policy makers
will being winding down the program this year.  The Bloomberg  U.S. Dollar  Index snapped three weeks of
declines even as the Fed said persistently low inflation could
hamper the economic expansion. Australia’s dollar declined as
the nation boosted its  budget-deficit  forecast. The euro fell
from a six-week high as the  European Central Bank  said  interest
rates  may stay low for an extended period. The U.S. Census
Bureau may report Aug. 6 that the  trade deficit  shrank in June.  “The payroll report wasn’t weak enough to significantly
undermine the U.S. economic outperformance story, which I think
is the main driver of bullish dollar views,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a foreign-exchange strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “This would be
consistent for our expectation for December tapering instead of
September.”  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, gained 0.6 percent to
1,028.74 this week in New York, and touched the highest level
since July 19.  The U.S. tender gained against all but two of its 16 most-traded peers on the week. It gained less than 0.1 percent to
$1.3276 per euro and rose 0.7 percent to 98.94 yen. Japan’s
currency dropped 0.7 percent to 131.34 per euro.  ‘Dollar Wins’  The 162,000 employment gain followed a revised 188,000 rise
in June that was less than initially estimated. The median
forecast of 93 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
185,000 jobs gain. The  unemployment rate  dropped to 7.4 percent
from 7.6 percent.  The dollar “holds its own until there’s more synchronized
growth around the world,” Kathleen Gaffney, a portfolio manager
in Boston of the Eaton Vance Bond Fund at  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV) ,
which oversees $261 billion, said in a phone interview.  “We are going through a bit of an adjustment where the
U.S. continues to move forward, Europe has stabilized, Japan’s
in question,” she said. “Between the three, the dollar wins
out. Certainly higher rates will pull money into the U.S., as
well.”  Growth Forecasts  The U.S.’s gross domestic product will expand 1.8 percent
in 2013 and 2.7 percent next year, according to the median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. GDP in
countries using the 17-nation euro will shrink 0.6 percent
before growing 1 percent, while Japan’s is estimated to increase
1.8 percent and 1.4 percent, separate surveys show.  The  U.S. trade deficit  eased to $43.3 billion in June from
$45 billion the previous month, according to the Bloomberg
survey median.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said June 19 after the Fed’s
policy meeting that the central bank may start dialing back its
bond-buying program this year and end it entirely in mid-2014 if
the economy achieves sustainable growth. The Fed has been buying
$40 billion of mortgage bonds and $45 billion of Treasuries to
inject cash into the economy.  A Federal Open Market Committee report on July 31 left the
monthly pace of bond purchases unchanged, while saying in a
statement “the committee recognizes that inflation persistently
below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic
performance, but it anticipates that inflation will move back
toward its objective over the medium term.”  Market ‘Urgency’  The payrolls report “doesn’t necessarily change the view
on when tapering will happen, but it reduces the urgency in the
market because of the positioning,”  Sebastien Galy , a senior
foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA, said by
phone from New York. “I would guess the market is no longer
long dollar. It’s probably marginally short dollar, and that’s
helped put that move higher in euro.” A long position is a bet
an asset, in this case the U.S. dollar, will increase in value.
A short position is a wager it will decrease.  Futures traders increased their bets that the Australian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar to the most on
record going back to 1993, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Australian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was
72,573 on July 30, compared with net shorts of 63,982 a week
earlier.  Biggest Drop  The Aussie had the biggest decline among the U.S. dollar’s
major peers as the Australian government predicted the budget
deficit for the year ending June 30, 2014, will be A$30.1
billion ($26.8 billion), compared with a previous forecast for
an A$18 billion shortfall.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia will probably cut Australia’s
overnight cash rate target by 25 basis points, or 0.25
percentage point, to 2.5 percent at a policy meeting on Aug. 6,
according to 26 of 27 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News .
Traders agree, seeing a 94 percent chance of a reduction,
according to  interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Australian dollar lost 3.7TK percent to 89.16 U.S.
cents this week.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Aug. 1 that interest
rates in the  euro zone  will remain low for an extended period of
time. He also said there are indications that the combined
economy of the currency bloc is stabilizing.  The ECB and the  Bank of England  left their benchmark
interest rates unchanged at 0.5 percent, as forecast by
economists in Bloomberg surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  