-- Emergency U.S. Rail Rules Imposed After Quebec Disaster
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/emergency-u-s-rail-rules-imposed-after-quebec-disaster.html
U.S. regulators imposed emergency
rules to prevent parked trains from breaking loose, responding
to last month’s derailment in  Quebec  that killed dozens of
people and raised questions about rail safety.  The order yesterday from the Federal Railroad
Administration prohibits operators from leaving trains carrying
hazardous materials unattended without prior authorization and
requires employees to tell dispatchers the number of hand brakes
used. It also mandates that workers responsible for securing
trains participate in daily job briefings.  “While we wait for the full investigation to conclude, the
department is taking steps today to help prevent a similar
incident from occurring,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said in a statement announcing the order.  Regulators said they were responding to the July 6 accident
in which a 72-car train loaded with crude oil rolled from a stop
into the town of Lac-Megantic, causing the worst rail disaster
in  Canada  in a century. Forty-seven people died in the resulting
explosion, which also leveled about 40 buildings.  Railroads must comply with the U.S. order within 30 days,
and violations will result in enforcement actions, the agency
said. Under a related safety advisory issued by the FRA and the
 Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration , the
regulators said using multiple crew members enhances rail safety
and urged railroads to review their staffing for shipments of
dangerous cargo.  Canadian Order  The U.S. agency’s move followed similar steps last week by
Canadian regulators.  Transport Canada  on July 23 imposed its own
requirements on setting brakes and now mandates that at least
two workers operate a locomotive hauling hazardous materials.  Canadian investigators have said that not enough force was
applied to the hand brakes to keep the train from moving. The
train, which had a crew of one, was left unattended for the
night near the town before the accident.  “Railroads will implement what has been issued by the FRA
today and examine what additional steps might be appropriate to
ensure rail continues to be one of the safest ways to move
hazardous materials,” said Edward Hamberger, the chief
executive officer of the  Association of American Railroads , a
Washington-based industry group.  The FRA order emphasized that U.S. rail transport remains
“extremely safe.” In 2011, there were 20 reported accidents in
which hazardous material was released out of 2.2 million
shipments, according to the agency.  ‘Potential’ Danger  “The Lac-Megantic incident demonstrates the substantial
potential for danger than exists when an unattended train rolls
away and derails resulting in the sudden release of hazardous
materials,” the emergency order states.  The FRA also said in its statement that it will convene an
emergency meeting of its Railroad Safety Advisory Committee to
study whether further changes are warranted.  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest U.S. carrier, said it had
no immediate comment pending a review of the agency’s directive.
The Omaha, Nebraska-based company supports the FRA’s rail-safety
efforts, said Mark Davis, a spokesman.  The new rules come as trains carry an increasing amount of
crude from places like  North Dakota , where oil production has
boomed thanks to hydraulic fracturing, a drilling technique that
coaxes fossil fuels from shale rock formations.  The Montreal Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd. train that
crashed in Lac-Megantic was hauling crude from North Dakota to
Irving Oil Corp.’s 298,800-barrel-a-day Saint John refinery in
 New Brunswick . The carrier is owned by closely held Rail World
Inc. of  Chicago .  Crude Oil  Crude-oil  shipments are the fastest growing of all
hazardous materials sent by rail, the order states. The number
of originations have jumped by 443 percent since 2005.
Transportation of corn-based ethanol has climbed by a similar
percentage, according to the FRA.  The increase in crude oil shipments via rail makes any
violations “a serious, immediate safety concern,” according to
the order.  While the FRA said rail transportation was safe, it cited a
number of instances in which it found railroads didn’t comply
with existing rules for braking on trains.  “With limited resources, FRA can inspect only a small
percentage of brakes and vehicles for regulatory compliance,”
the order states. “However, even with its limited resources,
FRA has recorded nearly 4,950 securement defects in the course
of its inspections since January 2010, an average of
approximately 1,483 defects a year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  