-- Gilts Decline as U.K. Data Diminish Safety Demand; Pound Weakens
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-08-03T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/gilts-decline-as-u-k-data-diminish-safety-demand-pound-weakens.html
U.K. government bonds fell for a
second week second week as industry reports showed manufacturing
and construction expanded more than analysts forecast, sapping
demand for fixed-income securities.  Benchmark 10-year gilt  yields  climbed to a three-week high
after the  Bank of England  left its bond-buying program on hold
and kept interest rates at a record low. Governor  Mark Carney 
will detail the central bank’s policy on forward guidance on
interest rates in next week’s Inflation Report in an attempt to
anchor borrowing costs. Britain’s economy will grow faster this
year than previously forecast, the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research said. The pound fell this week
against the dollar and the euro.  “The stronger U.K. data has impacted 10-year yields,”  Sam Hill , a U.K. rates strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  London ,
said yesterday. “Beyond the five-year sector there is more of a
risk that yields do respond to better data. The message from
U.K. policy makers should be strong enough to trump better data
out to the five-year sector.”  The yield on 10-year gilts climbed nine basis points, or
0.9 percentage point, in the week to 2.43 percent at 5 p.m.
London time yesterday, the biggest gain since the five days
ended June 21. The 1.75 percent security due in September 2022
fell 0.72, or 7.20 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 94.52.  Reports this week showed manufacturing and construction
expansion exceeded analyst predictions. The U.K. economy
expanded 0.6 percent in the second quarter, a report showed last
month, while unemployment claims fell in June at the fastest
pace in three years.  Carney Presentation  Carney will present the Monetary Policy Committee’s review
of steering policy expectations next week after saying in July
that changes in bets on future  interest rates  were “not
warranted.” A report next week will show a gauge of U.K.
services expanded for a seventh month in July, according to a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  Gilts lost 3.1 percent this year through Aug. 1, according
to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bunds fell 1.3 percent
and Treasuries slid 3.1 percent.  The pound fell 0.7 percent in the week to $1.5273. The U.K.
currency depreciated 0.7 percent to 86.90 pence per euro after
depreciating to 87.70 pence on Aug. 1, the weakest level since
March 12.  Sterling rose 0.9 percent in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The euro added 4.7 percent and
the dollar climbed 2.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  