-- IBT Media Buys Newsweek From Diller’s IAC After Online Shift
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/ibt-media-buys-newsweek-from-diller-s-iac-after-online-shift.html
IBT Media said it’s buying  Newsweek 
from  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , splitting it from the Daily Beast
brand, and plans to make it profitable.  IBT, owner of the International Business Times, is
acquiring Newsweek after the 80-year-old magazine shifted to
online-only in January and lost its chief executive in June.
Terms of the deal weren’t disclosed, according to a statement
from IBT yesterday announcing the transaction.  “With our knowledge of building digital brands and with
the power of the Newsweek brand we think we can build it and
definitely be profitable,” Etienne Uzac, co-founder and chief
executive officer of IBT Media, said in an interview yesterday.
“There are revenue models that Newsweek has that are different
from what IBT is doing, so bringing the two together there’s a
lot of opportunity to grow.”  IAC, run by  Barry Diller , purchased Newsweek as part of an
agreement with the late  Sidney Harman  in November 2010 and
combined it with the Daily Beast news website. The billionaire
this year said he regretted the move and started looking for
buyers.  “I wish I hadn’t bought Newsweek,” Diller told Bloomberg
Television in  an interview  in April. Publishing a weekly
magazine at a time when news has become instantaneous is a
“fool’s errand,” he said.  Uzac declined to comment on the terms of the deal. Harman
had acquired Newsweek from the Washington Post for $1 plus
assumption of liabilities.  Tina Brown, editor-in-chief of Newsweek/Daily Beast Co.,
will remain at The Daily Beast, Uzac said. Newsweek employees
will be evaluated on whether they fit into IBT’s plans within
the next 30 to 60 days. The magazine, which published its last
print issue in December, will remain online-only.  “We are 100 percent digital company and so that’s been our
forte,” Uzac said. “In the future there might be some
opportunity for print but not right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  