-- Inbee Park Seven Off Lead in Suspended Women’s British Open
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-08-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/inbee-park-seven-off-lead-as-wind-suspends-women-s-british-open.html
Inbee Park pulled within seven shots
of the leader Na-Yeon Choi before high winds suspended
yesterday’s third round of the Women’s  British Open .  Play on the Old Course in St. Andrews, Scotland, was halted
at 12:33 p.m. local time (7:33 a.m. New York) by gusts of up to
38 miles per hour (61 kilometers per hour). After a 5 1/2-hour
wait, tournament officials announced that golf would resume
today at 6:15 a.m.  Park was 1-under par through four holes before the stoppage
and is 3 under for the tournament. The South Korean is seeking
to become the first golfer to win four major professional
championships in a calendar year.  Choi leads at 10 under, one shot better than Japan’s Miki
Saiki and two ahead of Morgan Pressel of the U.S. American
Nicole Castrale,  South Korea ’s Jee-Young Lee and Denmark’s
Suzann Pettersen are all 7 under. None of the leaders started
the third round.  Park, who is tied for 20th place, is bidding for her fourth
major title of 2013 after winning her second U.S. Women’s Open
last month. She captured the LPGA Championship in June and the
Kraft Nabisco Championship in April. The LPGA is adding the
Evian Masters in September as a fifth major this year.  Babe Zaharias was the last woman to win the first three
majors in a season, in 1950, five years before a fourth Grand
Slam tournament was added. Pat Bradley, in 1986, was the last
woman to win three major titles in a year.  Tiger Woods  held all four men’s major titles at the same
time by winning the  U.S. Open , British Open and  PGA Championship 
in 2000 and adding the Masters Tournament the following year.
 Bobby Jones  is the only golfer to win four majors in one
calendar year, taking the U.S. and British opens and U.S. and
British amateur championships in 1930.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  