-- Rohani Pledges Moderation as He Takes Iran Oath of Office
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-08-04T17:26:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/iran-s-rohani-endorsed-by-leader-says-seeks-moderate-approach-.html
Iranian President Hassan Rohani
pledged to shun extremism and take a moderate approach to
governing the Islamic Republic as he took the oath of office
before legislators today.  “The government of hope and prudence will have moderation
as a basis of its management for running the country,” Rohani,
64, said in his speech in Tehran. “The government will fight
corruption and discrimination.”  Rohani, who was endorsed by Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  to start his four-year term yesterday, succeeds  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , who took office in 2005. The Scottish-educated
cleric was elected in June on pledges to improve Iran’s economy
and world standing, and enters office as the country experiences
its worst political and economic isolation in two decades. The
economy is hampered by accelerating inflation and a weakened
currency resulting from sanctions spearheaded by the U.S. in an
effort to curb Iran’s nuclear program.  “The only way for interaction with Iran is dialogue on
equal footing, with mutual respect and mutual confidence
building,” Rohani said. “I want to clearly express that if you
want the right response it should not be through the language of
sanctions, but through discourse and respect.”  ‘Balancing Act’  Rohani did a “balancing act,” said Kamran Bokhari, vice
president for Middle Eastern affairs at the Austin, Texas-based
consulting firm Stratfor. “He was careful not to send any wrong
message because he faces considerable resistance from within the
establishment in regards to negotiations with the U.S. and
potential compromises on the nuclear issue.”  Rohani’s “choice of word were careful but clear, saying we
don’t want confrontation with the international community, but
you need to treat us with respect,” Bokhari said.  The White House released a statement congratulating
Iranians on Rohani’s inauguration within an hour of his address
in the parliament.  Rohani’s inauguration “presents an opportunity for Iran to
act quickly to resolve the international community’s deep
concerns over  Iran’s nuclear program ,” according to the
statement by the White House press secretary. The new Iranian
government “will find a willing partner” in the U.S. if it
chooses to “engage substantively and seriously.”  The statement by the Obama administration, though
“cautious,” was noteworthy in its timing, Bokhari said.  White House Statement  The U.S. “didn’t take a long time to respond,” he said.
“It’s a faint sign from the U.S. that if you want to be treated
with respect we are willing to do it, but what are you willing
to do for us?”  Rohani submitted a list of his proposed cabinet members to
lawmakers, naming Javad Zarif as foreign minister and Bijan Namdar-Zanganeh as oil minister. Cabinet appointments require
parliamentary approval. Rohani earlier today nominated Mohammad Nahavandian, the former head of  Iran ’s Chamber of Commerce,
Industries and Mines, to be his chief of staff.  Khamenei, 74, the Islamic Republic’s highest authority,
yesterday praised Rohani’s past service and backed his approach
to foreign policy. In his first press conference after being
elected, Rohani said he would seek to make Iran’s nuclear
program more transparent and improve relations with Western
nations, including the U.S.  ‘Prudent Approach’  “I approve of the prudent approach,” Khamenei told top
officials yesterday. “We need to take action wisely and
prudently.”  The U.S. and its allies accuse the Persian Gulf nation of
seeking to build nuclear weapons, while Iran maintains its
nuclear work is for peaceful purposes of energy production and
medical research. Rohani has backed Iran’s right to a civilian
nuclear program while criticizing Ahmadinejad’s confrontational
style on the issue.  The president may be able to challenge Iran’s status quo
because he is a “centrist,” said  Trita Parsi , author of “A
Single Roll of the Dice: Obama’s Diplomacy with Iran,” and
president of the National Iranian-American Council in
 Washington .  “His political center of gravity is at the center,” Parsi
said yesterday in an e-mail. “He enjoys good relations with
most elements within the Iranian power structure, from the Iran
Revolutionary Guard Corps to the clergy to the various political
factions.”  Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
the Petroleum Exporting Countries a year ago, now ranks sixth as
sanctions limit investment and hinder its ability to export oil.
Inflation reached 36 percent in June and a quarter of all
Iranians age 15 to 29 were unemployed in the last Iranian year
ended March 20, according to official figures.  Ten foreign presidents and senior representatives from 52
nations attended Rohani’s inauguration, including leaders from
Afghanistan, Pakistan and Lebanon, state-run television said.  Iranians’ “minimum expectations are that the government
restore stability and tranquility to the country,” Rohani said
yesterday. “We have a long, long way to our destination, and
the journey has just started.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  