-- Kerry Says Egypt ‘Restored Democracy’ as Islamists Rally
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-05T15:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/kerry-says-egypt-restored-democracy-as-islamists-rally.html
(Corrects name of Qatar’s foreign minister in second
paragraph after ‘Saudi Arabia’ subheadline of story published
Aug. 3.)  Secretary of State John Kerry said
 Egypt ’s army was “restoring democracy” after it toppled
elected President Mohamed Mursi, then tempered his remarks and
signaled a renewed U.S. diplomatic push to end the country’s
political standoff.  “The temporary government has a responsibility” to Mursi
loyalists to let them “demonstrate in peace,” Kerry said in
London yesterday. “At the same time, the demonstrators have a
responsibility” to let Egypt establish “a new normal,” he
said before a meeting to discuss the crisis with Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed al-Nahyan, the United Arab Emirates foreign minister.  Kerry spurred criticism in Washington and Cairo when he
appeared to go further than any other U.S. official in
justifying the military’s ouster of Mursi on July 3. The
American government has had close ties to Egypt’s military for
three decades, and President  Barack Obama ’s administration has
declined to call Mursi’s ouster a coup. Doing so would have
required the U.S. to suspend about $1.3 billion in annual
military aid.  Egypt’s army “was asked to intervene by millions and
millions of people,” Kerry told  Pakistan ’s Geo TV Aug. 1 in
Islamabad. The military “did not take over to the best of our
judgment,” and by replacing Mursi with a civilian government,
“in effect they were restoring democracy,” he said.  ‘Unacceptable’ Violence  Asked if he was excusing the killing of hundreds of people
in protests following Mursi’s removal, Kerry called the violence
“absolutely unacceptable” and described the political crisis
as “very confusing and very difficult.”  Kerry’s comments reflect the challenge the U.S. faces in
advocating democratic principles while trying to convince all
sides in Egypt to accept new elections and a new constitution,
without returning to office a president from the Islamist Muslim
Brotherhood party who has alienated much of the electorate.  Yesterday, Kerry signaled that the U.S. is ramping up its
outreach to groups in Egypt and its Arab neighbors. He is
encouraging an “inclusive” process to end the standoff that’s
crippling the economy and threatening to trigger more violence.  Kerry dispatched his deputy, Bill Burns, to Egypt on a
mission to listen to all parties, including the Brotherhood
leadership, whom he didn’t meet during a mid-July visit. The
U.S. is seeking a compromise that avoids prolonged
demonstrations or a violent crackdown, officials said.  Meeting Today  At a meeting with Burns today, officials from Egypt’s
Ministry of Foreign Affairs stressed the interim government’s
commitment to achieving national reconciliation with all
political forces and said it would refrain from all forms of
violence, according to a ministry statement.  Burns extended his visit to Cairo by a day and was
scheduled to meet with Prime Minister Hazem El Beblawi and
Defense Minister Abdelfatah al-Seesi, the state-run Middle East
News Agency reported.  A delegation of Mursi supporters will meet with Burns
today, Gehad el-Haddad, a Brotherhood spokesman, said on the
Twitter Inc. website. The group, representing the Freedom and
Justice and al-Wasat parties as well as the Brotherhood, will
press for “rejection to the coup,” he said.  In their meeting yesterday, Kerry asked his Emirati
counterpart to urge the interim Egyptian government to refrain
from using force in dealing with protesters, according to an
official in Washington close to the talks who spoke on condition
of not being identified because he wasn’t authorized to comment.
Kerry asked the sheikh to use his influence with the caretaker
authorities to encourage engaging with opponents.  Saudi Arabia  Last month, Emirati leaders pledged $3 billion in support
to Egypt’s interim government. Along with Saudi Arabia, which
said it would supply $5 billion, the U.A.E. was among the
leading critics of the Mursi government.  A State Department official who spoke on condition of not
being identified said Kerry also made seven telephone calls in
the past week to Khalid bin Mohamed Al-Attiyah, the foreign
minister of Qatar, whose government is most closely aligned with
the Brotherhood. The Persian Gulf state provided Egypt with
billions of dollars of aid during Mursi’s year in office.  Kerry also made nine calls in the past week to the interim
Egyptian president, vice president and foreign minister, the
department official said.  That outreach is part of a bid to encourage restraint and a
political compromise by all parties, according to an adviser to
the interim Egyptian government who asked not to be identified.  Sit-Ins  The adviser said Egypt’s interim leaders want to stop the
protests because they are slowing the transition to new
elections and revival of the economy, yet they realize that in
the eyes of world opinion, the best course would be to let
Brotherhood supporters continue sit-ins.  Brotherhood supporters massed in Cairo and other cities
after prayers yesterday to demand Mursi’s reinstatement. The
clashes injured 34 people, including 25 during protests by
Brotherhood supporters at Media Production City on the outskirts
of Cairo, state-run Ahram Gate website reported, citing Khaled
El-Khatib, a health ministry official.  The south Giza prosecution today started investigating 35
suspects in connection with yesterday’s attempt to storm the
media complex, MENA reported.  A pro-Mursi alliance, comprising Brotherhood members and
Islamist parties, called on Egyptians to demonstrate across the
country tomorrow, according to a statement on the Muslim
Brotherhood’s website. Their calls for continued rallies are
fueling concern that fresh violence may arise after dozens of
protesters were killed a week ago.  The Interior Ministry warned of a crackdown on pro-Mursi
sit-ins in two of the capital’s main squares, promising safe
conduct to those who left immediately.  Since July 3, authorities have rounded up Islamist leaders
and frozen their assets. This week, the Brotherhood’s top
official, Mohammed Badie, was charged with incitement to murder.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  London  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  