-- New York Times Sells Boston Globe to John Henry for $70M
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2013-08-04T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/new-york-times-sells-boston-globe-to-john-henry-for-70m.html
New York  Times Co., which put its
Boston Globe newspaper up for sale this year, agreed to sell the
publication to John Henry, owner of the Boston Red Sox baseball
team, for $70 million in cash.  The deal is $40 million short of the $110 million in
pension liabilities said to be owed by the Globe properties
collectively known as the New England Media Group, and is
expected to close in 30 to 60 days. The sale also includes the
Globe website, the Boston.com site, the Worcester Telegram &
Gazette, a 49 percent stake in Metro Boston, and the direct-mail
marketing company GlobeDirect, the New York Times said in a
statement yesterday.  “This is a thriving, dynamic region that needs a strong,
sustainable Boston Globe playing an integral role in the
community’s long-term future,” Henry said in a separate
statement. “In coming days there will be announcements
concerning those joining me in this community commitment and
effort.”  Times Co. put the Globe up  for sale  in February and hired
 Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  to manage the process, part of an effort
to focus on its flagship New York Times media brand. New York
Times, which bought the Globe for $1.1 billion 20 years ago,
mostly in stock, is coping with an industrywide decline in
advertising that has caused a drop in sales and stock prices.
Bids for the Globe were expected to be in the range of $100
million, people familiar with the matter said this year.  Circulation  The Globe’s average weekday circulation, including digital
editions, reached 245,572 this year, less than half of its
readership in 1993 when Times Co. bought the paper, according to
the  Alliance for Audited Media . The newspaper ranks 24th in
circulation among U.S. newspapers, putting it behind the San
Diego Union-Tribune, the Las Vegas Review-Journal and the
Honolulu Star-Advertiser, according to the Alliance.  “As a result of this agreement, we will be able to sharpen
our company focus on and investments in The New York Times brand
and its journalism,” New York Times Chief Executive Officer
Mark Thompson said in the statement.  Interested parties included Rick Daniels, a former
president of the Globe, and ex-Time Inc. CEO Jack Griffin, in
partnership with cousins Steven and Ben Taylor, whose family
once owned the newspaper, the people said.  John Henry  John Henry and two partners won the Red Sox in December
2001 with a $660 million offer to the Yawkey Trust, along with
the assumption of $40 million in debt. In 2004, the club
captured its first World Series championship in 86 years and
added a second title three years later.  Henry is also the principal owner of Fenway Sports Group,
one of the largest sports, media and entertainment companies in
the world. In 2010, FSG bought Liverpool Football Club, the 18-time English soccer champion, and its Anfield stadium. The
company also owns the New England Sports Network and a 50
percent share in Roush Fenway Racing, a NASCAR racing team.  Times Co. rose 1.4 percent, or 16 cents, to $11.93 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading on Aug. 2. The shares are
up 40 percent this year, headed for the biggest annual advance
since 2009.  The publisher, controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family,
had worked on a plan to sell the Globe since 2012, when it
received an unsolicited bid from Daniels, along with Heberden
Ryan, a managing director of private-equity firm Boston Post
Partners LLC, a person familiar with the matter has said. While
their bid was about $100 million, it included contingencies that
made it less attractive, the person said.  Pension Liabilities  New York Times has rebuffed proposals that exceeded $100
million in the past. In 2011, Freedom Communications Inc. CEO
Aaron Kushner, publisher of the Orange County Register and other
California papers, offered more than $300 million, according to
another person familiar with the deal who asked not to be
identified because the matter was private.  Kushner’s offer included the assumption of both qualified
and unqualified pensions. Times Co. turned down the offer
because it didn’t include enough cash up front, according to
another person, who also requested not to be named because the
talks weren’t public.  The New England Media Group, the division that manages the
Globe, has about $110 million in pension liabilities, people
familiar with the matter said in June.  Times Co. preferred cash to help offset the liabilities,
rather than bids that assume even part of them, one of the
people said. Such bids would be less attractive because the
Globe’s pension liabilities would revert back to Times Co. if a
new owner of the Boston newspaper were to become insolvent, the
people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  