-- Honeywell Supplier’s 787-Beacon Plant to Get Canada Inspection
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/honeywell-supplier-s-787-beacon-plant-to-get-canada-inspection.html
A  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) 
subcontractor that makes aircraft emergency beacons will be
inspected next week by Canadian regulators crafting a safety
directive for the device linked to a fire on a  Boeing Co. (BA)  787.  The visit to the Instrumar Ltd. plant in  St. John’s ,
Newfoundland, follows a check this week at a Honeywell facility
in Ontario, Transport Canada said yesterday in a statement. The
agency said it’s developing an airworthiness directive for the
Honeywell beacon because it’s designed and made in Canada.  Transport Canada widens the probe into the July 12 fire on
a parked 787 Dreamliner in London. The U.K. Air Accidents
Investigation Branch, with assistance from the U.S.  Federal
Aviation Administration , is investigating whether wiring crushed
under an emergency beacon’s battery cover triggered a short
circuit that incinerated the Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise 787,
a person familiar with the proceedings said.  “The Airworthiness Directive would be based on the
information collected from the equipment inspections mandated by
the FAA, information already provided by Honeywell, and the
results of TC’s inspections of Honeywell and Instrumar,”
 Transport Canada  said in the statement.  No details were provided about the inspection at
Honeywell’s factory in Mississauga, Ontario, nor did the agency
say when or how the Instrumar plant would be checked.  Instrumar has been manufacturing emergency locator
transmitters in partnership with Honeywell since 2004 and
referred questions on the product to Honeywell, the company said
yesterday in an e-mailed comment.  ‘Simple Request’  “It’s a simple request from Transport Canada to come in
and visit our facility,” said Steve Brecken, a spokesman for
 Morris Township , New Jersey-based Honeywell. “We certainly
welcome that.” He declined to comment on the inspection of the
Instrumar factory, referring questions to Instrumar.  Boeing, based in Chicago, urged airlines in a July 29
service bulletin to check 717, 737 Next Generation, 747-400, 767
and 777 aircraft equipped with Honeywell’s fixed emergency
locator transmitters after two 787 Dreamliner operators
discovered wiring issues in the devices.  U.S. and European regulators last month ordered 787
operators to inspect the beacons, though they stopped short of
British investigators’ recommendation that the devices be
dismantled and the inspections widened to about 6,000 aircraft
worldwide.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  