-- Treasuries Fall for Second Week as Economic Gains Fuel Fed View
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/treasuries-fall-for-second-week-as-economic-gains-fuel-fed-view.html
Treasuries fell for a second week as
traders bet economic growth is on a sustainable-enough pace to
allow the Federal Reserve to reduce bond-buying later this year
even after the U.S. added fewer jobs than forecast last month.  U.S. 30-year bond yields  reached  the highest level in two
years as second quarter economic growth exceeded forecasts and a
manufacturing index expanded the fastest in two years.
Treasuries trimmed the five-day loss yesterday after the jobs
report and rallied July 31 when the Fed said growth has been
modest and pledged to keep buying $85 billion of bonds a month.
Treasury will sell $72 billion of notes and bonds next week.  “The economy continues to expand at a moderate pace, and
the Fed still wants to remove accommodation as soon as they
can,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist in New York
at broker-dealer BTIG LLC. “The weaker-than-expected jobs
numbers isn’t enough to reverse the stronger momentum. We’ll
need to see more to slow the tapering story.”  The benchmark U.S. 10-year  yield  rose three basis points
this week, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.60 percent in New
York, Bloomberg Bond Trader data showed. The price of the 1.75
percent note due in May 2023 dropped 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000
face amount, to 92 23/32. The two-week yield gain was 12 basis
points and it touched 2.74 percent yesterday, almost the 2013
high of 2.75 percent reached on July 8.  Thirty-year bond yields added six basis points to 3.68
percent, and touched 3.78 percent, the highest since August
2011.  Yield Difference  The  difference  between two- and 30-year yields reached 343
basis points, the most since August 2011. A steeper yield curve
reflects diminishing demand from investors for longer-maturity
bonds on speculation that growth and inflation will accelerate
at a faster pace.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators  shifted  to
a net-long position in 10-year note futures in the week ending
July 30, according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data. Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 11,903 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade. Last week, traders were net-short 32,312
contracts.  The government will sell $32 billion of three-year notes,
$24 billion of 10-year notes and $16 billion of 30-year bonds
next week, raising $2.4 billion of new cash as investors will
redeem $69.6 billion of securities maturing on Aug. 15.  A measure of demand at U.S. debt auctions has fallen this
year to the lowest level since 2009 as a drop in bond prices
generates the biggest losses on government securities in four
years.  Auction Details  Investors bid $2.91 for each $1 of the $1.257 billion of
notes and bonds sold by the Treasury this year, compared with a
record high $3.15 of bids last year. It’s the first decline in
demand at the auctions since 2008, when the U.S. government
increased note and bond offerings 59 percent to $922 billion as
the recession and the financial crisis deepened.  The Treasury Department also said it plans to sell the
first floating-rate notes in January and expects to gradually
decrease coupon-auction sizes during the coming quarter as the
nation’s fiscal health improves.  The Fed is buying $85 billion of bonds each month, known as
quantitative easing, to put downward pressure on interest rates,
and policy makers are discussing whether the economy has
improved enough for them to start reducing the purchases.  “Economic activity expanded at a modest pace during the
first half of the year,” the Fed said following a two-day
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee July 31. “The
Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2
percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, but
it anticipates that inflation will move back toward its
objective over the medium term.”  Futures Gauge  Fed funds futures show a 43 percent probability that the
central bank will raise borrowing costs in January 2015 for the
first time after the 2008 financial crisis, down from 49.8
percent the day before.  “The trends to higher rates still persist,” said William O’Donnell, head U.S. government bond strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“The Fed wants to make tracks to ending the program according
to their schedule.”  The economy has added an average of 192,000 jobs this year
through July, the fastest pace since 2005 when it created
207,000 positions per month, Labor Department data show.  Economic Updates  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 1.7 percent annualized rate, topping a 1
percent forecast, after a 1.1 percent gain the prior quarter
that was smaller than previously estimated, Commerce Department
figures showed July 31 in  Washington . The Institute for Supply
Management’s manufacturing index increased to 55.4 in July from
50.9 a month earlier, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said. The
median forecast of 84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for the measure to rise to 52.  “The data has been very impressive, and it’s pointing
toward growth that will likely allow the Fed to start reducing
its asset purchases,” said Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, one of 21
primary dealers that are required to bid at Treasury auctions.  Treasuries fell for a third month in July, dropping 3.5
percent since the end of April, based on the  Bloomberg U.S.
Treasury Bond Index. (BUSY)  Investment-grade company debt declined 4.1
percent over the past three months even after gaining in July,
the  Bloomberg USD Corporate Bond Index (BUSC)  shows.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  