-- Rudd Says He Hasn’t Decided Election Date, Wants to Attend G-20
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-08-03T07:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/rudd-to-call-australia-election-for-sept-7-sydney-herald-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd 
said “no determination whatsoever” has been made on an
election date and he wants to attend a  Group of 20 summit  in
Russia on Sept. 5-6, making a vote early next month less likely.  The  Sydney Morning Herald  reported today that Rudd will
visit the governor-general tomorrow or Aug. 5 to seek approval
for an election on Sept. 7, citing unidentified people.  “I’ve made no determination whatsoever in terms of the
date of an election,” Rudd, who’s obliged to call an election
by Nov. 30, told reporters in Brisbane today. “It’s my
intention to be in St. Petersburg. But I’m very mindful, also,
of the other challenges which lie ahead of us.”  Speculation is mounting that Rudd will seek to capitalize
on improving opinion polls after he regained the leadership of
the  Labor party  five weeks ago. Since ousting  Julia Gillard , the
nation’s first female prime minister, Rudd has sought to
neutralize opposition attacks with plans to scrap the world’s
highest carbon price, curb the number of asylum seekers arriving
by sea and reform his party’s leadership rules.  Rudd today signed an agreement with the president of  Nauru 
that will allow asylum seekers to be processed on the island
nation and, if they are found to be in need of protection, to
also be settled there. He said the deal was similar to an
earlier one reached with  Papua New Guinea .  Budget Blowout  Yesterday,  Australia ’s government announced the  budget
deficit  will blow out to A$30.1 billion ($26.8 billion) this
fiscal year. Rudd’s Labor party is framing the looming election
as a battle between David Cameron-style austerity from the
opposition and its own program that allows the deficit to widen
as it prioritizes jobs and economic growth.  Finance Minister  Penny Wong  said today that the opposition
Liberal-National coalition will need to cut spending by A$70
billion to bring the budget to the government’s position. The
opposition has vowed to scrap Labor’s carbon trading plan and 30
percent levy on  iron ore  and coal mining company profits.  “We’re not going to cop a lecture from the Labor party
about accuracy in numbers,” opposition treasury spokesman  Joe Hockey  said today. “For crying out loud, every number over the
last six years has been dead wrong and the budget is bleeding.”  Rudd prevailed over Gillard in a 57-45 vote among lawmakers
five weeks ago that underscored the party’s split between the
man who swept Labor to power in 2007 and the woman who ousted
him in 2010.  Surveys show the switch back to Rudd has boosted Labor. A
Newspoll published July 23 had Labor trailing the opposition 48
percent to 52 percent on a two-party preferred basis, designed
to gauge which of them is most likely to form a government,
compared with a 14 percentage point gap under Gillard. The two
parties are split 50-50, according to a Galaxy poll published in
the Sunday Telegraph newspaper on July 28.  The G-20 leaders’ summit will be held in the former Russian
imperial capital of  St. Petersburg .  “I place enormous priority to the G-20 and its agenda,”
Rudd said today. “At the same time, I’ll always balance that
against other considerations before us as well. As I said, no
decisions concerning election dates have been made.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  