-- SAC’s Cohen Demands SEC Investigative File as Stay Sought
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-08-03T14:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/sac-s-cohen-demands-sec-investigative-file-as-stay-sought.html
Steven A. Cohen , the billionaire
founder of hedge fund firm SAC Capital Advisors LP, doesn’t
oppose a request to delay the Securities and Exchange Commission
action against him provided that he is given prompt access to
the agency’s investigative records.  Cohen’s lawyers, in a response filed yesterday in
administrative court in  Washington , said they would have
“insufficient time” to review the SEC’s documents adequately
before the proceeding if they are not produced until the stay is
lifted. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara asked July 26 to
delay the SEC’s case until related criminal matters against
Cohen’s firm and two former employees were resolved.  “The pendency of related criminal proceedings should not
serve as a reason to delay the production of the SEC’s
investigative file in this proceeding,” Cohen’s attorneys wrote
in the filing. While there is “undoubtedly some overlap” in
the civil and criminal investigative files, the SEC has
indicated it has as much as five times the amount of data as
federal prosecutors, Cohen’s lawyers said.  Bharara in July announced criminal charges against SAC
Capital, calling it “a veritable magnet for market cheaters.”
The SEC accused Cohen of failing to supervise two former
employees currently face criminal charges that they traded on
non-public information.  It is common to delay civil proceedings when related
criminal proceedings that involve overlapping witnesses and
documents are under way.  SEC spokeswoman Florence Harmon and Jonathan Gasthalter, a
spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC, declined to
comment yesterday.  The SEC’s chief administrative law judge, Brenda P. Murray,
had scheduled an initial hearing in Cohen’s matter for Aug. 26.
Murray hasn’t issued a decision on whether to grant the stay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  