-- Wages Fell in July as Hiring Slowed in Uneven U.S. Job Market
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-08-03T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/wages-fell-in-july-as-hiring-slowed-in-uneven-u-s-job-market.html
Employees took home less pay and
worked fewer hours in July and job growth was the weakest in
four months even as the U.S.  jobless rate  fell, underscoring
uneven progress in the labor market.  Payrolls rose by 162,000 last month, while unemployment
dropped to 7.4 percent from 7.6 percent, the Labor Department
reported yesterday in  Washington . The workweek on average was
the shortest in six months and hourly earnings fell for the
first time since October.  “We are losing a bit of momentum in the labor market,”
said Gennadiy Goldberg, a New York-based strategist at TD
Securities Inc., which projected a 165,000 gain in payrolls.
“Earnings were a bit disappointing. Consumers really need to
see wage growth to help accelerate their spending.”  Federal Reserve policy makers are watching the job market
as they debate whether to start trimming $85 billion a month in
asset purchases as early as September. Slower hiring shows some
employers are meeting demand with current staffing levels until
the U.S. recovers from the effects of federal spending cuts and
tax increases that led to weak first-half growth.  Hourly earnings fell 0.1 percent on average in July from
the prior month to $23.98. They were up 1.9 percent over the
past year, according to the Labor Department data. The mean
workweek for all workers declined six minutes to 34.4 hours.  Another report yesterday from the Commerce Department
showed household purchases, which account for about 70 percent
of the economy, rose 0.5 percent in June after a 0.2 percent
gain the prior month. Adjusting for inflation,  consumer spending 
increased 0.1 percent in June, the same as in the previous
month. Incomes climbed 0.3 percent.  Retailers, Restaurants  The jobs report showed retailers added almost 47,000
workers, the most in eight months, while restaurants took on
38,400. The combined increase in the two industries accounted
for  53 percent  of all net new hires in July.  Employers also took on 117,000  female workers  last month,
more than double the 45,000 men added to payrolls. The
industries with the biggest increases in women hires were retail
and leisure and hospitality.  “The good news is that women are gaining a lot of jobs,”
said Joan Entmacher, vice president for family economic security
at the National Women’s Law Center in Washington. “The bad news
is that they’re in low-wage occupations.”  The Labor Department’s household survey, used to calculate
the jobless rate, showed that part-time employment climbed by
174,000 in July, exceeding a 92,000 gain in full-time hiring.  Construction, Manufacturing  Employment in education and health services had the
smallest gain in a year, yesterday’s figures showed. Payrolls
fell in construction, and rose in manufacturing for the first
time in five months.  Private employment, which excludes government agencies,
advanced 161,000, less than the median forecast in the Bloomberg
survey and following a revised gain of 196,000.  “This isn’t a disaster of a report but it shows the U.S.
remains vulnerable to a slower economic-growth performance,”
said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP
Paribas in  New York , who also had projected payrolls would rise
by 165,000. “This isn’t the kind of progress the Fed would like
to see. At the margin, it keeps them cautious.”  Treasury yields fell and stocks rose yesterday as investors
speculated the data would mean the central bank will continue
its stimulus efforts. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced
0.2 percent to close at 1,709.67 in New York. The yield on the
10-year U.S. note declined to 2.60 percent from 2.71 percent
late the previous day.  Economists’ Forecasts  The median forecast of 93 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a 185,000 payrolls gain in July. The increase in June
was revised down to 188,000 from 195,000.  Among those finding a job was Christopher Welch, who
started work as a credit manager at a community bank in Gahanna,
 Ohio , on July 1 after being unemployed for about 4 months when
his previous position at a bank was eliminated.  “My background definitely proved to be something that was
of value to my current employer,” said Welch, 48. “I figured
it would really be tough sledding out there, so I was really
quite concerned.”  Steve Ulrich is counting on further improvement in the job
market. The Columbus, Ohio, resident started looking for work in
June after the company he owned for six years, Your Complete Web
Presence, failed to turn a profit.  Marketable Skills  “I’m taking it one day at a time,” said Ulrich, 60, who
previously worked in the marketing department of a  software
company . “I’m hoping my skills are still transferable.”  Improving  consumer confidence  and auto sales have
encouraged companies such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and Dearborn,
Michigan-based  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to take on more workers.  Amazon.com, the world’s biggest Web retailer, announced in
July it is adding more than 5,000 full-time jobs at U.S.
warehouses to meet demand. The Seattle-based company also is
hiring 2,000 customer-service staff, including part-time and
seasonal workers.  Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, has said it’ll
hire 3,000 salaried employees this year, 800 more than
originally planned.  “The automotive sector of our economy has now contributed
greatly to overall growth during this expansion,” Ellen Hughes-Cromwick, chief economist at Ford, said on an Aug. 1 conference
call. “Job and income gains are positive and  interest rates 
remained relatively low.”  Auto Sales  Cars and light trucks  sold at a 15.6 million annualized
rate in July and 15.9 million the prior month, the strongest
back-to-back readings since late 2007, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  A growing number of economists surveyed by Bloomberg from
July 18 to July 22 projected the Fed will begin tapering the
pace of its asset purchases in September.  “Labor market conditions have shown further improvement in
recent months, on balance, but the  unemployment rate  remains
elevated,” policy makers said in a July 31 statement at the
conclusion of a two-day meeting in Washington. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  also said it will maintain its $85 billion in
monthly bond buying. “Economic growth will pick up from its
recent pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline.”  The latest jobs data will “keep the debate alive over the
prospects for a September tapering,” said  William O’Donnell ,
head U.S. government bond strategist at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of 21 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed. “Another weaker-than-expected employment number in
September might delay it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  