-- Twitter Makes It Easier to Report Abusive Users
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-08-03T11:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-03/twitter-u-k-manager-apologizes-for-harassment-of-women-on-site.html
Twitter Inc.’s U.K. general manager
Tony Wang has apologized to women who have been harassed on the
short-messaging website following complaints about violent
threats toward high-profile female users.  Twitter has added an in-Tweet report button, to make it
easier for users to report abusive behavior, and updated its
rules about harassment after female members of Parliament,
received threats from users of the short messaging service.  Tony Wang, the general manager for Twitter in the U.K.,
used his  account  to apologize to women who have been harassed on
the website. Twitter said it may permanently suspend users who
threaten others or engage in targeted abuse.  “I personally apologize to the women who have experienced
abuse on Twitter and for what they have gone through,” Wang
said. “The abuse they’ve received is simply not acceptable.
It’s not acceptable in the real world, and it’s not acceptable
on Twitter.”  MP Stella Creasy reported abusive Twitter messages,
including a rape threat, to police on July 29. MP Claire Perry
and journalist Caroline Criado-Perez, who campaigned to get
author  Jane Austen ’s image printed on a new bank note, also
complained about sexual abuse online. Criado-Perez said on her
Twitter account today that she also had received an e-mail with
an apology from Wang.  A 21-year-old man was arrested in the Manchester area on
suspicion of harassment and released on bail earlier this week,
according to  London ’s Metropolitan police.  Lawmakers may call officials from Twitter to testify about
the abusive postings,  John Whittingdale , chairman of the Commons
Culture, Media and Sport Committee, said in an interview with
BBC Radio. The committee has already decided to hold an inquiry
into abuse online, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  