-- ‘Nobody’ Is Smart About Stupid TV; ‘Violet’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/-nobody-is-smart-about-stupid-tv-violet-review.html
“Nobody Loves You,” the new
musical at  New York ’s  Second Stage , mines rich veins of
addictive cruelty, pseudo-intellectual baloney and sitcom
fabulousness to skewer both reality-TV shows and the viewers who
tweet about them.  The title is the name of a show in which a bunch of lonely
hearts is packed off to a house, where they mix and match,
hoping to survive the inevitable whittling down as losers are
dispatched with the humiliating send-off: “Nobody loves you.”  Airhead Tanya (Leslie Kritzer) is a fan of “Nobody Loves
You.” Her philosophy-major boyfriend Jeff (Bryan Fenkart)
flaunts his contempt for it and her.  When she dumps him, he wins a place on the show as the
resident grouch. His disdain for the false intimacy offers a
kind of meta-reality that the audience loves, according to the
ratings pop that follows his arrival.  The witty script is by Itamar Moses, a playwright whose
“Completeness” is one of the smartest accounts of love among
the post-grad set.  Love Interest  Gaby Alter’s pop score by has its moments too, especially
in “So Much to Hate,” sung by Jeff and Jenny (Aleque Reid),
the love interest he not-unexpectedly finds on “Nobody Loves
You.”  It’s a classic anti-love love song in which the lovers
catalogue their pet peeves:  “I hate movies with romantic cliches that describe love as
this earthly paradise for two,” Jeff sings.  “I hate guys that use their hatred of cliches as an excuse
not to do anything that’s nice for you,” Jenny retorts.  The lyrics and tunes are serviceable and sometimes better
than that: “You want to be the one they’re thinking of,” a
wiser Jeff sings, “That’s why being famous feels like love.”  Michelle Tattenbaum’s production (with calisthenic
choreography by  Mandy Moore ) is lively, congenially put across
by a very game cast on Mark Wendland’s utilitarian set.  Sentimental at heart, there’s nothing remotely real about
“Nobody Loves You,” but I suppose that’s part of the point.  At Second Stage Theatre, 305 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-246-4422;  http://www.2st.com . Rating: ***1/2  Encores! Off-Center  That invaluable concert series “ Encores! ” has spawned a
kid sib, “Encores! Off-Center,” whose summer mission is to
find unsung musicals that may have gotten short-changed the
first time around.  Wednesday night saw a spectacular, one-time only
performance of Jeanine Tesori’s “Violet,” featuring Sutton Foster in the title role of a woman seeking a miraculous cure
for a disfiguring scar.  Even in this 1997 musical, Tesori -- who also serves as
artistic director of “Off-Center” -- revealed a mastery of
pastiche in a score (with lyrics by Brian Crawley) that soars
with Jesus-praising gospel anthems, torchy ballads, country-tinged soliloquies and energetic dance tunes.  Director Leigh Silverman built the show expertly to a
musical peak, at one point bringing the chorus (the gospel choir
Songs of Solomon) out into the audience.  Foster brought her typically assured charm and a voice that
sometimes struck me as a bit stressed.  The stellar cast included Joshua Henry and Van Hughes as
soldiers she meets on the bus trip that frames her journey; the
remarkable Emerson Steele as Violet’s younger self, and  Chris
Sullivan  as her guilt-ridden, gentle father. (Rating: ****)  Marc Blitzstein  The series started a week earlier with a very rare concert
staging of “The Cradle Will Rock” by Marc Blitzstein, a gifted
Depression-Era composer best known for his less controversial
adaptation of “The Threepenny Opera.”  It concludes next week with that iconic show from 1978,
Nancy Ford’s and Gretchen Cryer’s “I’m Getting My Act Together
and Taking It on the Road.”  “Encores Off-Center” is at City Center, 131 W. 55th St.
Information: +1-212-581-1212;  http://www.nycitycenter.org .  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 