-- MagIndustries Seeks $1 Billion From China Bank for Congo Potash
-- B y   R o b e r t   M b a k o u o
-- 2013-07-19T08:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/magindustries-seeks-1-billion-from-china-bank-for-congo-potash.html
MagIndustries Corp. (MAA)  asked China
Development Bank for $1 billion in financing for what the
company says is one of the world’s largest undeveloped potash
projects located in the Republic of Congo.  The Mengo deposit, about 15 kilometers (9.3 miles)
northeast of the port city of Point-Noire, is expected to
produce 1.2 million metric tons of the fertilizer annually and
cost $1.36 billion.  “The Mengo potash project aims to create a production base
for world-class fertilizer,” said Longbo Chen, chief executive
officer of the Toronto-based company, according to a statement
distributed by Congo’s Mines Ministry yesterday.  East China
Engineering Science and Technology Co. , the general contractor
on the project, is expected to finish construction of the
production plant by 2015, Chen said.  MagIndustries, whose controlling shareholder is Evergreen
Group of  Shanghai , announced the partnership with ECEC on July
10. Mengo is 90 percent owned by MagIndustries’ subsidiary,
MagMinerals Potasses Congo SA, and 10 percent by the government.  “What was at first a dream now constitutes a reality,
thanks to the will expressed by the Congolese and Chinese
governments,” said Simon Liang, chairman of MagIndustries and
Evergreen, according to the Mines Ministry statement.  The plant will produce agricultural-grade potash
fertilizers for markets in Asia, South America, South Africa and
Europe, MagIndustries’ website says. Potash is used by farmers
to boost crop resistance to drought and strengthen plant root
systems.  “This is a major, structural industrial project for the
country and sub-region whose realization will contribute to the
improvement of the living conditions of the population,” Mines
Minister Pierre Oba said, according to the statement.  Congo Republic relies on crude oil to generate 69 percent
of its gross domestic product, according to the U.S. Geological
Survey. The country produces diamonds and gold, and has deposits
of iron ore, copper and zinc, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Mbakouo in Brazzaville Via Nairobi at 
 rmbakouo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  