-- Kerry-Brokered Plan Sets Basis for Mideast Peace Talks
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-20T09:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/agreement-reached-on-basis-for-resuming-mideast-peace-talks.html
Israeli and Palestinian officials
agreed yesterday on a plan aimed at renewing direct peace talks,
after four days of prodding by U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry .  While the deal is “still in the process of being
formalized,” Kerry said, the two sides will seek to set a
meeting in  Washington  “within the next week or so” to revive
negotiations that broke off in September 2010.  “I am pleased to announce that we have reached an
agreement that establishes a basis for resuming direct final-status negotiations between the Palestinians and the Israelis,”
Kerry told reporters yesterday in Amman, Jordan, as he wrapped
up his sixth trip to the region in as many months.  Kerry made the announcement after returning from a meeting
in the West Bank city of Ramallah with chief Palestinian
negotiator Saeb Erakat and Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas .
That followed two meetings with Erakat earlier yesterday.  “Everyone knows that this is not easy,” Kerry said,
acknowledging the difficulties that face Abbas and Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  in reaching a peace agreement. “We
know that the challenges require some very tough choices in the
days ahead.”  “Today, however, I am hopeful,” he said. “I’m hopeful
because of the courageous leadership shown by President Abbas
and Prime Minister Netanyahu. Both of them have chosen to make
difficult choices here.”  ‘Progress Made’  Kerry declined to provide details of the agreement, and
gave no indication that either the Israelis or the Palestinians
had budged from core positions. Speculation about its terms is
“conjecture” because “the people who know the facts are not
talking about them,” he said.  Israeli Minister of International Relations Yuval Steinitz
said today in an interview with  Israel  Radio the government had
agreed to free a number of long-serving Palestinian security
prisoners who had committed serious offenses. Netanyahu hasn’t
agreed to Palestinian demands to suspend construction in West
Bank settlements or declare that the final settlement on borders
will be based on Israel’s pre-1967 lines, Steinitz said.  The Palestinians have committed to at least nine months of
negotiation, during which they will not undertake punitive
diplomatic actions against Israel in the international arena, he
said.  Start Discussions  Abbas’s spokesman, Nabil Abu Rudeina, said in a statement
that “there was progress made, but certain details still need
to be worked out.”  “If all goes well,” Rudeina said, Kerry will send
invitations “in the next few days” to start discussions in
Washington.  Kerry said talks would be attended by Erakat, Israeli
Justice Minister  Tzipi Livni  and Netanyahu’s negotiator Yitzhak Molcho.  “I’m sure with all my heart that it is the right thing to
do for our future, our security, for the economy and Israel’s
values,” Livni said in a posting on Facebook Inc.’s social
networking website. “In the negotiating room, we will safeguard
the national interests and security of Israel as a Jewish and
democratic state. To this I am committed.”  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon welcomed the
announcement, and called on “both sides to show leadership,
courage, and responsibility to sustain this effort towards
achieving the two-state vision,” according to a statement
posted on the UN’s website.  ‘Very Dangerous’  The Hamas Islam movement that rules the  Gaza Strip 
condemned the move, calling it “very dangerous.” Hamas
spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri said in an e-mailed statement the
agreement “contradicts the national consensus that the
Palestinians agreed upon.”  “Resuming the talks only serves the occupation and gives
it a cover for its settlement expansion,” it said.  Hamas, considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and European Union, ousted Abbas’s forces from Gaza in
2007, a year after winning parliamentary elections.  The painstaking diplomacy required to reach the threshold
of renewed negotiations doesn’t augur well for the prospects of
ultimately securing a peace agreement, said Jonathan Spyer, a
political scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya,
Israel.  “Nobody is going to be optimistic that this has a chance
of reaching a compromise between the two sides any time soon,”
Spyer said by telephone.  Same Results?  Spyer said there’s no indication that the Israelis or
Palestinians have changed their core positions, “and since the
topography is still the same on the two sides, why wouldn’t it
have the same results as last time?”  Hani al-Masri, director of the Badael Palestine Media,
Research and Studies Center in Ramallah, said Palestinian
leaders will face challenges if they enter into talks without
Israeli concessions.  “The resumption of the peace negotiations with Israel amid
Israeli obstinacy is political suicide,” al-Masri said in an
interview.  Dennis Ross , who was  Middle East  peace envoy under
President  Bill Clinton , said the key to further progress will be
an environment in which both sides are willing to “stay at the
table and negotiate in good faith.”  “There had to be some understandings” exchanged during
months of Kerry’s shuttle diplomacy for the two sides to even
agree to move toward a resumption of talks, Ross said in a
telephone interview.  Halt Settlements  After talks between Kerry and Abbas, Palestinian leaders
had initially balked on July 18 at starting new negotiations
unless Israel met their longstanding demands, including a halt
to settlement construction on lands they claim for a future
state.  The parties didn’t reach agreement on the central elements
of the deal until yesterday afternoon, according to a State
Department official who asked not to be named describing
diplomatic negotiations.  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians broke down
three years ago after Netanyahu declined to extend and expand a
10-month building freeze on new construction in West Bank
settlements.  Israeli Finance Minister Yair Lapid, whose Yesh Atid party
is the second-biggest member in the ruling coalition after
Netanyahu’s Likud faction, welcomed the deal.  “It is incumbent on us to conduct these negotiations like
all negotiations in the Middle East -- with toughness, with
caution,” Lapid said in a statement posted today on his
Facebook page. “Our marriage with the Palestinians is not a
happy one, but we are seeking a fair divorce.”  Nabil Kukali, president of the Palestinian Center for
 Public Opinion , said by phone that a majority of Palestinians
trust Abbas, support the  peace process  and “will be happy for
the resumption of the peace talks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  