-- Thailand Household Debt Limits Rate-Cut Scope, Central Bank Says
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-07-19T09:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/thailand-household-debt-limits-rate-cut-scope-central-bank-says.html
Thailand ’s central bank said rising
household debt limits its scope to reduce  interest rates , even
as the monetary authority cut its economic growth forecast for
this year on slowing exports.  Gross domestic product will increase 4.2 percent compared
with 5.1 percent predicted in April, Assistant Governor Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said in Bangkok today. The central bank also cut
its export growth estimate to 4 percent from 7.5 percent and
inflation to 2.3 percent from 2.7 percent.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra asked state agencies to
monitor signs of slowing local demand and find ways to spur the
economy after the  Finance Ministry  last month lowered its 2013
growth forecast following a less-than-estimated expansion of 5.3
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier. Governor
Prasarn Trairatvorakul said earlier today the nation’s  household
debt  has increased to 80 percent of GDP.  “With such high household debt and high borrowing, any
further rate cut will not help stimulate the economy much,”
Paiboon said. “Given the current forecast for growth at 4.2
percent, the current rate should be appropriate. Still, if the
economic situation changes, we are ready to adjust our policy.”  There is no need for short-term stimulus measures as the
economy will recover “to its normal trend in the second half,”
Prasarn said today. The Bank of Thailand last week kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 2.5 percent after lowering
borrowing costs in May for the first time this year.  The baht was little changed at 31.08 against the dollar as
of 4:25 p.m. in Bangkok. It has fallen more than 4 percent in
the past six months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  