-- Thailand Faces Loss on Rice Sales to Drain Record Stockpiles
-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-07-19T10:32:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/thailand-faces-losses-on-rice-sales-to-rein-in-record-stockpiles.html
The Thai government, seeking to
offload record stockpiles of rice built up through a state-buying program, is prepared to sell the grain at a loss as it
plans to open bids for the hoard every two weeks.  “The sale will probably be at a loss as the government
aims to increase domestic prices, not to make profits out of the
program,” Deputy Commerce Minister Yanyong Phuangrach told
reporters in the central province of Ayutthaya. “Our main
purpose is that the distribution must not affect prices.”  Thailand ’s plan to cut the stockpiles risks hurting prices,
potentially reducing global  food bills . Moody’s Investors
Service has said that if the Thai program realizes increasing
losses, it could be credit negative for the country. Worldwide
rice production is forecast by the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  to expand to an all-time high this year.  “Thai releases of public stocks will only exacerbate the
oversupply situation and the price weakness,”  Concepcion Calpe ,
secretary of the Food & Agriculture Organization’s inter-governmental rice group, said in an e-mail. “World prices are
on a sliding path and may remain so for some time, especially
under current expectations of bumper crops.”  The export price of Thai 5-percent broken white rice has
dropped 10 percent this year to $525 a ton on July 17. That
compares with $390 a ton for rice from  Vietnam  and $440 a ton
from  India , according to the Thai Rice Exporters Association.
Rough rice futures have gained 1.8 percent in  Chicago .  World Imports  Thailand’s rice stockpile will total 15.5 million tons in
2013-2014, up from 12.5 million tons last season and 9.3 million
tons in 2011-2012, according to USDA data. The latest holdings
are enough to meet about 41 percent of  world imports .  The government would like to see export prices of the 5-percent broken grade at about $450 to $500 a ton, with sales
from the stockpiles targeted at other governments including
Indonesia, Iran and  Iraq , Yanyong said yesterday. If prices
offered are too low, the government will not sell, he said.  Thailand has spent 588.7 billion baht ($18.9 billion) since
October 2011 to last month buying about 40 million tons of rough
rice from farmers to lift rural incomes. Losses from the program
were 137 billion baht in the last crop year, according to a
government estimate.  The country faced a looming shortage of storage space for
the stockpiles, the Rome-based FAO said in a report in February.  Sales will have to accelerate, with prices at competitive
levels, as the new crop will come onto the market from October,
said  Hiroyuki Konuma , Bangkok-based assistant director-general
of the FAO. Holdings would likely increase from about 12 million
tons at the end of 2012 to 17 million tons at the end of this
year if present situation continues, he said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  