-- Apollo Doubles Money on Realogy Wager as Housing Revives
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y ,   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2013-07-19T20:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/apollo-doubles-money-on-realogy-wager-as-housing-revives.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm led by financier  Leon Black , will reap about
double its money on a six-year-old investment in  Realogy
Holdings Corp. (RLGY)  as the U.S. housing market rebounds.  The firm plans to sell 25.1 million shares of the real
estate brokerage’s common stock for $47.57 a share, or $1.2
billion, in a secondary public offering, Parsippany, New Jersey-based Realogy said in a regulatory  filing  yesterday.  Realogy, owner of the Century 21 and Coldwell Banker
brands, has jumped 85 percent since its October initial public
offering, closing yesterday at $49.95, as homebuying demand
spurs the biggest  jump in values  since 2006. For New York-based
Apollo, the sale caps a turnaround of a bet that three years ago
was in jeopardy of being wiped out.  A fund Apollo manages sank $920 million into an $8.3
billion leveraged buyout of the company in April 2007, just
before the bottom fell out of the housing market. Realogy’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda, fell by almost half from 2006 to 2009.  Black and his partners salvaged the investment by amassing
Realogy’s junior bonds during the depths of the housing slump.
They then converted the debt into equity and took Realogy public
on Oct. 10 amid signs that  home prices  were reviving.  The maneuver transformed a potential loss into about a 100
percent gain on the $1.34 billion Apollo Investment Fund VI
ultimately ended up investing in the company. The fund’s Realogy
proceeds include $1.2 billion from selling about half its  stake 
in an April stock offering.  Melissa Mandel Kvitko, a spokeswoman for Apollo at public-relations firm Rubenstein Associates, declined to comment on the
investment returns.  Property Market  Homebuyers seeking to take advantage of historically low
 mortgage rates  are competing for a tight supply of listings,
driving up values. U.S. home prices rose 12.2 percent in May
from a year earlier, the largest increase since February 2006,
according to  Irvine , California-based CoreLogic Inc.  Realogy’s net revenue increased as much as 18 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier to as much as $1.54
billion, according to preliminary results the company issued
this week. Home-sale transactions rose 21 percent, compared with
the company’s May projection that they’d climb 14 percent to 17
percent.  U.S. mortgage rates fell in the latest period, reducing
borrowing costs for homebuyers after the 30-year average jumped
to a two-year high last week. The average rate for a 30-year
fixed mortgage dropped to 4.37 percent in the week ended
yesterday from 4.51 percent, which was the highest since July
2011, McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  said yesterday in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in Boston at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  