-- Argentines Make 40-Hour Trip to Rio to Join Compatriot Pope
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-07-19T16:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/argentines-make-40-hour-trip-to-rio-to-join-compatriot-pope-2-.html
For  Buenos Aires  priest Father Mario
Miceli, Cardinal Jorge Bergoglio used to be only a phone call
away. Today, Miceli embarks on a 40-hour bus ride to join 2.5
million Catholics gathered in  Brazil  for Bergoglio’s first visit
to  Latin America  as Pope Francis.  Miceli, 36, will be traveling in a convoy he helped
organize to carry some of the 42,500 Argentines he says plan to
be in  Rio de Janeiro  to see the Pope at next week’s World Youth
Day celebrations.  “He was always there when you needed him,” Miceli said in
a telephone interview before leaving the Argentine capital. “If
you phoned him, he would return the call the same day.”  Some who will be unable to make the 2,000-kilometer (1,200
mile) trip to Rio are disappointed that  Francis , the former
Bishop of Buenos Aires, hasn’t made a side trip to visit his old
haunts. One of five children of an immigrant Italian railway
worker, Bergoglio would travel by subway and sip mate, a
traditional  Argentina  tea, with friends. He is a card-carrying
fan of San Lorenzo, one of the capital’s leading soccer teams.  “His welcome here would have been different from that in
any other country,” said Lucia Barro, a 23-year-old who is
awaiting the birth of her first child. “I’m already planning my
baby’s baptism, and it would have been great to have had the
chance to see Francis at this moment in my life.”  Breaching Protocol  Since his appointment, Francis has frequently breached
protocol, sometimes plunging into crowds to shake hands and
bless followers, and using white clothing and a silver ring
instead of the more elaborate garments and gold bands of his
predecessors.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is among
Argentines who will travel to see the Pope. According to the
press office of the presidential Palace, Fernandez will fly to
Rio de Janeiro at the end of next week.  During a July 8 visit to Lampedusa he was applauded by
listeners when he offered the Italian island’s Muslim community
his best wishes for the Islamic holy month of Ramadan.  Francis’s predecessor Benedict XVI had to apologize in 2006
for a speech in which he quoted a 14-century Byzantine emperor’s
negative comments about the Islamic faith.  “We are not surprised by these gestures because we know
him,” Miceli said. “He has always been very humble, simple.”  ‘People’s Pope’  Covers of the latest international editions of Time
magazine carried a picture of Francis alongside the words “The
People’s Pope.”  Argentines planning their trip to Rio have been having more
than a long journey to contend with. Exchange controls imposed
by Fernandez over the past two years have made it impossible for
many to obtain Brazilian reais or other foreign currencies. In
the illegal street market, the  U.S. dollar  costs about 8.57
pesos, compared with the official rate of 5.45.  To acquire foreign money, Argentines need authorization
from the tax agency, which uses unspecified criteria to approve
or reject requests. Central bank norms allow religious
institutions to buy limited amounts of currency to cover
expenses at events abroad, but the church can’t submit requests
on behalf of individuals, Miceli said.  Flight, Bus  Paola Cabrera, 26, is traveling from Ushuaia, on the
southernmost tip of Argentina. With her family and 150 other
pilgrims, she will take a 3 1/2-hour flight to Buenos Aires and
then a bus to Rio. The tax agency authorized her request to buy
reais, though the exchange house charged her 5 pesos per real,
compared with the official rate of 2.45 pesos.  “Some members of the group bought reais at that rate, but
others couldn’t,” Cabrera said in a July 18 telephone
interview. “We are taking cookies, cans and some other non-perishable food to cut costs as much as we can. We aren’t going
on holiday, we’re attending this special event.”  Cash withdrawals using credit cards at automatic telling
machines in neighboring countries are limited to $150 every
three months. ATM withdrawals from peso bank accounts aren’t
allowed.  Buenos Aires travel agency Bramasole arranged one-week
packages, with air transport, transfers to the Pope’s activities
and accommodation in schools or social clubs for $1,500. Staying
in a hotel cost an additional $1,000, said Lucas Saladino, 27,
who runs the company. Almost all the 60 packages offered were
sold, said Saladino, who plans to travel to Rio on July 24.  After being unable to attend the last World Youth Day
celebrations in  Spain  in 2011 “I had to take this opportunity
to travel,” Saladino said in a telephone interview. “This one
is much closer, and is so much more special because of Francis’
appointment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  