-- Markets Multiplying in U.S. With Tripleshot, IEX Venues
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-07-19T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/markets-multiplying-in-u-s-with-tripleshot-iex-venues.html
In a country where  stock trading  is
already divided among at least 50 venues and new entrants often
fail, two firms see room for more.  Tripleshot LLC, a Boston-based alternative platform founded
by a former executive of dark pool operator Pipeline Trading
Systems Inc., and IEX Group Inc., led by Royal Bank of Canada’s
former electronic trading chief, plan to start this year. Both
say they have ways to entice buy-and-hold investors wary of the
speediest traders.  For 15 years, software engineers, exchange veterans,  hedge
funds  and brokerage executives have battled for pieces of the
American stock market, where more than 6 billion shares have
 changed hands daily  in 2013. While fragmentation helped give
rise to high-frequency traders whose rapid-fire offers for
stocks reduce costs and create liquidity, Tripleshot and IEX see
an opportunity in trying to limit their involvement.  “It’s certainly an uphill battle for a new venue to gather
scale and liquidity,” said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at
Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. “It’s really about innovation.
If there’s some new technology that will allow larger size
trades to be done and at the same time attract the liquidity to
get them done, it could be successful. But it won’t be easy.”  While the proposed markets differ in design, the goals at
Tripleshot and IEX are similar. Each is trying to give investors
alternatives to exchanges, such as those run by  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , and a place where they can buy and
sell stocks with a minimum of price movement.  Lee Munder  Tripleshot, which says it has the support of money managers
overseeing trillions of dollars, plans a system for matching
bigger orders without revealing details before trades happen.
The firm raised money from angel investors and venture capital
firm Atlas Venture, according to Michael Hayes, the chief
executive officer who founded Tripleshot in March 2011 after
working at Pipeline from 2006 to 2010.  John Despotopulos, head trader at Lee Munder Capital Group
LLC, said Tripleshot’s plan can succeed.  “You’re always skeptical when you hear a new idea, but for
the first time in a long time, I was surprised to be
surprised,” Despotopulos, whose firm manages more than $5
billion, said in a phone interview from  Boston . “It’s the first
system I’ve seen that allows us to put orders in without fear of
giving up any information prior to the trade hitting the tape.”  The platform will decoy user intentions. When an investor’s
order to buy or sell arrives, it will be sent into the pool
simultaneously with requests for other companies’ shares.
Details will only be revealed if a trade occurs. The minimum
size will be between 5,000 and 50,000 shares, depending on the
stock. All trades will take place at the midpoint between the
bid and ask price, Hayes said.  No Leakage  “Tripleshot has the potential to succeed because we’re
rapidly earning the support of the buy side, and we’re earning
that support by providing them a simple way to search for a
block with essentially zero pre-trade information leakage,”
Hayes said in an e-mail.  Other crossing networks have failed to achieve enough
critical mass. AX Trading Group LLC suspended its dark pool this
year. The market catered to investors who trade small-cap
stocks, with an average trade size of about 45,000 shares.  “The system did exactly what we wanted it to,” said  Kevin Callahan , chief executive officer of  Stamford , Connecticut-based
AX Trading. “The challenge is how you differentiate yourself
and the flip-side is how you get enough liquidity. I felt like
we created a really differentiated offering that was value-added, but we struggled in terms of getting enough liquidity.”  Callahan said his team hopes to raise more capital and
relaunch the dark pool.  Exchange Conversion  “Now we’re looking at, how do we find ways to increase
liquidity in our platform,” he said.  IEX aims to start its trading system in September or
October, according to a person with direct knowledge of the
matter who asked not to be identified because the details
haven’t been publicized. The company plans for its venue to
become a public exchange in the future, said the person.  Led by Brad Katsuyama, formerly the head of global
electronic sales and trading for RBC Capital Markets LLC, IEX is
pitching itself as a place where mutual funds can trade with
each other and away from predatory participants. Among IEX’s
strategies will be a charge of 9 cents per 100 shares for both
buyers and sellers, pricing designed to make trading at
fractions of a second unappealing, according to the person with
knowledge of the matter.  Deterring Computers  Katsuyama declined to comment on IEX’s plans.  Clive Williams, head of global equity trading at  T. Rowe
Price (TROW)  Group Inc., said that should deter some high-frequency
traders. Williams said there are questions about whether the
venue will have enough buyers and sellers.  “How do you replace someone who makes up a large
percentage of your volume?” Williams said. Rosenblatt
Securities Inc. estimates about half of all U.S. stock volume is
conducted via high-frequency trading firms.  Jay Fraser, managing director and head of Autobahn Americas
at Deutsche Bank AG, said he supports IEX. Deutsche Bank is one
of the first broker-dealers to publicly back IEX’s model of
discouraging speed-driven trading from its platform.  “We’re excited to be one of their partners and supportive
of the simplicity of their model that allows clients to
designate a specific broker,” said Fraser, who added that
several Deutsche Bank clients have told him they want the firm
to send parts of their orders to IEX.  Close Look  Williams said Baltimore-based T. Rowe, with more than $600
billion under management as of March 31, will look closely at
both Tripleshot and IEX once they start operating. He said that
Tripleshot’s model was something he hadn’t seen before.  While the market already has some venues in part or wholly
focused on large transactions, each claims only a fraction of a
percent of daily trading.  Tim Mahoney, CEO of Bids Trading LP, said in a phone
interview that about 30 percent of his dark pool’s trades are
blocks, with an average size of about 30,000 shares. The dark
pool had a 0.56 percent share of average U.S. daily volume in
May and an average trade size of 264 shares, according to data
compiled by Rosenblatt.  Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP bought a stake in Bids
Trading last year.  ITG’s Posit  Another dark pool that encourages block trading is
 Investment Technology Group Inc. (ITG) ’s Posit, founded in 1987 and
one of the first institution-focused trading venues. In May,
Posit’s average transaction size was 3,000 shares, according to
Rosenblatt, and the firm estimates that about 30 percent of the
volume was from Posit Alert, whose transactions average 32,000
shares. Posit’s market share in May was 0.73 percent, said
Rosenblatt.  A trading venue that only lets large institutional money
managers trade with each other “has a natural cap,” said
Mahoney. “I don’t know whether the buy side is a natural,
short-term provider of liquidity to others in enough frequency
to be successful.”  One of the most successful investment fund-focused venues
is Liquidnet Holdings Inc., which started its dark pool in 2001
and says it now has more than 700 asset manager clients trading
in 42 markets, with an average trade size of 42,000 shares. Its
share of average daily volume in May was 0.34 percent, according
to Rosenblatt. CEO Seth Merrin said there is demand for venues
such as his because large investors aren’t adequately served.  “The public exchanges don’t cater to institutional, and
most of the dark pools are really just shadow exchanges,”
Merrin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  