-- Asian Stocks Fall as Technology Shares Drop; TSMC Slides
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-07-19T10:10:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/asian-stocks-advance-on-signs-u-s-economic-growth-improving.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index set to decline for a third day, as  Advantest (6857) 
Corp. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. led technology
stocks lower.  Advantest, the world’s biggest maker of chip-manufacturing
equipment, sank 7 percent in  Tokyo  after Nomura Holdings Inc.
lowered its rating on the stock. TSMC, as the No. 1 contract
manufacturer of chips is known, dropped 6.9 percent in Taipei
after forecasting sales that trailed estimates. Orica Ltd., the
largest maker of industrial explosives, slumped 13 percent in
Sydney after saying profit may drop by a tenth.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.5 percent to 134.83 as
of 7:07 p.m. in Tokyo, with more than two shares slipping for
each that rose. The gauge, which is little changed for the week,
dropped 6.1 percent through yesterday from this year’s high on
May 20 amid concern the  Federal Reserve  will start tapering
monetary stimulus as the  U.S. economy  improves.  “The recovery in the U.S. is still sluggish and investors
are concerned growth may not be sustained if the stimulus is
withdrawn prematurely,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based
 fund manager  at Schroders Plc, which oversees more than $300
billion. “I won’t be too bearish on Asian equities at this
stage. Another 8-10 percent correction should give long-term
investors a good entry level.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday it was “way
too early to make any judgment” about starting to taper
stimulus in September. Tighter financial conditions as a result
of rising yields over the past two months are “unwelcome,”
Bernanke said in response to a question from the Senate Banking
Committee following his testimony yesterday.  Japanese Elections  Japan ’s Topix index dropped 0.8 percent, its first decline
in five days and paring a fifth straight weekly advance. The
benchmark  Nikkei 225  Stock Average slid 1.5 percent.  Japanese shares have topped gains this year among 24 major
developed equity markets tracked by  Bloomberg News . The Topix
surged 42 percent through yesterday and the Nikkei 225 soared 43
percent as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and  Bank of Japan  Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda pushed to stoke the nation’s inflation rate to 2
percent. Elections on July 21 are expected to give Abe a mandate
to pursue economic reforms.  “There’s some profit-taking ahead of elections,” said
Seiichiro Iwamoto, who helps oversee the equivalent of $33
billion at Mizuho Asset Management Co. “Abe winning the upper
house is already priced in, and there’s a feeling that all the
good news is out already. Shares should start rising again once
we see good earnings results.”  Regional Gauges  South Korea ’s Kospi slid 0.2 percent, while Taiwan’s Taiex
index dropped 1.6 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost
0.4 percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.6 percent.
 China ’s Shanghai Composite Index declined 1.5 percent.  Hong
Kong ’s Hang Seng Index added 0.1 percent.  The Asia-Pacific measure advanced 4.8 percent this year
through yesterday. That left the Asian benchmark gauge trading
at 13.3 times  estimated earnings , compared with 15.3 times for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.4 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  dropped 0.1 percent after
rising 0.5 percent to a record yesterday. Claims for jobless
benefits in the U.S. dropped to the lowest since early May, less
than the median economist estimate, data released yesterday
showed. A separate report showed Philadelphia’s general economic
index surged to a two-year high.  A gauge of information technology companies led declines
among the  10 industry groups  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Advantest, TSMC  Advantest dropped 7 percent to 1,529 yen in Tokyo after
Nomura cut its rating to neutral from buy.  TSMC declined 6.9 percent to NT$98.20 in Taipei. The
company yesterday forecast third-quarter sales of as much as
NT$164 billion ($5.5 billion) in the three months through
September. That compared with the NT$164.5 billion average of 25
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  FIH Mobile Ltd. (2038) , a contract maker of phones for Nokia Oyj
and BlackBerry, dropped 3.2 percent to HK$3.94 in Hong Kong.
Finnish mobile-phone maker Nokia yesterday reported revenue that
missed analysts’ estimates.  Orica slumped 13 percent to A$18.19. The explosives maker
said profit before exceptional items will fall 10 percent to
about A$585.2 million ($537 million) in the year ending
September amid weaker demand.  Chinese Jewelers  Chinese jewelry retailers declined after the People’s Daily
Online, citing unidentified people, reported that the National
Development & Reform Commission is investigating price
manipulation by some gold shops in Shanghai, including those
owned by Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. and Chow Sang Sang
Holdings International Ltd.  Chow Tai Fook (1929) , the world’s biggest jewelry chain, slid 1.7
percent to HK$9.48 in Hong Kong. Chow Sang Sang fell 1.2 percent
to HK$16.98. Cathy Tam, assistant manager of communications at
Chow Sang Sang, said over the phone the jeweler is not under
investigation.  Among stocks that advanced, GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd.
gained 4.3 percent to HK$1.96 in Hong Kong. Shares of the
world’s biggest producer of polysilicon surged after China
announced it was imposing duties of as much as 57 percent on
shipments from the U.S. and South Korea of the material used for
making solar panels.  OCI Ltd. jumped 4.9 percent to 160,000 won in  Seoul  after
China imposed the lowest tariff for polysilicon shipped by the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  