-- Rupiah Leads Decline in Asian Currencies Amid China Slowdown
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-07-20T00:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/asian-currencies-poised-for-weekly-decline-on-china-slowdown.html
Indonesia’s rupiah led a decline in
Asian currencies this week as slowing economic growth in  China 
dimmed the region’s export outlook.  China, the No. 1 destination for shipments from Indonesia,
 Taiwan ,  Thailand  and  South Korea , reported July 15 that
expansion slowed for a  second quarter . Apart from the rupiah and
Malaysia’s ringgit, regional currencies weakened by 0.2 percent
or less, as a reassurance from the  Federal Reserve  that a
tapering of stimulus is not imminent supported inflows.  “Asian nations’ dependence on China has been increasing
and uncertainty surrounding China’s growth is raising concern
about the region’s export outlook,” said Tohru Nishihama, an
economist covering  emerging markets  at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in Tokyo.  The rupiah dropped 0.8 percent this week to 10,078 per
dollar yesterday in Jakarta, according to prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg. Malaysia’s ringgit weakened 0.5
percent to 3.1923 and Taiwan’s dollar lost 0.2 percent to
NT$29.978. China’s  yuan  was little changed at 6.1379.  Asia’s largest economy expanded 7.5 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter, official data showed this week,
slowing from a 7.7 percent gain in the preceding three months
and a 7.9 percent increase in the final quarter of 2012. There
is an increasing risk that China will fall short of the
International Monetary Fund’s full-year growth forecast of 7.75
percent, the lender said July 17.  Rupiah Weakness  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the U.S.
central bank will respond to economic data and may even increase
its bond-buying program if indicators don’t meet its
expectations. His comments in May and June that the Fed may
taper the program, which has driven emerging-market inflows,
sparked a slide in Asian currencies, debt and shares.  Foreign funds bought $1.3 billion more Taiwanese, South
Korean and Thai stocks than they sold in the first four days of
the week, exchange data show.  The rupiah fell for a record 11th day yesterday and
weakened beyond the 10,000 per dollar level this week for the
first time since 2009. Bank Indonesia Deputy Governor Perry
Warjiyo said July 11 the monetary authority has supplied dollars
to the market in the past two to three months while allowing the
rupiah to slowly retreat. Foreign-exchange reserves dropped $7.1
billion in June, the most since September 2011, according to
central bank data.  “We expect pressure on the spot rate to continue,” said
Thio Chin Loo, senior currency analyst at BNP Paribas SA in
Singapore. “ Bank Indonesia  is releasing its hold because
draining the reserves is uncomfortable for them, so this allows
pent-up dollar demand to go through.”  Yuan Band  The People’s Bank of China cut the yuan’s fixing on four of
five days this week, lowering it to 6.1751 per dollar yesterday,
0.2 percent less than on July 12. The currency can trade as much
as 1 percent either side of the  reference rate . The yuan is the
only gainer among the 11 most-traded Asian exchange rates this
year, strengthening 1.5 percent.  China should widen the yuan’s trading band and accelerate
capital-account convertibility, according to a front-page
commentary in the China Securities Journal.  “Frustration with the yuan’s appreciation policy is
causing them to consider alternatives,”  Tim Condon , head of
Asian research at ING Groep NV in Singapore, wrote in a report
yesterday, adding that ING was reviewing its yuan forecast for a
downward revision.  Elsewhere in Asia, India’s rupee rose 0.5 percent this week
to 59.35 per dollar yesterday on speculation the central bank
intervened. The Philippine peso strengthened 0.1 percent to
43.362, Thailand’s baht rose 0.4 percent to 31.03 and South
Korea’s won rose 0.2 percent to 1,121.75. Vietnam’s dong was
steady at 21,223.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  