-- Asiana Victim Alive When Hit By Fire Truck, Coroner Finds
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2013-07-19T20:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/asiana-victim-alive-when-hit-by-fire-truck-coroner-finds.html
One of the three victims of the
Asiana Airlines Flight 214 crash survived the impact before
being struck and killed by a fire vehicle, a coroner ruled.  San Francisco Fire Chief Joanne Hayes-White, at a news
conference today, called the death of Ye Meng  Yuan , 16, a
“tragic accident” that has shaken members of her department.
The girl and a classmate in  China  died in the aftermath of the
July 6 crash. Another classmate died at a hospital July 12.  Internal hemorrhaging showed the death was caused by being
hit by a rescue vehicle, Robert Foucrault, San Mateo County
coroner, said today at a press conference. The girl’s body was
found near the fuselage, he said.  More than 300 passengers survived the crash. Two remain
hospitalized in critical condition. The U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board is reviewing the emergency response
as part of its accident investigation.  “We will take a look at our protocols and procedures” for
emergency personnel, Hayes-White said. “I remain proud of their
efforts under such extraordinary circumstances.”  The victim’s body was found near a blanket of foam used for
extinguishing fires and was likely hit by an airport-based
vehicle, Hayes-White said. She said she couldn’t answer whether
the body had been under the foam.  The Asiana Boeing Co. 777 crashed as it struck a seawall
short of a runway, slammed to the ground and spun off the
tarmac. The crash was the first fatal airline accident in the
U.S. since 2009. It was Seoul-based Asiana’s first crash since a
Boeing 747 cargo plane went down at sea in July 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  San Francisco  at 
 kchaykowski2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  