-- Assa Abloy Gains After Earnings Beat Estimates on Americas
-- B y   J a n i n a   P f a l z e r
-- 2013-07-19T08:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/assa-abloy-gains-after-earnings-beat-estimates-on-americas.html
Assa Abloy AB (ASSAB) , the world’s largest
lock-maker, gained the most in six months in Stockholm after
posting second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates on
strong growth in the Americas and smart-card security.  Net income rose to 1.37 billion kronor ($209 million) from
1.30 billion kronor, Stockholm-based Assa Abloy said today in a
statement. Analysts on average expected profit of 1.34 billion
kronor, according to estimates collated by Bloomberg. Sales rose
1.6 percent to 12.2 billion kronor, compared with the 12.1
billion kronor average estimate from the survey.  Assa Abloy, which sells mechanical and digital locks as
well as security doors, has countered weakened European demand
by expanding in  emerging markets . The company is targeting 50
percent of sales from developing nations by 2025, up from about
one-quarter currently. The company is currently working on
“several” potential acquisitions, it said.  “My assessment is that the outlook is unchanged, with a
continuing weak world economy affected by the budget cutbacks
that many countries are making,” Chief Executive Officer Johan Molin said in the statement. “It is therefore of the utmost
importance that Assa Abloy should continue its expansion on the
new markets.”  Shares of Assa Abloy rose as much as 3.2 percent in
 Stockholm , the biggest gain since Jan. 2. It traded 1.7 percent
higher at 295 kronor as of 10:04 a.m.  Sales in the Americas were supported by demand for high-security doors and electromechanical products. The Global
Technology business expanded as clients ordered smart cards and
access control systems that enable administrators to control
access to secure areas through offline, online and wireless-control solutions. New products also added to sales, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janina Pfalzer in Stockholm at 
 jpfalzer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at   sthiel1@bloomberg.net  