-- Aussie Set for Biggest Weekly Gain Since March Before Inflation
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-07-19T06:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/aussie-set-for-biggest-weekly-gain-since-march-before-inflation.html
The Australian dollar is set to
complete its first weekly gain since mid-June before an
inflation report next week that is likely to influence the
 Reserve Bank ’s  interest-rate  decision in August.  Australia’s long-term bond yields fell this week after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled no imminent
exit from monetary stimulus in the U.S. New Zealand’s currency
is poised for back-to-back weekly gains after Chinese Premier  Li
Keqiang  said his nation will seek to keep economic growth within
limits and to avoid “wide fluctuations”. Both South Pacific
nations currencies weakened against the yen before upper-house
elections of  Japan ’s parliament on July 21.  “The fears around tapering and the Chinese growth story
have both settled down to provide the Aussie with a bit of a
platform,” said Darryl Conroy, an analyst at Suncorp Bank in
Brisbane. If Australia’s inflation data “comes out particularly
weak, the chances of a rate cut increase pretty dramatically,
and if it’s a benign figure, the RBA can sit back and wait a
little longer.”  The Australian currency slipped 0.1 percent to 91.64 U.S.
cents as of 4:43 p.m. in Sydney, headed for a 1.3 percent
advance that would be the biggest five-day gain since the period
ended March 15. It fell 0.4 percent to 91.69 yen, paring to 2.1
percent its advance since July 12.  New Zealand ’s dollar rose 0.1
percent to 79.05 U.S. cents and is up 1.7 percent this week. It
slipped 0.3 percent to 79.10 yen today.  Australia’s consumer price index probably gained 0.5
percent in the second quarter from a 0.4 percent pace in the
previous three-month period, economists forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey before the July 24 data. The trimmed mean gauge of
core prices climbed 0.5 percent compared with 0.3 percent in the
previous quarter, the poll showed.  China Growth  There is a 68 percent chance that the RBA will cut its
benchmark interest rate to a fresh record low of 2.5 percent on
Aug. 6, according to Bloomberg News calculations using swaps.  Australia ’s benchmark  10-year bond yield  fell seven basis
points since July 12 to 3.67 percent.  The Aussie may advance toward 92.5 cents over the next
month and volatility in the currency will probably increase as
the inflation release approaches, Conroy said.  China will seek to keep economic growth, employment and
inflation within limits, the nation’s premier said at a forum of
advisers and executives, according to a summary of the event
published this week. Gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent in
the April-to-June period from a year earlier, a July 15 report
showed.  The Australian dollar has dropped 10 percent over the past
three months, the biggest decline among 10 developed nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.
New Zealand’s currency has weakened 4.7 percent, the second-biggest loss.  Immigration, Spending  The kiwi maintained its weekly gain today after a
statistics department report showed permanent net migration to
the nation climbed to a four-year high in June. Permanent
arrivals exceeded departures by 2,330 in June, the most since
May 2009, the data showed.  Credit card spending  rose 2.6 percent
in June, the biggest increase in four months, according to
separate data released today.  “The problem in the housing sector is already
accelerating, via a clear uptrend in credit, consents and  house
prices ,” and the increased migration may add to this,  Annette Beacher , the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific research at TD
Securities, wrote in a research note. “We are already of the
view that the RBNZ ‘should’ lift the cash rate by year-end due
to these mounting housing pressures.”  The  Reserve Bank of New Zealand  will keep its key rate
unchanged at 2.5 percent at its July 25 meeting, economists
polled by Bloomberg predict. The central bank’s efforts to
contain housing pressures through the use of lending
restrictions will delay the first rate increase to March 2014,
Beacher wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  