-- Austria’s Kommunalkredit Gets EU Approval for Closing Lender
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-07-19T12:08:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/austria-s-kommunalkredit-gets-eu-approval-for-closing-lender.html
Kommunalkredit Austria AG, the
Austrian nationalized municipal lender, will have to wind down
its loan book and close when that’s complete after attempts to
sell the bank failed, the European Commission said.  Kommunalkredit will finance the run-off of its 15.8 billion
euros ($20.8 billion) of assets without further aid, the
commission said in a statement today. The Vienna-based lender
said in a separate statement that it can sell parts of its
business. The commission was entitled to appoint a trustee to
find buyers for the assets after the failed sale.  “The European Commission has found the run-off of
Kommunalkredit Austria AG to be in line with EU state aid
rules,” the commission said. “Kommunalkredit will cease new
lending, thus not competing on the markets any longer, and
ultimately, after the full run down, exit from the market
altogether. This will minimize distortions of competition.”  The bank, previously owned by  Oesterreichische Volksbanken
AG (VBPS)  and  Dexia SA (DEXB) , was nationalized in November 2008 to avoid a
collapse when liquidity dried up. It was split into
Kommunalkredit, which continued as a lender to municipalities
with a revamped business model, and KA Finanz AG, a “bad bank”
that’s winding down securities, loans and credit-default swaps
that aren’t part of Kommunalkredit’s main business.  The EU approved a rescue in 2011 under the condition
Kommunalkredit be sold by the end of 2012.  Kommunalkredit and KA Finanz have cost taxpayers 2.6
billion euros of equity-like capital between them so far. About
6.4 billion euros more are at risk because of government
guarantees for the lenders’ assets and bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  