-- Aviva Investors Hires Standard Life’s Munro as CEO
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2013-07-19T15:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/aviva-investors-hires-standard-life-s-munro-as-ceo.html
Aviva Investors, a U.K. money
manager with more than $410 billion of assets, hired Euan Munro
as its chief executive officer, taking him from competitor
Standard Life Investments where he set up its flagship fund.  Munro, 43, will take the post in January, succeeding
interim CEO John Misselbrook, parent life insurer  Aviva Plc (AV/)  said
in a statement on its website today. Edinburgh-based Standard
Life Investments said in a statement it promoted Guy Stern to
head of multi-asset investing to replace Munro.  In his post at the largest fund company in the Scottish
capital, Munro helped set up and develop its  Global Absolute
Return Strategies Fund (SLIGARS) , which invests in a mix of equities,
fixed income and property and has swelled to 17.8 billion pounds
($27.1 billion), Standard Life’s  website shows .  “He’s potentially a very good catch for Aviva,” said
Adrian Lowcock, a senior research analyst at financial adviser
 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc. (HL/)  “He is a well-known name among
advisers. It is a significant appointment.”  Aviva  shares  were down 0.3 percent in London trading at
3:54 p.m., while  Standard Life Plc (SL/)   dropped  1.7 percent. London-based Aviva Investors oversaw 274 billion pounds as of Dec. 31,
while Standard Life Investments ran 179 billion pounds as of
March 31, according to filings.  The appointment was “positive” for Aviva in its quest to
develop a business managing money for outside clients, while it
was “a small loss” for Standard Life because Munro “has been
material in building the multi-asset investing and fixed income
platform,” Ashik Musaddi, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a note to clients.  Munro wasn’t reachable for comment when called at his
office in Edinburgh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  