-- BAE Systems to Protest Navy Jammer Award to Raytheon
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-19T04:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/bae-system-to-protest-navy-jammer-award-to-raytheon.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , the U.K.’s largest
defense contractor, is protesting a U.S. Navy decision to award
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  a contract for a new radar-jamming system program
that could be worth as much as $7.4 billion.  BAE lodged its challenge yesterday with the Government
Accountability Office in Washington, which adjudicates such
matters, Brian Roehrkasse, a spokesman for the U.S. arm of
London-based BAE Systems, said by e-mail. “We protested the
award based on concerns with the Navy’s evaluation of our
offering,” he said.  The Navy awarded Raytheon a $279 million contract on July 8
for the Next Generation Jammer, spurning the bid from BAE and
one from  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  in tandem with  Exelis Inc. (XLS)  The
contract funds the “technology demonstration” phase for the
advanced anti-radar system.  “The solution we put forward would provide the U.S. Navy
with an affordable and effective way to significantly enhance
current capabilities and protect our aircraft, ships, and armed
forces,” Roehrkasse said.  The jammer is designed to defeat the radar of integrated
air-defense systems such as those fielded by Iran, China,  North
Korea  and Syria that detect aircraft and direct surface-to-air
missiles. It’s also intended to jam ground communications. The
Navy wants the jammer, to equip 135  Boeing Co. (BA)  EA-18G Growler
aircraft, in operation by 2020.  ‘Efficient Design’  “Raytheon provided the U.S. Navy with an innovative and
efficient design capable of jamming current and future
threats,” Rick Yuse, president of the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company’s space and airborne systems business, said in a
statement last week.  The Navy’s current rough estimate is that the service will
spend as much as $7.4 billion on the initial phase of the jammer
program, including $3.1 billion through 2018 for four and half
years of additional development, testing and evaluation,
according to Pentagon budget documents.  An additional $4.3 billion would be spent on producing 114
jammer pod sets, spare parts, logistics and support for the
Navy’s initial requirement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  