-- Baht Falls as Slowing China Worsens Export Outlook; Bonds Drop
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-07-19T03:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/baht-falls-as-slowing-china-worsens-export-outlook-bonds-drop.html
The baht fell for a third day as
slowing economic growth in  China  worsened Thailand’s export
outlook. Ten-year  government bonds  declined.  The  International Monetary Fund  said this week there is an
increasing risk that China’s expansion this year will fall short
of the fund’s 7.75 percent forecast. Asia’s largest economy is
Thailand’s biggest market, buying almost 12 percent of shipments
in the first five months of this year, official data show.
Inflows into Thai stocks and bonds limited the baht’s decline.  “Asian nations’ dependence on China has been increasing
and uncertainty surrounding China’s growth is raising concern,”
said Tohru Nishihama, an economist covering  emerging markets  at
Dai-ichi Life Research Institute Inc. in Tokyo. “Thailand
doesn’t have many upbeat factors either.”  The baht slipped 0.1 percent to 31.11 per dollar as of 9:52
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency gained 0.1 percent this week. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the  exchange rate 
used to price options, rose three basis points to 6.91 percent.
It climbed 51 basis points, or 0.51 percentage point, this week.  Thai exports rose 1.5 percent in June from a year earlier
after a decline of 5.3 percent in May, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey before data due
this month.  Foreign investors bought more Thai equities than they sold
on each of the last seven days, boosting holdings by $283
million, exchange data show. Global funds purchased $319 million
more local debt than they sold this month through yesterday
after selling a net $1.5 billion in May and June, Thai Bond
Market Association data show.  The yield on the 3.625 percent bonds due June 2023 rose one
basis point today and two basis points this week to 3.71 percent,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  