-- Barcelona Soccer Coach Tito Vilanova Resigns as Cancer Returns
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-19T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/barcelona-soccer-coach-tito-vilanova-resigns-as-cancer-returns.html
Barcelona coach Tito Vilanova
resigned from the Spanish soccer champions to receive treatment
for cancer he’s been fighting since at least 2011.  The treatment will prevent Vilanova from performing his
coaching duties, Barcelona President  Sandro Rosell  said
yesterday at a news conference. A replacement probably will be
announced next week, he said.  “This is a very difficult blow to the club, but we have
overcome many difficult setbacks,” Rosell said.  The team also won’t travel to play its scheduled exhibition
match today against Lechia Gdansk of  Poland , according to
Rosell.  Vilanova, 44, has had surgery for throat cancer twice since
November 2011. He returned to  New York  in May for a checkup
after receiving treatment there earlier in the season.  Barcelona won its fourth league title in five seasons this
year. Vilanova was an assistant to Pep Guardiola, Barcelona’s
most successful manager, and took over in 2012 after the club
lost its European and Spanish titles.  Guardiola, 42, who took over current German and European
champion Bayern Munich at the start of the current preseason,
oversaw two Champions League titles and three league titles at
Barcelona. Guardiola, with Vilanova on his staff, won 14
trophies in a four-year period.  Vilanova is a former Barcelona trainee who only played in
three exhibition matches for the team before moving to Celta de
Vigo. He started coaching Barcelona’s B team, which included
current squad members  Gerard Pique ,  Cesc Fabregas  and four-time
world player of the year Lionel Messi.  Barcelona won Vilanova’s first game in charge, 5-1 against
Real Sociedad, and ended the season with the Spanish Liga title.
After his break for treatment following a relapse of cancer of
the salivary gland, he returned for the Champions League
quarterfinal win against Paris Saint-Germain in April 2013.  The club lost to Bayern 7-0 over the two stages of a
Champions League semifinal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jay Beberman at   jbeberman@bloomberg.net . 