-- Barnes & Noble Breakup Seen Unlocking 44% Gain: Real M&A
-- B y   C h e l s e y   D u l a n e y
-- 2013-07-19T13:57:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/barnes-noble-breakup-seen-unlocking-44-gain-real-m-a.html
A breakup of  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) 
that could boost the bookseller’s value by 44 percent may
finally be in the cards.  The largest U.S. bookstore chain last week reinforced
speculation that a breakup is probable after its chief executive
officer  resigned . Michael Huseby, who helped oversee spinoffs at
Cablevision Systems Corp., was promoted to president of the $1.1
billion company. Short sellers have reduced bets that the shares
will fall, possibly in anticipation of a value-boosting split,
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC said.  If separated, Barnes & Noble’s three businesses -- the
retail chain, college bookstores and Nook digital business --
should be valued at a combined $25.86 a share compared with
yesterday’s close of $17.97, according to the average of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Leonard Riggio, the
chairman and biggest shareholder, says he wants to buy the
retail chain. Nook shareholder  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp. may want the rest
of the unit to keep up with Apple Inc., Maxim Group LLC said.
Janney sees  Google (GOOG)  Inc. as a suitor.  “They need to do something sooner rather than later,”
Steven Soranno, a Bethesda, Maryland-based analyst at Calvert
Investments Inc., which oversees more than $12 billion and owned
Barnes & Noble shares as of June 30, said in a phone interview.
“For shareholders, there is a sense of urgency. If they can
realize good value from making that right sale, I think that’s
better for shareholders.”  Shareholder Pain  Mary Ellen Keating, a spokeswoman for New York-based Barnes
& Noble, declined to comment on the company’s plans.  Today, Barnes & Noble shares rose 0.5 percent to $18.05 at
9:53 a.m. in New York.  Shareholders of Barnes & Noble have endured years of pain,
with the stock down 62 percent through yesterday from an all-time high of $47.40 in 2006, as online book sales and the
success of Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle e-reader and Apple’s iPad
squeezed profits. The same pressure put Borders Group Inc. out
of business in 2011.  Barnes & Noble CEO William Lynch quit on July 8 after the
company posted three straight annual net  losses . When he won the
job in 2010, Lynch told Bloomberg News that his appointment
showed how important the bookseller’s new focus on digital
technology was. This effort has been largely unsuccessful, and
Lynch leaving suggests a shift away from that area, said  Michael Souers , a New York-based equity analyst at S&P Capital IQ.  The resignation of Lynch, who isn’t being replaced,  spurred 
a 5.4 percent rally in Barnes & Noble’s shares on July 9. That’s
a sign investors are optimistic the company will break up, said
Los Angeles-based Andrew Berkin, whose $76 million Vericimetry
U.S. Small Cap Value Fund owned the retailer’s shares as of
March 31.  Unlocking Value  Albert Saporta, the head of research at Makor Capital Ltd.
and a managing director at AIM&R, said taking the retail unit
unit private and selling off the Nook e-book business is the
best way to unlock value at Barnes & Noble. The digital division
 posted  an operating loss of $200 million for the quarter that
ended in January, versus earnings of $177 million and $22
million at the retail and college units, respectively.  “The share price does not reflect the real value of the
retail business,” he said in a phone interview from Tel Aviv.  Barnes & Noble’s divisions could fetch $25.86 a share in
total if separated, according to the average sum-of-the-parts
estimate from four analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The estimate
from Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Matthew Fassler using multiples
from prior deals is $19.42. Janney’s David Strasser sees about
$20, and Maxim Group’s John Tinker said about $30. The midpoint
of the $30-to-$38 range from Albert Fried & Co.’s Sachin Shah is
$34.  Chairman’s Interest  Riggio, who acquired the Barnes & Noble brand and flagship
Manhattan bookstore in the 1970s, said in February that he plans
to offer to purchase the retail chain, which comprises about 675
stores, and related website. The price would be negotiated with
the board, and the buyout would be funded primarily with cash,
Riggio said Feb. 25 in a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  As part of the management change announced July 8, Huseby
and Mitchell Klipper, the head of the retail chain, report
directly to Riggio.  To finish a deal, Riggio could partner with John Malone’s
 Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA) , which bought a Barnes & Noble stake in
2011, or partner with other investors, S&P’s Souers said.  In 2012, Barnes & Noble created a subsidiary, Nook Media,
that included the Nook and college bookstores. Microsoft took a
stake in the business and Pearson Plc followed later.  Microsoft, Pearson  Calvert’s Soranno said Microsoft might want Nook Media.
Maxim Group’s Tinker sees Pearson as a possible suitor for the
college stores. Even Google might be interested in all of Nook
Media, said Janney’s Strasser.  Representatives for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft,
London-based Pearson, and Mountain View, California-based Google
declined to comment.  In June, Barnes & Noble said it would stop making Nook
hardware and look for a manufacturing partner. That unit could
help Microsoft bulk up its consumer segment, said Tinker, the
New York-based analyst at Maxim Group. The segment that runs
bookstores on college campuses and sells digital textbooks could
appeal to  Pearson (PSON) , an academic publisher, he added.  For Microsoft, “they’ve obviously been experimenting with
this type of retail strategy, and they need to figure out if
they’re going to copy Apple properly or not,” Tinker said. For
Pearson, “you’ve got these college bookstores that could be
very valuable as a conduit into universities,” he said.  Short Sellers  A plunge in  bets  the stock will fall may also indicate
changes are ahead for Barnes & Noble. The proportion of shares
sold short dropped to a five-year low of 3.7 percent as of June
21 from 2013’s peak of 22 percent in February, according to data
compiled by Markit. The figure was 6.2 percent on July 16.  “Fear is out there” among short sellers, Strasser, the
Janney analyst, said in a phone interview. “I’ve always been a
believer that there’s the potential for at least one transaction
to come at any time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chelsey Dulaney in New York at 
 cdulaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  