-- Batista Chides Auditors as GE Writes Down Investment
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-07-20T02:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/batista-pledges-to-pay-debt-as-he-shifts-some-blame-to-auditors.html
Eike Batista , the billionaire whose
fortune tumbled after his oil explorer missed targets, said
auditors are partly to blame for building up shareholder
expectations on the same day  General Electric Co. (GE)  said it wrote
down a $300 million investment in his holding company.  Part of his decisions were based on a 2011 report by
consulting firm DeGolyer & MacNaughton that estimated OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA had 10.8 billion barrels of oil
resources, the Brazilian entrepreneur said in an opinion piece
in newspaper  Valor Economico . DeGolyer & MacNaughton, which has
also assessed reserves for state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR3) ,
said services to clients are confidential in an e-mailed reply
to questions.  “I was as surprised as every one of my investors, partners
and the market,” Batista, 56, wrote in the article about the
reversal for OGX’s outlook. “Maybe I put too much trust in
people who didn’t deserve that confidence, but in the end the
responsibility is all mine.”  Batista, the world’s eighth-richest person in March 2012,
lost more than $30 billion of his fortune after failure to meet
output targets led to a selloff of shares in his energy,
commodities and logistics companies. GE wrote down its 2012
investment in Batista’s EBX Group Co. in the second quarter,
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said on a conference call
today. Batista vowed to pay back all his debts.  “I will honor all of my obligations,” Batista said. “I
won’t leave a single penny unpaid for each one of my debts.”  Bonds and Shares  “The opinions we provide in our reports are subject to the
definitions, assumptions, explanations, conditions,
qualifications, and conclusions as specified therein,” DeGolyer
& MacNaughton said.  OGX’s $2.56 billion of 2018 bonds gained 1 cent to the
dollar at 16 cents to yield 72 percent. Shares of OGX closed
unchanged at 50 centavos in Sao Paulo trading.  Batista, whose ventures span from energy to airline
catering and a unit that organizes rock concerts, is now
renegotiating debt, firing staff and seeking buyers for his
assets.  Adjustments to the size of Batista’s businesses are an
important step for a recovery, said Rogerio Freitas, a partner
at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  ‘‘He ratified the strategy of diminishing and reassessing
his projects,” Freitas said in a telephone interview from Rio.
“The prices of the assets are excessively depreciated.”  Brazil ’s securities regulator started an investigation into
OGX this week after a minority investor lodged a complaint over
alleged insider trading.  GE Investment  GE announced the purchase of $300 million stake in EBX in
May 2012. The deal followed the sale of 5.63 percent of EBX to
Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Company for $2 billion in March
that year as the market value of his companies peaked.  Mubadala said earlier this month it reduced its investment
in EBX as the company restructures debt. GE wrote down its EBX
holdings by about $100 million, Chief Financial Officer Jeff
Bornstein said today in telephone interview.  Net debt of Batista’s six publicly traded Rio de Janeiro-based companies almost  doubled  in the year through March 31 to
18.8 billion reais ($8.4 billion), or 2.1 times their current
combined market value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
EBX declined to comment on the GE writedown in an e-mailed
statement.  Expectations for OGX were supported by the “best trained”
Brazilian oil executives who he hired to run the company and
were respected in the market, Batista said. When he founded OGX
in 2007, Batista gained credibility by hiring former managers
from Petrobras and then finding signs of oil at every well the
explorer drilled during the first year of its exploration
campaign.  Brazil’s Richest  The success lifted the value of OGX and sister companies
that provided it with goods and services, making Batista
Brazil’s richest person before the  shares (OGXP3)  started plummeting
last year. He is now worth $3.3 billion after seeing his wealth
slump 74 percent in 2013, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  In the opinion piece, Batista said he regrets taking his
companies public, adding he “believes” in OGX and continues to
invest in the explorer. He also said he’s reorganizing OGX and
plans to remain as a relevant shareholder in each of his
companies. He invested over $4 billion in his so-called X
companies, he said.  “I failed and disappointed a lot of people,” Batista
said. “Nobody lost as much as I did and it’s fair that it
should be like that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  