-- Beach Books Oiled By Money, Murder, Psychos, Greed
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/beach-books-oiled-by-money-murder-psychos-greed.html
A great beach book should have some
combination of money, lust, murder and travel. How to tell which
books fit the bill? There’s no Muse Book Club seal (yet), so for
now, here’s my list.  ‘Bonfire of the Vanities’  “ Bonfire of the Vanities ” by Tom Wolfe. Think back to a
simpler time, when the idea that a mediocre man in his mid-30s
could make $15 million a year on  Wall Street  was still fresh.
Add in yet more greed, vanity, sociopathology and you’ve got the
best book Wolfe’s ever written.  ‘The Talented Mr. Ripley’  “ The Talented Mr. Ripley ” by Patricia Highsmith. If you
want to read about beautiful people in beautiful places doing a
mixture of horrible things to themselves and others, this is
your book. Then watch the hypnotically beautiful 1960 movie with
Alain Delon (released as “Purple Noon”), which is so much
better than the plodding version with  Matt Damon .  ‘The Patrick Melrose Novels’  “ The Patrick Melrose Novels”  by Edward St. Aubyn. What
happens when a smart kid of immense privilege is ravaged by a
sadist father and a drug addled mother? Find out in this (very
dark) series of comedic novels.  ‘The Glimpses of the Moon’  “ The Glimpses of the Moon ” by Edith Wharton. For a less
glamorous approach at high society, here’s a book that follows a
couple with loads of connections but little money. A not so
charming look at the sacrifice necessary to maintain a foothold
in the beau monde of the day.  ‘American Psycho’  “ American Psycho ” by Bret Easton Ellis. Yes, the
protagonist is a psychopath. But his suits are gorgeous.  ‘A Way of Life, Like Any Other’  “ A Way of Life, Like Any Other ” by Darcy O’Brien. The
1950s account of life as the child of Hollywood movie stars. A
kid raised by narcissists with too much money: what could go
wrong?  ‘The Orient Express’  “The Orient Express” by Gregor von Rezzori. If you
consider new money to be anything made after 1880 and the phrase
“contemporary culture” to be an oxymoron, perhaps this book’s
your best bet. It does a nice job of applying withering cynicism
to the present day and the world that came before it in equal
measure.  ‘Tender is the Night’  “ Tender is the Night ” by  F. Scott Fitzgerald . Yes,
extraordinary wealth can be a burden, but what about being the
spouse of the person with that wealth? Fitzgerald’s last
completed novel with a memorably sad ending.  ‘The Two Mrs. Grenvilles’  “ The Two Mrs. Grenvilles ” by Dominick Dunne. A thinly
fictionalized account of the shooting of Billy Woodward, Jr.,
heir to the Hanover National Bank fortune, by his wife Ann, who
killed herself when she learned of Truman Capote’s upcoming,
equally thinly fictionalized account of the murder in Esquire
magazine.  “Well, that’s that,” Ann’s mother-in-law is reported to
have said. “She shot my son, and Truman just murdered her, and
so now I suppose we don’t have to worry about that anymore.”  ‘A Rebours’  “ A Rebours ” by Joris-Karl Huysmans. It keeps things
streamlined with a single character who shuts himself in a villa
and spends the entire novel doing fantastical things with his
money. A cult book for the global aesthete.  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of  Bloomberg News  and for Loot, a blog on Bloomberg.com. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  New
York   Weekend .  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 