-- Belgium to Crown Seventh King Amid Doubts About an Eighth
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2013-07-20T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/belgium-to-crown-seventh-king-amid-doubts-about-an-eighth.html
Belgium  will get its seventh king
amid questions over whether there will be an eighth, as the
widening gulf between the better-off north and the economically
backward south strains the country’s unity.  Philippe, 53, will be sworn in at noon today as king after
his father, Albert II, 79, abdicates. A swathe of deputies from
the richer Flanders province have announced a boycott of the
inaugural ceremony in a sign of political tensions in the run-up
to elections in 2014.  Belgian politics “isn’t going to be easy to manage,” said
Pascal Delwit, a professor at the University of Brussels. “The
fact that there’s a new king won’t be a problem in itself, but
it’s a vector of uncertainty. He has to see to it that he’s not
part of the problem. The best thing he can do politically is to
be relatively invisible.”  Belgium’s  monarchy  engineered the handover on the 182nd
anniversary of the inauguration of the first king to replicate
the feel-good royal moment that took place in the neighboring
 Netherlands , when the Dutch queen made way for her son in April.  In Belgium’s case, the purpose was also to give Philippe
time to settle in to his new duties before being called on to
help shape a new government after the May 2014 elections, a
royal prerogative unique to Belgium.  Oxford and Stanford University degrees and training as a
fighter and helicopter pilot and parachutist grace the resume of
the new king, who will wear the uniform of commander in chief of
Belgium’s army as he takes the inaugural oath.  Stamps, Coins  Married with four children, Philippe will gradually
accumulate the trappings of the modern bourgeois head of state.
Philippe’s silhouette will appear on Belgian  postage stamps  in
November and euro coins in January.  Known as Filip in Dutch and Philippe in German, Belgium’s
third official language, the new king had more time to get ready
for the not-entirely-ceremonial role than Albert, who was thrust
onto the throne by the sudden death of his brother Baudouin in
1993.  Belgium’s economy serves as a microcosm of Europe, with
German-style export industries in the Flemish-speaking north and
the legacy of coal and steel in the French-speaking south, a
region known as Wallonia. Of its 11 million people, 6.4 million
are in Flanders and 3.5 million are in the south, with a further
1.1 million in and around Brussels.  The typical Fleming generated 28,900 euros ($37,900) in
economic output in 2010, 18 percent above the European Union
average, according to the latest EU data. Per capita production
in the French-speaking region was 21,500 euros, 12 percent below
the EU average.  Flemish Resentment  Flemish subsidies for the poorer south -- estimated at 5.8
billion euros, or 967 euros per Fleming, in a 2005 central bank
study -- have bred resentment, an echo of the wealth gap that
gnaws at Europe as well.  Albert’s biggest test came after the 2010 election. That
vote made the separatist N-VA the strongest party in Flanders
and the Socialists the strongest in the French-speaking region,
stymying the formation of a government.  Albert oversaw eight attempts to mediate the stalemate,
which dragged on for a record 541 days until a six-party
coalition took office headed by Socialist Elio Di Rupo, the
first native French speaker to run Belgium since the 1970s.  “Albert was and is popular, and did a good job managing
the crisis after the 2010 election,” said Vincent Laborderie, a
political scientist at the Catholic University of Louvain. One
fear is that his son will bring “less finesse, less diplomacy”
to the role, he said.  N-VA Goals  After making the strategic choice to stay outside the
federal government, the N-VA has cemented its position as the
dominant force in Flanders in opinion polls. N-VA goals are to
reduce the monarch to symbolic, ribbon-cutting functions and
transfer so much federal power to the regions that Belgium
ceases to exist, or at least to matter.  “Don’t assume that you can bring about much in the way of
change,” the N-VA’s Theo Francken said in an  open letter  to
Philippe. “In the purely ceremonial role that we envision for
you, there will be no decisions for you to make.”  The separatists’ dilemma is that they don’t have enough
power to downgrade the monarch on their own. No constitutional
amendment can go ahead without the backing of French-speaking
parties that see the king as the protector of Belgian unity.  “On the French side, people talk about the end of
Belgium,” Laborderie said. “On the Flemish side, it’s not a
serious issue.” Flemish nationalists “know it’s not really
possible. There’s an overwhelming majority in Flanders that
isn’t in favor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  