-- Billabong Lenders Seek to Halt $294 Million Altamont Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-07-19T07:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/billabong-debt-funds-seek-to-delay-altamont-s-294-million-deal.html
Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) ’s $294
million refinancing deal with a group led by Altamont Capital
Partners is anti-competitive and should be reviewed by takeover
regulators, the Australian surfwear company’s lenders said.  Terms attached to the deal “are anti-competitive and
coercive”, the Takeovers Panel cited an application from
Oaktree Capital Management LP and Centerbridge Partners LP as
saying in a regulatory statement today. The Panel won’t grant
their initial request to delay the agreement, the regulator said
in a separate statement after the stock market closed.  The two distressed-debt investors, which have bought about
A$289 million in Billabong’s syndicated loans, were rebuffed in
a rival refinancing offer made to  Australia ’s largest surfwear
company yesterday. Their proposal isn’t “capable of
acceptance”, Billabong said yesterday.  Oaktree and Centerbridge “very much had a view that they
were going to make money” through a debt-for-equity swap, Ben
Clark, a portfolio manager at TMS Capital Pty., said by phone
from Sydney. “They’ve been blindsided by Billabong’s intention
to pay that debt back straight away” through the deal with
Altamont.  Billabong “disagrees with the basis for the application”
and will respond to it in line with the Takeover Panel’s
process, the  Gold Coast , Australia-based company said in another
statement to Australia’s stock exchange today.  The Panel may still consider an order to stop the process
should circumstances change or if it decides to hear the debt
funds’ appeal, the body said today. It didn’t comment on the
merits of the application.  Shares Rise  The surfwear company, founded by Gordon Merchant in 1973,
has breached terms on its debt, fired employees, and shuttered
stores as it struggled to control its debt amid a sales slump.  Its shares have dropped 78 percent since Launa Inman took
over as chief executive officer last May, and the company has
been fielding takeover and recapitalization plans for all but
five weeks of that period.  The stock rose  9.6 percent  to 40 Australian cents at the
close of trade in Sydney today, on trading volume almost five
times the three-month average.  “At least there seems to be a bit of competitive tension
there now,” Clark said. “The worst that could happen is that
business continues to deteriorate while this plays out.”  While Oaktree and Centerbridge had already approached the
company before Billabong made the deal with Altamont announced
July 16, there hadn’t been enough detail for the board to make a
decision, Billabong Chairman Ian Pollard told a media event in
Sydney yesterday.  “We had no piece of paper that had any numbers on it, let
alone a proposal,” he said.  Detailed Offer  The more detailed offer from Oaktree and Centerbridge was
delivered to Billabong at 2:15 p.m. Sydney time yesterday,
according to an e-mail from Marsha Jacobs, a Sydney-based
external spokeswoman for the debt funds at John Connolly &
Partners in Sydney.  That proposal was “subject to conditions, a number of
which are incapable of satisfaction, and others which would make
any refinancing far less certain than under the Altamont
consortium transactions,” the surfwear company said yesterday.  Under the agreement Billabong made with entities associated
with Altamont and Blackstone Group LP, Billabong will pay off
the A$289 million in loans bought by Oaktree and Centerbridge by
selling its DaKine brand to the consortium for A$70 million and
taking a $294 million bridging loan.  Competing Proposals  The Altamont group could end up with 36 percent to 40
percent of the company, and appoint Altamont’s two co-founders
to Billabong’s board, which currently has seven members,
according to a statement from Billabong.  The distressed-debt funds’ proposal would instead see A$189
million of the loans canceled in exchange for a 61 percent stake
in Billabong, with the balance of A$100 million repaid using a
six-year loan with an interest rate of 8 percent. The Australian
company would retain its DaKine brand and the funds would seek a
majority of board seats.  The offer “is a superior proposition that will optimize
the prospect of Billabong effecting its turnaround plan,”
according to the e-mailed statement from the funds.  In their application to the Takeovers Panel today, the
funds said that an initial interest rate of 35 percent on
convertible debt that Billabong will issue to the Altamont
group, along with a termination fee of A$65 million, are “lock-up devices” which restrict competition.  Takeovers Panel  The panel should remove the terms and delay the funding of
a bridging loan and the sale of Billabong’s DaKine brand -- both
scheduled to take place around 22 July -- until it makes a
decision, according to the debt funds.  Billabong’s market value peaked at A$3.84 billion in June
2007 before falling to as little as A$62 million June 24 amid
uncertainty about its future, after it ended takeover talks with
Sycamore Partners LP and said it was discussing refinancing
deals with Sycamore and Altamont.  A former surfboard-shaper and the company’s largest
shareholder, Gordon Merchant told Billabong’s board in February
2012 that he wouldn’t support an offer as high as A$4 a share if
it were made by TPG Capital, the private equity group run by
 David Bonderman .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  