-- Bin Laden’s Son-In-Law Seeks Terrorism Case Dismissal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-19T18:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/bin-laden-s-son-in-law-seeks-terrorism-case-dismissal.html
Osama  bin Laden ’s son-in-law said
U.S. charges that he was part of a global conspiracy to kill
Americans should be dismissed because prosecutors waited too
long to file them.  Sulaiman Abu Ghayth, a Kuwaiti indicted by Manhattan U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara’s office, is charged with plotting to
kill Americans after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. He was
captured as he sought to travel from Jordan to  Kuwait  by the
Central Intelligence Agency and  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
after a decade-long manhunt, the U.S. said. He was brought to
 New York  in March.  His lawyer, Stanley Cohen, said prosecutors missed the
conspiracy statute’s five-year deadline to file any charges
under U.S. law and also failed to specify any actions that
furthered the alleged conspiracy after the 2001 attacks.  Cohen said his client was detained in  Iran  beginning in
2002 until Jan. 11, 2013, and released when he traveled to
Turkey, where he was apprehended by authorities. Abu Ghayth was
held for 45 days and interrogated by Turkish officials who then
sent him to Amman, Jordan. Officials there turned Abu Ghayth
over to FBI and CIA agents who treated him as a “High Value
Detainee” and subjected him to harsh interrogation techniques,
Cohen said.  “Handcuffed, shackled and hooded, the defendant was placed
on an American plane, where for approximately fourteen hours he
was subjected to a variety of deprivation techniques and harsh
treatment which constitute torture,” Cohen said.  Abu Ghayth has pleaded not guilty to the charges.  Prosecutors allege that Abu Ghayth served alongside bin
Laden, appearing with him and bin Laden’s then deputy,  Ayman al-Zawahiri , speaking on behalf of the terrorist organization.  He is viewed as having been among the group’s most
influential surviving leaders since U.S. Navy SEALs killed bin
Laden in May 2011. He’s also the highest-ranking member of al-Qaeda brought to stand trial in a federal court in the U.S.,
according to the FBI.  The case is U.S. v. Abu Ghayth, 13-cr-01023, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  