-- MBK Said to Mull Singapore IPO for CNS After Sale Blocked
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2013-07-19T07:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/mbk-said-to-mull-singapore-ipo-for-cns-after-taiwan-blocked-sale.html
MBK Partners Ltd., a private equity
firm formed by former Carlyle Group executives, is considering a
 Singapore  initial public offering for  Taiwan ’s China Network
Systems Co., said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Listing Taiwan’s largest cable television operator as a
business trust is among options being discussed after a sale to
Taiwan’s richest man was blocked this year, said the people,
asking not to be identified as the deliberations are private.  MBK’s proposed sale of China Network, or CNS, to  Want Want
China Holdings Ltd. (151)  Chairman Tsai Eng Meng for $2.4 billion
including debt failed this year as Taiwanese regulators ruled
Want Want hadn’t fulfilled conditions for approval. Sellers from
Taiwan,  India  and  Hong Kong  have completed business-trust IPOs
in Singapore since early 2011 as they lured investors with high
yields amid record-low  interest rates .  “The subscriber base and average revenue per user tends to
be quite stable so this makes a good candidate for someone like
CNS to have a business trust,” said Jonathan Koh, an analyst at
UOB Kay Hian in Singapore. “There is a track record of a
Taiwanese pay-TV operator listed in Singapore, and that’s
something they can rely on.”  Asian Pay Television Trust, owner of Taiwan’s third-largest
cable television operator, listed in Singapore in May and is
down 10 percent from its IPO price.  Religare Health Trust (RHT) , which
raised S$511 million in its October IPO last year, is down 5
percent from its debut price, while  Hutchison Port Holdings
Trust (HPHT) , which raised $5.5 billion in March 2011, is down 24
percent.  Deal Conditions  CNS has more than 1.2 million subscribers in Taiwan, giving
it a 20 percent market share according to MBK’s  website .  MBK and a group led by Tsai initially agreed to a sale of
CNS in 2010. After giving conditional approval for the deal in
July of last year, Taiwan’s regulators said in February this
year that the buyer hadn’t met its requirements. The conditions
included converting a Want Want-owned channel to a non-news
format and forming a supervisory board to ensure editorial
independence.  Chao Yu-pei, an assistant to Tsai’s son Shao-chung, said an
appeal has been filed with the Taiwanese cabinet and a ruling is
expected in September.  “We still wish the deal can get approval,” Chao said by
telephone today.  Michael Kim , MBK’s founding partner, and Liu
Chien-chih, a spokesman for CNS, did not reply to messages
seeking comment on the IPO plan.  APTT Sale  MBK Partners, formed in 2005 by five former Carlyle
executives led by Kim, agreed in 2006 to buy 60 percent of CNS
for NT$30.9 billion ($1 billion). The fund has $6.3 billion of
assets under management and oversees 18 portfolio companies
including Universal Studios Japan and  New China Life Insurance (601336) 
Co., according to its website.  Asian Pay Television Trust raised S$1.39 billion ($1.1
billion) in its May IPO. The sale by the trust, which owns
Taiwan Broadband Communications Co., was part of Macquarie
International Infrastructure Fund’s planned shutdown.  Asian Pay
Television Trust (APTT)  offered a projected yield of 8.51 percent for
2014, according to its IPO prospectus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in Hong Kong at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  