-- BlackBerry, Disney, VF, Vivendi: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-07-19T04:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/blackberry-disney-vf-vivendi-intellectual-property.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BB) , the Canadian maker
of wireless communication devices, didn’t infringe patents
belonging to a Michigan company, a federal appeals court ruled.  St. Clair  Intellectual Property  Consultants Inc. sued
BlackBerry, formerly known as Research In Motion Ltd., in
federal court in  Delaware  in June 2008, alleging that four
patents related to digital cameras in mobile telephones were
infringed.  The court entered a judgment against St. Clair in September
2012. St. Clair appealed.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit affirmed
the trial court’s ruling in a judgment delivered without
comment.  The appellate case is St. Clair Intellectual Property v.
Matsushita Electrical Industries, 12-1652, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit. The lower court case is St. Clair
Intellectual Property v. Research In Motion Ltd.,08-cv-00371S,
U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Disney’s Marvel Off the Hook for Spiderman Toy Patent Royalties  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s Marvel Enterprises unit didn’t have to
continue pay royalties to an  Arizona  inventor after his patent
expired, a federal appeals court ruled.  Stephen Kimble, whose patent 5,072,856 covers a toy web-shooting glove, sued Marvel for patent infringement in 1997,
claiming that the Spiderman Web Blaster infringed his patent. In
2001, the parties settled that dispute, granting Kimble an
initial cash payment and a percentage on future sales.  In 2006, Marvel entered into an agreement with toymaker
Hasbro Inc. to produce the toy. Kimble and Marvel then disputed
the issue of further payment, and he filed another suit. The
court found that under his royalty agreement with Marvel, the
payments would stop when the patent expired.  Kimble appealed that ruling, claiming the agreement covered
both patent and non-patent rights and that his compensation
should continue. The appeals court in a July 16 ruling said that
a license that covers both patent and non-patent rights is
unenforceable after the patent expires unless the agreement
provided for a discount for the non-patent rights.  In the absence of a discount, the court said the post-expiration royalty payments were “an improper extension of the
patent monopoly.”  The case is Kimble v. Marvel Enterprises Inc., 11-15605,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Trademark Case Against VF’s Vans Can Go Ahead, Court Rules  VF Corp. (VFC) ’s Vans unit failed to persuade a U.S. court to
dismiss a trademark lawsuit brought by Airwair International
Ltd., a U.K.-based shoe manufacturer.  Airwair sued in federal court in San Jose,  California , in
September claiming that Van’s Gibson line of shoes infringed
trademarks and trade dress related to shoe design.  Vans asked the court to dismiss the case in December.  In a July 17 order, U.S. District Judge Edward J. Davila
said that Airwair’s complaint satisfied the requirements for the
case to go forward.  The case is Airwair International Ltd. v. Vans Inc., 12-cv-05060, U.D. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Diller’s Vimeo Seeks to End Vivendi Music Copyright Lawsuit  Vimeo, the video-sharing website owned by  Barry Diller ’s
 IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , said federal law protects it against a
 Vivendi SA (VIV)  copyright lawsuit over music that includes recordings
by the Beatles and the Beach Boys.  U.S. District Judge Ronnie Abrams heard arguments yesterday
on Vimeo’s motion to throw out the case. She said at the end of
the three-hour hearing in Manhattan that she would rule later.  Vivendi labels including Capitol Records sued Vimeo in 2009
claiming that the website “induces and encourages its users to
upload” copyrighted videos and songs it wasn’t authorized to
display. The songs include the Beatles’ “Let It Be,” the Beach
Boys’ “Surfin’ USA” and Radiohead’s “High and Dry.” Users
post homemade videos in which they lip-synch to the infringed
songs, the labels said in the complaint.  Vimeo, based in  New York , denied infringing copyrights and
said that it’s protected by the safe-harbor provision of the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA. The safe-harbor rule
applies if a site removes infringing material when informed
about it.  The company, which has more than 14 million registered
users, gets its revenue from subscription fees and advertising.  The labels said that Vimeo can’t be protected by law
because it knew that the uploaded videos contained unlicensed
copyrighted material and that it benefited financially from
them.  The labels asked the judge to deny Vimeo’s motion and grant
them partial summary judgment. If Abrams rejects the motions,
the case may go to trial by jury.  The litigation had been on hold pending a ruling in a
similar case, in which  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  sued Google Inc.’s  YouTube 
for displaying Viacom’s copyrighted television and movie content
on the web without authorization. The Second Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed a lower-court ruling in favor of  YouTube  and
sent the case back to district court.  U.S. District Judge Louis Stanton then dismissed Viacom’s
suit in April, saying YouTube was protected from liability by
the Copyright Act’s safe-harbor provision.  The case is Capitol Records LLC v. Vimeo LLC, 1:09-cv-10101, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Outdated Mail Rule Helps Pangang, Kolon Elude U.S. Charges  China’s Pangang Group Co. and Korea’s  Kolon Industries Inc. (120110) 
have eluded U.S. criminal charges of trade-secret theft for
months. Unlike fugitive security contractor Edward Snowden, they
aren’t hiding from authorities.  Pangang and Kolon can’t be forced yet to face the
accusations in court because federal rules dating to the 1940s
require prosecutors to issue a summons the old-fashioned way --
by mailing it to a U.S. address. The companies said they don’t
have offices, employees or agents in the U.S. and can’t be
served. Federal judges in California and  Virginia  have mostly
agreed.  Prosecutors must file papers this week telling a judge in
San Francisco how they will proceed with Pangang while a judge
in Richmond, Virginia, is scheduled to hear arguments in Kolon’s
case.  The issue threatens to derail the case against Pangang. The
company was charged in San Francisco last year with conspiring
to steal secrets from  DuPont Co. (DD)  about titanium dioxide, a white
pigment used in paint, plastics and paper. Kolon and five of its
executives were charged in October with stealing  trade secrets 
from DuPont related to the manufacture of Kevlar, the anti-ballistic fiber used in police and military gear.  Prosecutors are required to serve summonses on defendants
by delivering copies to officers or legal representatives and
mailing copies to the defendants’ last known U.S. address,
according to federal rules of criminal procedure.  The  Justice Department , saying the procedures have fallen
behind the “new reality” of a global economy and electronic
communications, recommended the committee allow the serving of
summonses outside the U.S. by agreed-upon delivery methods with
foreign jurisdictions, according to an October letter from then-Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer  to the committee.  The case is U.S. v. Kolon Industries, 12-cr-00137, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond). The
Pangang case is U.S. v. Liew, 11-cr-00573, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 