-- Boeing 787 Safety Move Splits Airlines Over Honeywell Beacon
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l   a n d   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2013-07-19T14:18:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/boeing-787-safety-move-splits-airline-action-on-honeywell-beacon.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  787 operators are
grappling with conflicting regulatory guidance after U.K. safety
authorities called for the deactivation of an emergency beacon
linked to a fire on a Dreamliner at  Heathrow airport  last week.  U.K. charter carrier Thomson Airways removed the  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  locator within hours, while Japan Airlines
Co. has inspected the device but faces a local legal requirement
to have it on board, according to spokesman Kazunori Kidosaki.
Poland’s LOT said it has made checks and the part is “fine.”  Implementing the recommendation to disable the beacon --
which signals a plane’s position after a crash -- may need an
airworthiness directive, according to Dominique Fouda, a
spokesman for the Cologne-based European Aviation Safety Agency.
The emergency locator transmitter is part of a minimum equipment
list, though can be made inoperable in some conditions, he said.  “Under European regulations, ELTs can be temporarily
deactivated for maintenance while the aircraft continues to
fly,” added  Richard Taylor , a spokesman for the U.K.  Civil
Aviation Authority , in an e-mail. “The temporary removal can be
extended for as long as necessary.”  ‘Safety Compromise’  The U.K. Air Accidents Investigation Branch yesterday urged
the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  to initiate action for
the deactivation of the Honeywell part after determining it was
the only system in the area of the fire on an Ethiopian Airlines
Enterprise 787 on July 12, adding that the event “could pose a
significant concern” had it occurred with the plane airborne.  “ELT installation was mandated as a safety improvement;
their removal represents a safety compromise on what may be
thousands of aircraft,” said  Robert Mann  of consultants R.W.
Mann & Co. in  Port Washington ,  New York , who has previously
worked at major U.S. carriers  American Airlines , Pan Am and TWA.
“Why would the regulator mandate deactivation of a no-go item
on an aircraft designed for overwater and polar routings?”  The CAA’s Taylor said flight and voice data recorders, the
so called black boxes on a plane that help determine the cause
of an accident, have their own location transmitters.  Ministry Decree  ANA Holdings Inc. (9202) , the biggest 787 operator, hasn’t removed
the devices because Japanese aviation law requires them aboard,
said Tokyo-based spokeswoman Megumi Tezuka. If the FAA, the
certification authority for the Dreamliner, ordered the removal
of the components and Boeing issued a directive it would do so
once Japan’s transport ministry published a decree, she said.  The FAA is reviewing the U.K. report “to determine the
appropriate action,” spokesman Lynn Lunsford said yesterday.  Boeing would issue instructions to airlines about how to
remove the beacon and provide assistance as needed, said Doug Alder, a spokesman for the Chicago-based company. The emergency
locator can be removed quickly and won’t idle the 68-jet fleet.  LOT Polish Airlines SA, the first European carrier to get
the 787,  “anticipated the situation and we had already checked
emergency locator beacons on our 787s before the U.K. safety
board recommendation,” spokesman Robert Moren said by phone.
The beacons “are fine, so we are not deactivating them.”  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the sole U.S. operator of
the composite-plastic plane, has performed visual checks of the
transmitters on its six 787s “with no findings,” Christen David,
a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based company, said by e-mail.  Training Exemption  India’s aviation safety regulator will make a decision
after Air India Ltd. -- which operates seven 787s -- receives a
directive from Boeing, Arun Mishra, director general of civil
aviation, said in a phone interview. Rohit Nandan, the carrier’s
chairman, didn’t immediately answer calls and a text message.  Indian rules also stipulate that all aircraft be fitted
with an ELT device that meets FAA standards. Only aircraft used
for training or research are exempt, according to the rules
published on the aviation regulator’s website.  Norwegian Air Shuttle AS (NAS) , which leases Dreamliners from
International Air Finance Corp., said it’s in “close contact”
with Boeing and civil aviation authorities. “We will of course
follow all the instructions that we are given,” spokeswoman
Astrid Mannion said by e-mail today.  Qatar Airways Ltd., the only Middle Eastern 787 operator,
declined to comment.  The ELT beacon, using lithium-batteries, is suspect because
it’s the only  power source  in the area of the fire, though
investigators are still probing whether the device combusted or
was set alight by an outside source. The incident is the first
involving more than 6,000 such Honeywell devices, the AAIB said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net ;
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  