-- Boeing 787 Production Target on Track, Supplier Says
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-07-19T17:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/boeing-787-production-target-on-track-supplier-says.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  is on track to reach its
goal of manufacturing 10 of its 787 Dreamliner jets per month by
the year’s end and is studying a production-rate increase, said
 Rockwell Collins  Inc., a supplier for the jet.  The composite plane’s assembly lines and global supply-chain aren’t showing any effects from the Dreamliner’s three-month grounding this year after  lithium-ion batteries  melted
down in two 787s’ power systems, said Clay Jones, chief
executive officer of the supplier.  Rockwell Collins, based in  Cedar Rapids , Iowa, supplies the
Dreamliner’s cockpit displays, pilot control system and flight
computer systems. Boeing kept its factories running through the
grounding period and Rockwell Collins’s financial performance
wasn’t hurt, Jones said in a phone interview today. The Chicago-based planemaker is considering increasing its rate of output of
787s, Jones also said.  “If Boeing chooses to expand its production rate beyond 10
a month, that’s obviously a big opportunity and it presents no
material problem for us,” Jones said.  Boeing delivered only 17 Dreamliners in the first half of
2013, 16 of them after regulators cleared the jet to fly again
in April.  Marc Birtel , a spokesman for Boeing, confirmed its
production target is unchanged in a phone interview.  Boeing will need a faster rate to fill more than 930
Dreamliner orders and make room for delivery of a stretched
version of the jet by 2020. The pace of production of the 787
will hit 14 a month by 2015, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The additional planes would boost annual revenue for Boeing
by $6.7 billion, based on a Bloomberg Industries estimate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  