-- Boston Strangler Suspect DeSalvo’s DNA Is Linked to Crime
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-07-19T16:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/boston-strangler-suspect-desalvo-s-dna-is-linked-to-crime.html
The DNA of Albert DeSalvo, who
confessed and then recanted his confession to the Boston
Strangler murders, matches a semen sample from a 1964 crime
scene, authorities said after exhuming his body for testing.  The results mark the first time DeSalvo has been
scientifically tied to the 1964 slaying of Mary Sullivan, who is
believed to be the Boston Strangler’s 11th and final victim,
according to a statement e-mailed today by  Massachusetts 
Attorney General Martha Coakley and Suffolk County District
Attorney Daniel Conley.  “This leaves no doubt that Albert DeSalvo was responsible
for the brutal murder of Mary Sullivan, and most likely that he
was responsible for the horrific murders of the other women he
confessed to killing,” Coakley said in the statement.  DeSalvo was never charged in any of the killings after
recanting his post-arrest confession to about a dozen murders
because prosecutors lacked other evidence. In 1973 he was killed
in prison, where he was serving a life sentence for a non-related sexual assault.  Scientists specializing in DNA analysis said the odds the
semen belonged to a white male other than DeSalvo were about one
in 220 billion, according to the statement. At the time Sullivan
was killed, there were about 3.2 billion people on the planet.  Boston police won court approval to unearth DeSalvo’s body
after DNA recovered from Sullivan’s body and stored for almost
50 years was found to match closely DNA of one of DeSalvo’s
surviving male relatives, authorities said on July 11.  DNA Technology  Boston authorities waited for years for DNA sampling
technology to advance sufficiently before sending two samples
from Sullivan’s murder scene to two testing companies.  After a sample was identified, Boston police needed to
compare it to DNA from one of DeSalvo’s male family members
because traits are inherited.  Police did not ask the family to supply a sample. Instead,
a surveillance expert followed one of DeSalvo’s nephews until he
discarded a water bottle, which was collected and tested, police
said. A match was made, ruling out 99.9 percent of other males,
according to police.  Authorities then won a court order allowing them to exhume
DeSalvo’s body from a grave in Peabody, Massachusetts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  New York  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  