-- BP to Ask Judge to Suspend Oil Spill Settlement Payments
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-07-19T13:01:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/bp-to-ask-judge-to-suspend-oil-spill-settlement-payments.html
BP Plc (BP/)  will ask a federal judge in
New Orleans today to temporarily halt payments from the court-supervised program administering its settlement over the 2010
 Gulf of Mexico   oil spill .  The payments awarded may be “tainted by improprieties”
and should be suspended while  Louis Freeh , former director of
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, probes possible misconduct
in the claims program, BP said in court filings.  Lawyers for the plaintiffs and the claims administrator
have disputed allegations of tainted payments, calling BP’s bid
for a freeze unnecessary.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is conducting a
hearing today at BP’s request, ordered the investigation by
Freeh on July 2, after a staff attorney at the program was
suspended for allegedly taking fees from law firms while
processing their clients’ claims from the oil spill settlement.  The dispute is the latest complaint from BP over the claims
process set up by last year’s settlement with most private party
victims. BP set up a hotline July 15 seeking reports of alleged
fraud or corruption in the claims process.  BP is also battling claims administrator Patrick Juneau
over what the company has called his misinterpretation of
settlement terms. BP contends this interpretation has resulted
in the payment of hundreds of millions of dollars in claims for
“fictitious” business economic losses.  Barbier has three times rejected BP’s request to force
Juneau to adopt the interpretation the company prefers. A U.S.
appeals court heard arguments in the dispute July 8, and a
decision is pending.  Unknown Cost  BP initially estimated the value of the settlement, reached
in March 2010, at $7.8 billion. The London-based  oil company  has
since revised that to $8.2 billion, while saying in regulatory
filings that the ultimate cost is unknown.  BP alleged in court papers July 16 that Juneau hired key
people for the claims program “without performing adequate
diligence.” Two of the settlement program’s “three senior
legal counsel recently were terminated after apparently
intervening in the processing of claims in which they appear to
have had a financial stake,” BP said in the filing.  The program is paying an average of more than $73 million a
week and “it would be impractical if not impossible to recover
all tainted payments” made during the investigation, BP said in
its filing this week. An injunction freezing payments “is the
only way to ensure that BP is not further irreparably harmed”
by paying awards that may be “tainted by improprieties,”
according to the filing.  No Harm  “BP has not identified a single claim that it contends was
‘tainted’ or otherwise affected by the alleged conflict of
interest,”  Stephen Herman  and  James Roy , the plaintiffs’ lead
attorneys, said in a filing yesterday. “BP has not suffered,
nor does it face the threat of, ‘irreparable harm,’ nor indeed
any harm.”  BP’s request is “unnecessary” and “in part based on
premature speculation,” claims program administrator Patrick
Juneau said in a filing with the court yesterday. The claims
administrator’s office “already has placed on ‘hold’ those
claims with any remote connection to the parties under
investigation,” Juneau’s lawyers said in the filing.  “There is no proof to support BP’s contention that each
and every claim must be presumed to have some imputed ‘taint,’”
they said.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in federal court in New Orleans
at  allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  