-- Bus Fare Reversal Aids Brazil Inflation Fight
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-07-19T14:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/brazil-inflation-slows-more-than-analysts-forecast-in-mid-july.html
Brazil ’s  inflation  slowed more than
analysts forecast in mid-July after street protests forced local
governments to roll back an increase in urban bus fares.  Consumer prices as measured by the IPCA-15  price index  rose
0.07 percent from June 14 to July 12, the national statistics
agency said in a report published on its website today. That was
less than the median  forecast  of a 0.11 percent increase from 31
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual  inflation  slowed to 6.4
percent, falling back into the central bank’s 2.5 percent to 6.5
percent target range.  More than 1 million people took to the streets last month
after inflation eroded purchasing power and economic growth
remained sluggish. Demonstrations were sparked by bus fare
increases, since canceled, which helped ease consumer prices.
The central bank has embarked on the largest cycle of interest
rate increases among the world’s major economies to tame
inflation that has remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint since
September 2010.  “My call is that the worst is over, and we’re at the
beginning of an inflection,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist
at Votorantim Ctvm, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “We are
starting to see better inflation dynamics, and since inflation
is under control, this will help reinforce the central bank’s
credibility.”  Swap Rates  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 9.34 percent at 11:26 a.m. local time. The
real weakened 0.4 percent to 2.2367 per  U.S. dollar .  Transport prices dropped 0.55 percent in the month through
July 12, after rising 0.1 percent the prior month, the agency
said. Food and beverage prices contracted 0.18 percent in the
same period, down from a 0.27 percent increase through mid-June.  The central bank’s monetary policy committee said a weaker
currency creates short-term inflation pressure and “considers
appropriate to continue the current pace” of  interest rate 
increases,’’ according to the minutes of the July 9-10 meeting,
which were published yesterday.  Policy makers raised the benchmark interest rate by 50
basis points at each of their past two meetings to 8.5 percent,
following a 25-basis-point increase in April. The real has
weakened 9 percent against the dollar in the past two months,
the worst performance among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Cutting Estimates  Economists forecast 5.8 percent inflation and 2.31 percent
economic expansion in 2013, cutting their growth estimate for
the ninth straight time, according to the latest central bank
weekly survey. The analysts forecast the benchmark rate will
reach 9.25 percent at year-end.  Services inflation accelerated to 0.69 percent in the
month, while twelve-month services inflation through mid-July
was 8.6 percent, according to Flavio Serrano, senior economist
at  Banco Espirito Santo de Investimento SA .  “Services sector inflation is at a really high level and
this is somewhat concerning,” Serrano, who forecasts 2014
inflation of 6 percent, said by telephone from Brazil.
“Inflation in Brazil is not as good as the monthly reading
suggests.”  Personal expenses rose 1.08 percent through mid-July, up
from 0.37 percent the prior month and marking the largest impact
on consumer price increases. Housing prices rose 0.6 percent  The jumps in personal expenses and housing prices weren’t
enough to prevent the diffusion index, which measures how
widespread inflation is in the economy, from falling. The index
fell to 56 percent in mid-July from 62 percent the prior month,
according to Ibiuna Investimentos in Sao Paulo.  The reduction in the diffusion index is “good news for the
central bank,”  Pedro Tuesta , senior Latin America economist for
4Cast Ltd, said by telephone from  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  