-- Brixmor May Be Biggest Retail REIT Offering in 20 Years
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-07-19T18:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/brixmor-may-be-biggest-retail-reit-offering-in-20-years.html
The initial public offering of
Brixmor Property Group, the second-largest U.S. shopping center
landlord, may be the biggest for a retail real estate investment
trust since Simon Property Group Inc.’s IPO 20 years ago.  The sale of shares in New York-based Brixmor, a  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  unit, probably “will raise $700 million or more,”
according to  Renaissance Capital LLC , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based research firm. That would be the largest IPO by a
shopping-focused REIT since Simon’s $840 million share sale in
1993, data from the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts show.  Brixmor yesterday made its first filing to go public, with
pricing yet to be announced. New York-based Blackstone is taking
advantage of a rally in shares of REITs that own and operate
shopping centers. The Bloomberg REIT Shopping Center index is up
about 11 percent from a low on June 20 after falling from a
five-year high in May amid concern that rising interest rates
would increase landlords’ costs.  Simon and Brixmor operate in different sectors of the
retail REIT industry. Brixmor owns mainly grocery store-anchored, open-air centers, while Indianapolis-based Simon owns
mainly enclosed malls and upscale outlets.  Brixmor owns 522 shopping centers with 87 million square
feet (8.1 million square meters) of space. The assets that form
Brixmor’s core were acquired in Blackstone’s $9 billion purchase
of U.S. shopping centers from  Australia ’s  Centro Properties
Group  in 2011. Brixmor is second to  Kimco Realty Corp. (KIM)  among
U.S. shopping-center landlords by number of properties.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment on
the planned Brixmor stock sale.  REIT IPOs  Simon, the country’s biggest owner of shopping malls, was
the fifth-biggest IPO of a property trust, according to the REIT
association. There have been eight REIT IPOs of more than $700
million, the trade group said.  Brixmor is the third-biggest real estate asset held by
Blackstone, which has said it plans to sell large property
holdings over the next 12 to 18 months as property values
rebound from the financial crisis and some funds approach the
end of their term. The company reiterated that guidance in its
second-quarter earnings conference call yesterday.  “Realizations in real estate continue to ramp up,”
Blackstone President  Tony James  said on the call. The firm has
said it’s planning an IPO for the Hilton Worldwide Inc. hotel
chain, and sales of office buildings acquired in the $39 billion
purchase of Equity Office Properties Trust in 2007, the firm’s
two biggest property holdings.  General Growth  The firm sold $2.1 billion of real estate assets last
quarter, including shares of General Growth Properties Inc., the
largest U.S. mall landlord after Simon, James said.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest manager of alternative
investments to stocks and bonds, hasn’t said whether it would
sell any shares in the Brixmor IPO. It said it plans to hold a
majority stake in the company after the sale.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo Securities are managing the Brixmor
offering, according to the filing. The shares will trade under
the symbol BRX.  Brixmor will use the proceeds from the offering primarily
to repay debt. The company obtained a $2.75 billion credit
facility from a group of banks on July 16, according to the
filing.  Revenue rose 2.3 percent in the first quarter from a year
earlier to $287.1 million, Brixmor said in the filing. The
company’s net loss narrowed to $19.5 million from $37.9 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  