-- Bruce Lee’s Legacy Continues in Hong Kong Exhibition
-- B y   A l a n   W o n g
-- 2013-07-19T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/bruce-lee-s-legacy-continues-in-hong-kong-exhibition.html
An exhibition commemorating Bruce Lee’s life, cut short by his sudden death forty years ago when
he was 32, opens today in  Hong Kong .  The iconic martial artist’s yellow track suit and nunchaku,
a Japanese weapon he popularized in his films, are among
hundreds of items on display in the exhibit, which will run for
five years at the Hong Kong Heritage Museum.  “He was on the cutting edge of film making, martial arts,
fitness, philosophy,” said Shannon Lee, Bruce Lee’s daughter
and chairwoman of the Bruce Lee Foundation, at the opening
ceremony yesterday. “But I think his true relevance holds in
the example of his life, his legacy, and also in his philosophy,
which has continued to inspired so many people around the
world.”  The exhibition, “Bruce Lee: Kung Fu. Art. Life”,
recreates famous scenes from Lee’s movies, including the mirror
fight scene in “Enter the Dragon,” the final film Lee
completed. It also features Lee’s letters written in different
stages of his life and to different people, sometimes to
himself.  “I, Bruce Lee, will be the first highest paid Oriental
super star in the  United States ,” Lee wrote in a letter dated
1969. “In return I will give the most exciting performances and
render the best of quality in the capacity of an actor.”  Lee was born in  San Francisco  and grew up in Hong Kong,
where he began training under Chinese martial arts master Yip
Man at the age of 13, according to the foundation website. He
taught kung fu to support his study at the  University of
Washington , where he majored in philosophy, and later opened a
number of kung fu schools around the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Wong in Hong Kong at 
 awong478@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  