-- Camp Awash in Cash With No Election Foe Amid Code Rewrite
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2013-07-19T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/camp-awash-in-cash-with-no-election-foe-amid-code-rewrite.html
Dave Camp, the top Republican tax
writer in Congress, has built the biggest campaign fund in the
U.S. House of Representatives even as no Democrat has announced
plans to run against him in 2014.  The chairman of the Ways and Means Committee began July
with a $3.04 million campaign balance after raising $788,759 in
the second quarter from donors including  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and Microsoft Corp., Federal Election Commission reports in
Washington show.  Camp’s fundraising underscores his central role in
bipartisan talks about revising the U.S.  tax  code and as the
top-ranking member on a committee that’s renowned as a magnet
for campaign contributions.  Representatives Aaron Schock, an Illinois Republican whose
$2.9 million campaign treasury is the second biggest in the
House, and Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat whose $2.8 million
fund is the third biggest, also sit on Ways and Means.  With Camp and top tax writers saying “the tax code might
be opened up for re-writing, that’s just an invitation for
people to pour as much money as they can into your campaign,”
said Viveca Novak, editorial and communications director at the
Center for Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research
group that tracks campaign donations.  At most, what political donations give companies “is
access,” said Dave Kautter, managing director of the Kogod Tax
Center at American University in  Washington . “It doesn’t get
you the outcome that you want. It gives you the opportunity,
more than someone else, to make your case,” he said.  No Opponent  Camp, 60, doesn’t need the money. He has received more than
60 percent of the vote in all 12 of his Michigan general
elections, dating to 1990. He won 63 percent in 2012. Democrats
have never seriously targeted him, and none have filed to
challenge him in next year’s midterm election.  Even so, he more than doubled the $362,154 he raised in the
first quarter, according to the latest reports. Camp took in
$554,261 from April to June from political action committees,
many of them linked to companies that have a stake in how a tax-code rewrite would be designed.  Sage Eastman, a spokesman for Camp, declined to comment on
the campaign-finance report.  The chairman has said he wants to revise the  individual  and
corporate parts of the code to broaden the tax base and lower
top rates to 25 percent. He has proposed a territorial system
that would exempt from taxation most overseas profits of U.S.-
based companies. He would require the companies to pay a 5.25
percent tax rate on their accumulated foreign earnings.  GE Donations  General Electric, which led all U.S. companies with $108
billion in accumulated untaxed profits overseas in 2012,
contributed $1,000 to Camp in April through its PAC, in addition
to the $3,500 it donated in March. Federal campaign law allows
most PACs to give up to $5,000 for a primary election and $5,000
for a general election, even if an incumbent isn’t challenged.  GE and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , which made a $2,500 PAC donation to
Camp in April, are among the companies that would benefit most
from a territorial tax system, according to a Bloomberg
Government analysis.  Ford Motor Co.’s PAC donated $2,500 to Camp on April 3, two
days after its head of the Americas, Joe Hinrichs, sent a letter
with 17 other executives from large U.S. companies urging Camp
and others in Congress to act on legislation that cuts corporate
rates.  Other company PACs donating to Camp in the second quarter
included  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Pfizer Inc. and  Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV. (ABI)   ‘Everyone’ Concerned  “You’ve got everyone from financial interests who are
worried about carried interest and how that’s treated, to
mortgage companies worried about the mortgage interest
deduction, to beer and wine companies worried about excise
taxes, you name it,” Novak said. “There is really no interest
in the country practically who is not concerned about the tax
code.”  The tax code “has its own ecosystem,” Kautter said.
“Once you touch one part of that ecosystem, it has effects that
are direct and are indirect, some of which you can easily
anticipate and some you just don’t imagine until a year or two
later.”  With Democrats and Republicans agreeing that corporate tax
revisions should be revenue-neutral, businesses are “competing
against other businesses” and “the immediacy of trying to make
your case becomes more overt,” Kautter said.  Any effort to revise tax laws in the current 113th Congress
would need the support of the Republican-led House, the
Democratic-run Senate and President  Barack Obama .  Tax Tour  Camp and Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat who leads the
Senate Finance Committee, are trying to build public support for
a code rewrite on a “tax reform tour” that took them to the
headquarters of 3M Co. in Maplewood,  Minnesota , on July 8. Camp
and Baucus plan to speak to small-business owners in
Philadelphia on July 29.  “Tax reform will be bold,” Camp said in an interview last
week. “There’s no other way to do it, so we’ll just see how
bold everybody wants to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  