-- Canada June Inflation Rate Quickens to 1.2% on Gasoline
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-07-19T13:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/canada-june-inflation-rate-quickens-to-1-2-on-gasoline.html
Canada ’s  inflation  rate quickened
for a second month in June as the prices of gasoline and
automobiles rebounded.  The  consumer price index  rose 1.2 percent from a year ago
following a 0.7 percent gain in May. The  core  rate, which
excludes eight volatile products, increased 1.3 percent after a
1.1 percent gain the prior month, Statistics Canada said today
from Ottawa. Both figures matched median forecasts in Bloomberg
economist surveys.  Bank of Canada Governor Stephen Poloz said this week that
inflation will remain below his 2 percent target until mid-2015
and stay “subdued” over the next few months. The forces
holding down inflation include “material slack” in the
economy, small wage increases and stronger competition among
retail companies, according to the central bank.  “It’s largely what the bank has baked into its forecast,”
said  Dawn Desjardins , assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of
Canada in Toronto. Inflation “will be upward from here, I don’t
think it’s going to go screaming higher,” said Desjardins, who
predicts the central bank will keep lending rates unchanged
until the second half of next year.  The Canadian dollar declined 0.1 percent to C$1.0386 per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:34 a.m. in Toronto. One dollar buys 96.28 U.S.
cents. Government yields declined, including the five-year
security’s fall to 1.67 percent from 1.68 percent.  Food Prices  Gasoline prices rose 4.6 percent in June, following
declines of 1.5 percent in May and 6 percent in April. The cost
of passenger vehicles rose 2 percent, rebounding from a fall of
0.5 percent.  The pace of food inflation slowed to 1.2 percent in June
from 1.3 percent the month before, according to the report, led
by a 4.3 percent drop in sugar and confectionery items.  Grocery-store chain Sobeys Inc. said last month that its
price increases were running at an annual pace of less than 1
percent.  “It’s very difficult to get the consumer to spend,” Marc Poulin, Sobeys Chief Executive Officer, said on a June 27
earnings call. “The competitive pressures are very present.”  More companies expect inflation to be in the bottom half of
the central bank’s 1 percent to 3 percent target band, according
to the central bank’s quarterly survey of business executives
published on July 8. About 64 percent of respondents predicted
inflation would be between 1 percent and 2 percent over the next
two years, up from 61 percent in the last survey and the fifth
straight increase.  On a monthly basis, the total  consumer price index  was
unchanged in June and the core rate fell 0.2 percent,  Statistics
Canada  said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted that
total monthly prices would rise 0.1 percent and the core rate
would fall 0.2 percent.  Seasonally adjusted inflation rose 0.3 percent in June from
May and the adjusted core rate rose 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  