-- Canada Dollar Falls After Consumer Price Data Match Forecast
-- B y   J e f f   M a r s h a l l
-- 2013-07-19T21:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/canada-dollar-declines-after-consumer-price-data-match-forecast.html
Canada ’s dollar fell after a
government report showed inflation in June remained below the
 Bank of Canada ’s 2 percent target.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, weakened against
a majority of its 16 most-traded peers as the  consumer price
index  rose 1.2 percent in June from a year ago, matching the
median forecast of 23 economists. The currency fell even as
crude oil, the nation’s largest export, reached a 16-month high.  “The core figures were right on consensus, so there’s not
too much reaction there,” said Greg T. Moore, a currency
strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, referring to the CPI data.
“It sort of fits with the broader theme this week of
consolidation.”  The loonie climbed 0.1 percent to C$1.0368 per  U.S. dollar 
at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It weakened 0.5 percent against  South
Africa ’s rand and versus  Sweden ’s krona. One loonie buys 96.45
U.S. cents.  The currency is up 1.5 percent versus its U.S. counterpart
this month. It has traded weaker than its 50-, 100- and 200-day
moving averages against the greenback since June 19.  Implied volatility for three-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart was 7 percent, the lowest
since May 16. Implied volatility, used to set option prices and
gauge the expected pace of currency swings, reached a one-year
high of 8.87 percent on June 24.  Futures Data  Hedge funds and other large speculators  decreased  their
bets that the Canadian dollar will decline against the U.S.
dollar, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show. The difference in the number of wagers
by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline in the
Canadian dollar compared with those on a gain -- so-called net
shorts -- was 20,043 on July 16, compared with net shorts of
23,829 a week earlier.  Canadian government 10-year bonds rose, pushing yields down
four basis points, or .04 percentage point, to 2.36 percent. The
1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 climbed 33 cents to
C$92.50.  Canada will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of notes
due November 2015 on July 24.  The Bank of Canada has kept its  key lending rate  at 1
percent since September 2010. Governor Stephen Poloz inserted a
line in his monetary-policy report released July 17 saying near-record low  interest rates  are appropriate “as long as” there
is significant economic slack in the economy, low inflation and
households continue to repair their balance sheets.  Economic Outlook  The central bank raised its economic growth forecast for
this year July 17 to 1.8 percent from an April prediction of 1.5
percent, while lowering the 2014 projection to 2.7 percent from
2.8 percent. Both figures exceed Bloomberg consensus forecasts
of 1.7 percent and 2.4 percent.  Futures on crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose 0.4
percent to $108.46 per barrel in New York, after reaching the
highest level since March 1, 2012.  “ Oil prices  seem to lose their beneficial impact on the
Canadian dollar once prices surpass about $100 a barrel,”
Toronto-Dominion’s Moore said. “The intuition there is that it
becomes a drag on the economy. Lots of other parts of the
economy rely on oil as an input.”  The June CPI compared with a 0.7 percent rate in May as
inflation quickened for a second month in June as the prices of
gasoline and automobiles rebounded. The core rate, which
excludes eight volatile products, increased 1.3 percent after a
1.1 percent gain the prior month,  Statistics Canada  said today
from Ottawa.  Price Stability  “In Canada, we don’t really have much of an inflation
problem at all,”  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of  Nova Scotia , said by phone from Toronto before the
release. “We have a disinflation problem where we’ve seen
inflation fall well below the central bank’s target.”  The loonie lost 1.9 percent in the past 12 months against
nine developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The yen fell 23 percent while the
U.S. dollar is up 1.3 percent.  China , a major importer of commodities, announced it will
remove the floor on lending rates offered by the nation’s
financial institutions as economic growth slows and authorities
push forward steps to give banks more freedom to set borrowing
costs. The change, effective tomorrow, eliminates a limit set at
30 percent below the current 6 percent benchmark, according to a
People’s Bank of China statement today.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars advanced after
China, the largest trade partner for both South Pacific nations,
announced the lending changes, while the loonie showed little
reaction, Moore said.  “It was a bit of a knee-jerk reaction,” Toronto-Dominion’s Moore said. “It is stimulative at the margin, but
it’s not the kind of stimulus that would lead to any sort of
sustained market reaction in the risky currencies like the
Canadian dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Marshall in  New York  at 
 jmarshall75@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  