-- Canadian Investigators Says Failed Brakes Led to Crash
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-07-20T02:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/canadian-investigators-says-failed-brakes-led-to-crash.html
The brakes on the train that crashed
and burned in  Quebec  this month weren’t applied with enough
force, Canadian investigators have found.  The braking on the Montreal Maine & Atlantic Railway Ltd.
train was “insufficient” to hold the 73 cars that were parked
on a 1.2 percent downhill slope near Lac-Megantic, Quebec, the
Transportation Safety Board said today in a statement.  “The train was not completely immobilized,” said Ed
McCallum, a spokesman for the Ottawa-based agency. He said he
was unable to give the number of brakes that were set on the
train. “The number of brakes is important, but the quality is
also important,” said McCallum.  The board is urging federal regulators at  Transport Canada 
to review all rules governing how trains are secured and to look
into operating procedures to make sure trains carrying dangerous
goods are not left unsupervised on a main track, McCallum said.  The engineer responsible for the train may not have set
enough hand brakes to secure it before he left for his hotel
that evening, Edward Burkhardt, chief executive officer of Rail
World Inc., which owns the railway, said last week.  Earlier this week,  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  and
 Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , the nation’s two biggest
railroads, said they would review and strengthen their safety
measures as a result of the crash.  Testing Crude  The Montreal, Maine & Atlantic train rolled from its
parking spot on July 6 into Lac-Megantic, creating a massive
explosion that leveled much of the downtown. It was the worst
rail disaster in  Canada  in more than a century. Quebec police
today revised the estimated death toll to 47 from 50, according
to Benoit Richard, spokesman for the Surete de Quebec.  Regulators are also testing crude from the freight train
that crashed in Quebec. The  Transportation Safety Board  took
samples this week, trying to determine what was in the oil as
part of its investigation into the fire that followed the crash.  “We sampled the products and the goal there is to be sure
of the real nature of the product in the tankers and to be able
to explain the magnitude of the fire and the extent of the
explosion,” McCallum said.  The samples, which were taken from multiple tanker cars,
will take a few weeks to analyze, McCallum told reporters today
in Lac-Megantic. McCallum declined to identify which substances
the board is testing for.  U.S. Senator Jay Rockefeller today asked the Government
Accountability Office, Congress’s investigative arm, to review
the impact of increased shale oil and gas development on
transportation infrastructure. Production increases have
“raised questions about the ability of existing infrastructure
to safely transport these hazardous products, and the capacity
of safety standards,” Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat,
said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  