-- Canada’s Dollar Weakens Amid Wagers Economy Lagging Behind U.S.
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-16T21:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/canadian-dollar-declines-before-june-consumer-inflation-report.html
The Canadian dollar fell for the
first time in three days versus its U.S. counterpart as
manufacturing sales dropped in June, adding to concern growth is
lagging behind that in the nation’s biggest trade partner.  The currency sank versus most major peers as reports in the
U.S. showed housing starts increased in July and productivity
rose in the second quarter, boosting bets the  Federal Reserve 
will slow stimulus as soon as September. The U.S. dollar
climbed.  Canada ’s 10-year government bonds fell for a fifth day,
pushing yields to the highest level in two years.  “We saw weaker-than-expected data in Canada that has
weighed on the loonie against the U.S. dollar,” Ravi Bharadwaj,
a senior market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business
Solutions, a unit of Western Union Co., said in a phone
interview. “More than anything, the market has focused on Fed
tapering, pushing everything else to the side. That has boosted
the U.S. dollar, which in turn is weighing on Canada.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.3
percent to C$1.0336 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after
losing as much as 0.5 percent earlier. The currency fell 0.5
percent versus the greenback this week. One Canadian dollar buys
96.75 U.S. cents.  Yields Climb  Benchmark 10-year government  bond yields  rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.70 percent and reached
2.74 percent, the highest since July 2011. The price of the 1.5
percent debt due in June 2023 lost 28 cents to C$89.72.  Foreign holdings of Canadian bonds fell by a record in June
as investors retained the proceeds of maturing government
securities. The C$19 billion ($18.4 billion) decline in bonds
was led by a C$10.6 billion drop in government-issued debt and
another C$8.83 billion reduction in government-owned company
bonds,  Statistics Canada  said today from Ottawa.  Futures traders decreased for a fifth straight week their
bets that the Canadian dollar will decline against the
greenback, figures from the Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the loonie compared with
those on a gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 9,081 on Aug. 13,
the least since February, compared with net shorts of 10,436 a
week earlier.  Canada’s currency has lost 0.7 percent this year against
nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The U.S. dollar has gained 3.9 percent, while
the euro has rallied 5.1 percent.  ‘Very Narrow’  The loonie traded in a one-cent range this week, between
C$1.0370 and C$1.0281, amid speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve
will begin slowing monetary stimulus soon. Fed policy makers
have been discussing when to begin tapering the pace of $85
billion in monthly bond purchases under their quantitative-easing strategy amid an improving economy. The purchases tend to
devalue the greenback.  “We are still trading in a very narrow, choppy range that
suggests the market doesn’t have a clear direction at this
point,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange in
Toronto at  National Bank of Canada , said in a telephone
interview. “Over the next few months the Canadian dollar is
likely to weaken in conjunction with the anticipation of
tapering of QE, which will take the U.S. dollar higher.”  Canada’s gross domestic product will grow 2.4 percent in
2014 after gaining 1.7 percent this year, according to the
median forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists. The  U.S.
economy  will expand 2.7 percent, after growing 1.6 percent in
2013, a separate survey forecast.  Economic Data  U.S. new-home construction rose 5.9 percent to an 896,000
annualized rate from a revised 846,000 pace in June that was
higher than previously reported, Commerce Department data showed
today. The measure of U.S. employee output per hour increased at
a 0.9 percent annualized rate, after a 1.7 percent decline in
the first quarter, Labor Department data showed. A Bloomberg
survey forecast a 0.6 percent advance.  Canadian factory sales fell 0.5 percent to C$48.2 billion,
the nation’s statistics agency said today in Ottawa. Economists
forecast a 0.3 percent increase according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey with 16 responses.  It was the third decline in four months. Manufacturing
sales have dropped 3.7 percent over the past year, hampered by a
recession in the  euro zone  and a modest recovery in the U.S.,
which buys three-quarters of the nation’s exports.  Canada’s dollar fell even as oil, the nation’s biggest
export, reached the highest level in two weeks. Crude-oil
futures gained as much as 0.8 percent to $108.17 a barrel in  New
York , the highest since Aug. 2, before trading at $107.69. The
commodity rose 1.6 percent this week.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of 24 raw materials, rose 0.2
percent today and climbed 2.4 percent this week. The S&P 500
index of stocks declined 0.3 percent today and slid 2.1 percent
this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  