-- Capital One Rises After Profit Beats Estimates: Washington Mover
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-19T14:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/capital-one-rises-after-profit-beats-estimates-washington-mover.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
lender that gets more than half its revenue from credit cards,
gained the most since April after posting second-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates.  Capital One rose 4 percent to $69.75 at 10:31 a.m. in  New
York , the  best performer  in the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Financials Index. The McLean, Virginia-based firm said yesterday
that profit from continuing operations, which excludes some
items, was $2.07 a share in the quarter, beating the $1.73
average  estimate  of 28 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank has spent more
than $28 billion on acquisitions since 2005, making Capital One
the eighth-biggest U.S. commercial bank at the end of last year.
The firm has sought to return more capital to shareholders,
announcing this month that it will repurchase as much as $1
billion of stock after completing the sale of a Best Buy Co.
credit-card portfolio.  “We expect share buybacks and expense management to offer
upside,” Jason Arnold, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  who
rates the stock “outperform,” wrote yesterday in a note.
“Earnings performance exceeded our expectations.”  The lender  acquired  the Best Buy assets, comprising private
label and co-branded credit cards, from HSBC Holdings Plc last
year as part of a deal that added about $30 billion in assets.
Capital One also picked up more than $80 billion in deposits
last year with the purchase of ING Groep NV’s U.S. online bank.  Consumer Sentiment  Net income  in the quarter increased to $1.12 billion, or
$1.87 a share, from $93 million, or 16 cents, a year earlier,
according to the company’s statement. Capital One’s stock
climbed 16 percent this year through yesterday, trailing the 26
percent advance for the S&P 500 Financials Index.  Net revenue rose 12 percent to $5.64 billion, beating the
$5.52 billion average estimate of analysts in the Bloomberg
survey. Net interest margin, the difference between what banks
pay depositors and what’s earned on loans, widened by 12 basis
points from the first quarter to 6.83 percent.  “Purchase volume was up about 12 percent year-over-year,”
Fairbank, 62, said yesterday on a conference call to discuss
earnings. “We’re gaining purchase volume share.”  The results included a $119 million loss from discontinued
operations that was driven by a $183 million addition to
reserves to cover the repurchase of faulty mortgages.  Consumer sentiment  improved  last month as Americans grew
more upbeat about the economy. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan index of confidence rose to 84.1 in June from 78.6 at
the end of March.  Credit Losses  Credit-card write-offs averaged 4.28 percent for Capital
One in the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Loans at least 30 days overdue, a signal of future
defaults, averaged 3.05 percent, the data show. Both figures
were the highest among the six biggest U.S. issuers.  Capital One has sought to cut credit losses by shifting its
marketing to attract affluent customers who spend more and pay
their balances in full each month. The company employs actor
 Alec Baldwin  to promote its Venture card and comic  Jimmy Fallon 
to publicize its cash rewards card. Both cards are geared toward
wealthier consumers,  Scott Valentin , an analyst at FBR Capital
Markets in Arlington,  Virginia , said in an interview.  “I believe that we already have good success in our
business when you look past the things that we’re running off,”
Fairbank said on the conference call. “That’s the results of
many things including our investment in marketing.”  American Express  Card purchases rose 12 percent to $50.8 billion from a year
earlier, according to the statement. U.S. card balances were
$70.5 billion at the end of June, little changed from March.
Auto loans advanced 5.1 percent to $29.4 billion from the first
quarter.  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, posted a record profit this week as customer spending
rose. Net income at the New York-based firm rose 4.9 percent to
$1.41 billion. AmEx fell 3.6 percent yesterday on top of a 1.9
percent decline on July 17, the biggest two-day drop since
November 2011, amid investor concern that a European Commission
plan to cap card fees may crimp profit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  