-- McCain Volunteers Help for Enzi After Cheney Challenge
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2013-07-19T22:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/mccain-volunteers-help-for-enzi-after-cheney-challenge.html
Republican Senator  John McCain 
volunteered to campaign for  Wyoming  Senator  Mike Enzi , who’s
facing a challenge from Republican Liz Cheney, the daughter of
the former vice president.  “I have grown to admire and respect Mike Enzi -- I’ll tell
you, he’s one of these solid guys,” McCain, 76, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend. “I know nothing that Mike Enzi
would do that didn’t deserve re-election.”  McCain said he would never tell anyone including Cheney,
46, former Vice President  Dick Cheney ’s eldest daughter, they
shouldn’t run for office. Yet he called Enzi, 69 and seeking his
fourth Senate term, “the epitome of a workhorse,” with
expertise in health care and tax issues that has impressed
Republicans across the board.  “I don’t know a person in our conference that doesn’t
admire, respect, and have great affection for” Enzi, McCain
said.  The  Arizona  senator also said he has developed a good
working rapport with President  Barack Obama , with whom he
sometimes has had a chilly relationship since they faced off in
the 2008 presidential race. He called Obama, 51, “an honorable
man” who has changed his approach to governing as he looks
toward his legacy.  ‘Mutual Respect’  “It’s one of mutual respect,” McCain said of his
relationship with the president. He said Obama in his second
term “has taken a different attitude than when he came to the
presidency with 60 votes in the Senate, overwhelming majority in
the House, where he really didn’t have to worry about
Republicans.”  Still, he said Obama and his team should be pursuing a
tougher stance with  Russia , including taking action against
human-rights abuses there and promising to bolster missile
defense systems.  “We ought to be speaking up more,” McCain said. He
proposed expanding a law enacted in 2012, known as the  Magnitsky
Act . That measure aimed to punish Russian officials thought to
be responsible for the death of Sergei Magnitsky, a tax and
legal adviser who died in 2009 in a Russian prison after
investigating a $230 million  tax fraud  by authorites.  Closer to home, McCain, one of four Republican architects
of a sweeping  immigration  measure the Senate passed last month,
said businesses, labor and religious groups must lean on  House
Republicans  to take action on the issue.  ‘Terrible’ Consequences  Supporters must appeal to their elected representatives:
“Please, members of Congress, pass a bill,” he said.
Otherwise, if the House fails to act and the measure dies,
McCain said, the consequences for the  Republican Party  are
“terrible.”  McCain also said he wants to be involved in bipartisan
negotiations to reach a  budget  compromise that will halt steep
across-the-board cuts imposed earlier this year, arguing it will
take both changes to entitlement programs and higher government
revenue to accomplish such a deal.  “We have to, again, get together and have negotiations
with the White House,” McCain said. “I’m confident that we
can, because it’s devastating,” he added, referring to the
sequestration cuts.  Even with their rocky history, McCain has inched closer to
the president in recent months. He has met with Obama at the
White House on immigration, worked with Vice President  Joe Biden 
on a deal to avert a Senate rules showdown that allowed seven of
the president’s nominees confirmation votes, and has been a
player in continuing budget talks.  McCain’s vow to campaign for Enzi illustrates the degree to
which Cheney’s announcement this week -- which stunned and
perplexed some Republicans -- has united the poles of the party
behind the incumbent. The show of support from McCain, known as
a maverick and maker of bipartisan deals, comes just days after
Tea Party favorite Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican,
said he would back Enzi in in Wyoming’s August 2014 primary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  