-- Charlotte NBA Team Reclaims Hornets Nickname From 2014-15 Season
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-07-19T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/charlotte-nba-team-reclaims-hornets-nickname-from-2014-15-season.html
The  Charlotte Hornets  will be back
in the  National Basketball Association  after the league’s owners
approved a change from the club’s nickname of Bobcats.  The switch, which will go into effect after next season,
was unanimously approved by the 29 other teams at the league’s
board of governors meetings yesterday in  Las Vegas , the NBA said
in an e-mailed news release.  “The passion and enthusiasm around this name change by
fans in this market has been unmatched,” said  Michael Jordan ,
chairman of Bobcats Sports & Entertainment. “With the young
team we are developing on the court, the direction of our
business and the return of the Hornets name, we are extremely
excited about our future. The buzz is back.”  Charlotte ’s first franchise was nicknamed the Hornets from
1988 to 2002, when the club moved to  New Orleans . The name
became available this offseason when the New Orleans franchise
became the Pelicans.  Hall of Fame player Jordan announced the franchise’s
intended swap in May in front of a screen that read “Back The
Buzz.” The team has offered two-year ticket plans at
 BackBuzzCity.com , and held a celebratory rally last night with
former Hornets players including Dell Curry and Muggsy Bogues.  ‘Fond Memories’  “Making this change would not only re-establish one of the
most recognized brands in sports, but would also unify our fan
base by bringing together our loyal Bobcats fans with those who
have fond memories of our city’s NBA predecessor,” Jordan, 50,
said at the time. “Our fans spoke and we listened.”  The Bobcats were 21-61 last year after finishing 7-59 in
the lockout-shortened 2011-12 season, the worst single-season
winning percentage in NBA history. The team has made the
playoffs once, in 2010, and has never finished above fourth in
the five-team  Southeast Division .  The Hornets name dates back to the Revolutionary War, when
British General Charles Cornwallis called Charlotte’s local
militia “a veritable nest of hornets,” according to the team.
The name was used by a minor-league baseball team in Charlotte
from 1901-73 and a World Football League team in 1974 and 1975.  The original Hornets NBA franchise relocated after the
2001-02 season. Two years later, Charlotte was given a new team
named the Bobcats, and this offseason New Orleans changed its
name to the Pelicans to better represent the culture of the Gulf
Coast region, clearing the way for  North Carolina ’s most
populous city to reclaim the nickname.  Before submitting a formal application to the NBA in May,
the Bobcats conducted market research that showed season-ticket
holders and the general public were in favor of the Hornets
name, according to the Charlotte Observer.  Re-branding after yesterday’s approval, including designing
a new logo, merchandise, redoing signs around the city and
resurfacing the courts in Time Warner Cable Arena and the team’s
practice facility, will cost about $4 million, the newspaper
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  