-- China Resources Holdings Under Government Audit, Xinhua Says
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2013-07-19T10:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/china-resources-holdings-under-government-audit-xinhua-says.html
China  Resources Holdings Co. is
under audit by the Chinese government after allegations that its
chairman and a listed unit intentionally overpaid for a 2010
coal asset purchase in Shanxi.  “Relevant departments are currently carrying out an audit
of China Resources Holdings,” the official Xinhua News Agency
reported today, citing an unidentified official at the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, which
oversees China’s biggest state-owned enterprises.  “SASAC will take action based on the audit results,”
according to the report. SASAC will “seriously handle the
matter according to laws and regulations” if any misconduct is
found, it said.  Two calls to China Resources Holdings’ media department
went unanswered.  China Resources Power Holdings Co., the listed unit that
made the acquisition,  said  July 18 it paid a fair price for the
assets after getting two independent assessments. It hadn’t made
the deal public because the company said its equity interest in
the projects was below the disclosure threshold.  All five of the parent company’s units traded in Hong Kong
sank after allegations against it and Song Lin, the parent’s
chairman, were posted by the official Xinhua News Agency to its
website on July 17. Xi Jinping, who became China’s president in
March, has pledged to investigate and eliminate corruption at
the highest levels of power.  People’s Daily Online, the website of the Communist Party’s
official newspaper, reported yesterday that the party’s Central
Commission for Discipline Inspection had received and was
processing a report on allegations relating to China Resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  