-- China Communist Party Fate Seen Resting on Farmer Rights
-- B y   Y a n p i n g   L i   a n d   J a s m i n e   N g
-- 2013-07-19T01:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/china-communist-party-fate-seen-resting-on-farmers-land-rights.html
China ’s growth and the future of the
Communist Party rest on giving farmers their land and allowing
equal rights for migrants in cities, according to the state
researcher who wrote a reform road-map.  “Land and hukou reform is the cornerstone for future
economic growth and political-system reform,” said Yuan
Xucheng, of the China Society of Economic Reform, who was the
lead author of a report submitted to top officials. Yuan spoke
in an interview in  Singapore  last week. Hukou is the term for a
household registration system which limits migrants’ rights.  Changing land rules and the hukou system will decide
whether China’s growth is sustained and the Communist Party
retains power, said  Yuan , 62. His report last year suggested a
plan for reforms for the next decade under President Xi Jinping
and Premier Li Keqiang, who were installed as the government’s
leaders in March.  “Hukou reform is not simply about registration -- it’s
about giving people civil and political rights, including access
to education, welfare coverage and even rights to vote,” Yuan
said. The term “hukou” is used both for the system and the
document entitling a resident to services and benefits.  The new leadership is wrestling with sustaining  growth  and
boosting incomes as China’s population ages and the dividends
fade from past reforms, including opening up the economy
starting in 1978 and the nation’s accession to the World Trade
Organization in 2001. A cash crunch jolted banks last month and
exports fell by the most since the global financial crisis.  ‘Only Mice’  “Migrant workers leave their big houses in the rural areas
unoccupied, with only mice living there, while five or six of
them have to squeeze into one small room in the cities,” Yuan
said. “You have to allow farmers to trade land so that they can
have wealth to settle down in cities.”  Under existing regulations, farmers own land collectively
and can’t sell to developers directly, leading to grabs by local
governments. While China had 163 million migrant workers in
urban jobs as of the end of last year, only 14.3 percent had
pensions and 16.9 percent had health insurance in the cities and
towns where they were working, a  statistics bureau  annual survey
said.  “Some people have spent almost 20 years in Beijing,
working there and having kids there, but they can’t have the
local hukou,” Yuan said. “It’s unfair for them.”  ‘Tougher’ Leadership  China’s government could release a blueprint for reform at
a key party meeting in October or November, Yuan said. He
described the new leaders as “tougher” than predecessors, and
said they may show their teeth by speeding changes. The
researcher advocated establishing a State Reform Commission as
part of overcoming vested interests opposed to change.  “The central government has a greater determination than
local governments,” he said. “The general masses are looking
forward to changes as well -- with the power from both above and
from the bottom, the reform process is expected to accelerate.”  Asked about the likely pace of the nation’s economic
expansion, Yuan said the days of at least 10 percent growth are
over, partly due to demographic change and rising environmental
awareness. A 7 percent pace could be acceptable, while 6 percent
would be too low, the researcher said.  In the second quarter of this year, the pace was 7.5
percent, while Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  said July 11 in
 Washington  that growth as low as 6.5 percent may be tolerable in
the future.  “It seems that the government is quite confident that its
reforms to be unleashed in October or November will greatly
boost growth -- that’s my guess,” Yuan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yanping Li in Singapore at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Ng in Singapore at 
 jng281@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  