-- China’s First Gold Exchange-Traded Funds Miss Targets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-19T07:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/china-s-first-gold-exchange-traded-funds-miss-funding-targets.html
China ’s first two exchange-traded
funds backed by bullion raised less money than planned as
investor demand for gold waned amid a rout in prices.  Huaan Asset Management Co. and Guotai Asset Management Co.
attracted 1.2 billion yuan ($195 million) and 410 million yuan,
respectively, for funds to be listed on the  Shanghai Stock
Exchange , according to a statement by Huaan and Li Yebin,
a spokesman at Guotai. Huaan last month said it wanted to raise
as much as $400 million initially, while Guotai said that amount
might be a “conservative” target.  The funds, which are enough to buy about 6 metric tons,
will start trading with prices near levels last seen in 2010 and
as a liquidity crunch in China attracts investors to fixed-income securities. Buyers who snapped up jewelry, coins and bars
in April when bullion slipped into a  bear market , are holding
back now as prices fall further and as  government bonds  offer
higher yields, according to China Galaxy Securities Co. China is
top producer and second-biggest consumer of the precious metal.  “Enthusiasm is ebbing with prices dropping further than
people expected when they bought in mid-April,” said Zhang Yifan, a strategist at China Galaxy in Shanghai. “Most of them
now are taking a wait-and-see attitude before committing to buy
any more.”  Prices Fall  Gold for immediate delivery  slid  as much as 39 percent from
a record $1,921.15 an ounce in September 2011 on June 28, before
trading at $1,290.70 at 3:08 p.m. in Shanghai.  Gold of 99.99 
percent purity on the Shanghai Gold Exchange traded at 258.99
 yuan  a gram ($1,354 an ounce).  Assets in global  exchange-traded products  backed by bullion
fell almost 25 percent this year, erasing about $60 billion from
the value of the funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust, the world’s largest bullion ETF,
fell to 939.07 tons as of last week, the lowest since 2009.  Yields on China’s  10-year bonds  surged seven basis points
last month, the most since October, according to Chinabond
indexes. The benchmark securities yielded 3.612 percent as of
yesterday.  While banks including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast
more declines amid a debate that bullion’s 12-year bull run is
at an end, China Galaxy’s Zhang said the long-term outlook
remained bullish for Chinese institutional investors to increase
holdings in their portfolios.  Top Producer  Physical gold delivered to buyers by the  Shanghai  Gold
Exchange, China’s largest bullion bourse, in the first half of
this year almost matched the entire amount taken from its vaults
in 2012, and was more than double the country’s annual
production. The country produced a record 403 tons of gold last
year, according to the China Gold Association.  The government approved the two exchange-traded funds in
June. The country’s gold demand last year amounted to 776.1 tons,
of which 265.5 tons was in the form of bar and coin investments,
according to the World Gold Council.  Hedge funds  increased bets on higher gold prices for a
second week, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission  data  for
July 9 show, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  backed
sustained stimulus for the foreseeable future.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  