-- China Removes Floor on Lending Rates as Economy Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-20T12:24:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/china-removes-floor-on-lending-rates-offered-by-nation-s-banks.html
China  eliminated the lower limit on
lending rates offered by the nation’s financial institutions as
growth slows and authorities expand the role of markets in the
world’s second-biggest economy.  The change, effective today, removes a floor set at 30
percent below the current 6 percent  benchmark , according to a
People’s Bank of China statement yesterday.  While the move temporarily jolted world stocks higher, the
PBOC acknowledged that it was a limited step and said that
freeing up  deposit rates  would be more important. The shift
came as central bankers and finance ministers from Group of 20
nations gathered in Moscow, and after a cash squeeze in money
markets curbed a record expansion in China’s credit.  “While deposit-rate liberalization is still possible, the
fact that a decision was made to just remove the lending-rate
floor suggests that more aggressive liberalization proposals
were defeated, or at least delayed,” said  Ken Peng , senior
economist at BNP Paribas SA in Beijing. “This decision shows
that some reform is being done, but may actually reduce the
chances for deposit-rate liberalization in the near term.”  Raising the deposit-rate ceiling would improve household
incomes and reduce the attractiveness of non-traditional wealth
management products while threatening banks’ profit margins,
Peng said.  China is not yet ready for freeing up deposit rates, the
“most risky” part of interest-rate liberalization, the PBOC
said, adding that the nation lacks a deposit insurance system.  Right Timing  There’s no consensus on deposit-rate reform, Song Guoqing,
an academic adviser to the central bank, said today.  “Some people said the timing is right, others said it’s
not, there is no unified view,” Song said at a conference in
Beijing. “Had there been a unified view, it would have been
announced yesterday.”  The change will lower companies’ funding costs and boost
financial institutions’ pricing capabilities, the PBOC said. In
the first quarter, only about 11 percent of loans were priced
below the lending benchmark, according to central bank data.  China will maintain the floor for  mortgage rates  because
the government will continue to curb speculative home buying
and investment, the PBOC said. It will remove the cap on
lending rates offered by rural cooperatives and also scrap
controls on bill discounting rates.  Stocks Rally  The MSCI World Index of stocks reversed losses immediately
after the announcement. It gained 0.2 percent as of market
close in  New York  yesterday. The Bloomberg China-US Equity
Index of the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. climbed
less than 0.1 percent for a second weekly rally.  China’s economy  grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, down from 7.7 percent in the first three
months, and is at risk of the weakest expansion in 23 years.
Song estimates growth may slow to 7.4 percent in the July-September period, the third straight quarterly deceleration.  The central bank’s move showed the leadership may be “a
bit worried about growth,” Song said, adding that he was
giving his personal view. While the government may fine-tune
policies, there won’t be a big stimulus, he said.  The government has “full confidence” it will reach its
2013 growth target of 7.5 percent,  Zhu Guangyao , a vice finance
minister, said today. The central bank’s move was “just one
element” of a master plan of the new Chinese leadership
encompassing monetary, market and fiscal policies, Zhu said in
an interview at the G-20 meeting in Moscow.  Reform Priority  Yesterday’s announcement builds on pledges by Premier  Li Keqiang  to expand an overhaul of  interest rates , tagged by the
 World Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  as a priority in
financial reform.  China’s one-year benchmark lending rate has been held at 6
percent since the last reduction in July 2012. The PBOC last
year allowed banks to offer rates as much as 10 percent above
the benchmark set for deposits and let financial institutions
offer loans at a discount of 30 percent below the benchmark
lending rate.  The nation’s overnight interbank  rate  jumped to a record
12.85 percent on June 20 as the PBOC withheld cash and
restricted its communication, spurring speculation policy
makers wanted to expose banks using short-term funds too
aggressively for longer-term investments.  The latest move “will have important meaning in terms of
encouraging financial support for economic growth and economic
restructuring and upgrading,” the central bank said.  Limited Impact  “This is not the same as a rate cut and the impact will
be very limited,” said Helen Qiao, chief  Greater China 
economist at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong . “Liquidity
conditions are very tight -- we weren’t seeing companies
getting funding at anything close to the lower band before this
change, so we’re unlikely to see this will induce an immediate
drop in rates. Lending costs come down only when funding
becomes abundant.”  When Li took office in March, he pledged to open the
economy to market forces and strip power from the government.
He said at the time that the process would be “very painful
and even feel like cutting one’s wrist.”  A key Communist Party meeting later this year may tackle
reforms to the financial sector, fiscal system, land tenure,
prices,  income distribution  and household registration.  PBOC Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan , who was reappointed in March
after a record tenure of 10 years in the job, said in November
that changes to the interest-rate system should be made at a
“moderate” pace.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net 
Nerys Avery at 
 navery2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  