-- Chow Tai Fook Among Shanghai Jewelers in Pricing Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-19T16:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/chow-tai-fook-jewelers-face-pricing-probe-people-s-daily-says.html
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929) ,
the world’s largest listed jewelry chain, and other gold shops
in  Shanghai  are being probed by Chinese regulators for price
manipulation amid increased scrutiny of consumer-goods prices.  Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd. (116)  was also
identified as one of several companies “rectifying” their
practices, after a National Development and Reform Commission
investigation found wrongdoing, according to a report from
People’s Daily, which was reposted on a  website  controlled by
the Ministry of Commerce yesterday.  The investigation, the latest sign of increased scrutiny of
business practices by Chinese authorities, prompted shares of
the jewelry companies to fall. Global baby food brands are being
investigated for possible price fixing, while GlaxoSmithKline
Plc’s local finance chief has been unable to leave the country
after allegations of “economic crimes” at the drugmaker.  “Chow Tai Fook has its own gold pricing mechanism,” the
Hong Kong-based company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.
It denied manipulating gold prices and said its pricing “is not
subject to the constraints or restrictions of any association or
other jewellery retailers.” The company said it didn’t commit
any violations of anti-monopoly rules.  Chow Tai Fook was invited to provide information to the
investigation, a company spokeswoman said by phone yesterday.
Chow Sang Sang, also based in  Hong Kong , isn’t being probed and
doesn’t know why it was identified in the report, Cathy Tam, a
spokeswoman, said by phone yesterday.  “It looks like the investigation is targeting the Shanghai
Gold & Jewellery Trade Association and the Shanghai-based
jewelry retailers,” said Larry Cho, a Hong Kong-based analyst
at CIMB Securities, said by phone yesterday. “Chow Tai Fook
being a member of that trade union may inevitably be dragged
into the probe.”  Share Decline  Shanghai-based gold companies Lao Feng Xiang Co. and
Shanghai Yuyuan Tourist Mart Co. are also being probed,
according to company statements. Many shops have admitted to
authorities that they colluded on prices and hurt the interests
of consumers, the People’s Daily reported.  Lao Feng Xiang (900905)  will announce the results of the probe as
soon as possible, it said in a statement to the Shanghai stock
exchange. Shanghai Yuyuan also said it will give results of the
investigation as earliest as possible, the company said in a
filing to the exchange.  Chow Tai Fook fell as much as 6.3 percent before closing
1.7 percent lower in Hong Kong yesterday. Chow Sang Sang lost
1.2 percent at the close of Hong Kong trading. In Shanghai, Lao
Feng Xiang’s A shares dropped 1.9 percent and Shanghai Yuyuan
gave up 4.4 percent.  Trade Association  The investigation targets a rule by the Shanghai Gold &
Jewellery Trade Association that limits the variation in gold
and platinum prices to no more than 2 percent or 3 percent of
the prices it sets for the products, according to the report.  The probe may not have a material impact on Chow Tai Fook
because about half its sales come from Hong Kong and Macau and
Shanghai accounts for less than 5 percent of its  China  business,
Cho said.  Chow Tai Fook said in the e-mailed statement that its gold
product prices are set based on the raw material and operating
costs, and also take international gold prices as a major
reference. The prices of its gold products are uniform across
China and there are no regional differences.  The Hong Kong company added that it’s not subject to any
association pricing guidelines and hasn’t submitted any
“acknowledgment report.”  Metal Prices  Gold is heading for the first annual drop in 13 years after
some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value.
Bullion fell 23 percent to $1,293.24 an ounce in  London  this
year and reached $1,180.50 on June 28, the lowest level in
almost three years. The plunge spurred purchases of jewelry and
coins and demand from China is “incredibly strong,” according
to Standard Chartered Plc.  Chow Tai Fook this month said first-quarter same-store
sales rose 48 percent as Chinese shoppers rushed to buy gold
products after the price of the precious metal dropped.  The company, controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Cheng Yu-tung , is betting China’s increasingly wealthy middle class will
help boost profits. It plans to add 200 outlets this year,
primarily in so-called third- and fourth-tier cities in China,
Managing Director Kent Wong said at the company’s earnings press
conference in June.  Companies including  Nestle SA (NESN)  have lowered baby-food prices
after the National Development and Reform Commission, the
country’s top economic planning agency, began an investigation
this month into their pricing of milk powder.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Li Liu in Beijing at 
 lliu255@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  