-- Citigroup CFO Gerspach Sees Banks’ Low ROE as Deterrent
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2013-07-19T16:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/citigroup-cfo-gerspach-sees-banks-low-roe-as-deterrent.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach  said investors may abandon shares of U.S.
banks if the industry’s return on equity doesn’t improve.  “If you take a look at the return on equity that most
financial institutions are producing these days, there’s reason
to think that the profitability is really not enough to sustain
continued investor involvement,” Gerspach, 59, said today on a
call with fixed-income analysts.  Return on equity, a measure of profitability, has plummeted
since the financial crisis to less than 10 percent at many firms
as capital levels rose and legal costs and slow economic growth
weighed on earnings. ROE exceeded 20 percent at some banks from
1997 to 2007.  Citigroup’s ROE was 8.8 percent at the end of June,
according to the New York-based company’s second-quarter
 financial supplement , down from 20.1 percent for the same period
in 2007. The lender took a $45 billion rescue package from
taxpayers in 2008 to avoid collapse, which it later repaid.  Government bailouts have prompted calls for tougher capital
requirements, to avoid a repeat of the financial crisis.
Gerspach’s remarks came in response to a question about whether
rising quarterly profits would act as justification for
lawmakers to impose new regulations.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, boosted second-quarter profit 42 percent to $4.18 billion, the company said
this week.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest lender, recorded
net income of $6.5 billion for the period, and No. 4  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  posted a record profit of $5.52 billion.  Bernanke Questions  Sherrod Brown , a U.S. senator from Ohio, asked Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke this week if banks’ profit
gains show that stricter rules aren’t hurting as much as
executives had warned.  “It’s no surprise that mega banks are doing quite well,”
said Brown, a Democrat who has introduced legislation with
Republican David Vitter to further boost capital standards.
“Yet they continue to claim that regulations -- new
regulations, impending regulations -- are killing them.”  Gerspach said there’s “a long path” between discussions
in Congress and actual legislative action or regulatory rule
changes.  Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for the lender, declined to
comment beyond Gerspach’s remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christine Harper at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  