-- Conergy to Sell Main Brand to Kawa in Sales Unit Disposal
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-07-19T11:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/conergy-to-sell-main-brand-to-kawa-in-sales-unit-disposal.html
U.S. private-equity firm Kawa
Capital Management Inc. agreed to take over  Conergy AG (CGYK) , once
 Germany ’s biggest solar company, two weeks after the Hamburg-based company filed for bankruptcy.  The transaction, due to be completed in the second half of
August, will focus on Conergy’s main brand and most global sales
and service activities, Antje Stephan, spokeswoman for Conergy,
said by phone. She didn’t disclose the price. It will exclude
module production activities, which in the last two years have
become a secondary business for Conergy.  “We see a large potential in structuring and financing
solar facilities across different jurisdictions, from
residential to commercial rooftop to smaller-scale utility
projects, by packaging the predictable cash-flow streams into
special financing vehicles,” Daniel Ades, managing partner of
Miami-based Kawa, said in a  statement .  Conergy and its domestic counterparts are under pressure as
subsidies for renewable energy fall at home and competition from
 China  depresses margins and panel prices. Producers in the
German industry that have filed for bankruptcy since late 2011
include  Solarworld AG (SWV) , the country’s biggest maker of panels,
 Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , and Q-Cells SE.  Conergy produces only about half of the modules it sells,
and has been focused on planning, servicing and financing solar
farms, according to Stephan.  Conergy Comment  “Kawa is our preferred partner,” and the initial accord
follows months of talks following an agreement “a long time
ago” on strategy, Conergy Chief Executive Officer Philip Comberg said in a  statement . “In the last two years, we have
consistently focused Conergy on our strengths in international
sales and services. We want to sustainably implement this
downstream strategy in the international solar markets with a
strong financial and strategic partner.”  Conergy jumped as much as 17 percent to 11 cents, the
biggest intraday gain since February 2012. It was up 5.4 percent
at 11 a.m. in  Frankfurt . On July 5, the day of the insolvency
filing, shares fell as much as 71 percent. That was the most
since the company’s March 2005 initial stock sale.  The units being sold include the domestic entities Conergy
Deutschland GmbH and Conergy Services GmbH as well as branches
in North America, Asia and Europe. Those units aren’t subject to
the insolvency proceedings. Kawa also plans to take over service
and sales departments in Hamburg and Zweibrücken, Germany.  Jobs Affected  The planned transaction affects 670 of Conergy’s 1,200
employees, many of which will be able to keep their jobs,
Stephan said, without giving details. The fate of the 530
production jobs will be determined by negotiations between the
insolvency administrator and potential investors.  Conergy filed for insolvency on July 5 and stopped its
module production in Frankfurt an der Oder near the Polish
border after a delay in payments from a large project and the
failure of executives to bridge the financial gap.  Conergy said in a  separate statement  that manufacturing at
its insolvent Conergy SolarModule GmbH & Co. KG will resume on
Monday. Negotiations about the future of its unit Mounting
Systems GmbH in Rangsdorf near Berlin continue.  Conergy’s sales last year dropped 37 percent to 473.5
million euros while the net loss widened to 99 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  