-- Copper Declines on Concern Demand Will Slow as Economies Falter
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-07-19T09:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/copper-declines-on-concern-demand-will-slow-as-economies-falter.html
Copper fell in  London  on concern
demand is poised to slow as supply expands and economies falter
from Europe to  China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  Copper supply from mines may increase by almost 2 million
metric tons by the end of 2015, Credit Suisse Group AG said
today, triple the current level of stockpiles tracked by the
London Metal Exchange. Credit-rating firms in China, where the
economy weakened for nine of the last 10 quarters, cut the most
bond-issuer rankings on record in June.  “Macro concerns persist, especially in regards to China,
where widespread bond downgrades are highlighting consistent
credit concerns over firms with ties to state or local
governments,” James Marks, head of global metals at Xconnect
Trading Ltd., a London-based interdealer broker, said by e-mail.  Copper for delivery in three months dropped 0.4 percent to
$6,875 a ton by 10:17 a.m. on the LME. Prices are down 1.1
percent this week, set for a first decline in three. Copper for
delivery in September fell 0.4 percent to $3.1175 a pound on the
Comex in  New York .  Mining companies  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , BHP Billiton Ltd. and
Rio Tinto Group said this week their production of copper
advanced from a year earlier in the three months through June.
The market should refocus its attention on the surplus predicted
for this year after three annual deficits, Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. said in a note today.  The euro-area  unemployment rate  climbed to 12.2 percent in
May, while factory orders and exports unexpectedly slid in
 Germany , the bloc’s largest economy, figures showed this month.
Yields on Portuguese two-year notes are the highest relative to
the 10-year rate in more than a year, highlighting an
“increased chance of a required bailout,” according to Marks.  “ Europe  continues to spiral into an ever-increasing
reliance on bailouts as unemployment dents any consumer
activity,” he said.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the LME fell 0.4 percent to
638,325 tons, daily exchange figures showed. Orders to remove
the metal from warehouses declined 0.7 percent to 334,175 tons.  Lead, nickel and tin slid in London. Aluminum and zinc were
little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  