-- Corn Traders Most Bearish Since 2009 as Weather Aids U.S. Crop
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-07-19T05:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/corn-traders-most-bearish-since-2009-as-weather-aids-u-s-crop.html
Corn traders are the most bearish
since 2009 as warm, wet weather in the U.S. boosts expectations
that the world’s top grower will harvest a record crop.  Fifteen of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices
to fall next week, with five bullish and three neutral, the
largest proportion of bears since December 2009. Analysts were
bearish for the seventh straight week. The U.S. Department of
Agriculture said July 11 that the harvest in the U.S., the
world’s biggest exporter and consumer, may climb to a record
13.95 billion bushels, 29 percent more than the previous season
when crops were hurt by drought.  Sixty-six percent of corn crops in the main U.S. growing
regions were in good or excellent condition as of July 14, while
crops developed slower than the normal pace after excess rain
earlier in the season, USDA data show. The U.S. Midwest probably
will see rain and cooler temperatures this weekend, after
readings climbed above 90 degrees Fahrenheit (32 degrees
Celsius) earlier this week, forecaster DTN said yesterday.  “The outlook for corn is certainly pretty bearish,” said
Tom Pugh, a commodities economist at Capital Economics in
 London . The U.S. has “a lot of extra moisture in the ground
from all the rains in the spring, and that combined with the
recent warm temperatures has created optimal growing conditions
for this point in the season.”  Futures  Corn futures for delivery in December, after the harvest,
tumbled 17 percent this year on the Chicago Board of Trade on
prospects of a rebound in supplies. The grain traded at $4.895 a
bushel on July 5, the lowest for a most-active contract since
October 2010. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities
is little changed this year while global equities on the MSCI
All-Country World Index are up almost 10 percent. Treasuries are
down 2.6 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  A rebound in corn production in the U.S. will help boost
global stockpiles of the grain to 150.97 million metric tons by
the end of the 2013-14 marketing year, 22 percent larger than
the previous season, when supplies were estimated at a six-year
low, the USDA said. World corn production may be a record 959.8
million tons, the agency projects.  Soybean traders were the most bearish in three weeks, with
12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicting prices will fall
next week. A further eight were bullish and three were neutral.
The USDA predicts U.S. farmers will harvest a record 3.42
billion bushels of the oilseed, helping boost world inventories
20 percent from a year earlier to a record 74.1 million tons.  Wheat traders were bearish for the 10th time in 11 weeks,
with 10 analysts expecting lower prices, a further five bullish
and three neutral.  Harvest  World wheat production may be a record 697.8 million tons,
as a rebound in output in  Russia  and the European Union makes up
for smaller supplies in the U.S., the USDA projects. The U.S.
had harvested 67 percent of winter wheat as of July 14,
according to the USDA. Russia also has started harvesting the
grain, and crop collection from other Northern Hemisphere
growers is set to accelerate in coming weeks.  “I look for weakness in corn, soybeans and wheat next week
as traders continue to build in overly high expectations for
yields,” said Dave Marshall, a farm-marketing adviser at Toay
Commodity Futures Group LLC in Nashville,  Illinois . “I want to
see December corn retest early July lows and bounce before I’d
try to buy either corn or wheat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  