-- Corporate Debt Investors in Europe Make Money for Fourth Week
-- B y   V e r i t y   R a t c l i f f e
-- 2013-07-19T12:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/corporate-debt-investors-in-europe-make-money-for-fourth-week.html
Investors in euro-denominated
company bonds are making money for a fourth week, the longest
streak of gains since before a bond rout drove yields to a nine-month high in June.  The notes returned 0.2 percent this week through July 18,
poised for the longest run of weekly increases since the period
ending May 3, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Yields rose to 2.38 percent on June 24, the highest since
Oct. 11.  Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke helped to calm
bond markets from the U.S. to Europe last week when he said
monetary policy will remain “highly accommodative” for the
foreseeable future, a message he repeated yesterday. Yields had
surged last month after he indicated quantitative easing could
be scaled back later this year if the U.S. economy showed
sustained improvement.  “The market took it as somewhat dovish that Bernanke
indicated that the pace of tapering was not predetermined,”
said Hans Lorenzen, a strategist at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in  London .
“When the markets all turned around with the news that U.S.
yields were stabilizing, the path of least resistance for credit
markets was to go tighter.”  The average yield investors demand to hold corporate bonds
in euros fell to 2.07 percent yesterday, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. The spread over benchmark
government debt has narrowed to 153 basis points from a near
nine-month high of 155 basis points reached July 3, the data
show.  Credit Risk  The cost of insuring European corporate bonds against
losses fell for a fourth week, the longest streak of declines
since August 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Markit iTraxx Europe index has fallen 7.2 percent so far this
week, the most since the week ending May 3.  Citigroup Inc. bonds led returns in the region this week,
handing investors 0.38 percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  was the worst performer, losing
1.2 percent.  Corporate bond issuance in Europe slowed to 11.6 billion
euros this week from 14.6 billion euros last week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  America Movil SAB, the wireless carrier controlled by
Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , led sales with an equivalent
1.1 billion euros of bonds denominated in euros and pounds,
Bloomberg data show.  PIK Issuance  Schaeffler Holding GmbH & Co., the parent of the German
family-owned industrial-bearing maker, led high-yield sales with
an equivalent 1.56 billion euros ($2 billion) of payment-in-kind
toggle bonds in euros and dollars. It was the biggest PIK deal
since 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg data. PIK
notes give borrowers the option to pay interest with more debt.  Quintain Estates & Development Plc (QED) , a U.K. property
developer, has mandated banks to arrange a possible sale of
seven-year notes in pounds, a person familiar with the deal said
today, asking not to be identified because the details are
private. It would be the London-based company’s first bond sale,
Bloomberg data show.  Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation is marketing 10-year
bonds in euros to yield about 100 basis points more than the
mid-swap rate, said a person familiar with the matter. The
Tokyo-based bank last sold bonds in the single currency in
October 2010, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Verity Ratcliffe in London at 
 vratcliffe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  