-- Daihatsu to Consider Cars Cheaper Than Ayla for Emerging Markets
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2013-07-19T10:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/daihatsu-to-consider-cars-cheaper-than-ayla-for-emerging-markets.html
Daihatsu Motor Co. (7262)  is considering
cars priced even lower than its Ayla hatchback for emerging
markets to fend off competition from automakers targeting first-time buyers in countries such as Indonesia.  “We need to be able to make cars even cheaper” than the
Ayla, Masanori Mitsui, president of Daihatsu, told reporters in
Ikeda,  Japan , where the company affiliated to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
is based. He declined to say how much the Ayla will cost.  Daihatsu joins automakers such as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which
this month revived its Datsun brand after three decades, in
targeting first-time buyers in emerging markets. Daihatsu has
said the Ayla will be introduced in Indonesia after the
government implements a policy to give tax breaks and incentives
to manufacturers of small, fuel efficient cars.  “The demand for low-cost entry level vehicles will
continue to grow as the economy develops,” Mitsui said
yesterday. “So the Ayla we are introducing this time won’t be
enough.”  The Ayla was designed to meet the Indonesian rules that
include fuel efficiency of at least 20 kilometers per liter of
gasoline and local assembly. Daihatsu will also produce a
version of the Ayla for Toyota called the Agya.  The new program comes as  Indonesia  is set to overtake
 Thailand  as Southeast Asia’s biggest car market next year,
according to forecasts from industry researcher IHS Automotive.  Faster Growth  Demand for cars in Indonesia, with a population almost
twice Japan’s 127 million, is projected to expand faster than in
China over the next seven years as growth in Southeast Asia’s
biggest economy accelerates. Low cost green cars could account
for more than 35 percent of the 1.8 million passenger vehicles
expected to be sold by the end of the decade, according to IHS.  Daihatsu and Toyota currently account for about half of the
Indonesian market, according to Mitsui. While the Daihatsu Ayla
and Toyota Agya are set to be the first to benefit from the
program, Nissan’s Datsun will introduce the first car meeting
the requirement in Indonesia in the first half next year.  Sales in Indonesia accounted for 22 percent of Daihatsu’s
revenue in the year ended March, followed by  Malaysia  with 11
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its home
market, Japan, contributed 66 percent, the data shows.  Nissan Chief Executive Officer Carlos Ghosn this month
unveiled the 1.2-liter five-door Datsun Go in India and the
company said it will be priced less than 400,000 rupees
($6,700).  Daihatsu will continue to work with Toyota when trying to
enter other  emerging markets , Mitsui said. Southeast Asian
countries besides Indonesia and Malaysia may be the markets they
will target next, and there’s also demand in South Africa and
 Brazil , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  