-- Democrats Win as Youth Avoid Politics via Elected Office
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T a c k e t t
-- 2013-07-20T01:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/democrats-win-as-youth-avoid-politics-via-elected-office.html
In the Democratic Party, President
 Barack Obama , 51, represents the youth movement.  Though Republicans have been undergoing a period of self-examination after losing the White House, questioning their
policies and the quality of their candidates, Democrats have
their own void: a shortage of rising stars.  The younger voters who helped deliver Obama two terms
aren’t reflected in the makeup of the party leadership. So far,
the two most frequently mentioned successors to Obama in 2016
are  Hillary Clinton , 65, and Vice President  Joe Biden , 70.  The top Democrats in Congress, Senators  Harry Reid  of
Nevada,  Dick Durbin  of Illinois, Chuck Schumer of New York, and
Representatives  Nancy Pelosi  of California, Steny Hoyer of
Maryland and  James Clyburn  of South Carolina have an average age
of 70.  Of the 20 Democratic governors, the mean age is more than
60; the youngest is Montana Governor Steve Bullock, 47. In state
legislatures where they have majority control, 70 percent of the
members are older than 50, according to the National Conference
on State Legislatures. In the mayor’s office in nine of the 10
largest cities, all held by Democrats, the average age exceeds
50; San Antonio’s Julian Castro, 38, who delivered the keynote
address at the Democratic National Convention, bends the curve
downward.  Potential Performance  The composition of party leadership matters because only
once in the last 60 years -- when Republican  Ronald Reagan , 69,
defeated Democratic President  Jimmy Carter , then 56, in 1980 --
have voters chosen a presidential candidate from an older
generation.  “Seldom does an electorate jump back a generation in
selecting a president,” said Stuart Stevens, who was a
strategist for Republican Mitt Romney’s 2012 campaign. “In
presidential races, the least experienced candidate tends to
win. It’s odd but true. Americans tend to be drawn more to
potential than performance.”  Youth has often been an animating force in politics,
particularly for Democrats, propelling the presidential
candidacies of  John F. Kennedy , elected at the age of 43 in
1960;  Bill Clinton , who was 46 when he won in 1992; and Obama,
47, in 2008.  While the president was able to generate enthusiastic
turnout among voters ages 18 to 29 to help him win two White
House terms, his party has yet to see that excitement translate
into a new generation of young Democratic elected officials.
Obama defeated Romney 60-37 among young voters, who made up 19
percent of the electorate in 2012, according to exit  polls .  ‘Young Guns’  Republicans can point to Senators Marco Rubio of Florida
and  Ted Cruz  of Texas, each 42, or Representative  Paul Ryan , 43,
of Wisconsin, the party’s vice presidential nominee in 2012, as
having the potential to run for national office. Ryan also
joined other House leadership members  Kevin McCarthy , 48, of
California and  Eric Cantor , 50, of Virginia in writing the 2010
book “Young Guns,” contrasting themselves with Democrats.  Democrats have the three youngest members of the Senate in
Senators Chris Murphy, 39, of Connecticut; Brian Schatz, 40, of
Hawaii; and Martin Heinrich, 41, of New Mexico, yet none has the
profile of their Republican peers.  Paul Begala, who helped manage Clinton’s campaign in 1992,
said that a candidate’s ideas matter more with voters than
chronological age. Young voters backed Obama because of his
policies on immigration, same-sex marriage and environmental
issues in addition to his inspirational appeal.  Kennedy Motto  “Bobby Kennedy said youth is ‘not a time of life but a
state of mind, a temper of will, a quality of the imagination, a
predominance of courage over timidity, of the appetite for
adventure over the life of ease,’” Begala said.  Kennedy, who delivered that memorable thought while
speaking at the University of Cape Town, South Africa in 1966,
was 40 at the time, and those words were preceded by “Our
answer is the world’s hope; it is to rely on youth.”  The issue of age for Democrats extends from Washington to
the states. In 2010, Republicans made a net gain of six
governor’s races, giving the party a much larger pool of talent
for future bids for national office. Since 1976, four governors
have been elected president, while Obama was the only one
elected directly from Congress, and the first since John Kennedy.  The Republican bench of younger governors includes Bobby Jindal, 42, of Louisiana; Nikki Haley, 41, of South Carolina;
and  Scott Walker , 45, of Wisconsin.  Generational Change  When the Democrats were in their own soul-searching period
after Reagan’s landslide victory over Walter Mondale in 1984,
the Democratic Leadership Council was formed and its members
included numerous governors and members of Congress whose common
trait was their comparative youth in their 30s and 40s.  Among them was Clinton, then governor of Arkansas;  Al Gore ,
who became a Tennessee senator in 1986 at age 38;  Evan Bayh , who
at 32 was elected governor of Indiana in 1988; and Ray Mabus,
40, the governor of Mississippi.  At that point, the party was undergoing a transformation of
ideas, embracing a tougher approach to crime, reducing welfare
and cutting taxes. At the same time, it was making a
generational pivot that led to Clinton’s election in 1992 in a
campaign that featured him and Gore as the portrait of Baby
Boomer youth and energy.  “National leaders more often come from ranks of governors
rather than congressman,” said Bayh, who chose not to seek re-election to the U.S. Senate in 2010. “That’s particularly true
with Congress having single-digit approval ratings. When you
look at governors, we are suffering a hangover from the 2010
Republican landslide.”  Young Ideas  Bayh said his party has clear advantages in both Electoral
College math and the sentiments of young voters. “Young voters
are looking for young ideas,” he said.  At the same time, a party’s strength isn’t determined
simply by whether it holds the White House or a governor’s
mansion, and Democrats “have a potential problem in Congress if
only because potential leaders haven’t been given the
opportunity to move up,” said  Dan Schnur , director of the Jesse
M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern
California in Los Angeles and a former Republican consultant.  “Watching the Democratic congressional leadership is a
little like watching the British Royal  succession ,” he said.  Course Correction  Voters use presidential elections “as an opportunity for
course correction,” he said. “They look for the greatest
perceived flaw in the incumbent and try to fix it. So when a
Kennedy or a Clinton gets elected, it’s at least partly because
of a perception that their predecessor represented a previous
generation.”  As such, he said, voters aren’t likely to want a younger
candidate after Obama.  Obama campaign strategist  David Axelrod  said today on
MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” that he thought Clinton would be the
likely Democratic nominee in 2016 and that if she didn’t run,
Biden would seek the White House.  For their part, younger voters may be choosing a path to
serve other than elective office. John Della Volpe, who has
specialized in polling younger voters for more than a decade at
 Harvard University’s Institute of Politics , said “unlike a
generation ago, young progressive people have more ways to get
involved in public policy and more options than ever before.”  Those same people, he said, have such a low level of trust
in most leaders in the nation’s capital that “I am less
optimistic that this generation will make a mark in Washington,
D.C. or the more traditional ways of government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Tackett in Washington at 
 mtackett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  