-- Detroit Case Scrutinized by $900 Billion G.O. Market
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n ,   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2013-07-19T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/detroit-scrutinized-by-900-million-g-o-market.html
The fate of a 2 percent sliver of
 Detroit ’s obligations is drawing scrutiny from investors holding
a $900 billion chunk of the U.S. municipal-debt market.  Before filing the largest U.S. municipal bankruptcy
yesterday, Detroit Emergency Financial Manager Kevyn Orr tried
to persuade holders of $369 million of unlimited general
obligations, which are supposed to have the full backing of
taxpayers, to accept less than 20 cents on the dollar. The
borrowings are part of $17 billion in debt and long-term
liabilities Orr sought to restructure.  The approach by Orr is fueling debate about the value of a
market segment that investors have considered the safest state
and city debt, and could signal higher bond costs for some
issuers, starting with about $19 billion from  Michigan 
borrowers. Localities from California to  Massachusetts  use the
bonds to borrow for roads, schools and other infrastructure.  “Investors and analysts are going to rethink the general-obligation pledge and what it really means when an issuer is
under financial stress,”  Ben Watkins ,  Florida ’s director of
bond finance, said in an interview. The bonds “have been the
gold standard of the municipal-bond market.”  Haven Question  The segment of debt in question makes up almost 25 percent
of the $3.7 trillion municipal market. Lower-rated governments
in particular may be penalized, Michael Zezas, chief muni
strategist at Morgan Stanley in  New York , wrote in a report
after the filing.  While debt repaid with an unlimited pledge on  tax revenue 
has been viewed as a haven, Detroit’s filing may change that,
said Robert Amodeo, who helps manage about $30 billion of debt,
including Detroit securities, at Western Asset Management Co. in
New York.  “Detroit has the potential to be precedent-setting,”
Amodeo said. “Looking ahead, people understand that they should
be compensated for the potential additional risk. There will be
a tiering of demand, and with that there potentially could be
wider spreads between the different types of general-obligation
debt.”  Safety Struggle  Detroit, where officials struggle to provide public safety
and street lighting, joins Jefferson County,  Alabama , and
 California  cities Stockton and San Bernardino in seeking
bankruptcy to reduce debt. With about 700,000 residents, it’s
the most-populous U.S. city to seek court protection from
creditors.  In trading today, investors demanded the highest yields in
almost two years to buy some of the Detroit debt. Unlimited
general-obligation bonds maturing in April 2025 traded with an
average yield of 5.65 percent, the highest since August 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The bonds are insured by
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp.  Orr’s spokesman, Bill Nowling, said in an interview before
the filing that the city doesn’t have any more capacity to
increase taxes, and that even if it did, more residents would
leave, making it more difficult to generate revenue.  Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder , a Republican who appointed
the 55-year-old Orr in March, said he authorized the filing “as
a last resort to return this great city to financial and civic
health,” according to a letter to Orr yesterday.  Michigan Premium  State officials are “washing their hands out of Detroit
and investors will remember that,” Richard Larkin, director of
credit analysis at Iselin, New Jersey-based Herbert J. Sims &
Co., said in an e-mail after the city sought protection.
Previously, Michigan “had a good reputation of a state helping
out its localities when they were in difficulties,” he said.  “Investors will begin exacting a premium from any borrower
that has Michigan’s name on it,” said Larkin. “From this
point, Detroit’s name in the muni market is probably mud.”  An additional 0.25 percentage point of yield on $19 billion
of debt would cost issuers in the state $47.5 million a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brodie Killian, executive director of business services for
the Plymouth Canton Community Schools, with 18,000 students 50
miles west of Detroit, called the city’s filing “an isolated
incident.”  The district stands behind the unlimited general-obligation
pledge that backs 95 percent of its $280 million of debt, he
said. Its bonds are rated A+ by  Standard & Poor’s , fifth-highest. ’  Communities around Detroit will have to pay more when they
borrow, he said.  ‘Tough Days’  “There will be some tough days ahead for Michigan
issuers,” Killian said. “The state of Michigan as a whole and
many of its municipalities outside Detroit are very strong
credits and the national market shouldn’t be afraid of Michigan
issuers.”  No one knows how Detroit’s bankruptcy will affect the
general-obligation market, said Adam Stern, director of
municipal research at Breckinridge Capital Advisors in  Boston ,
which manages about $18 billion.  “The fact that G.O. bonds would be impaired is not too
surprising,” Stern said. “What’s surprising is the extent of
the impairment,” he said. “The market believes that the
proposal that’s been presented is a starting point.”  General obligations have been beating the rest of the
municipal market amid the steepest losses for local debt since
2010. G.O. debt maturing from seven to 12 years has lost 2.6
percent this year, while the broader market has lost 3.2
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Exit Wave  As a growing economy fueled bets the  Federal Reserve  will
slow its bond buying, benchmark 10-year muni yields last month
reached the highest since April 2011.  Individuals have pulled an unprecedented $15 billion from
all municipal-bond mutual funds in the past four weeks, Lipper
US Fund Flows data show.  In the week ahead, issuers from Michigan have about $20
million of borrowings scheduled. Localities in the state have
sold about $3.5 billion of debt this year, down from $7.2
billion at this point in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  