-- Dollar Drops as Bets Fade on Fed Tapering; N.Z. Currency Rallies
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-07-19T21:18:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/dollar-falls-as-fed-taper-bets-recede-currency-volatility-wanes.html
The dollar weakened against most of
its major peers after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
damped speculation that a reduction of U.S. monetary stimulus
was imminent.  New Zealand ’s currency rose after the People’s Bank of
 China  said it will remove limits on lending rates, while the yen
lost for the week versus the greenback before upper-house
elections in  Japan . Group-of-20 nations’ finance chiefs met in
Moscow on the global economy. Bernanke told the Senate Banking
Committee yesterday it was “way too early to make any
judgment” on starting to taper Fed bond buying in September.  “The U.S. dollar is softer overall,”  Nick Bennenbroek ,
head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  New
York , wrote in a note to clients. “We still lean toward gains
in the  U.S. dollar  over time, anticipating that the Fed will
shift gradually to a tapering of its bond purchase program.”  The greenback lost 0.3 percent to $1.3143 per euro at 5
p.m. New York time, expanding a weekly drop to 0.6 percent. The
U.S. currency gained 0.2 percent to 100.65 yen, rising 1.4
percent on the week. The euro gained 0.5 percent to 132.26 yen.  The dollar will trade within a range of $1.28 to $1.33 per
euro for the coming weeks, according to  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . It
will probably rise to 102 yen in the next two weeks, before
climbing to 110 within six-to-12 months, he said.  Kiwi Climbs  The  New Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, rallied versus
most major peers, gaining 0.3 percent to 79.21 U.S. cents.
China, the nation’s largest trade partner, said it will
eliminate the lower limit on lending rates offered by the
nation’s financial institutions as growth slows and authorities
expand markets’ role in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The Brazilian real slid versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts amid speculation a faltering economy will prompt
policy makers to limit increases in borrowing costs. The
currency sank 0.9 percent to 2.2471 per dollar.  South Africa ’s rand was the top performer against the
dollar among major currencies on bets the Fed won’t soon slow
stimulus. The rand rose 0.6 percent to 9.8741 to the greenback.  Futures traders increased their wagers that the yen will
decline against the dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference in the
number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a
decline in the yen compared with those on an increase -- so-called net shorts -- was 85,762 on July 16, compared with net
shorts of 80,305 a week earlier.  Aussie Bets  Speculators raised  bets  to a record that the Australian
dollar will decline against the greenback. Net shorts for the
Aussie versus the greenback totaled 70,686 on July 16, the most
ever, versus 63,255 a week earlier.  Bernanke yesterday delivered his semi-annual report on U.S.
monetary policy to the Senate panel after telling the House
Financial Services Committee July 17 the Fed’s purchases “are
by no means on a preset course” and could be cut more quickly
or expanded as economic conditions warrant.  The U.S. central bank buys $85 billion of Treasuries and
mortgage debt each month as part of its third round of
quantitative-easing stimulus to cap borrowing costs. Bernanke
said last month the purchases may slow this year and stop in
mid-2014 if economic growth meets policy makers’ projections.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index slid to
9.72 percent, the least since May 28. It touched a one-year high
of 11.96 percent on June 24.  The Bloomberg  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 other major currencies, retreated 0.2 percent to
1,032.77, adding to a 0.5 percent decline for the week.  ‘Different Scenarios’  “After Bernanke’s comments this week, it’s clear that the
door is wide open for a number of different scenarios, including
increasing asset purchases if that becomes necessary,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in  Washington  at the currency
brokerage Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a phone
interview.  G-20 finance chiefs will call at their meeting for careful
and clear monetary-policy changes, deflecting concern that U.S.
reaction to a recovery will hurt emerging economies, according
to a draft statement obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The yen had the biggest weekly slide out of all of its 16
most-traded peers tracked by Bloomberg. It has lost 2 percent
against the euro, the biggest five-day drop in four weeks.  Japan Election  Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s  Liberal Democratic
Party  and its coalition partner New Komeito are on track to win
more than 65 of the 121 upper house seats being contested July
21, according to a poll published in the Nikkei newspaper on
July 17. Victory will give the parties control of both chambers
of parliament, strengthening the prime minister’s ability to
carry out a three-pronged plan of monetary easing, fiscal
stimulus and deregulation known as Abenomics.  The yen has lost 11 percent this year in a basket of 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has gained 5.3 percent.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $28 billion, compared with $31 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $8.5 billion, the
largest share of trades at 30 percent. Euro-dollar options
totaled $2.9 billion, or 10 percent.  Dollar-yen options trading was 6 percent above the average
for the past five Fridays at a similar time in the day,
according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options trading was
18 percent lower than average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  