-- Electrolux Lifts U.S. Forecast Amid Improving Housing Market
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-07-19T09:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/electrolux-profit-drop-misses-estimates-on-weakness-in-europe.html
Electrolux AB, (ELUXB)  the world’s second-biggest maker of home appliances, raised its forecast for the
U.S. amid improvement in the nation’s housing market.  Demand for appliances in the world’s biggest economy could
increase by as much as 7 percent this year, Chief Executive
Officer Keith McLoughlin said today, having previously forecast
growth of as much as 5 percent. Electrolux  shares  rose as much
as 3.9 percent even as the Stockholm-based company reported
profit that missed estimates because of weakness in  Europe .  “Rising appliance consumption in North America is largely
due to the strengthening of the housing market and this
development is expected to continue,” McLoughlin said in a
statement. Conditions in Europe are “challenging,” though are
seen “gradually improving” in the second half, he said.  Electrolux gets almost a third of revenue from  North
America , which is benefiting as homeowners purchase more
dishwashers, cooktops and irons. U.S. homebuilder confidence
rose more than forecast in July to the highest since January
2006, according to figures released this week.  “We had a fantastic performance in North America,”
McLoughlin said in a telephone interview. “We have a recovering
market and we are outperforming.”  Electrolux  rose  3.9 percent to 182.9 kronor as of 10:30
a.m., the  biggest gain  in the Stockholm 30 Index.  Weak Pound  “The outlook was more positive than we expected, with
Electrolux seeing an improvement in Europe that started in June
and a continued good U.S. market,” Andreas Willi, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note.  Net income for the three months ended June 30 fell to 642
million kronor ($98 million) from 699 million kronor a year
earlier, the maker of AEG vacuum cleaners and Frigidaire
freezers said in the statement. The average of 13  estimates 
gathered by Bloomberg was 669 million kronor.  Earnings were hurt by slow demand in Europe, which led to
“negative price development,” the company said.  Demand for appliances in the region is still estimated to
decline in 2013, Electrolux said.  The results were also weighed down by adverse currency
movements such as a weakening British pound and the
strengthening of the  U.S. dollar  against the Brazilian real.  Exchange-rate shifts reduced operating income by 181
million kronor in the quarter. The impact is likely to be
greater in the third and fourth quarters, mostly because of the
depreciation of the Brazilian real, Chief Financial Officer
Tomas Eliasson said in a telephone interview.  Group sales fell to 27.7 billion kronor from 27.8 billion a
year earlier, beating the 27.4 billion-kronor average estimate.  Competitor  Whirlpool Inc., (WHR)  the maker of KitchenAid and
Maytag appliances, reports second-quarter earnings later today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  