-- Eletrobras Slumps on Strike Over Restructuring: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-07-19T17:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/eletrobras-slumps-on-strike-over-restructuring-sao-paulo-mover.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET3) ,
the power utility that lost two-thirds of its market value over
the past year, fell as workers went on strike against a
restructuring that includes dismissals and compensation cuts.  Voting shares of Eletrobras, as Brazil’s largest electrical
utility by sales is also known,  slumped  2.5 percent to 4.61
reais at 2:02 p.m. in Sao Paulo after earlier declining as much
as 6.1 percent, the biggest intraday drop since June 20. The
 Ibovespa (IBOV)  equity benchmark lost 0.5 percent.  The workers’ strike may disrupt the state-run utility’s
plan to reduce costs and resume profitability after President
 Dilma Rousseff  ordered power companies last September to lower
rates,  Pedro Galdi , the chief analyst at the brokerage firm SLW
Corretora, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“Eletrobras’s earnings and profits prospects have deteriorated
so much in the past months, and this strike makes the scenario
worse,” Galdi said.  The Rio de Janeiro-based utility announced last week that
4,088 employees applied for a voluntary layoff program that is
part of an effort to reduce costs by 20 percent this year.  About 70 percent of Eletrobras’s 27,000 employees have been
on strike since July 15, according to Eduardo Almeida, a
director of Aeel, one of the utility’s employee unions.  “We’re meeting with Eletrobras’ management this morning to
discuss wages and policies for employees,” he said in a phone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  The utility’s press office didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call and e-mail from  Bloomberg News  seeking comment.  Eletrobras’s adjusted revenue fell 27 percent to 6.8
billion reais ($3 billion) in the first quarter of 2013 from a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s voting shares have declined 65 percent since
Aug. 31, 2012, while the Ibovespa has fallen 17 percent during
the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  