-- Emerging Stocks Fall With Technology Shares as Hungary Tumbles
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2013-07-19T21:47:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/emerging-stocks-trim-weekly-advance-as-technology-shares-slump.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, led by
technology companies, after  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330) ’s sales forecast trailed estimates. Hungarian equities
capped their worst week in almost two years, while  Indonesia ’s
rupiah weakened for a record 11th day.  Taiwan  Semiconductor, the world’s largest contract maker of
chips, dropped the most in more than four years in Taipei,
dragging a technology gauge to the steepest two-day loss in a
month. OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s biggest lender, tumbled 9.1
percent after Chief Executive Officer Sandor Csanyi sold shares.
Yuan forwards rose the most in eight weeks after  China  removed a
lower limit on banks’ lending rates to reduce companies’ funding
costs and boost flexibility for lenders.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index retreated 0.7 percent to
950.47, trimming the weekly gain to 0.5 percent. TSMC joined
 Intel Corp . this week with disappointing sales outlooks as
Microsoft Corp. to Google Inc. reported lower-than-estimated
profits.  “A lot of the decline is due to a weakness in earnings
from the technology side, which could be an adjustment to
somewhat slower growth,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee
$221.2 billion as chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo
Advantage Funds in  Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said by phone.  A gauge of technology stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index slid for a second day, losing 1.7 percent, the most among
10  industry groups . Largan Precision Co., an optical lens maker,
tumbled the most since January in Taipei.  Yuan Forwards  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund fell 0.3 percent to $39.28. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
dropped 6.2 percent to 24.70.  Twelve-month non-deliverable  yuan  forwards strengthened
0.08 percent against the dollar, increasing the advance this
week to 0.15 percent. The lending rate decision is part of moves
by China’s leadership to make the nation’s interest rates and
currency exchange mechanism more market-oriented, as the world’s
second-largest economy grew at the slowest pace in three
quarters in April-June.  The Ibovespa retreated 0.5 percent, extending the worst
year-to-date rout among major emerging markets as  Brazil ’s
faltering economic growth prompted JPMorgan Chase & Co. to
reaffirm its sell recommendation on the country’s stocks. State-run power utility Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA capped its
biggest weekly drop in six weeks after workers went on strike
July 15.  OTP Tumbles  Hungary’s BUX Index slid 3.8 percent. OTP Bank, which
accounts for 28 percent of the gauge by weighting, sank the most
since September 2011 with trading volume more than six times the
three-month average.  Csanyi sold a combined 1.7 million OTP shares he held
personally and in a company he controls, the lender said in a
statement today. OTP lost 17 percent of its market value this
week, leading the BUX to its worst week since September 2011
after the government announced plans to retroactively amend the
terms of foreign-currency loans.  The  Borsa Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index (XU100)  fell
1.5 percent in a  second day  of losses. JPMorgan lowered its
recommendation on Turkish stocks to neutral from overweight,
citing “headwinds around the lira and rising rates.”  Russia Gains  Russia’s  Micex Index (ALTMCEX)  added 0.4 percent, led by a 4.2
percent jump in Severstal, a steel and mining company.  Poland’s WIG20 Index advanced 0.6 percent as Grupa Lotos
SA, the nation’s second-biggest oil company, rose 2.1 percent.  MSCI’s emerging-markets measure has dropped 9.9 percent
this year, compared with a 13 percent gain in the MSCI World
Index. The developing-nation index  trades  at 10 times projected
12-month earnings, lower than the MSCI World’s 13.9 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 311 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  The Indonesian currency extended declines as the nation’s
central bank manages a gradual depreciation of the onshore
 exchange rate  toward offshore levels.  Bank Indonesia (BMRI)  Deputy
Governor Perry Warjiyo said on July 11 that the monetary
authority has supplied dollars to the market in the past two to
three months while allowing the rupiah to slowly retreat.  Taiwan Semiconductor tumbled 6.9 percent, dragging Taiwan’s
benchmark measure by 1.6 percent, the most in five weeks. Taiwan
Semiconductor forecast third-quarter sales of as much as NT$164
billion ($5.5 billion) in the three months ending September.
That compared with the NT$164.5 billion average of 25 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg before the announcement.  “The guidance is slightly lower than expectations,” said
Alan Tseng, vice president of Capital Investment Management
Corp. in Taipei, which has a neutral rating on TSMC. “The
company isn’t likely to post stunning growth anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  