-- Tenaga at Six-Year High Sends KLCI to Record: Kuala Lumpur Mover
-- B y   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-07-19T09:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/tenaga-at-six-year-high-sends-klci-to-record-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , Malaysia’s
biggest power producer, rose to a six-year high in Kuala Lumpur
trading after third-quarter profit more than doubled, pushing
the Southeast Asian nation’s benchmark stock index to a record.  The stock  jumped  3.2 percent to 9.30 ringgit, the highest
close since June 2007. It was the biggest gainer in the FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index, which added 0.4 percent.  Net income 
in the three months ended May surged 154 percent from a year
earlier to 1.71 billion ringgit ($536 million), Tenaga said in a
statement yesterday.  CIMB Holdings Bhd. and RHB Capital Bhd. raised their  price
targets  as Tenaga’s nine-month net income beat estimates. Profit
was boosted by electricity sales, lower coal costs, foreign
exchange gains and a 592 million ringgit increase booked on
compensation from the government and state oil company Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. for disruptions in fuel supply to its power plants.  “The pieces are falling into place,” Yeoh Yung Juen, an
analyst at CIMB, wrote in a report. “Tariff reforms, stable
demand and higher gas supply are catalysts” for Tenaga, he said.  The prospect of Tenaga being allowed to increase
electricity tariffs is “likely” given state subsidies may be
reduced, Chairman Leo Moggie told reporters yesterday in Kuala
Lumpur, where the company is based.  State Subsidies  Prime Minister Najib Razak’s government temporarily froze
cuts in state subsidies on essential items ahead of  Malaysia ’s
May 5 general election, when the ruling coalition was returned
to power. It last allowed Tenaga to raise electricity charges to
help pass on costs in 2011, the first time in almost three years.  Tenaga was the most actively traded stock on the KLCI today
with 28 million shares changing hands, three times its three-month daily average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark gauge has gained 6.4 percent this year.  CIMB increased its price target to 10.96 ringgit from 10.20
ringgit and maintained its outperform rating, according to a
report by analyst Yeoh. AMMB Holdings Bhd. raised its price
forecast to 10.45 ringgit, while RHB increased its fair value to
10.58 ringgit, according to separate reports from the two banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson in Hong Kong at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  