-- England Leads by 264 Runs After Second Day of Ashes Cricket Test
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-07-19T18:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/england-all-out-for-361-in-1st-innings-of-ashes-cricket-test-1-.html
England leads Australia by 264 runs
at the end of the second day of the second Ashes Test, after
bowling out the visitors for 128 at Lord’s Cricket Ground.  England took a 233-run lead into its second innings in
London. Peter Siddle took 3-4 to give Australia hope. He bowled
England captain Alastair Cook and Jonathan Trott, while Kevin
Pietersen was caught by Chris Rogers to reduce England to 31-3.  “The plan for us is to score as many as possible tomorrow
and then bowl at them for two days,” England bowler  Graeme
Swann , who took 5-44, said in televised comments.  Australian opening batsman  Shane Watson  was top scorer
after being trapped leg-before-wicket on 30 by  Tim Bresnan  just
before lunch. Captain  Michael Clarke  was caught lbw by  Stuart
Broad , and Swann led the England attack.  England raced through the Australian batting lineup after
Watson’s dismissal, with Clarke the only other batsman to reach
more than 20. Australia lost its last nine wickets for 86 runs.
England chose to start its second innings instead of enforcing
the follow on.  Swann and Broad combined for 48 runs in England’s first
innings to help boost the hosts to 361 all out. Broad was caught
on 33 off the bowling of  James Pattinson , leaving Swann unbeaten
on 28. Australia’s  Ryan Harris  took 5-72, including the wicket
of Bresnan on the opening ball of the second day. Bresnan was
out for 7.  Aggressive Ending  “We lost those couple of wickets and we talked about
getting as many runs as possible,” Swann said. “When Stuart
and I got together and we decided to take each other on.”  England started the day at 289-7 after Ian Bell’s third
straight Ashes century yesterday helped the home team recover
from the loss of three early wickets on day one.  Part-time spin bowler  Steven Smith  dismissed Bell for 109
and also removed Jonny Bairstow and Matt Prior in the final
session to tip the momentum back Australia’s way as  England 
slipped from 271-4.  England, which leads the best-of-five contest 1-0, had
slumped to 28-3 in the first six overs of play after winning the
toss before Bell led a recovery with partnerships of 99 with
Jonathan Trott and 144 with Bairstow, who scored 67.  The Ashes started when Australia beat England, its former
colonial ruler, at the Oval in London in 1882. To symbolize the
“death” of English cricket, the Sporting Times printed a mock
obituary. A wooden bail from the match stumps was burnt, its
ashes were taken to Australia and a replica of the 4-inch clay
urn now goes to the victor of the series.  England won the first Test in Nottingham by 14 runs. The
series moves to Manchester at the start of next month, with a
Test at Chester-le-Street before ending at the Oval in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  