-- Tennis Team Pairs Cabinet’s Sperling, Krueger: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-07-19T14:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/tennis-team-pairs-cabinet-s-sperling-krueger-d-c-scene.html
“I’m ready,” said North Carolina
Democratic Congressman Mel Watt, loosening his tie while
carrying a Wilson racket bag into the pre-game reception for
last night’s  Washington  Kastles Charity Classic.  An hour later, the nominee to become the next director of
the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  was in his tennis whites on
the court at Kastles Stadium to compete against fellow lawmakers
Democrat Jim Costa of  California  and Illinois Democrat Cheri Bustos.  Now in its second year, the annual event raises money for
three local nonprofits: the  D.C. Public Education Fund ,  Food &
Friends , and  Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors .  Costa and Bustos, sporting red T-shirts, were on the Stars
doubles team, with  Gene Sperling , the director of the National
Economic Council, and Alan Krueger, the chairman of the U.S.
Council of Economic Advisers.  Did the Obama officials have a chance to do any warm up
practice together? “We’ve been working too hard,” Krueger
said.  While guests dined on baked ziti and meatballs inside the
VIP tent, Kastles owner Mark Ein, the founder and chairman of
Venturehouse Group LLC, offered up the game of tennis as an
example for politicians to follow.  “We’re going to prove that everybody can work together and
get along on the tennis court of Washington, D.C.,” he said to
applause.  Height Advantage  Ein played on the Stripes team in white T-shirts with
former Senator John Breaux, founder of Breaux-Lott Leadership
Group, who relished playing with “Meet the Press” anchor David
Gregory, a strapping 6-foot-5. Rounding out the team were Watt,
Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito, West Virginia Republican,
and Congresswoman Donna Edwards, Maryland Democrat, among other
media personalities.  The event was sponsored by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , represented by
top lobbyist Melissa Maxfield, and the Entertainment Software
Association.  ESA lobbyist Erik Huey caught up with Jessica Moore,
director of government relations for Walt Disney Co. On the
courts, the final score was Stripes 42, Stars 39.  Energy Wonk  Sydney McNiff Johnson, a principal in Dentons Global Energy
practice and the wife of former  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  chief
executive Jay Johnson, is known for her high-profile charity-ball hostessing, usually in a Carolina Herrera gown. She’s keen
to point out the more than 30 years she has spent as an energy
wonk.  On Tuesday, she pulled her old friend Senator  Lisa Murkowski , the Alaska Republican and ranking member on the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, away from
nuclear-option negotiations to be the keynote speaker at her
firm’s third annual Energy Outlook Series at the  National Press
Club , co-sponsored by  Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI)   Speakers ranged from Brian Tobin, vice chairman of
investment and corporate banking for BMO Capital Markets, to
Janet Holder, executive vice president of Enbridge Western
Access.  In between panels, first-time guest Joseph McMonigle, chief
operating officer of the Abraham Group, sipped coffee and caught
up on his mobile device.  A special discussion on “hot energy topics around the
globe” brought out Georg Maue, first secretary of climate and
energy policy at the German Embassy and his counterpart from the
British embassy, Helen Guedalla.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Greg Evans  on
movies, James Tarmy on  books .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 