-- ENRC Sues Ex-Director Judge for Leaking Information to Media
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2013-07-19T12:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/enrc-sues-ex-director-judge-for-leaking-information-to-media.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) ,
the metals producer that’s the subject of a takeover offer from
its founders and the Kazakh government, filed a lawsuit against
Paul Judge, a former director, for leaking information.  ENRC is seeking damages and an injunction against Judge for
disclosing confidential information to the press and to return
all confidential documents he has, the company said in a
statement today. The company is under investigation by the
U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office over allegations of fraud, bribery
and corruption over its activities in Kazakhstan and Africa.  Judge left ENRC after the company said on April 23 that he
wouldn’t seek re-election at its annual general meeting in June.
Chairman Mehmet Dalman resigned on April 23 and was later
replaced by director Gerhard Ammann.  “We have conducted thorough investigations into the
malicious leaks which have damaged the company, its reputation
and ultimately  shareholder value ,” Ammann said in the
statement. While “these investigations continue, the company
has an obligation to bring legal action where appropriate in
order to protect the company’s information and stakeholders’
interests.”  ENRC founders  Alexander Machkevitch , Patokh Chodiev and
Alijan Ibragimov last month bid $2.65 in cash and 0.23 of
 Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  stock for each share. That’s equivalent to 234.3
pence a share, valuing ENRC at 3 billion pounds ($4.6 billion),
they said. Shareholders of Kazakhmys, which owns 26 percent in
ENRC, will vote Aug. 2 on the offer. The bidders need the
approval of Kazakhmys to proceed with the deal.  ENRC traces its roots to the founders’ participation in the
1990s privatizations of Kazakh state assets, which were
gradually combined into a single group of companies and listed
in London in 2007.  While ENRC said the lawsuit was filed today, court records
show a complaint was filed against Judge on June 7. Judge didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is: ENRC Plc v. Sir  Paul Judge , case no. 13-3049,
 High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division  (London).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  