-- Hensarling Predicts Committee Passage of Housing Reform Bill
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-07-19T20:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/hensarling-predicts-committee-passage-of-housing-reform-bill.html
U.S. House Financial Services
Committee Chairman  Jeb Hensarling  said he will advance a bill to
eliminate  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  and remove the federal
backstop from most of the residential mortgage market.  “I don’t know anybody who wants to defend Fannie and
Freddie,” Hensarling told  Peter Cook  in an interview to be
broadcast Sunday on Bloomberg Government’s “Capitol Gains.”
“I don’t know anybody who wants more taxpayer bailouts. I don’t
know anybody who wants to support government policies that are
going to put people into homes they can’t afford to keep.”  Hensarling said his committee will vote on the proposal
next week and that he expects it to get a vote on the House
floor. The Texas Republican sees his proposal as an alternative
to a bipartisan Senate measure.  The Hensarling bill has been faulted as an “ideologically
pure exercise” by Senator Mark Warner, the Virginia Democrat
who joined with Tennessee Republican  Bob Corker  in proposing
that the U.S.-owned mortgage financiers be replaced with a
government reinsurer to stand behind private capital.
Representative Maxine Waters of California, the top Democrat on
Hensarling’s committee, has called his plan unworkable.  “We do not see any way for this approach to win support in
the Senate even if the Republicans win a majority in the mid-term election,”  Jaret Seiberg , a senior policy analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC’s Washington Research Group, said of
Hensarling’s plan in a research note today. “We are not even
sure this approach can pass the full House.”  The Corker-Warner bill is problematic because it includes a
government guarantee, Hensarling said in the “Capitol Gains”
interview.  ‘Witness Program’  “If you don’t get rid of the permanent, everyday
government guarantee in the secondary mortgage market, I fear
all you’ve done is put Fannie and Freddie in the Federal Witness
Protection Program,” he said. “Give them a face-lift, give
them new names, maybe they come out as Eddie and Annie. And yet
they’re released on an unsuspecting public.”  Washington-based  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  of McLean,
Virginia, provide liquidity for the mortgage market by buying
loans and packaging them into securities on which they guarantee
principal and interest payments in exchange for fees. The two
companies, which have operated under U.S. conservatorship since
they were seized amid losses during the 2008 credit crisis, were
kept solvent by $187.5 billion in U.S. bailout funds before
returning to profitability this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  