-- Ericsson Falls as Nordea Sees Revenue Concerns: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-07-19T08:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/ericsson-falls-as-nordea-sees-revenue-concerns-stockholm-mover.html
Ericsson AB (ERICB)  fell to its lowest level
in almost a month in Stockholm trading after Nordea Bank AB cut
its earnings estimate for the world’s largest maker of mobile
networks and advised clients to sell the shares.  The  stock slumped  as much as 2.2 percent to 74.1 kronor,
its lowest price since June 25. It traded 0.8 percent lower as
of 10:23 a.m. local time, with trading volume at 38 percent of
the daily average in the past three months.  Nordea  cut its recommendation  on Ericsson shares to sell
from hold today after lowering its earnings per share estimates
for 2013 to 2015 by 13 percent to 14 percent. The bank said it
sees “limited support” above its new share-price estimate of
72 kronor, which it reduced from 84 kronor.  “Key triggers in the second half are likely negative and
we fall far below consensus after significant estimate cuts,”
Daniel Djurberg and Sami Sarkamies, analysts at Nordea in
Stockholm and Helsinki, wrote in a note to clients today.  Ericsson reported second-quarter sales yesterday that
 missed estimates  as competition with Huawei Technologies Co. for
contracts to build and service phone systems intensified. While
network revenue advanced about 1 percent in the period, sales at
Ericsson’s support solutions business fell 33 percent. Total
sales of 55.3 billion kronor ($8.4 billion), compared with an
average analyst estimate of 56 billion kronor.  “We are especially worried about Support Solutions
reporting very weak quarterly sales in most regions,” Nordea
said, adding it’s not convinced Ericsson can gain market
traction within Operations Support Systems and Business Support
Systems outside  emerging markets  “due to ‘in-house solutions’
and heavy competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  