-- Merkel Urges European Internet Push to Blunt U.S. Surveillance
-- B y   A r n e   D e l f s   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-07-19T12:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/merkel-urges-european-internet-push-to-blunt-u-s-surveillance.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said
 Europe  should promote home-grown Internet companies to avoid
U.S. surveillance as she sought to keep the spying affair out of
her re-election campaign.  Merkel, at a 90-minute news conference in Berlin today
before she goes on summer vacation, said she is pressing U.S.
officials for information on the scale of the National Security
Agency’s spying on global communications in  Germany . That
includes the Prism program, which mines data from technology
companies.  “In view of this debate, we have to look at what we’re
able to do in Europe,” Merkel said. Just as European companies
build  Airbus planes  to compete with Boeing Co., “we have to ask
ourselves which technical abilities we want to have in Europe in
the Internet. Otherwise, we become dependent. A continent like
Europe should have this ambition.”  Germany’s opposition, trailing in polls before the Sept. 22
federal election, is criticizing Merkel as slow to investigate
the surveillance allegations by ex-NSA contractor Edward Snowden. While a poll for ARD television today said 69 percent
of Germans aren’t satisfied with her government’s efforts to
obtain information from President  Barack Obama ’s administration,
70 percent said her response has little or no effect on how they
will vote as Merkel seeks a third term.  Merkel expressed understanding today for U.S. security
needs after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on  New York  and
 Washington , saying Obama’s statement that privacy must be
weighed against security “is right.” Yet that doesn’t justify
turning Germany into a “surveillance state,” she said.  ‘Not My Job’  Queried repeatedly by reporters about the U.S. response to
German concerns, Merkel said that she is waiting for answers and
letting her cabinet ministers take the lead. “It’s not my job
to get into the details of Prism,” she said. While she has a
“100 percent interest” in disclosure, “to some degree this is
out of my hands.”  German lawmakers across party lines are calling for Europe
to build up rivals to companies such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Facebook
Inc. (FB)  “Europe has to do something against the Americans’ market
power,”  Wolfgang Bosbach , a member of Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union  who heads parliament’s Interior Affairs
Committee, said yesterday in an interview. “I refuse to accept
U.S. dominance of the industry,” opposition Social Democratic
lawmaker Dieter Wiefelspuetz said.  Government aid probably won’t ease European fears, Dieter Kempf, the head of the Bitkom industry group in Germany, said in
an e-mailed statement. It’s hard to imagine that “projects
financed with taxpayer money can even remotely keep up with U.S.
companies that have invested billions in technology development
over the years,” he said.  Popularity Unaffected  For all the unease about U.S. surveillance, Merkel remains
Germany’s most popular politician, increasing her approval
rating in an FG Wahlen poll published July 12. Merkel is
preferred by 62 percent of respondents, while 29 percent favor
 Peer Steinbrueck , her Social Democratic Party challenger.  With the Social Democrats lagging the Christian Democratic
bloc by as many as  18 percentage points  nine weeks before the
election, Steinbrueck accused Merkel last week of breaking her
chancellor’s oath to protect the German people.  Most Germans aren’t buying it, according to a separate
Emnid poll for broadcaster N24 released yesterday. Opposition
criticism of Merkel’s response to NSA spying was viewed as
electioneering by 75 percent of respondents. Fifty-five percent
weren’t concerned that U.S. agencies might be keeping tabs on
their e-mail and phone calls. N24 gave no margin of error for
the poll of about 1,000 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arne Delfs in Berlin at 
 adelfs@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  