-- Merkel Begins Beach-Stop Campaign Tour on Former Whaling Station
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-07-19T22:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/merkel-begins-beach-stop-campaign-tour-on-former-whaling-station.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  took her
election campaign to a former whaling station in the  North Sea ,
offering holidaymakers a pared-down version of her platform as
she set out on a six-stop campaign tour of German beach resorts.  Addressing a crowd of about 5,000 on the island of Borkum’s
beachfront promenade yesterday, Merkel breezed through her
government’s achievements of the past term and made the case for
another four years. Defending the euro, securing the lowest
youth jobless rate in Europe and turning  Germany ’s budget
deficit into a modest surplus all make the  Christian Democrats 
the party of choice in Sept. 22 elections, she said, barely
mentioning the opposition.  “I’d really like to keep running this country,” Merkel
said, yet the elections are only partly about choosing who will
be the chancellor. “It’s mainly about you, about your life,
about the question of who you trust to lead the country through
the tides, international and national, in  Europe  and elsewhere,
so that we can be successful.”  Merkel arrived on  Borkum , the largest and most-westerly of
the East Frisian islands, after she was inundated with questions
about U.S. spying on Germany at a press conference in Berlin.
The chancellor assured the audience in Borkum that she was on
top of the matter, before moving on to the challenges of a third
term: globalization, demographic change and tackling a Europe
where “every young person without a job is one too many.”  Jaw Bones  Borkum prospered from whaling until the end of the 18th
century and is now entirely dependent on tourism. One of the
island attractions is a fence made of whale jaw bones which once
encircled the house of Captain Roloef Gerritsz Meyer, who killed
270 whales during his 44 years of hunting in Arctic waters,
according to a plaque nearby.  The island, which lies about 30 kilometers (18 miles)
offshore, or two and a half hours by ferry, was the first of
three North Sea destinations for the chancellor. She is due to
visit a further three resorts on the Baltic Sea July 22.  While the hour-long stop offered a flavor of the campaign
to come, Merkel didn’t once mention her main election opponent,
Social Democrat  Peer Steinbrueck . She won applause for a pledge
to spend more on insurance for elderly care so that people “at
the end of their lives can enjoy truly humane treatment.”  Little more than nine weeks before the election, Merkel’s
Christian Democratic bloc leads Steinbrueck’s SPD by as many as
18 percentage points  in the polls  and she remains Germany’s most
popular politician, increasing her approval rating in an FG
Wahlen poll published July 12. As she prepares to go on
vacation, Merkel is preferred by 62 percent of respondents,
while 29 percent favor Steinbrueck.  “Read a book or simply do nothing,” she told the crowd on
Borkum, perhaps mindful of her impending break. “It’s a lovely
day.” She was then presented with a compass and box of East
Frisian tea.  “I liked that she spoke to all generations and didn’t pick
on the other parties,” said Cornelia Zeuner, 55, of Salzbergen
in  Lower Saxony , who had decided to skip her beach walk and swim
so that she could listen to Merkel. “I have a different feeling
about voting now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola on Borkum, Germany via 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  