-- European Stocks Rally for Fourth Week on China, Bernanke
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-07-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/european-stocks-rally-for-fourth-week-on-china-bernanke.html
European stocks  rose for a fourth
week, the longest stretch of gains in two months, boosted by
Chinese economic data and assurances from the  Federal Reserve 
that its stimulus program remains flexible.  BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Rio Tinto  Group climbed more than 3.5
percent after the world’s largest mining companies each reported
an increase in iron-ore output. Carrefour SA surged 8.1 percent
as sales in the French retailer’s home market stabilized. Banco
Popolare SC and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc led a rally in
financial shares.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 1.2 percent to 299.85
this past week, the highest level since May. Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke , giving evidence to the House Financial Services
Committee on July 17, said the U.S. central bank’s quantitative-easing program is “by no means on a preset course” and bond
purchases could be reduced more quickly or expanded as economic
conditions warrant.  “The markets put a dovish spin on Bernanke’s testimony to
Congress,” said Ioan Smith, a strategist at KCG Europe Ltd. in
London. “In the end he didn’t say anything new, but the lack of
any definitive signals on the timing of QE tapering gave stocks
a boost.”  European equities climbed on July 15 as a report showed
 China ’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.5 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier. That matched the median
economist forecast in a Bloomberg survey and the government’s
target rate for 2013.  China Growth  China’s Finance Minister  Lou Jiwei  had signaled the
previous week that the world’s second-biggest economy may expand
at a slower pace this year than the government target.
Separately, the People’s Bank of China said yesterday it will
remove the floor on lending rates offered by the nation’s
financial institutions, giving banks more freedom to set
borrowing costs.  The Stoxx 600 has still declined 3.5 percent from a near
five-year high on May 22 amid speculation the Fed will begin
tapering bond purchases as soon as September. The benchmark
measure has climbed 7.2 percent this year.  Minutes from the  Bank of England ’s July 3-4 meeting
released this week showed officials voted unanimously to
maintain the central bank’s 375 billion-pound ($572 billion)
stimulus program.  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles  had previously
called for an increase in asset purchases.  In the U.S., earnings at banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley beat analysts’ estimates and
jobless-benefit claims fell to a two-month low. The benchmark
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied to a record.  ‘Incredibly Bright’  “We continue to believe that the U.S. will lead the global
economic recovery,” said  Henk Potts , who helps oversee $282
billion as an equity strategist at Barclays Plc’s wealth unit in
London. “The U.S. corporate picture still remains incredibly
bright. It continues to support our strategy that investors
should be overweight equities.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 13 of the 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 1.3
percent, France’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  climbed 1.8 percent and Germany’s DAX
Index jumped 1.5 percent.  A gauge of basic-resources companies advanced 4.3 percent
for the best performance among 19 industry groups in the Stoxx
600. Rio Tinto climbed 4.2 percent after posting a 7 percent
increase in second-quarter iron-ore production and raising its
forecast for full-year copper output.  BHP rose 3.9 percent as the world’s largest miner reported
a 17 percent increase in fourth-quarter iron-ore production,
beating the median analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Carrefour Climbs  Carrefour jumped 8.1 percent in Paris after France’s
biggest retailer said sales at stores open at least a year were
unchanged as stronger demand in  Latin America  helped cushion a
drop in Europe during the second quarter. A decline of 1.1
percent in domestic revenue beat the consensus estimate of a 1.8
percent slide, according to Citigroup Inc.  A  gauge of banks  rose 3.3 percent as the  European Central
Bank  altered its collateral rules for refinancing banks and said
it’s looking at ways to boost lending to small and medium-sized
companies by changing the eligibility of asset-backed
securities.  Banco Popolare rose 12 percent in Milan and RBS rallied 11
percent in London. Commerzbank AG, Germany’s second-largest
lender, surged 9.2 percent for the biggest gain in 10 months.  Elsewhere,  Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  climbed 8.2 percent in Stockholm
after the world’s second-largest maker of home appliances raised
its forecast for the U.S.  LSE Revenue  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  jumped 6.6 percent as the
operator of Europe’s oldest independent bourse reported a 39
percent increase in first-quarter revenue.  Telecom Italia SpA slid 3.2 percent after Italy’s biggest
phone company halted a plan to spin off its fixed-line business.  Ericsson AB dropped 5.7 percent as the largest maker of
wireless-network equipment reported second-quarter revenue that
missed estimates amid competition with Huawei Technologies Co.
for contracts to build and service phone systems.  Nokia Oyj lost 2.8 percent after the Finnish mobile-phone
maker reported second-quarter revenue that trailed analysts’
estimates as handset demand fell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  