-- Ex-CFPB Leader Raj Date Rejoins Board of Peer-to-Peer Lender
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-07-19T12:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/ex-cfpb-leader-raj-date-rejoins-board-of-peer-to-peer-lender.html
Raj Date, the former deputy director
of the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, has rejoined
the board of online peer-to-peer lender Prosper Marketplace Inc.
as the industry braces for increased scrutiny from regulators.  Date, 42, becomes the fourth board member at Prosper, a
closely held startup that arranges loans of $2,000 to $35,000 to
help consumers consolidate debt or remodel a home, the San
Francisco-based company said today in a statement. Date stepped
down from the board in September 2010 to join the government.  Peer-to-peer Internet lenders are attracting capital and
talent as they compete with brick-and-mortar banks for consumer
loans. Last year, former Morgan Stanley Chairman  John Mack , 68,
and ex-U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , 58, joined the
board of LendingClub Corp., Prosper’s larger rival. The two
firms, which may be subject to CFPB scrutiny, have funded more
than $2.5 billion in loans since 2006.  “It’s a terrific concept and terrific team,” Date said in
a phone interview. ’’I am thrilled to be joining the Prosper
board.’’  Peer-to-peer lenders raise money from retail and
institutional investors and then provide loans to consumers,
collecting servicing and origination fees.  Date, a former consumer-finance executive at  Capital One
Financial Corp. (COF)  and investment banker at Deutsche Bank AG, runs
Fenway Summer LLC. The Washington-based consulting firm works on
mergers and acquisitions, advises clients on business strategy
and invests in startups. Date, a Boston-area native, named his
company after that city’s Fenway Park, where baseball’s Red Sox
play.  ‘Huge Asset’  “Raj’s addition to the board is a significant milestone
for us,” Prosper Chief Executive Officer Stephan Vermut said in
the statement. “Raj’s experience and insight will be a huge
asset as we continue to grow.”  Date, the CFPB’s first deputy director, helped  Elizabeth Warren  set up the agency in 2010 and 2011 and led the bureau
before President  Barack Obama  appointed  Richard Cordray  as its
first director. Warren, a Democrat who pushed for the CFPB’s
creation, was elected to the U.S. Senate last year by
Massachusetts voters.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB and empowered the
agency to regulate non-bank lenders. The bureau’s authority may
extend to peer-to-peer lending, according to a July 2011  report 
from the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm
of Congress.  Prosper, founded in 2006, wrapped up a $20 million
fundraising led by Sequoia Capital in January. Prosper
originated $27 million loans in June and more than $560 million
since its founding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  