-- Ex-RP Martin Employees Have Libor Case Transferred
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-07-19T12:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/ex-rp-martin-employees-have-libor-case-transferred.html
Two former RP Martin Holdings Ltd.
brokers charged over manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate conspired with employees at  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Tullett Prebon
Plc (TLPR) , Rabobank Groep and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , U.K. prosecutors
alleged in court papers.  Terry Farr, 41, and James Gilmour, 48, were charged with
conspiring with employees of the firms and Tom Hayes, a former
UBS trader in  Tokyo  who was arrested with the two men in
December, over a three-year period. Farr was also charged with
conspiring to rig yen Libor after Hayes had left UBS and was
working for  Citigroup Inc. (C) , from the end of 2009 until September
2010.  Farr and Gilmour appeared today in Westminster Magistrates’
Court for the first time after being charged at a police station
earlier in the week. The two men had their case transferred to
Southwark Crown Court in  London  for a July 30 hearing. They were
told by the judge not to contact each other, or Hayes.  The two men were charged with “dishonestly seeking to
manipulate the yen Libor and other interbank offered rates,”
with “the intention that the economic interests of others would
be prejudiced and/or to make personal gain for themselves or
another,” the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office said in an
indictment.  Hayes was charged with eight counts of conspiracy to
defraud by the SFO last month. He has also been charged by the
U.S. Justice Department, which is running a parallel criminal
investigation.  ‘Regrettable’  “It is regrettable that of all the very many organizations
and individuals who may have contributed to the failings of
Libor-setting, the SFO has chosen to charge Mr. Farr, an
unqualified interbank broker who had no responsibility
whatsoever for setting Libor rates, a minnow in a very large
pond, for doing what he believed to be his job,” his lawyers at
Bindmans LLP said in an e-mailed statement earlier this week.  A lawyer for Gilmour, Sean Curran, declined to comment.
Farr’s lawyers declined to comment beyond their previous 
statement.  Dominik Von Arx, a spokesman for Zurich-based UBS, and Jezz Farr, a spokesman for London-based HSBC, declined to comment on
the hearing. Calls to Tullet Prebon and RP Martin weren’t
immediately returned.  Roelina Bolding, a spokeswoman for Netherlands-based
Rabobank, didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in Westminster Magistrates’ Court
in London at   lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at   jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  