-- Fed Ponders Part-Time Shift as Obamacare Role Questioned
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-07-19T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/fed-ponders-part-time-shift-as-obamacare-role-questioned.html
Bailey Brewer, 28, is a writer with
a graduate degree in journalism. She’s been employed since the
start of the year as a temporary office worker, unable to find a
full-time job.  “The part-time thing, I’m really grateful for the work,
but it’s also really frustrating because nothing is renewable,”
Brewer said. “I want to feel settled in  Los Angeles .”  Brewer isn’t alone. The number of workers holding  full-time 
positions fell in the U.S. in June as  part-timers  hit a record
after rising for three straight months, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics household data. Part-time employment has
been outpacing full-time job growth since 2008. Economists cite
still-tough economic conditions as the root cause, with some
saying President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health-care law exacerbates
the trend.  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  told a House
committee July 17 that policy makers consider underemployment,
which includes part-time workers who want full-time jobs, one of
the gauges of labor-market strength.  “As we look at the  unemployment rate  and try to determine
what it means for the labor market, we look at these other
indicators as well,” Bernanke said in response to a question
from Marlin Stutzman, a Republican representative from  Indiana ,
during the Fed chairman’s semiannual testimony to Congress.  Part-time Share  The number of  part-time  employees in June rose by 360,000,
the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported, based on its survey of
households. Full-time workers fell by 240,000, erasing much of
the gains from April and May. The share of Americans who work
part-time for  economic reasons,  meaning they can’t find full-time jobs or because their hours have been cut, is 78 percent
higher than in December 2007, when the 18-month recession began.  “It’s hard to make any judgment,” Bernanke said when
Stutzman asked if the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act’s mandates are slowing the economy. Bernanke said that it
has been cited in the economic outlook survey known as the  Beige
Book , which the  Federal Open Market Committee  considers in
assessing the economy.  “One thing that we hear in the commentary that we get at
the FOMC is that some employers are hiring part-time in order to
avoid the mandate,” Bernanke said. He added that “the very
high level of part-time employment has been around since the
beginning of the recovery, and we don’t fully understand it.”  The health care law has been included as a job market
concern by businesses surveyed in each of the Beige Books
released by the Fed this year. In July’s report, for instance,
the Chicago district noted that “several retailers reported
that the Affordable Care Act would lead to more part-time and
temporary versus full-time hiring.”  Small Portion  Studies by  Federal Reserve  Banks in Philadelphia and
 Minneapolis  show only a small portion of respondents say they
have changed their workforce structure because of the law.  The law requires employers with 50 or more full-time
equivalent employees to provide benefits to those who work at
least 30 hours a week, or pay a $2,000-per-person fine. The
Obama administration said this month that it would give
businesses an extra year to comply with the mandate, which was
to take effect in 2014, while it aims to streamline reporting.  The high number of part-time workers is “primarily an
issue of labor demand: we have a weak economy,” said Elise Gould, director of health policy research at the  Economic Policy
Institute  in  Washington , which receives about a quarter of its
funding from labor unions.  Economic Reasons  The number working part-time for economic reasons in June
was at its highest since October. It has decreased by 1 million
from a high of 9.23 million in September 2010.  Employer uncertainty surrounding the health-care law “is
having a dampening effect” on full-time hiring, said  Ken Mayland  at ClearView Economics LLC in  Pepper Pike ,  Ohio . He said
he has “a strong suspicion” that it contributed to the recent
increase in part-time workers.  Of about 75  manufacturers surveyed  by the Philadelphia Fed,
5.6 percent said they have shifted from full-time to more part-time workers to avoid health-care rules and 2.8 percent have
refrained from hiring or fired workers, based on results
released July 18. Over the next year, 8.3 percent plan to have
more part-time workers and 5.6 percent plan to fire or refrain
from hiring workers because of the law.  For firms near the 50-employee cutoff “we did find that
they were taking actions already,” said Michael Trebing, senior
economic analyst for the Philadelphia Fed. “A lot of the
comments that we received, and we received a lot of them, still
suggested that there was a lot of uncertainty about long-run
effects.”  Larger Companies  The businesses averaged 236 employees apiece, skewing the
survey toward larger companies, Trebing said. All responded
after the mandate’s delay was announced.  The Obama administration has questioned the law’s effect on
part-time employment, saying that 96 percent of the employers it
covers already offer health insurance.  “The health-care law will decrease costs, strengthen
small businesses and make it easier for employers to provide
coverage to their workers, as we saw in  Massachusetts , where
employer coverage increased when similar reforms were adopted,”
said Joanne Peters, a Health and Human Services Department
spokeswoman, in an e-mailed statement.  A March  survey  of 205 companies released by the Minneapolis
Federal Reserve, which included a broader array of business
types than the Philadelphia data, found 89 percent of businesses
had no plans to shift to more part-time staff to avoid the rule.  ‘No Impact’  “Because the president moved the date of the employer
requirement to 2015, there should be absolutely no impact” on
part-time employment in the near-term, said Gould of EPI.  Andy Puzder, chief executive officer of CKE Restaurants
Inc., a Carpinteria, California-based company that runs the
Hardee’s and Carl’s Jr. burger chains, takes a different view.  “While American businesses appreciate the reprieve, they
still know this mandate is coming down the road, so I’m not sure
it’s going to meaningfully change anyone’s behavior,” Puzder
said. CKE has been hiring more part-time workers as a result of
the law, though that hasn’t come at the expense of full-timers,
Puzder said in an interview.  Virginia restaurateur Christopher Savvides said he has
stopped hiring full-time and limited part-timers’ hours to steer
clear of the law’s requirements. Savvides said he has no plans
to change course at his three restaurants and an associated
catering company based in  Virginia Beach .  “Everyone I hire right now is going to be part-time,” he
said in a phone interview. “I can’t afford health insurance for
everyone.”  Income Cut  In Ohio, April Freely is among a few hundred adjunct
professors poised to see their income cut after the University
of Akron decided to strictly enforce limits on the number of
courses part-timers teach. The college is among more than a
half-dozen in Ohio that have said they’ll restrict hours at
least partly due to the Affordable Care Act.  For Freely, who teaches English composition, that means
losing about half the $12,000 she earned from the school last
year -- and still not getting health benefits, she said.  “Some people are quitting academia all together, some are
picking up courses at other campuses,” Freely, 30, said by
telephone. “Mostly, it’s making people really angry.”  The university is awaiting legal advice and IRS guidance
before deciding how to respond to the delay, said Eileen Korey,
a spokeswoman. For now, it’s maintaining its limit on part-time
faculty hours, she said in an e-mail. The school would have to
find an extra $4 million to offer benefits next year to 400
part-timers now over the limit, Korey said.  Main Driver  Economic weakness is the main driver elevating part-time
statistics and it is hard to separate out health care effects,
said  Alec Phillips , a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist and
analyst based in Washington. Some employers do have a health-care-based incentive to hire part time, he said.  “We do expect to see more part-time workers and fewer
full-time workers than we would otherwise have seen,” Phillips
said. “There is probably a limit to how much employers can use
the shift to part-time to reduce costs” even in the face of
health-care mandates, he said.  In a stronger economy, Gould said, employees would have
more power and employers would have less ability to cut hours to
avoid health-care costs. “If there was more labor demand
generally, then there would be a different reaction to these
requirements,” she said. “Overall, we’re just still in a very
weak economy.”  Brewer, the writer, agrees with that assessment. “I know a
lot of people in my life who are also searching for jobs,” said
the University of Missouri-Columbia graduate. “There are jobs
out there, but I think it’s bleak.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net 
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net 
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  