-- Finra Trader Probe, Morgan Ratio, Dow Cartel: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-07-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/finra-trader-probe-morgan-ratio-dow-cartel-compliance.html
The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority is investigating whether high-frequency traders have
established controls to ensure their algorithms don’t
malfunction and cause broader harm to markets.  Finra sent letters this week to about 10 trading firms
asking nine detailed questions about how they use and deploy
algorithms, according to George Smaragdis, a spokesman for the
U.S. brokerage industry’s self-regulator. Finra had expressed
concern about how firms supervise trading algorithms after
Knight Capital Group Inc. bombarded exchanges in August with
mistaken orders that cost the company $400 million.  The examination, described in a  letter  on Finra’s website,
as part of an effort to explore technology controls more deeply,
according to exam priorities the Washington-based regulator
published in January. Finra asks firms in the letter to disclose
whether they use kill switches to halt individual algorithms and
under what conditions they would shut off trading.  “In light of several high-profile algorithmic trading
failures that caused significant market disruption in 2012,
Finra continues to be concerned about how firms are  supervising
the development of algorithms and trading systems,” the
regulator said in a document laying out examination priorities
for this year.  Compliance Policy  Top Senate, House Tax Writers Predict Passage of Code Rewrite  A tax code rewrite has a greater than 50 percent chance of
passing, said  Senate Finance Committee  Chairman  Max Baucus , a
Democrat from Montana, and House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp , a Republican from Michigan.  Speaking at an Economic Club luncheon in Washington, Camp
said the bill would probably start first in the House. Baucus
said “tactics” concerning its passage haven’t been decided.  Camp has released draft legislation on international
taxation, small businesses and financial products. Baucus has
begun a series of closed-door committee meetings on rewrites.  Compliance Action  Morgan Stanley Says Leverage Ratio Missed Proposed Minimum  Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s largest brokerage,
said it fell short of a minimum  leverage ratio  proposed by U.S.
regulators last week that measures a firm’s ability to withstand
losses.  The company’s supplementary leverage ratio, a gauge of
capital to total assets, was 4.2 percent in the second quarter,
below the proposed 5 percent minimum, Chief Financial Officer
Ruth Porat said on a conference call with analysts yesterday.
The ratio at Morgan Stanley’s deposit-taking bank subsidiary was
above the proposed 6 percent minimum, she said.  Morgan Stanley will exceed both requirements by 2015, Porat
said. The company announced plans earlier in the day yesterday
to buy back $500 million in stock, and Porat said the firm’s
plan to reach 5 percent by 2015 includes further capital returns
to shareholders.  While banks would have more than four years to comply,
lenders may have to retain some capital to meet the requirements
that they otherwise could pay out through dividends or share
repurchases. Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  has said his
plan to boost return on equity to 10 percent by next year
depends on regulators allowing the firm to return a
“reasonable” amount of capital to shareholders.  For more, click here.  Courts  South Korea Indicts Chaebol Head in Tax Evasion Crackdown  Seoul prosecutors indicted the head of CJ Group, a South
Korean food and entertainment group, for  tax evasion  and
embezzlement as part of a government drive to crack down on
corporate crime.  Lee Jay Hyun, the 53-year-old chairman of the group, was
charged yesterday after an investigation that started in May,
according to the prosecutors. The group is the country’s 14th-largest chaebol, the conglomerates that dominate South Korea’s
economy.  President Park Geun Hye pledged to crack down on tax
evasion and the country’s tax agency began 23 separate
investigations in May.  Lee avoided 54.6 billion won ($49 million) in taxes and
misappropriated 96.3 billion won in company assets, the Seoul
Central District Prosecutors’ Office said in a statement
yesterday. Lee had used a CJ Group unit to provide collateral
and guarantees for property purchases in Japan, according to the
statement.  Dow Loses Appeal of $84.5 Million Fine in Rubber Cartel Case  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  failed to overturn a 64.6 million-euro
($84.5 million) antitrust fine in a rubber cartel after a
European Union court rejected arguments that it shouldn’t be
liable for the actions of subsidiaries more than 10 years ago.  The EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg rejected the appeal
in a ruling yesterday.  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s antitrust regulator, in
November 2006 fined five companies 519 million euros for rigging
prices of synthetic rubber in a cartel that lasted from at least
1996 to 2002. Bayer AG escaped a fine after it tipped off the EU
about the cartel.  Dow said in a statement that it didn’t participate in any
of the wrongful conduct and that it was disappointed with the
ruling.  The case is: C-499/11 P, Dow Chemical and Others v.
Commission  Goldman Sachs Witness Says Tourre Didn’t Disclose Paulson Role  The  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  employee who ran the firm’s
mortgage correlation trading desk testified that  Fabrice Tourre 
failed to tell investors about the role of Paulson & Co. in the
deal at the center of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s fraud case against him.  The SEC sued Tourre and Goldman Sachs in 2010 over the
transaction. Paulson, run by billionaire  John Paulson , used the
deal to bet against mortgage-backed securities. Investors on the
other side of the bet lost more than $1 billion. New York-based
Goldman Sachs paid a then-record $550 million to settle the
case.  Jonathan Egol, now a Goldman Sachs managing director, told
jurors in Manhattan federal court yesterday that he is “not
aware of any” disclosures to investors that Paulson, a New York
hedge fund, helped select the mortgage-backed assets underlying
Abacus 2007-AC1, a synthetic collateralized debt obligation.  Egol said Tourre did make sure to tell a superior that
Paulson helped pick the portfolio of 90 subprime mortgage-backed
securities when Goldman’s money was at risk.  The SEC sued Tourre after dropping a plan to file claims
against Egol, according to interviews with SEC enforcement staff
conducted by the agency’s inspector general, which were made
available to  Bloomberg News  through a Freedom of Information Act
request. Egol testified July 17 that Tourre was the Goldman
Sachs employee primarily responsible for the Abacus transaction.  Earlier this week, SEC lawyer Matthew Martens found himself
sparring with his own witness,  Paolo Pellegrini , 56, a former
Paulson executive who claimed the agency intimidated and tricked
him in its investigation into the deal at the heart of its civil
fraud case against Tourre.  At one point Pellegrini disavowed testimony he’d given in a
2008 deposition, in which he said he didn’t recall telling a key
participant in the transaction that Paulson planned to take a
short position. Pellegrini said he thought he was being tricked
at the deposition and was scared.  Later, with the jury and the witness outside the courtroom,
Martens told U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest that
Pellegrini’s claims of being scared at the deposition were
“garbage” and “utter nonsense.”  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here, and click here.  Interviews  Isaac Says U.S. ‘Needs’ Big Banks to Compete Globally  William Isaac, chairman of  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  and a former
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., talked about
the outlook for U.S. banks and financial regulation.  Isaac spoke with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen, Scarlet Fu and
Joshua Green on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.”  For the video, click here.  Bernanke Testifies on Economy, Policy to Senate Panel  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  delivered his
semi-annual report on the  U.S. economy  and the central bank’s
monetary policy before the Senate Banking Committee in
Washington.  In wide-ranging remarks, Bernanke touched on topics
including quantitative easing, the U.S. housing market, the
Volcker rule, too-big-to-fail banks, financial regulation and
the Basel III accords.  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says White House Soft on Financial Regulation  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, discussed the Obama Administration’s role
in financial regulation. Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Tom
Keene and  Michael McKee  on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg
Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Gorman Says He’s Encouraged by Merrill’s Higher Margin  James Gorman, chief executive officer at Morgan Stanley,
talked about his company’s second-quarter profit, banking
regulation and Federal Reserve policy.  He spoke with  Erik Schatzker  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Nominees Stein, Piwowar Approved by Senate Banking Committee  The U.S. Senate Banking Committee approved the nominations
of Michael Piwowar and Kara M. Stein to be members of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The committee approved the nominees by voice vote yesterday
along with a full five-year term for SEC Chairman Mary Jo White,
who is currently serving the remainder of a term vacated by her
predecessor  Mary Schapiro . The nominations now move to the full
Senate, where they may be approved before lawmakers leave for
the August Congressional recess.  Stein and Piwowar would join the SEC as it adapts to a new
agenda under White, who says the agency’s rulemaking priorities
are prescribed by the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 and the Jumpstart
Our Business Startups Act of 2012.  Stein, 49, would replace Elisse B. Walter as a Democratic
commissioner and Piwowar, 45, would succeed Troy A. Paredes as a
Republican appointee on the five-member commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  