-- Five Star ‘Act of Killing’; Campy ‘God Forgives’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/five-star-act-of-killing-campy-god-forgives-movies.html
Atrocity hides beneath a
grandfather’s gentle smile in “ The Act of Killing ,” Joshua
Oppenheimer’s remarkable, unnerving documentary portrait of
barbarity and its lasting legacies.  Oppenheimer, a Texas-born filmmaker living in  Denmark , set
out to record survivors of  Indonesia ’s bloody anti-Communist
campaign of 1965-66.  When they proved too fearful (their torturers remain in
power), Oppenheimer shifted his attention to the killers
themselves.  Now elderly men hailed as national heroes for the
extermination of more than a million countrymen, the old death-squad leaders couldn’t have been more welcoming to Oppenheimer’s
cameras.  “At first we beat them to death,” boasts Anwar Congo, a
former paramilitary leader and the film’s primary subject, “but
there was too much blood.” His tidy solution (demonstrated with
pride): wire garrotes.  Oppenheimer, in a move of real inspiration, invited Congo
and several compadres to make their own movie, recreating
vignettes (in any style or genre, from noir to musical) of their
murderous pasts.  Rape Jokes  Congo, a lifelong fan of Hollywood gangsters and Elvis
movies, jumped at the chance, fretting only about whether he
should dye his gray hair black.  On its surface, then, “The Act of Killing” (executive
produced by Errol Morris and  Werner Herzog ) becomes a
documentary about the making of Congo’s film, interspersing
interviews and behind-the-scenes footage with the surreal,
melodramatic and improvised recreations of long-ago murders.  “Humor is a must,” says one of the “actors,” a rotund
man who costumes himself in outlandish drag and jokes about
raping his victims.  Oppenheimer’s cameras capture unforgettably candid moments
(imagine eavesdropping on wrinkled Nazis in truthful reverie).  During rehearsals for an interrogation scene, one of
Congo’s actors recalls the real-life abduction and murder of his
Chinese stepfather, dissolving into a weird, hysterical laughter
as the former executioners sit stony faced.  Even Congo’s facade of indifference begins to crack, as the
act of recreating old atrocities resurrects ghosts, stirs
nightmares and wracks his body with ungodly retches, a testament
to both the power and uselessness of art confronting violence.  “Is it all coming back to me, Josh?” a crying Congo asks
the director, the ultimate too-little-too-late. “I don’t want
it to.”  “The Act of Killing,” from Drafthouse Films, is playing
in  New York  (select theaters beginning July 26). Rating: *****
(Evans)  ‘God Forgives’  The aestheticized brutality that spiffed up “ Drive ,” the
first collaboration between the Danish-born director Nicholas
Winding Refn and the dreamy-eyed hunk  Ryan Gosling , has been
inflated to such demented levels in “ Only God Forgives ” that
the movie becomes that treasured rarity, a genuine camp
disaster.  Gone is Gosling’s sweet little half-smile; here no act of
violence is so simple as stomping a man’s head in. “Only God
Forgives” offers a fastidiously composed torrent of slashing,
burning, braining, blinding, stabbing, piercing, clobbering,
shooting, amputating and, at a special moment, disemboweling.  Faucets spew blood, a pipe organ wails and scarlet bordello
lighting heats up every room in the city of Bangkok.  Vithaya Pansringarm plays a Terminator-like cop who croons
karaoke and twirls a Thai sword with the dexterity of a
majorette. Kristin  Scott Thomas  is even better (which, in this
context, means even worse) as a gangster momma who loses one of
her boys and alights in town to play the goddess of vengeance.  Told that he was killed for raping and murdering a 16-year-old girl, she coolly replies, “I’m sure he had his reasons.”  Refn must have had his, too, and whatever they were, I’m
grateful. Ludicrous, awful, irresistible!  “Only God Forgives,” from Radius-TWC, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: *** (Seligman)  Charmless Wiig  Ocean City, the New Jersey town battered by  Hurricane
Sandy , certainly didn’t need the drab, unfunny “ Girl Most
Likely ” invading its shores.  A whiny, charmless Kristen Wiig plays Imogene, a once-promising Manhattan playwright forced by circumstance to move
back to the ramshackle beachside home of the tacky, casino-loving mom ( Annette Bening ) she resents.  Directed by Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini (“ The
Nanny Diaries ”), “Girl” pads the mother-and-child reunion
with a houseful of cartoon eccentrics: a simpleton brother
(Christopher Fitzgerald) obsessed with crabs, mom’s shady CIA
boyfriend ( Matt Dillon ) and the unlikely Lee, a wannabe singer
(Darren Criss) with a Yale degree and (inexplicably) eyes for
Imogene.  What Lee sees in the snobby, off-putting Imogene remains as
mysterious as what the red-hot Wiig saw in Michelle Morgan’s
shabby sub-sitcom script.  “Girl Most Likely,” from Lionsgate/Roadside Attractions,
is playing across the U.S. Rating: * (Evans)  (Greg Evans and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com  and
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 