-- Five Things to Know About Detroit’s Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-07-19T19:42:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/five-things-to-know-about-detroit-s-bankruptcy.html
Detroit , once the fourth-largest
city in the U.S. and a hub of industry and innovation, filed the
nation’s biggest municipal bankruptcy yesterday. Here is a
summary of the basics of municipal bankruptcy and how Detroit
might use it, according to court filings and the U.S. judiciary.  What is a municipal bankruptcy?  Cities and towns with debt they can’t afford to pay can use
a provision of U.S bankruptcy law, known as  Chapter 9 , to
restructure what they owe. The law gives municipalities
breathing space to negotiate with creditors such as bondholders
or retired workers with pensions.  Why did Detroit file for bankruptcy?  Detroit’s collapse was fueled by an $18 billion debt load
and decades of job losses that left behind a shrinking and
increasingly impoverished population, tens of thousands of
abandoned properties and decaying infrastructure. All of it
amounts to a crisis that can only be solved in bankruptcy,
according to the city’s emergency manager, Kevyn Orr, who said a
deal with creditors was out of reach. Michigan Governor Rick Snyder authorized the bankruptcy filing on July 18.  What can and can’t be done in bankruptcy?  Bankruptcy shields Detroit from actions by creditors to
collect on debt and allows the city to stop payments on general
obligation bonds. Detroit can end costly labor agreements with
unions and bind creditors opposed to the restructuring.  Cities in bankruptcy have more discretion in their
operations and use of property than a business reorganizing in
bankruptcy, and the judge overseeing the case can’t order the
sale of assets through a liquidation. Also unlike a business
bankruptcy, creditors can’t offer a competing restructuring plan
if they oppose the city’s proposal.  What will happen next?  Detroit will first have to establish that it’s eligible to
remain in bankruptcy and may face a fight from creditors that
want to force the city out of bankruptcy to negotiate outside of
court. The city will have to show it’s insolvent and that
negotiating with creditors beforehand was impractical. Earlier
this year, Stockton,  California , successfully defeated creditor
opposition to its bankruptcy filing.  What’s Detroit’s plan?  Before the bankruptcy filing, Orr proposed cutting pension
payments, removing some workers from the system and making the
rest pay more. The plan also called for swapping more than
$11 billion in unsecured debt with new notes of $2 billion.
Detroit has about $5.4 billion worth of water and sewer bonds
that Orr said would be paid in full.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  