-- Former Troops Say U.S. Veterans Agency Failing Sex-Abuse Victims
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r
-- 2013-07-19T20:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/former-troops-say-u-s-veterans-agency-failing-sex-abuse-victims.html
Medical staff at the U.S. Department
of  Veterans Affairs  aren’t recognizing signs of sexual abuse in
former troops and haven’t been properly treating victims,
veterans said at a congressional hearing.  Marine Corps veteran Tara Johnson, a major, told lawmakers
today that she was sexually assaulted several times during her
service. When she sought treatment for post-traumatic stress
disorder, a provider at a VA center questioned whether she had
been abused, Johnson said at a House Veterans’ Affairs
subcommittee hearing.  “The provider looked at me, widened his eyes and asked,
‘Well, do you really think you were raped?’” said Johnson, who
left the Marines in 2010. “I could not bring myself to return
to him or the VA, and it was at this time I began to utilize my
private insurance to receive therapy. I now pay out of pocket to
receive care.”  The hearing was held two months after the Defense
Department released a survey that found military sexual assaults
had increased 35 percent in two years. Those health-care issues
and others are increasingly shifting to the Department of
Veterans Affairs as more troops return from war.  The victims who testified today said they believed veterans
who have been sexually abused should be treated outside the VA
because of problems accessing proper care and long waits for the
agency’s programs.  Sexual Abuse  While public and political attention has focused on men in
uniform abusing women, the  military ’s confidential survey of
active-duty troops found that more victims of sexual assault and
harassment in the military are male, largely because men make up
about 85 percent of the total force.  Veteran Brian Lewis, a Navy petty officer third class who
said he was raped at knife point, told the subcommittee that the
VA is so “fundamentally incapable of providing care” for
sexual trauma that some male victims use VA clinics for women.  “This is not best practice. This is horrible practice,”
Lewis said during the hearing. “I also deserve to have my
manhood, in essence, respected by not having to seek treatment
in a women’s clinic.”  Rajiv Jain, the VA’s assistant deputy undersecretary for
patient care, said at the hearing that the department needs to
take a “critical look” at its services for sexual trauma
victims.  ‘Significant Gaps’  “They really present a very powerful story,” Jain said of
the veterans who described their struggles getting VA treatment.
“We also feel there are significant gaps that have been pointed
out by the panel and that we need to really look and see how
best we can meet the needs of all our veterans in a sensitive
manner.”  In May, the Defense Department estimated 26,000 military
personnel may have experienced unwanted sexual contact last
year, compared with 2,949 victims identified in criminal
reports.  The same month, three military officers assigned to
programs to prevent sexual abuse were removed from their posts
after allegations of wrongdoing.  Lawmakers led by women in the House of Representatives and
Senate are demanding changes in how the Pentagon treats reports
of sexual trauma and questioning whether the VA is equipped to
care for victims.  ‘Personally Apologize’  “I want to personally apologize to all of you,” U.S.
Representative Julia Brownley, a California Democrat, said
during the hearing. “If there is trauma that takes place, then
as a veteran who has served our country we need to figure out
how to best provide and service all of you.”  Senators  Bernard Sanders , an independent from  Vermont  who
leads the Senate veterans committee, and Jon Tester, a Montana
Democrat, urged the VA in a letter last month to improve the way
it processes post-traumatic stress disorder claims from veterans
tied to sexual trauma.  Agency officials sent letters to veterans this year
advising them they could ask the department to reconsider
previously denied claims for disability payments tied to
military sex abuse.  The VA didn’t work with veterans groups on the letter or
include contact information for the offices that would handle
requests for additional review of previously denied claims,
according to the letter.  Veterans who’ve had post-traumatic stress disorder claims
tied to sexual trauma denied by the VA “may be hesitant to
trust VA to review their claims without reassurance that VA will
undertake a more comprehensive, practical and sensitive
approach,” according to the letter from Tester and Sanders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 Kmiller01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  