-- G-20 Pits U.S. Growth Against EU Amid Volatility Worry
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-07-19T11:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/g-20-pits-u-s-growth-against-eu-amid-volatility-worry.html
Global finance chiefs wrestled with
competing priorities for the global economy in Moscow today as
U.S. growth and its impact on markets took center stage against
a backdrop of a European recession.  Europe  needs to do more to jumpstart its economy, Treasury
Secretary  Jacob Lew  said as his European Union counterparts
prepared to defend their job-boosting efforts. Developing
nations at the meeting of Group of 20 finance ministers and
central bankers hailed the U.S. upturn, while warning that the
 Federal Reserve  should be careful to avoid spooking markets if
it ends its bond-buying program.  Speculation about developed economies scaling back their
unprecedented monetary easing has roiled emerging-market
currencies and bonds since G-20 finance chiefs last met in
April. That prompted policy makers including Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to refine their message.  “I think the crucial challenge is how the financial
markets manage these signals and how they manage them in a way
in which emerging markets and their currencies are not
negatively affected,” South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  Bernanke has now “done enough” to convey that U.S. policy
won’t change overnight, giving the rest of the world time to
adjust, Gordhan said. The dollar weakened 0.3 percent to 100.27
yen at 3:22 p.m. in Moscow, as investors pared back expectations
of how quickly the Fed would begin to scale back asset
purchases.  ‘Shared Opinion’  G-20 finance chiefs have a “shared opinion” that the
global economy needs a common strategy for how to manage
quantitative easing efforts, Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters in Moscow today. He said growth rates in
emerging economies are weakening, showing that those countries
may not be able to propel the world economy forward on their
own.  “ Emerging markets  in central and eastern Europe and
elsewhere are right to be concerned given the narrative coming
out of  Frankfurt , the U.S. and  Japan ,” said Mujtaba Rahman,
director at the Eurasia Group in  New York . “Their performance
has not been driven by fundamentals, and forthcoming changes to
monetary policy are going to make emerging markets look
particularly vulnerable.”  Global finance chiefs are counting on the U.S. to carry the
recovery as they look for ways to improve prospects in their
home economies. Bernanke is “very conscious of the global
responsibility of the U.S.,” French Finance Minister  Pierre Moscovici  told Bloomberg Television today.  Europe Worry  “I think that people are worried about Europe,” Moscovici
said, reiterating that the EU will continue its efforts to lift
the 17-nation euro region out of recession. His German
counterpart told reporters the focus should remain on expanding
the workforce.  “High unemployment must be avoided,” Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters in Moscow.  Europe is the weakest component in a three-speed global
economy that includes fast-growing emerging markets and a
medium-paced U.S., South Korean Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok
said in an interview yesterday. He said the EU has reduced the
risk of a new shock and now needs to pursue structural reforms,
noting that the euro area’s crisis-fighting strategies haven’t
always been effective.  ‘Being Victims’  Markets overreacted to Bernanke’s initial signal that the
Fed may start to cut back on its $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases, Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said in
an interview today. He said there’s now an understanding that
central banks will provide liquidity as long as needed.  “Emerging economies make a lot of being the victims of
policies of industrial countries, including the European ones,
that push up the value of their currencies,” Saccomanni said.
“But you know, one could easily make the counterargument --
assume that we were following very tight policy in a situation
like this, I think the spillover on the emerging economy would
be even harder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Moscow at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  