-- GE Profit Rises as S&P Industrials Top Estimates
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-07-19T20:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/ge-profit-beats-estimates-as-jet-engines-buoy-backlog.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  climbed the
most since 2011 after second-quarter earnings beat analysts’
estimates, joining the  93 percent  of Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
industrial companies posting higher-than-expected profit.  Adjusted profit from continuing operations was 36 cents a
share, GE said today in a statement, exceeding the 35-cent
 average  of 13 analysts’ projections compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income at Honeywell International Inc. and Ingersoll-Rand Plc
also surpassed estimates.  GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  is investing in
the aviation and oil and gas divisions, opening factories and
making purchases including Lufkin Industries Inc., to boost
sales and profit from manufacturing and service operations.
Results at GE and its peers contrast with the 71 percent of  S&P
500  technology firms whose earnings exceeded estimates.  “The reaction to the industrials so far has been better
than most people thought because expectations were set quite low
and because companies are finding new growth opportunities,”
 Nicholas Heymann , a New York-based analyst at William Blair &
Co., said in a telephone interview.  GE climbed 4.6 percent, the most since November 2011, to
$24.72 at the close in  New York . The stock’s 18 percent year-to-date  gain  trails the 19 percent advance for the S&P 500 and a 20
percent jump for the S&P 500 Industrials Index.  Margin Expansion  The Fairfield, Connecticut-based company affirmed its
forecast for 2013 profit-margin expansion and industrial revenue
growth.  Julian Mitchell , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG in
New York, had predicted that the sales target was at risk after
falling earnings at the power and water unit dragged down first-quarter results.  Mitchell is among 14 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg  who
rate GE as a buy or equivalent, while Heymann is among eight who
recommend holding the shares.  GE said the profit margin at its industrial businesses grew
50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point. Immelt has pledged to
expand margins by 70 basis points this year. Operating earnings
at the units rose 2 percent from the same period in 2012 to
$3.84 billion.  “We expect margin expansion to continue and segment
profits to grow in the second half of the year,” Immelt said in
the statement.  Revenue declined 3.5 percent to $35.1 billion, GE said,
trailing the $35.6 billion average estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 10 analysts.  S&P Industrials  Eight of the 15 companies in the S&P 500 Industrials Index
that have reported quarterly earnings since June 19 through
today have missed analysts’ sales estimates, while only  Cintas
Corp. (CTAS)  has failed to meet profit projections, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Meanwhile, Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. were among five
of the 17 companies in the S&P 500 Information Technology Index
that reported profit that fell short of analysts’ projections.  GE said aviation sales climbed 9 percent, as did revenue
for the oil and gas segment.  GE Capital , the finance unit,
reported sales of $11 billion, 3 percent less than a year
earlier. The industrial backlog rose 3.2 percent to $223
billion.  The oil and gas business is GE’s fastest-growing unit by
revenue as the company seeks to serve energy producers drilling
in more-difficult-to-reach locations both on and offshore. GE
agreed to buy Lufkin Industries, a manufacturer of oil-field
equipment, in April for about $3.3 billion.  GE also is the world’s biggest maker of  jet engines , and
its $4.3 billion acquisition of Avio SpA, an aerospace-parts
maker that counts GE among its biggest customers, is scheduled
to close in the third quarter, according to the statement.  “You’re seeing a little faster growth in those businesses,
and that’s going to be a main focus on the industrial side and
across the whole company,” Christian Mayes, an Edward Jones &
Co. analyst in  St. Louis  who has a hold rating on GE, said in a
telephone interview. “Those are areas that have the most
potential and where they’re spending money on acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  