-- GE Settlement With FTC Lets Avio Aviation Deal Proceed
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2013-07-19T23:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/ge-settlement-with-ftc-lets-avio-aviation-deal-proceed.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  reached an
agreement with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission that will allow
its $4.3 billion acquisition of the aviation business of Italian
aerospace company Avio SpA to proceed.  The settlement prevents GE from interfering with the
development of an engine component designed for rival aircraft-engine maker  Pratt & Whitney , the FTC said in a statement issued
today.  The AeroEngine unit of Turin, Italy-based Avio designs an
accessory gearbox for Pratt & Whitney’s PW1100G engine, which
has no viable alternatives to Avio for developing that
component, the FTC said.  The FTC said that the acquisition would give “the ability
and incentive to disrupt the design and certification” of the
gearbox for the engine, which is used on Pratt & Whitney’s
A320neo aircraft.  “This would diminish competition in the sale of engines
for the A320neo, which would result in higher prices, reduced
quality, and engine delivery delays for A320neo customers,”
according to the FTC statement.  Seth Martin , a spokesman for Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
the announcement.  Commercial Agreement  The proposed order settling the FTC’s charges builds on a
commercial agreement GE, Avio and Pratt & Whitney recently
negotiated, as well as Pratt & Whitney’s original contract with
Avio, the FTC said.  The proposed order also bars GE from interfering with Avio
 staffing  decisions that affect the component for the PW1100G
engine and allows Pratt & Whitney to have representatives on-site at the GE/Avio facility, the FTC said.  The proposed order prevents GE from gaining access to Pratt
& Whitney’s proprietary information about the accessory gearbox
that’s shared with Avio and lets the FTC appoint a monitor to
oversee GE’s compliance with its obligations.  The FTC voted unanimously to accept the agreement, with
Commissioner Joshua Wright recused.  The FTC said it worked closely with the European
Commission, which approved the transaction this month, in its
investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  