-- European Bonds Advance in Week, Buoyed by Central-Bank Optimism
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-07-19T15:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/german-government-bonds-little-changed-as-producer-prices-stall.html
All European  government bonds  rose
this week on optimism central banks around the world will
maintain stimulus measures that subdue  interest rates .  “There’s a feeling that policy makers will continue to
intervene and create support for bonds,” said Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV in
Amsterdam. “Core bonds will stay supported.”  Ten-year  Italian yields  reached the lowest level in more
than a week today after Interior Minister  Angelino Alfano 
survived a no-confidence vote in the nation’s Senate.  Portugal ’s
 10-year bonds  rose after President Anibal Cavaco Silva said he
remained confident the nation could overcome political turmoil.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said he would press his
European counterparts at a Group-of-20 meeting to spur growth.  Italian 10-year yields were little changed at 4.41 percent
at 4:18 p.m. London time, a decline of seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, in the week. The rate touched 4.36
percent, the lowest level since July 11. The price of the 4.5
percent bond due in May 2023 was 101.075.  The two-day meeting of G-20 finance ministers and central
bank governors started today, after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  this week buoyed optimism that measures to restore
growth will be maintained when he testified to U.S. lawmakers.
The  European Central Bank  said yesterday it was looking at ways
to boost lending to small- and medium-sized companies by
revising its collateral rules.  Italian Concern  Germany ’s 10-year bund yield was little changed at 1.52
percent, after dropping to 1.50 percent, the  lowest  since June
7. The 10-year rate has fallen four basis points this week. The
yield will drop to 1.40 percent in the next few weeks, Giansanti
predicted.  Italy’s two-year note yield dropped five basis points today
to 1.60 percent on optimism the confidence vote will help
overcome investor concern that  Italy ’s ruling coalition, led by
Prime Minister Enrico Letta, is fraying. Letta won support
yesterday from President Giorgio Napolitano, who urged
disgruntled lawmakers to maintain backing for the government.
Political instability could weaken Italian sovereign debt,
raising borrowing costs, the 88-year-old head of state said.  “The vote of no confidence in the Senate went OK and
that’s a positive, which is helping the bonds,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin. “It’s an
uncertainty that’s now out of the way.”  Portuguese Negotiations  Volatility on Finnish securities was the highest in euro-area markets today followed by those of Portugal and  France ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Portuguese bonds had their first weekly advance in nine
weeks as talks continued between the nation’s ruling coalition
parties and the main opposition Socialist Party. A fifth round
of meetings yesterday failed to produce a deal on how to meet
the terms demanded by a European Union-led bailout.  “Things are going as expected,”  Cavaco Silva  said in
comments broadcast by TVI television station yesterday. “I’m
confident, but I’m not sure what the final outcome will be.”  Portugal’s  10-year yield  declined 20 basis points to 6.82
percent for a 69 basis-point drop this week.  “Portugal is proving to be one of the more sensitive
markets to domestic political events,” Citigroup Inc.
strategist Peter Goves wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.
“Although the full impact of the unfolding politics is unclear
at this stage, such events do little to harness a perception of
stability.”  Italy’s bonds returned 2.6 percent this year through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German
securities handed investors a loss of 0.6 percent, while Spanish
bonds earned 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  