-- German Stocks Drop as SAP Leads Technology Shares Lower
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-07-19T07:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/german-stocks-drop-as-sap-leads-technology-shares-lower.html
German stocks  declined from their
highest level since May and the benchmark gauge pared a weekly
gain as technology shares fell amid worse-than-estimated
earnings from  Google Inc. (GOOG)  to Microsoft Corp.  SAP AG dropped 1.7 percent also as JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut
its rating of the shares.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  lost 1.7
percent.  TUI AG (TUI1)  slipped 1.1 percent after Commerzbank AG
downgraded its recommendation for the shares.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.6 percent to 8,289.49 at
9:53 a.m. in Frankfurt, paring its increase this week to 0.9
percent. The measure has climbed 7.7 percent from a low on June
24, as central banks signaled a reduction in stimulus is not
imminent. The broader HDAX Index retreated 0.6 percent today.  “We have seen disappointing results from Google and
Microsoft,” Soeren Steinert, who helps manage about $24 billion
as associate director for equities trading at Quoniam Asset
Management GmbH in  Frankfurt , said in a telephone interview.
“That is the reason Asian technology stocks were weak, and that
is the reason why German technology stocks are under pressure
today.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies on the DAX
was 23 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Google, owner of the world’s most popular Internet search
engine,  reported  second-quarter sales and profit that missed
analysts’ estimates. Microsoft, the world’s largest software
maker, posted fourth-quarter profit that trailed analysts’
forecasts. Both companies reported results after markets closed
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  