-- Gold Bulls Dominate for Longest Run in Bear Market
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-07-19T13:57:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/gold-bulls-dominate-for-longest-run-in-bear-market-commodities.html
Gold traders are bullish for a
fourth week, the longest run since the  bear market  began in
April, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’ll
maintain stimulus if growth misses expectations.  Fifteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices to
rise next week, nine were bearish and five neutral. Gold climbed
above $1,300 an ounce on July 17 for the first time in more than
three weeks after Bernanke said in testimony to Congress that
monthly asset purchases “are by no means on a preset course.”
Bullion rose 70 percent from December 2008 through June 2011 as
the central bank bought more than $2 trillion of debt.  Gold is heading for the first annual drop in 13 years after
some investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value. The
Fed chairman said last week the U.S. still needs stimulus, after
saying on June 19 that bond buying could slow if the economy
improves. Bullion’s plunge to a 34-month low spurred demand for
jewelry and coins, and demand from China is “incredibly
strong,”  Standard Chartered  Plc said.  “Bernanke is very mindful of the fact that the recovery
can falter quite easily,” said  Dan Smith , a commodities analyst
at Standard Chartered in  London . “Things are going to remain
quite volatile. As long as rates don’t go up too much and
quantitative easing is eased back slowly, then I don’t see any
reason why gold can’t go higher.”  Equities Gain  The metal fell 23 percent to $1,291.27 an ounce in London
this year. It rose 9.4 percent since falling to $1,180.50 on
June 28, reaching $1,300.88 on July 17. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added 0.8 percent since the start
of January and the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
gained 9.7 percent. Treasuries lost 2.6 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Gold reached a record $1,921.15 in September 2011 as the
U.S. central bank, which is buying $85 billion of bonds a month,
led nations in cutting interest rates and purchasing debt. The
Fed could keep buying bonds for longer if “financial conditions
-- which have tightened recently -- were judged to be
insufficiently accommodative to allow us to attain our mandated
objectives,” Bernanke said two days ago.  Investors see a 40.7 percent chance policy makers will
raise the federal funds rate by the end of 2014, compared with
53.2 percent odds on July 10, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 10-year  yield  on Treasuries fell 8.9 percent
since reaching a 23-month high on July 8.  Physical Purchases  While physical buying has slowed in  India , last year’s
biggest consumer, because of import restrictions imposed by the
government, there are signs of strengthening demand from China
to  Japan , Barclays Plc wrote in a July 15 report. Tanaka
Kikinzoku Kogyo K.K., Japan’s biggest gold retailer, said sales
rose threefold in the second quarter, exceeding its purchases
for the first time in a year.  Demand for physical gold helped push July futures on the
Comex in  New York  above the August contract. Backwardation, when
nearby contracts are more expensive than longer-dated futures,
can signal concern about near-term supply. One-month gold
forward offered  rates , which show the  interest rate  at which
dealers will lend gold for dollars, were the most negative since
2008 last week, driving the cost of borrowing the metal to a 4
1/2-year high in London.  The outlook for prices is still bearish even with the
concern about near-term physical supply,  Societe Generale  SA
said in a July 17 report. Rallies in prices are still spurring
sales, UBS AG said in a report yesterday. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. predicts gold will reach $1,050 by the end of 2014 and
Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts an average of $1,150 in the
third quarter of next year.  U.S. Economy  Bullion dropped a record 23 percent in the second quarter
amid mounting optimism about the  U.S. economy , pushing the S&P
500 Index of stocks to a record close this week. While the
 International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 forecast for U.S.
growth to 1.7 percent on July 9 from 1.9 percent in April, it
says expansion will accelerate to 2.7 percent next year.  Gold prices  have fallen this year because investors see a
reduced need for “disaster insurance,” Bernanke said during
questioning from the Senate Banking Committee yesterday. “One
reason gold prices are lower is people are less concerned about
extreme outcomes, particularly negative outcomes, and therefore
they feel less need for whatever protection gold affords,” he
said.  Investor Holdings  Investors sold 653 metric tons of gold from  exchange-traded
products  this year, erasing $59.6 billion from the value of the
funds, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Holdings reached a
three-year low of 1,978.9 tons yesterday.  Hedge funds  and other
large speculators cut bets on higher prices by 82 percent since
October, holding a net-long 35,691 contracts on July 9, U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  This year’s slump may continue as mining companies sell
future production to lock in returns, driving prices lower and
spurring more sales, according to Societe Generale. The practice
of hedging fell out of favor in the last decade amid gold’s 12-year bull run.  Four of 11 people surveyed expect raw sugar to gain next
week and four were bearish. The commodity slid 17 percent to
16.25 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York this year.  Fifteen of 23 surveyed anticipate lower corn prices and
five said the grain will rise, while 12 of 23 said soybeans will
drop and eight expect higher prices. Ten traders predicted
declines in wheat and five were bullish. Corn fell 29 percent to
$4.9475 a bushel this year in  Chicago . The December contract,
which reflects supply after the U.S. harvest, declined 18
percent this year. Soybeans lost 10 percent to $12.6375 a
bushel, as wheat slipped 15 percent to $6.625 a bushel.  Copper Survey  Seven traders and analysts surveyed expect copper to drop
next week, three were bullish and five were neutral. The metal
for delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s
benchmark contract, fell 13 percent to $6,921 a ton this year.  Sixteen of 24 raw materials in the S&P gauge fell this year
on concern that growth is slowing in  China , the biggest
commodities user. The index rebounded 9.2 percent since reaching
a nine-month low on April 18. Four of the six main industrial
metals will be oversupplied this year, Barclays estimates.  “You’ve obviously seen quite a heavy selloff, so a rebound
in the short term is quite typical,” said Ross Strachan, a
commodities economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London.
“We’re expecting industrial metals to fall further in the
coming months due to weakness in demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  