-- Goldman Says Batista Exit Makes MPX a Buy as EON Takes Over
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-07-19T20:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/goldman-says-batista-exit-makes-mpx-a-buy-as-eon-takes-over-1-.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista ’s loss of
control of  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  to Germany’s EON SE is making the
Brazilian power producer a buy to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Goldman, which had not rated Rio de Janeiro-based MPX’s
shares since March, set its price target for the utility at 10
reais. The  stock  rose 1.2 percent to 6.99 reais at the close of
trading in  Sao Paulo . The shares have fallen 31 percent in the
past year, the least among the six publicly traded companies
founded by Batista, which have declined as much as 91 percent.  Batista, who rode a surge in Brazilian stocks to become the
world’s eighth-richest person in March 2012, quit as MPX’s
chairman earlier this month after EON increased its stake to 36
percent. A selloff of shares in Batista’s energy, commodities
and cargo companies erased more than $30 billion of his fortune
after they failed to meet output targets.  “We expect a gradual de-risking of MPX shares,” Bruno Pascon, the Goldman Sachs analyst who took over primary coverage
from Felipe Mattar, wrote in a research note dated yesterday.
“EON’s controlling stake and MPX’s contracted revenues should
meaningfully reduce any overhang related to concerns over the
EBX Group.” EBX is Batista’s holding company.  ’Not Compatible’  A credibility crisis that started with his flagship oil
producer OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA is obscuring the
achievements of companies like MPX, Batista wrote in an opinion
piece published in the newspaper  Valor Economico  today. MPX’s
current market value “is not compatible” with what the company
has to offer, he said. MPX’s market value is $2.2 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “MPX has the biggest portfolio of licensed projects in the
country,” he wrote. The company “has become a model” for
thermal power producers along the coast, and generates enough
electricity to power the city of  Rio de Janeiro , according to
Batista.  Goldman’s Pascon said MPX has a “solid” balance sheet and
will have “above average” free  cash flow  starting in 2014.  MPX has five buy  recommendations  from analysts, four holds
and one sell, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman had rated MPX a buy from May 2012 through March,
when it changed the stock’s designation to “not rated.” The
New York-based investment bank includes stocks on that list when
it’s “acting in an advisory capacity in a merger or strategic
transaction involving this company and in certain other
circumstances,” according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  