-- Gorilla Flipping Homes as Rebound Revives Rapid Trades
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2013-07-19T14:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/gorilla-flipping-homes-as-rebound-revives-rapid-trades.html
John Helmick loves to buy homes
reeking of cat urine and doesn’t mind if they’re infested with
rats, bats or bees.  His seven-year-old Gorilla Capital seeks out some of the
most distressed properties to avoid competition and get the best
deals, then sells them 60 to 120 days later after major
renovations for an average 13 percent return. After flipping 400
homes last year, he expects to sell 500 in 2013 in eight states
across the country, making the Eugene, Oregon-based firm one of
the largest companies of its type in the U.S.  “There are a lot of people in this industry who are
looking to do nothing, or just buy paint and carpet, and those
homes are much more competitive,” Helmick, 54, said. “The
homes we’re buying, a lot of people won’t even touch them. They
are not financeable.”  With prices  rising  at the fastest pace since the real
estate peak in 2006, buying and selling houses within six
months, or flipping, is back in vogue. Those types of deals are
on track to hit a record this year after increasing 19 percent
in the first half of 2013 from a year ago, and are up 74 percent
from 2011, according to data from RealtyTrac. Profits are also
climbing to the highest in seven years, with investors making an
average $18,391 on each sale, more than triple returns in the
first six months of 2012 and compared with losses of $13,206 two
years ago.  Investor Demand  Investors are selling into a market teeming with private-equity firms building large-scale rental companies and potential
homeowners trying to take advantage of mortgage  rates  rising
from record lows -- all while the number of homes for sale fell
in January to the lowest level since 1999.  Home price appreciation is driving a surge in flipping,
said  David Lykken , managing partner of the Austin, Texas-based
consulting firm Mortgage Banking Solutions. “If you have decent
appreciation already built in and an increasing number of
markets are still frothy, now’s the time to move on this.”  Real estate professionals and amateurs by the thousands
jumped into flipping before the housing collapse, artificially
inflating demand as U.S.  home prices  doubled as measured by the
S&P/Case Shiller 20-city index between January 2000 and July
2006.  Buying and selling properties to try and turn a quick
profit became an American obsession spawning two cable-television series -- “Flip This House” on A&E and “Flip That
House” on TLC -- that debuted in 2005 as the market was
surging. In 2004, the average profit was 18 percent, or $40,487,
according to RealtyTrac data.  Walk Away  As the market peaked and then tumbled, the flippers were
stuck with properties that were dropping in value and were among
the first to walk away. About 7 million homeowners lost their
properties through  foreclosure  or by selling for a loss since
2007, RealtyTrac data show, and mortgage availability became
more restrictive after lax standards fueled the boom and bust.  When Helmick started Gorilla Capital in 2006 with Ben
Bazer, 36, who grew up buying homes with his father, the
industry comprised mom and pop investors with a local focus.  Helmick, a Yale Law School graduate, who’d previously
started online course company Ecollege.com and taken it public
in 1999, wanted to use his background in technology to develop a
scalable approach to the business.  Competing Primates  People competing for inventory at foreclosure auctions were
“a bunch of monkeys,” said Helmick, who along with Bazer
wanted to be “the gorilla” any buyer would have to outbid.  As amateurs were driven out of the market when prices
plunged, Gorilla Capital kept buying. The company tripled in
size by 2008 and has grown between 20 percent and 50 percent a
year since 2009, using debt financing from private investors
along with a line of credit from  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  to fund
acquisitions, Helmick said.  Operating in Arizona,  Florida ,  Colorado ,  California ,
Oregon, Washington,  Idaho  and  Utah , Gorilla Capital expects to
reach $70 million in sales this year, he said.  With  home values  increasing 12.1 percent in April from the
prior year, competition is increasing.  Yanir Ram, chief financial officer of DRI Holdings LLC,
flips and rents houses in California, where the median price of
single-family homes rose 34 percent in June from a year earlier.
He said his company has sold from 30 to 80 properties a year
since 2010.  1994 Flipping  “We started doing flipping back in 1994,” Ram said. “We
did 50 to 60 a year back then and in 2008 and 2009 we did
zero.”  DRI Holdings buys houses that were built in the 1980s
through the 2000s in Southern California and flips them for an
average 15 percent return after a maximum of $15,000 in
renovations, according to Ram. If they don’t sell quickly
enough, properties can be converted to rentals.  Gorilla Capital, Ram’s DRI Holdings and others have
benefitted in the past year as private-equity giants including
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Colony Capital LLC  and  Apollo Global
Management LLC (APO) , emerged as large-scale landlords in the
burgeoning industry for single-family homes to rent.  “It’s very targeted buying,” said  Michelle Meyer , senior
U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. “Investors are
targeting areas with a large presence of distressed properties
where they can get deep discounts. And that’s very different
from what we saw during the bubble period.”  Gorilla Capital has sold about 25 percent to 30 percent of
its inventory to other investors this year.  ‘Best Pricing’  “It’s the best pricing out there,” Helmick said. “We
could easily get 15 to 20 percent on those types of sales. If we
find a great house for $110,000 that Blackstone will buy for
$130,000 we’ll clean it up and sell it to them for a rental in
20 days.”  That opportunity may be slowing as large rental investors
scale back purchases, with flips being sold more often to
individual buyers, said Ram.  Home values nationally are 26 percent below their peak and
rising borrowing costs are pushing homebuyers to “scramble to
get in before  interest rates  go up more,” Helmick said. The
average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage reached a two-year
high of 4.51 percent last week, before falling to 4.37 percent.  Housing  affordability  in January also reached its highest
level in records dating to 1989, according to the National
Association of Realtors.  Government Support  To help the recovery, the government has also supported
house flipping, after previously discouraging it. The  Federal
Housing Administration  has waived anti-flipping rules since
2010, so borrowers can get FHA financing to acquire homes from
investors who have held title for less than 90 days.  Gorilla Capital sells at least half of its properties to
first-time buyers, many of whom don’t have interest or the
financial means to buy a distressed house and rehabilitate it.
The firm purchases properties for an average price of $120,000
and spends $30,000 to $100,000 on renovations before selling
them, Helmick said. About half the homes the company buys at
foreclosure auctions have been abandoned.  “They’re zombie homes,” Helmick said. “We’re taking some
of the ugliest, worst homes in a neighborhood and remodeling
them and, in that, revitalizing the neighborhood.”  A house the company bought in Bend, Oregon, this year was
infested with rats. An exterminator was sent in at night to
evict them. Another property near  Salt Lake City  had a beehive
inside one of its walls.  “We’ve had rats, bats and bees this year,” Helmick said.
We prefer the bees. You call any beekeeper and they come and pay
you to take those out because they want the bees.”  Rates Climbing  Jed Kolko, chief economist of online property listing
service  Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , said “flipping only lasts as long as
prices are rising fast.”  With  mortgage rates  climbing, more inventory available and
foreclosures drying up, the opportunity is narrowing, he said.  Of the 100 markets RealtyTrac analyzed, 32 had declines in
flipping, including  Las Vegas , Phoenix, Southern California and
Atlanta, some of the areas hardest hit by the U.S. housing crash
and where prices are rebounding the fastest.  Foreclosure filings -- which include notices of default and
bank seizures -- fell 35 percent in June from a year earlier to
127,790, the fewest since December 2006, according to
RealtyTrac. The decline was led by a 45 percent plunge in
foreclosure starts, reflecting decreasing mortgage delinquencies
as home prices climb.  In some states, foreclosures are surging after years of
judicial delays lengthened the process. Auctions last month were
up 103 percent in  New Jersey , 100 percent in Florida, 94 percent
in  Maryland  and 66 percent in  New York , according to the data.  ‘Huge Backlog’  “There was such a huge backlog, tens of thousands waiting
to foreclose” in New York, said Emmett Laffey, a real estate
broker covering  New York City  and  Long Island . “What we are
seeing now are properties that have been in pre-foreclosure for
years finally coming to market.”  With prices rising faster in some locations than others and
foreclosure volume varying, Gorilla Capital is seeking to use
its competitive advantage over most flippers, which typically
buy in only one area, Helmick said.  “In 2009 and 2010, Arizona was the most profitable,” he
said. “Now Idaho and Utah are on fire. We can just deploy our
capital where the market is most robust.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  