-- Greek Lawmakers Approve Bill to Establish New State Broadcaster
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   A n t o n i s   G a l a n o p o u l o s
-- 2013-07-19T18:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/greek-lawmakers-approve-bill-to-establish-new-state-broadcaster.html
Greece ’s parliament approved the
creation of a new state television and radio service following
the closure in June of former public broadcaster ERT.  Lawmakers approved a bill to create the new service by 155
votes to 104, Deputy Parliament Speaker Christos Markgiannakis
said in remarks carried live on state-run Vouli TV.  Greece plans to recruit 2,000 people July 22 on two-month
contracts to staff a transitional state broadcaster, Pantelis
Kapsis, deputy minister responsible for establishing the new
service, told lawmakers before the vote. The contracts will be
renewed until the permanent broadcaster is established, he said.  The government of Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras was
shaken last month after the departure of the Democratic Left
party, one of two coalition partners, because of a decision to
shut down and suspend 2,600 jobs at ERT and create a new,
smaller company. Samaras’s New Democracy party must now rely on
its historic rival, the socialist Pasok party, to govern. The
two control 155 of the Greek parliament’s 300 seats.  The so-called troika of Greece’s international creditors
comprising the  International Monetary Fund , the  European Central
Bank  and the European Commission did not make closure of ERT a
prerequisite for continuing to receive bailout funds. The
government in  Athens  acted in “full autonomy”, European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told the
European Parliament on June 12.  The closing of ERT made up half of 4,000 outright
dismissals of state workers for 2013 that Greece agreed with the
troika in February 2012, Administration Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said July 9. Another 11,000 so-called mandatory exits
will take place in 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Antonis Galanopoulos in Athens at 
 agalanopoulo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  