-- Michigan Judge Says Detroit Bankruptcy Should Be Dropped
-- B y   S t e v e n   R a p h a e l   a n d   M e g a n   D u r i s i n
-- 2013-07-19T21:32:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/michigan-judge-says-detroit-bankruptcy-should-be-withdraw.html
A  Michigan  judge declared that
Detroit’s Chapter 9 bankruptcy filing violated the state’s
constitution and ordered Governor  Rick Snyder  to withdraw it.  Circuit Court Judge Rosemarie E. Aquilina in Lansing today
criticized Snyder, a Republican, for rushing the filing into
court yesterday before she could rule on a bid by city workers
and their pension funds to consider an emergency request to
block the filing.  “I’m finding the actions that were taken in filing
bankruptcy as overreaching and unconstitutional,” she said.  She ordered the governor to direct Detroit emergency
manager Kevyn Orr to immediately withdraw the bankruptcy
petition. She also said he cannot authorize further filings that
would impair or diminish public pension benefits.  Attorney General Bill Schuette applied for permission to
appeal the decisions. He also filed a motion to suspend
Aquilina’s rulings pending appeal, Joy Yearout, a spokeswoman
for the attorney general, said in an e-mailed statement.  Kenneth Klee, the bankruptcy lawyer who spearheaded the
bankruptcy restructuring of Jefferson County,  Alabama , said a
state judge can’t force Detroit out of federal bankruptcy, even
if Snyder agrees to try to withdraw the petition.  Once Detroit city filed the bankruptcy petition, it came
under federal jurisdiction and the case cannot be withdrawn,
even by Snyder, said Klee, of Klee Tuchin Bogdanoff & Stern LLP
in  Los Angeles . A federal judge would have to agree to dismiss
the case, according to Klee.  ‘Full Confidence’  “We have full confidence in the legality and
constitutionality of the governor’s and emergency manager’s
actions,” Sara Wurfel, Snyder’s press secretary, said in an e-mailed statement. “We are seeking a quick appeal for finality
and to ensure efforts can be put into finding a fair resolution
for all concerned in a single forum and truly get  Detroit  on the
path to becoming a great city again.”  “If the governor changes his mind, it doesn’t matter,” he
said. “Not only can’t she do that, but her order may be in
contempt of a federal court, and a federal judge can put her in
jail.”  ‘Running Shoes’  Current and retired city workers had asked Aquilina to
issue a temporary restraining order to keep the city of Detroit
from filing for bankruptcy. The bankruptcy petition was filed
minutes before the judge was able to rule.  “The plaintiffs should not have been blindsided in this
court,” said Bill Wertheimer, a lawyer representing some of the
plaintiffs.  Brian Devlin, a Michigan assistant attorney general, argued
that no harm has yet been done to the plaintiffs.  Aquilina said harm was “imminent.”  “You understand  bankruptcy court ,” she said. “That’s why
you ran there yesterday, not slowly, but in your running
shoes.”  The bankruptcy case is City of Detroit, 13-bk-53846,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Raphael in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net ;
Megan Durisin in Lansing, Michigan, at 
 mdurisin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  