-- Michigan Debt Trails Market Most in 2 Years as Detroit Fails
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-07-19T21:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/michigan-debt-trails-market-most-in-two-years-as-detroit-fails.html
Michigan ’s debt is trailing the
municipal market by the most in two years and its borrowing
costs are rising relative to similarly rated states as  Detroit ’s
bankruptcy filing shakes investor confidence.  Bonds of Michigan and its local issuers have lost 3.4
percent this year, exceeding the 3.1 percent decline across the
$3.7 trillion municipal market, the Barclays Plc data show. For
Michigan, it’s the steepest drop since at least 2005.  Detroit’s filing, a record for a U.S. city, may raise
borrowing costs for Michigan governments as investors demand
extra compensation,  Jeffrey Rosenberg , chief investment
strategist for fixed income at BlackRock Inc. in New York, said
in a Bloomberg Television interview. The world’s biggest asset
manager oversaw $3.86 trillion as of June 30.  “This is very specific to Michigan,” Rosenberg said. The
governor’s approach “is very different to what other states
have done, and that will certainly have an impact on Michigan.”  The move by the state’s largest city follows bankruptcy
filings in Jefferson County,  Alabama , and the California cities
of San Bernardino and Stockton. Detroit has $18 billion of debt,
according to Kevyn Orr, the city’s emergency manager.  Yield Pickup  Orr, appointed by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  in March,
sought protection for the city under Chapter 9 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code  to deal with the debt and long-term obligations.
In a statement, the bankruptcy lawyer said he had “no
reasonable alternative” to the court filing.  After Illinois and California, Michigan general-obligations
offer the most additional yield above top-rated munis among the
17 states tracked by Bloomberg data. Yields on Michigan’s
general-obligation bonds maturing in 10 years were 0.34
percentage point higher than an index of benchmark munis as of
July 18, Bloomberg data show.  Michigan’s yield spread over  New Jersey , with the same AA-grade from  Standard & Poor’s , has averaged 0.19 percentage point
since the start of May, compared with 0.1 percentage point for
the first four months of the year. The gap reached as wide as
0.39 percentage point in May, the highest this year.  Benchmark munis lagged behind gains in Treasuries today
following Detroit’s filing.  Yields on 30-year benchmark local debt rose about 0.02
percentage point to 4.37 percent, close to a two-year high, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. In contrast, similar-maturity
Treasuries gained in price, pushing the yield down to 3.56
percent, the lowest since July 3.  The ratio of the yields, a measure of relative value, is
about 123 percent, the highest in a year, signaling that munis
have cheapened in comparison with Treasuries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  