-- LightSquared Foresees Competing Plans for Reorganization
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-07-19T19:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/lightsquared-foresees-competing-plans-for-reorganization.html
Philip A. Falcone’s bankrupt
LightSquared Inc., said it foresees competing proposals to
reorganize its assets and asked the court for a deadline of
Sept. 4 to take proposals.  The broadband network services provider, also facing a
$2 billion cash offer for its assets from an entity owned by
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  Chairman  Charlie Ergen , lost the exclusive
right to control its reorganization July 15. It hasn’t been able
to get creditor support for a reorganization timeline and is
proposing a streamlined process, it said today in court papers.  LightSquared asked the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  New York 
for permission to have outlines of all competing plans filed by
Sept. 4, with a Dec. 16 confirmation hearing to approve the best
offer.  “As LightSquared continues to work towards a successful
resolution of its Chapter 11 cases, it anticipates the
submission of multiple competing plans of reorganization and
potential litigation” arising from them, company lawyers wrote.  The company earlier this week delayed a hearing on control
of its assets without disclosing specifics of a dispute with
Ergen’s entity.  Falcone’s Harbinger Capital Partners LLC is “trying
desperately” to keep ownership of LightSquared in the face of
debt-buying by Ergen’s SP Special Opportunities LLC fund, at the
expense of creditors, lenders have said. The Ergen fund joined
the lender group on June 13.  Ergen Bid  The lenders also have said LightSquared hasn’t acted on a
$2 billion bid from Ergen’s L-Band Acquisition Corp. and can’t
get regulatory approval or enough financing to exit bankruptcy
on its own.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy in May 2012, listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt
of $2.29 billion.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-bk-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 