-- ILFC’s Embraer Order Seen Filling Boeing-Airbus Small Plane Gap
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-07-19T14:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/ilfc-s-embraer-order-seen-filling-boeing-airbus-small-plane-gap.html
International Lease Finance Corp. (AIG) 
said its purchase of 50  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  regional jets, its first deal
for planes that small since the 1990s, was driven by the shift
of  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  Airbus SAS (EAD)  toward bigger aircraft.  The world’s second-largest airplane lessor expects to place
the E2 variants, worth $2.85 billion at published prices, with
short-haul operators primarily in  Asia  and  Europe , ILFC Chief
Executive Officer Henri Courpron said in a telephone interview.  “We see that Airbus and Boeing are vacating this 90 to 120
seat category, and that gives an opportunity for Embraer to be
successful,” said Courpron, a former Airbus executive who took
the top job at ILFC in 2010.  ILFC agreed to buy the jets at last month’s  Paris Air Show 
as parent American International Group Inc. works to complete
the delayed sale of the leasing company to a Chinese group for
$4.2 billion. Los Angeles-based ILFC ordered 25 each of
Embraer’s E190-E2 and E195-E2 jets, which typically have  about
100 to 132 seats , and options for an additional 25 of both.  Airbus and Boeing have shifted their focus to bigger
versions of their A320 and 737 families of narrow-body jets as
they’ve redesigned the planes with more fuel-efficient engines,
with as many as 220 seats in the higher-density configurations.
Neither manufacturer offered the smaller versions -- the A318
and Boeing’s 737-600 -- with the new engine option. Chicago-based Boeing stopped producing the 100-seat 717 model in 2006.  Future Customers  ILFC hasn’t determined exactly how many seats its E2 jets
will have because that’s up to the future customers who will
lease the planes, and no orders have been placed yet, Courpron
said. Deliveries will begin in 2018, and Courpron said he
envisions most going to Asia and Europe.  “We could put a third in Europe or thereabouts, put some
in Asia, probably more than half because of the way Asia is
growing now, and sprinkle the rest in  South America ,” Courpron
said. “And once you do that with the first 50, we will gladly
exercise our options, order 50 more, and keep spreading the
joy.”  ILFC may have closer ties to Asia after its sale to a
Chinese consortium led by New  China  Trust Co. Chairman Weng Xianding. Courpron reaffirmed the July 31 targeted date for the
deal to close.  Chinese Buyers  AIG in June granted a second extension to the buyers,
giving them until the end of the month to complete the purchase,
and has plans to sell shares in ILFC to the public should the
accord with the Chinese fall through.  ILFC, which completed its first lease transaction 40 years
ago, hasn’t owned jets this small in its 1,000-aircraft fleet
since the 1990s when it sold the last of its Fokker aircraft.  ILFC began talking with  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil-based
Embraer three years ago and was attracted to the promised fuel
savings of the E2 jets, Courpron said. The aircraft will be
powered by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney  geared
turbofan engines instead of  General Electric Co. (GE)  engines on
current models, a decision influenced by ILFC, Paulo Cesar de Souza e Silva, head of Embraer’s commercial unit, said in the
interview.  Tapping into ILFC’s global network “is an opportunity to
enlarge our customer base,” Silva said. “To have a market
leader in our program is a huge endorsement.”  The E195-E2 has a fuel savings of 23 percent, while the
E190-E2 has 16 percent, Silva said.  Russian Market  “The success of the e-jet over the last 10 years has for
us made a difference,” Courpron said. “It has to be a liquid
asset. Leasing it once, twice, three times over its life is what
makes it relevant.”  The deal puts Embraer in nations such as  Russia , where its
E-jets are certified, though none is in the air yet, Silva said.
It’s also where Embraer will face new competition from Sukhoi
Co., which has a new regional jet. The Brazilian company will
also soon face competitors with regional jets being developed in
Japan and China.  “We believe we are very well placed to face the
competition,” Silva said.  ILFC was able to take an active role in choosing elements
of the new jets, including increasing the size of the biggest
E195-E2 to add three more rows of seats, and redesigning wings
and engines, Silva said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  