-- Time Warner Cable Battles CBS Over Fees in New York, L.A.
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-07-19T20:22:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/time-warner-cable-battles-cbs-over-fees-in-new-york-l-a-.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  is balking at
renewing an agreement to carry  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s broadcast network on
its pay-TV system because the entertainment company is asking
for too much money.  CBS is asking for prices 600 percent higher than other
affiliates receive for the same programming, New York-based Time
Warner Cable said yesterday. CBS is running TV ads in New York,
 Los Angeles  and  Dallas  warning customers they may lose shows
such as “Under the Dome” and “The Big Bang Theory” next week
if no renewal is reached, the New York Times reported.  The dispute arises from relatively new fees that broadcast
networks like CBS charge pay-TV providers to rebroadcast signals
that are free over the airwaves. Until several years ago, Time
Warner Cable, the No. 2 U.S. cable system, and other pay-TV
operators received the programming at little or no cost. CBS
Chief Executive Officer  Leslie Moonves  is using the network’s
No. 1 status to demand increases.  Moonves “has said ‘the sky is the limit’ when talking
about the price he thinks he deserves for his CBS stations, and
he clearly means it,” Time Warner Cable spokeswoman  Maureen Huff  said in the statement. “He doesn’t seem to care about our
customers’ budgets or the going rates for CBS programming.”  In separate statements, CBS and Time Warner Cable said they
are still negotiating to reach an agreement.  Retransmission Fees  Time Warner Cable won’t negotiate “the same sort of deal
that all other cable, satellite and telco companies have struck
with CBS,” the New York-based network said in its statement.  Retransmission fees have become a frequent sticking point
in negotiations between pay-TV providers and broadcasters. CBS
affiliate and subscription fees rose 14 percent in its most
recently reported quarter. The fees, once modest, have grown in
recent years and CBS has been among the most aggressive of the
networks in seeking sizable increases.  CBS fell 1.9 percent to $52.50 at the close in  New York ,
paring its  gain  for this year to 38 percent. Time Warner Cable
added 2.2 percent to $116.47. It has climbed 20 percent in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  