-- India May Expand Solar Dumping Probe to EU, Japan Cells
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-07-20T09:59:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/india-may-expand-solar-anti-dumping-probe-to-eu-japan.html
Indian clean-energy companies that
claim manufacturers in the U.S. and  China  dumped solar cells
below cost on the market are seeking to extend their case to
include imports from Europe and  Japan .  Indosolar Ltd. (ISLR) , Jupiter Solar Power Ltd. and  Websol Energy
System Ltd. (WESL)  have filed a new petition to request that duties be
imposed on shipments from the European Union and Japan, S. Venkataramani, chief executive officer of Indosolar, said in an
e-mailed response to questions about the case’s first hearing
held this week in  New Delhi .  India joins a trade dispute among the world’s biggest
economies as they fight to protect their solar companies amid a
global glut of supplies that has resulted in a crash in prices.
Solar equipment plants have been idled in the South Asian nation
slowing the government’s plans to triple manufacturing capacity
by 2020.  The initial case relates to imports from the U.S., China,
 Taiwan  and  Malaysia . The hearing drew officials from those
countries whose solar-cell and solar-panel makers could
potentially face duties, such as  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  and  JA Solar
Holdings Co. (JASO) , as well as dozens of representatives from the
local industry.  J.S. Deepak, the Commerce Ministry official handling the
case, didn’t answer five phone calls and two e-mails seeking
comment.  Duties, Tariffs  Indosolar, Jupiter and Websol allege that foreign
competitors sold solar products below the market price in India.
They calculate the damage inflicted on their industry at as much
as twice the cost of imports from January 2011 to June 2012.
They’re asking the government for duties, both retroactive and
current, as well as tariffs on thin-film solar modules.  All parties must submit written statements by July 25, and
defendants have until Aug. 2 to respond, said Jagdish Agarwal,
secretary of the Solar Independent Power Producers Association,
who attended the proceedings. The government is due to decide
whether to impose tariffs or drop the case by the end of August.  The petition is also being opposed by local solar project
developers, who would see their cost of materials increase
should the allegations be upheld. They argue that Indian
manufacturers don’t meet quality and capacity demands, said
Agarwal of SIPPA, whose members include at least 10 developers.  Under World Trade Organization rules, petitioners must have
at least a 25 percent share of the market to open a case. In
India, estimates of market size aren’t reliable and it’s unclear
whether the three petitioners meet these criteria, Agarwal said.  China set tariffs of as much as 57 percent on polysilicon
shipped from the U.S. and  South Korea  this week. The U.S. itself
imposed tariffs of as much as 250 percent on Chinese solar
panels last year after a drop in prices led to bankruptcies. The
European Union set preliminary duties of 11.8 percent on Chinese
modules, which may jump to 67.9 percent if a deal isn’t reached.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  