-- Indian Rupee Set for Weekly Loss on Concern Outflows May Quicken
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-07-19T04:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/indian-rupee-set-for-weekly-loss-on-concern-outflows-may-quicken.html
India ’s rupee fell, headed for a
weekly loss, on concern a potential paring of U.S. stimulus will
quicken outflows from Asia’s third-largest economy, leaving the
currency more vulnerable to a record current-account deficit.  In testimony over the past two days, Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke sought to reassure investors that even
as the central bank considers a reduction in asset purchases, it
has not changed its highly accommodative policy. The rupee,
which has fallen in all but one of the past 11 weeks, may claw
back today’s decline before the market shuts as investors
speculate policy makers will take steps to curb the currency’s
slide, according to FirstRand Ltd.  “We don’t expect much rupee strength considering the
global scenario,” said  Paresh Nayar , head of currency and money
markets at the Indian unit of FirstRand in Mumbai. “The rupee
is likely to stay in a close range.”  The rupee declined 0.2 percent to 59.83 per dollar as of
9:46 a.m. in Mumbai, contributing to a 0.3 percent decline for
the week, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched a record low of 61.2125 on July 8, before
rebounding as the Reserve Bank of India announced measures to
curb speculation and boost returns on local-currency assets.  Global funds have cut holdings of Indian debt by $8.6
billion since May 22, when Bernanke first flagged the tapering
of stimulus. The shortfall in India’s current account, the
broadest measure of trade, widened to an unprecedented 4.8
percent of gross domestic product in the year ended March 31,
official data show.  RBI Actions  The Reserve Bank of India increased the marginal standing
facility rate and the bank rate to 10.25 percent from 8.25
percent, according to a July 15 statement. The monetary
authority has also started capping the amount it lends to
commercial banks through the daily repurchase window to around
750 billion rupees ($12.5 billion).  The RBI last week barred lenders from proprietary trading
in currency futures and exchange-traded options, and the
Securities and Exchange Board of India raised margin
requirements and said it will limit open positions in such
contracts.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, rose 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, today to 12.45 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards weakened 0.4 percent to
61.03 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 0.4 percent to 61.07. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  