-- Sentence Sows Doubts as Futures Drop: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   N a t a s h a   D o f f
-- 2013-07-19T16:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/jailing-sows-legal-doubts-as-futures-decline-russia-overnight.html
(Corrects year of Putin’s inauguration in 11th paragraph.)  Futures on  Russia ’s RTS stock index
declined as protests flared in Moscow against the prison
sentence given to one of President  Vladimir Putin ’s most
prominent opponents.  Contracts on the gauge due in September fell 0.2 percent in
 New York  hours yesterday. American depositary receipts of OAO
 Gazprom (OGZPY) , the nation’s biggest company, sank 1.8 percent and
traded at the biggest discount to the Moscow shares in a week.
The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the most active Russian
stocks in New York fell 1.4 percent after a court announced a
five-year sentence for Alexey Navalny, who led demonstrations
against Putin over the past two years that were the biggest
street protests since the president took office in 2000. Navalny
was freed from custody today pending his appeal.  The verdict against Navalny for embezzlement sowed doubts
about the rule of law in Russia as officials in  Europe  and the
U.S., including President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman,  Jay Carney ,
denounced the conviction as part of a “disturbing trend” in
Russia. Several thousand protesters gathered for an unsanctioned
rally in support of Navalny near the Kremlin. Police detained
some demonstrators and blocked off streets amid shouts of
“Freedom to political prisoners.”  “This ruling explains why Russia trades at a discount to
emerging markets,”  Ed Kuczma , an analyst at Van Eck Associates
Corp., which manages $37 billion, including Russian equities,
said by phone yesterday. “Government opponents thrown in jail
is not a good sign in becoming a market-friendly economy.”  Russian stocks, already the cheapest among 21 emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg, widened their discount to peers
after Navalny, 37, was led away in handcuffs from court in
Kirov, 560 miles northeast of Moscow, yesterday. The gap had
narrowed to the smallest in four months before the ruling.  Moscow Slump  “Navalny’s sentencing is bad for the market,” Ilya Kravets, the director of investment research at Daniloff Capital
LLC in New York, said by phone yesterday. “It raises the
question of the country’s political risks fueling its discount
to  emerging markets . The discount had been shrinking for the
past three weeks and now the trend is reversed.”  Russia’s  Micex index  traded little changed at 1,415.51 by
11:27 a.m. today after tumbling 1.1 percent yesterday and trades
at 5.4 times analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies,
a 50 percent discount to the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of
developing-nation stocks.  Russia is ranked the most corrupt nation among the Group of
20 advanced economies in Berlin-based Transparency
International’s 2012 Corruption Perceptions Index.  Gazprom, the natural-gas export monopoly, fell to $7.98,
declining by the most since June 20 on trading volume that was
60 percent higher than the daily average of the past 90 days.
The ADRs settled at a 0.6 percent discount to the company’s
Moscow-listed stock, the most since July 10.  Political Opponents  Navalny is the most prominent opponent to face prison since
former Yukos Oil Co. owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , 49, once
Russia’s richest man, was detained in October 2003. He is now
serving a 13-year sentence. At least two other high-profile
critics -- economist Sergei Guriev and former chess grandmaster
 Garry Kasparov  -- have left Russia this year.  Putin, who started his third term as Russia’s president in
May 2012, pledged to sustain economic growth during his
campaign, reverse “repressive” state policies and protect
private business.  In November 2010, Navalny published on his website what he
said was a report by the government budget watchdog showing that
officials at state oil pipeline operator OAO Transneft embezzled
$4 billion while building a link to the  Pacific Ocean  that
opened a year late in December 2009. The allegation has been
denied by the company and the Audit Chamber watchdog.  State Companies  Navalny “exposed irregularities at  VTB  and Transneft and
other companies, so there are questions about whether state-owned companies will be as scrutinized and change their
practices as previously hoped for,” Dmitri Kryukov, the chief
investment officer at Verno Capital, said by phone from Moscow.  RTS index futures dropped to 136,750 in U.S. hours as the
Bloomberg Russia-US gauge slipped to 92.02.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest exchange-traded
fund dedicated to Russian equities, fell 2.1 percent from an
eight-week high to $26.95. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the  stock futures , decreased 0.5
percent to 24.40.  Russia’s ruble weakened 0.5 percent to 32.49 per dollar
yesterday, snapping three days of gains. It decreased 0.2
percent to 36.9792 against the dollar-euro basket used by the
central bank to manage swings that erode exporter
competitiveness.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 0.4 percent to HK$2.90 in Hong Kong trading. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Doff in London at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brendan Walsh  at 
 bwalsh8@bloomberg.net  