-- Japan Sales-Tax Debate Looming for Abe After Election
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-07-19T06:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/japan-sales-tax-debate-looming-for-abe-after-election-economy.html
Koichi Hamada, an adviser to Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe, said that he was cautious about increasing
 Japan ’s  sales tax  soon, signaling Abe will face debate over the
planned move after a forecast election victory this weekend.  “It is possible to postpone,” Hamada said at a gathering
of business leaders in Karuizawa, Nagano, today, referring to a
plan to increase the levy in April next year. “I think it is
necessary to let people know about this,” he said, adding that
“it is the prime minister’s decision.”  Abe needs to shore up the finances of a nation bearing a
debt load more than twice the size of gross domestic product
without choking off the recovery by damping consumption. Justice
Minister  Sadakazu Tanigaki , a former leader of Abe’s Liberal
 Democratic Party , said July 16 that talk of delaying the sales-tax increase was dangerous because Abenomics was built on the
assumption that the levy would rise.  “After the election, Abe may find that a sales-tax
increase isn’t the consensus of the entire LDP and he may be
forced to become careful in pushing through the policy,” said
 Hideo Kumano , chief economist at Daiichi Life Research Institute
and a former  Bank of Japan  official. “Debates to examine the
need for a higher sales tax may surface following an election,”
he said.  Stimulus Measures  While Japan needs to raise the consumption tax in the
medium or long term, the move would be a shock for the economy,
said Hamada, who advised on monetary policy as Abe developed the
package of policies called Abenomics.  The Topix slid 0.9 percent at 2:17 p.m. in Tokyo, after
swinging between a gain of 0.8 percent and a loss of 1.9
percent.  “The need for fiscal consolidation is shared globally and
Abe has no choice but to increase the sales tax in order to
improve Japan’s fiscal situation,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Tokyo and a
former Bank of Japan official.  Fiscal stimulus and the Bank of Japan’s unprecedented
monetary easing jump-started the recovery of an economy stuck in
a 15-year deflationary malaise. The 5 percent sales tax is due
to increase to 8 percent in April and 10 percent in 2015.
Economists forecast the economy to contract after the April
increase.  Reform Critics  Abe is set to win control of both houses of parliament,
giving the LDP-led coalition the strongest grip on power since
2007. The LDP and its coalition partner New Komeito are on track
to win more than 65 of the 121 upper house seats up for grabs,
according to a poll published in the Nikkei newspaper this week.
Added to the coalition’s 59 seats in the uncontested half of the
chamber, it will have a majority for the first time since 2007.  Even with an election victory, the administration will face
the harder part of implementing Abenomics,  Julian Jessop , an
economist at London-based Capital Economics Ltd., wrote in a
report. Critics of reform within the LDP, including the
agricultural lobby and opponents of the Trans-Pacific
Partnership free trade agreement, may feel freer to speak out
after the poll. “It will not be plain sailing once the voting
is out of the way,” Jessop said.  Reform in areas from agriculture to labor markets will be
difficult politically to push through, said  Rintaro Tamaki ,
deputy secretary general at the Organization For Economic Co-operation & Development and a former top currency official at
Japan’s Ministry of Finance. “Any reform cannot be easy,”
Tamaki said in an interview in  Singapore  today.  Final Decision  Japan’s economy is forecast to contract by 4.4 percent on
an annualized basis in the second quarter of 2014, when a 3
percentage point sales-tax increase is scheduled to take effect,
according to the median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Abe said July 4 that it’s necessary to increase the
 consumption tax  because of rising social-security costs and the
nation’s debt burden. He has said that he’ll consider economic
conditions when making a final decision.  Abe has benefited from an opposition in disarray with the
Democratic Party of Japan undermined by factional splits and an
inability to set a clear policy platform. A poll published by
the Mainichi newspaper on July 15 found support for Abe at 55
percent, down from 70 percent in March. The paper surveyed 934
people by phone July 13-14 and gave no margin of error.  Elsewhere in the world today,  Germany  releases producer-price inflation numbers, while  Canada ’s consumer price index
will show a faster year-over-year increase for the month, based
on Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  