-- Jimenez Leads Tiger Woods by a Shot at British Open Golf
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-07-20T11:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/johnson-leads-woods-mickelson-by-three-at-british-open.html
Tiger Woods is among four golfers
trailing leader Miguel Angel Jimenez of Spain by one shot
heading into today’s third round of the British Open.  Woods and fellow American Dustin Johnson, England’s Lee Westwood and  Sweden ’s Henrik Stenson all are at 2 under. Woods
birdied the 18th hole to finish with an even-par 71 yesterday;
Westwood tied for the day’s lowest round of 68; Stenson finished
with 70, and Dustin Johnson shot 72.  “Just continue plodding along,” Woods told reporters who
asked what he had to do over the weekend. “We’re not going to
get a lot of opportunities out there, but when I have, I’ve been
able to capitalize. Hopefully I can continue doing that.”  Jimenez, 49, shot an even-par 71 in yesterday’s second
round and is 3 under for the tournament at Muirfield in Gullane,
 Scotland . He trailed Zach Johnson and Angel Cabrera after his
round, then moved into the lead when the two faltered.  Zach Johnson of the U.S., and Cabrera, of Argentina, are
among four golfers at 1 under.  “When you are there, you feel the pressure because you are
on top of the leaderboard,” said Jimenez, who has two top-10
finishes in 20 previous Open appearances. “You need to feel
that pressure, to feel intense, to feel competitive.”  Jimenez tees off at 3:20 p.m. local time (10:20 a.m. New
York) with Stenson, 10 minutes after Woods and Westwood.  Zach Johnson, who led at 5 under after the first round,
dropped three shots in his first eight holes yesterday. After
three birdies got him back to 5 under after 13 holes, he made
two bogeys and a double-bogey to finish with a 75.  “It was a grind from the first shot to my last 3-, 4-footer, whatever it was, on 18,” he told reporters. “Just
trying to pick the right club, trying to pick the right target,
with the right shot was very difficult.”  Westwood’s Move  Cabrera was 4 under before making three bogeys over the
final five holes. He finished with a 72.  Among the early starters today, South Africa’s Richard
Sterne shot 68 and is 5 over for the championship, while  Japan ’s
Shingo Katayama shot 69 to get to 6 over.  Sunny conditions and an increasing wind helped dry out the
course yesterday, making it hard and fast in the afternoon for
the second straight round. One of the players taking advantage
of playing in the morning was Westwood.  The Englishman made six birdies in the first 12 holes to
pull even with Zach Johnson at 5 under. It was short-lived, as
he bogeyed Nos. 13 and 14, and dropped another shot at the final
hole.  “I was playing some great stuff,” Westwood said. “It was
getting harder as the holes progressed, tougher to score,
tougher to get it close.”  Phil Mickelson is 1 over after shooting a 74. The four-time
major winner had a four-putt double-bogey on the par-3 16th
hole.  Missing Cut  The score to play the final 36 holes on the weekend was 8
over. Among those making the cut were Masters winner Adam Scott
of  Australia , who is 1 over, and defending champion Ernie Els of
South Africa at 6 over.  Rory McIlroy’s poor Open continued as he shot 75 to finish
at 12 over. The Northern Irishman, who is winless this season.
said he was “brain dead” and “confused” after shooting a 79
in the first round.  “Disappointed, but I guess I have a clearer picture of
what I need to work on and what I need to do to put things
right,” said McIlroy, who will defend his PGA Championship
title next month. “Sometimes this game can feel further away
than it actually is. You see some positive signs. And you try
and sort of take anything you can from that.”  U.S. Open champion Justin Rose of  England  also missed the
cut after shooting 77 yesterday to finish at 10 over.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  