-- JPMorgan Risk Committee Cut in Half as Futter, Cote Leave
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-07-19T23:56:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/jpmorgan-says-risk-committee-members-futter-cote-to-leave-board.html
JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co., the largest
U.S. bank, said Ellen V. Futter and David M. Cote, two of the
firm’s four risk-committee members, left the board.  Futter, president of the American Museum of Natural
History, is leaving after 16 years with the bank, while
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  Chief Executive Officer Cote, 62,
is retiring after more than five, the New York-based firm said
yesterday in a statement.  Cote and Futter were among three risk committee members who
narrowly won re-election to the board in May, overcoming
opposition from some shareholders after a London unit’s loss of
more than $6 billion exposed risk-management failures. None of
the three had worked at a bank or as financial risk managers,
 Bloomberg News  reported in May 2012. A fourth was added to the
committee after the loss.  “I am proud to have served as a member of JPMorgan Chase’s
board during such a historic time,” Futter, 63, said in the
statement. She was the only director who didn’t attend the
annual shareholder meeting in May. She was re-elected with 53
percent of the vote, the smallest margin.  “I think she just got tired of the criticism,” John H. Biggs, who served as a JPMorgan director with Futter until 2007,
said in an interview. “She was long on judgment but short on
technical knowledge, and that’s OK by me.”  Cote received 59 percent support, while James S. Crown, the
president of Henry Crown & Co., got 57 percent. Lead director
Lee R. Raymond said at the time that investors should “stay
tuned” for changes.  JPMorgan intends to name new directors later this year,
according to the statement. The retirements leave the  board  with
nine members, including Chairman  Jamie Dimon .  “It was totally unfair criticism,” Biggs, 77, said. “You
look at the people who were raising the criticism: None of them
had ever been on an  audit committee . None of them had ever been
on a risk-management committee.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in  New York  at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  