-- K+S Rises as H&A Sees Increasing Demand for Fertilizers
-- B y   W e i x i n   Z h a
-- 2013-07-19T14:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/k-s-rises-as-h-a-sees-increasing-demand-for-fertilizers.html
K+S AG (SDF) ,  Europe ’s largest potash
maker, rebounded from the lowest in almost six years after Hauck
& Aufhaeuser Privatbankiers KGaA said global demand for crops
will keep increasing and propel fertilizer-sales growth.  K+S  gained  as much as 2.9 percent to 26.50 euros, the
steepest intraday increase since July 9, and was trading up 1.7
percent at 4:04 p.m. in  Frankfurt . Trading volume exceeded the
three-month daily average by 48 percent, and the company’s value
stood at 5.01 billion euros ($6.58 billion). The stock fell
yesterday to the lowest price since September 2007.  “All long-term growth drivers remain well intact, but seem
to be ignored by the market,” Nils-Peter Fitzl, Hamburg-based
analyst at Hauck & Aufhaeuser, said in a note. “Potash is
without substitutes” as a product to generate plant growth, and
population increases, an expansion in meat consumption and new
demand for biofuels will push the need for crops, said Fitzl,
who reiterated his buy recommendation on K+S.  K+S plans to start operating a new plant in Saskatchewan in
mid-2016, the Kassel, Germany-based company said in April. The
budget for developing the site, which K+S calls the Legacy
Project, was increased by 26 percent at the time to C$4.1
billion ($3.9 billion).  “With the new mine in  Canada , K+S secures its
participation in the growth of the world potash market,” Fitzl
said. “The Legacy Project would be still value accretive” if
spending on the investment increased by a further 50 percent.  Norwegian competitor  Yara International ASA (YAR)  said today that
global nitrogen demand and European farm margins were “strong”
in the second quarter. The company’s stance also probably helped
K+S stock by “showing that the demand in Europe has picked up
again,” Heinz Mueller, a Frankfurt-based analyst at DZ Bank AG,
said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weixin Zha in Frankfurt at 
 wzha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  