-- Kansas City Southern Sees Gain From Mexico Auto Factories
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   S u r a n e
-- 2013-07-19T20:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/kansas-city-southern-sees-gain-from-mexico-auto-factories.html
Kansas City Southern (KSU) , the U.S.
railroad that gets  almost  half of its revenue from Mexico, may
see as much as “double digit” sales growth in the unit that
ships cars as automakers complete factories in the nation.  Opening days are “just around the corner,” Patrick Ottensmeyer, executive vice president of sales and marketing,
said during a conference call today, after the company reported
second-quarter adjusted earnings that topped analysts’
estimates. The company says it expects a sales boost this year
and in 2014.  Japanese carmakers are building facilities in the Latin
American nation, which Kansas City Southern says should boost
shipping volume. Auto companies invested about $3.7 billion in
Mexico from 2010 and 2012, the Center for Automotive Research
said. The Mexican Automobile Industry Association has forecast a
35 percent jump in annual production by 2017.  “The trends for  Mexico  near shoring continue to be
positive,” Ottensmeyer said. “We don’t see any changes for
that outlook.”  Nissan, which builds cars in the U.S., later this year
plans to open a $2 billion auto-assembly plant in
Aguascalientes, Mexico, the company’s third in that country.
Honda plans to build a $470 million transmission factory in the
nation at the same site as an auto plant opening in 2014.  Kansas City Southern reported profit of 96 cents, compared
with an average analyst estimate of 95 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Per-share earnings excluded the impact of
debt retirement costs and the weakening of the peso.  Mexican Peso  The weaker Mexican currency resulted in a 14-cent hedging-related loss during the period, the company said on the call.
The peso fell 4.6 percent against the U.S. dollar in the second
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If the peso stays where it is, or strengthens further in
the second half, we could see growth rates in the high-single
digits, as opposed to the double digits,” Ottensmeyer said.  The company said it has received more than its “fair
share” of contracts for shipping cars from Mexican facilities.
When the plants begin to roll out vehicles at full capacity, the
railroad also aims to win business for auto parts.  Kansas City Southern, the fifth-largest railroad in the
U.S., has invested $300 million in track upgrades between
central Mexico and Houston and railcars that can handle large
auto shipments said William Galligan, vice president of investor
relations at the Kansas City, Missouri-based company.  Automotive revenue accounted for 8 percent of total sales,
or $47.5 million during the second quarter, a 20 percent
increase from a year earlier.  The shares rose 1.2 percent to $118.30 at the close in New
York. They have risen 42 percent this year, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has added 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Surane in New York at 
 jsurane1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  