-- Kerry Extends Mideast Push in Meetings With Palestinians
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-07-19T13:36:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/kerry-presses-his-mideast-push-in-meetings-with-palestinians.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
planned to travel to the West Bank today for an urgent meeting
with the Palestinian president after Palestinian leaders
rebuffed his proposal for restarting negotiations with Israel.  State Department officials gave no indication whether the
planned trip to  Ramallah  to meet with President  Mahmoud Abbas 
was meant to twist arms or seal a deal on renewing talks. It was
scheduled after Kerry held two meetings this morning with the
top Palestinian negotiator in Amman, Jordan.  The meetings followed a call from U.S. President  Barack Obama  to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday
asking the Israelis to work with Kerry “to resume negotiations
with Palestinians as soon as possible,” the White House said in
a statement.  After talks between Kerry and Abbas yesterday, Palestinian
leaders balked at new negotiations unless  Israel  meets their
longstanding demands, including a halt to settlement
construction on lands they claim for a future state. Netanyahu
has rejected these demands, saying he will only re-enter talks
without conditions. Details of Kerry’s proposal have not been
disclosed.  This morning, Kerry met with negotiator Saeb Erakat to see
if he could break that impasse, according to a State Department
official who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record about
talks. No details were available on those meetings.  Negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians broke down
in September 2010 after Netanyahu declined to extend and expand
a 10-month building freeze on new construction in West Bank
settlements.  Kerry has made Mideast peace a priority of his term as
Secretary, making six visits to the region in as many months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  