-- Keystone Risk Worries U.S. Oil Sands Investors: Corporate Canada
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-07-19T17:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/keystone-risk-worries-u-s-oil-sands-investors-corporate-canada.html
U.S. investors cut stakes in oil-sands stocks, including  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  and Cenovus Energy
Inc., as delays to the Keystone XL project and the lack of
pipeline capacity depressed Canadian crude prices.  U.S. ownership  of Calgary-based Suncor,  Canada ’s largest
energy company, fell 8.2 percentage points in the past three
years while Cenovus saw its U.S. shareholder base fall 5.9
percentage points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “You’ve got a theoretically valued resource that can’t
come to market,”  Ted Harper , who helps oversee more than $9
billion at Frost Financial Management Group in Houston, said in
a phone interview yesterday. He pointed to Keystone XL’s delays
and challenges facing other proposed Canadian export pipelines.
“U.S. investors tend to be more shorter term in terms of their
returns focus than their Canadian and European counterparts.”  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s $5.3 billion Keystone XL is one of
several projects designed to ease congestion from booming oil-sands projects and move the fuel from  Alberta  to refineries.
Stymied by the lack of market access, Canadian energy companies
have underperformed U.S. peers by 55 percentage points on
Standard & Poor’s indexes during the past three years as Western
Canada Select oil prices averaged $19.53 a barrel less than the
U.S. benchmark, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investor Wariness  The timeline for U.S. approval of Keystone XL will make the
planned start of operations in the second half of 2015
“difficult,” TransCanada Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling 
said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in New
York. “I hope a decision can be made this year.”  The company has spent about $2.3 billion on Keystone XL as
it awaits U.S. approval, Girling said. “I think what we need is
probably something that looks like 24 months or so,
approximately, plus or minus a few months, from the time we get
the permit,” to complete the line, he said.  Investor wariness, which caused some Canadian energy shares
to fall, can be blamed on a shortage of pipelines to the
continent’s coasts and the resulting price gap between Canada’s
heavy crude and global grades, Toronto-Dominion Bank analysts
led by Menno Hulshof said in a July 15 note. Hulshof declined to
comment when reached by telephone.  “There are always ebbs and flows in share ownership, but
based on the regular interaction we have with our investors and
the feedback we receive we’re not overly concerned with the
modest 4 percent drop we’re seeing from 2011 to today,” Sneh
Seetal, a spokeswoman for Suncor, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Protracted Review  The protracted U.S. government review of Keystone XL has
“had a sentiment impact” on some Canadian oil stocks, said
Timothy Parker, who manages about $6 billion at T. Rowe Price
International Inc. in Baltimore. “It is pushing off the dream
of where they might have been.”  U.S. holdings in  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
nation’s largest heavy oil producer according to its website,
dropped 2.9 percentage points. TransCanada’s U.S. ownership lost
3 percentage points.  A more than doubling of oil-sands production, to 5.2
million barrels a day by 2030, hinges on construction of new
pipelines including Keystone XL, the  Canadian Association of
Petroleum Producers  said in a forecast last month. Alberta has
the third-largest proved oil reserves in the world, after Saudi
Arabia and  Venezuela , according to the provincial government.  TransCanada is awaiting a U.S. ruling on Keystone XL, which
President  Barack Obama  initially rejected in January 2012 citing
concerns with its path through ecologically sensitive lands in
 Nebraska .  ‘Short Term’  The company reapplied with a new Nebraska route last year
and split the project in two, building the southern portion that
doesn’t require a permit first. In April, TransCanada bumped
back its target to complete Keystone XL to the second half of
2015, forecasting costs will rise amid delays receiving the
needed approvals for construction.  The reduction in U.S. investment in  Cenovus  (CVE) “is largely
linked to pipeline congestion,” which results in a greater oil
price difference, Sheila McIntosh, vice president of environment
and corporate affairs at Cenovus, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. She called the decline a “short-term issue.”  Canadian Natural declined to comment.  TransCanada’s Girling rejected the notion that some kind of
chill from Keystone has affected Canadian energy stocks and said
an improving economy tends to cause investors to sell
TransCanada shares. “Cyclically, when interest rates rise,
people migrate out of our stock,” Girling said.  Price Difference  Prices for Canada’s Western Canada Select crude have
rebounded from a record $42.50 a barrel discount to West Texas
Intermediate in December, according to figures compiled by
Bloomberg. The  difference  between the benchmarks was $16.50
yesterday. Rising rail shipments and pipeline reversals have
increased market access and helped to narrow the gap, according
to a June 15 report from Peters & Co., a Calgary investment
bank.  Jeff Martin, a Peters & Co. analyst, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone message from Bloomberg News seeking comment
on the report.  Canadian stocks leveraged to oil-sands crude prices
including Canadian Natural have in turn gained this month, also
boosted by higher U.S. refinery demand, Chris Damas, an analyst
at BCMI Research in Barrie, Ont., said in a July 12 phone
interview.  Other Opportunities  U.S. investors haven’t fled all Canadian oil stocks.
 Canadian Oil Sands Ltd. (COS) , the largest owner of the Syncrude Ltd.
oil-sands mining and upgrading project that produces light,
synthetic crude, has seen U.S. holdings rise about 12 percentage
points in the last 2 and 1/2 years, the most recent time period
with available figures.  Siren Fisekci, a spokeswoman for Canadian Oil Sands,
declined to comment in an e-mail yesterday.  Americans may be leaving Canadian oil stocks for other
opportunities, including U.S. energy companies with operations
focused on single developments, such as “key shale plays that
capture investors’ imaginations,” said T. Rowe Price’s Parker.  Conoco Gains  ConocoPhillips (COP)  has gained more  U.S. investors  in the past
three years. Exxon Corp., the largest U.S. energy company, has
seen a 1.4 percentage point decline in ownership by U.S.
investors and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has experienced a 1.2 percentage
point drop.  For Canadian energy stocks, getting Keystone “passed and
moved through, which frankly, I still give it pretty good odds,
has got to be supportive,” Parker said.  Frost Financial reduced its position in Suncor and Cenovus
relative to its other North American energy holdings until the
second quarter, when it started buying the Canadian companies on
share price weakness, Harper said.  TransCanada expects the pipeline will be approved because
it provides jobs and boosts access to oil from a stable supplier
to the U.S., Girling said yesterday.  “There is only one rational decision here,” Girling said.
“Denial of this pipeline is not in any way rational. At best,
it’s symbolic.”  Climate Effects  Environmental groups fighting approval of Keystone XL argue
it would worsen climate change by allowing development of the
oil sands, Canada’s fastest growing source of carbon emissions.
Supporters, including labor organizations and oil industry
groups, say the project would create jobs and improve U.S.
energy security.  Development of the oil sands depends on construction of
pipelines to the continent’s coasts, said Mark Teal, a founding
partner of Meckelborg Financial Group Ltd. in Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan. Keystone XL has been a “scapegoat” for the
challenge of exporting Canadian oil, he said.  U.S. approval of Keystone XL would signal to investors who
are wary of  Canadian energy stocks  that opposition to pipelines
can be overcome, said Teal, who helps oversee about C$250
million ($241 million). “Keystone XL is going to be the model
for many more pipelines,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  