-- N.Y. Times Reporter Must Testify on Source, Court Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/n-y-times-reporter-must-testify-on-source-court-says.html
New York Times reporter James Risen
must say at a trial whether former CIA official Jeffrey
Sterling, accused of leaking classified information, was a
source for his book, a federal appeals court ruled.  In a 2-1 decision, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Richmond,
 Virginia , yesterday reversed a lower-court judge’s ruling that
found Risen’s testimony, sought by federal prosecutors, was
limited by the First Amendment.  “He is the only one who can identify Sterling as the
perpetrator of the charged offenses, and he is the only one who
can effectively address Sterling’s expected efforts to point the
finger at others,” U.S. Circuit Judge William Traxler wrote in
the majority opinion.  Sterling is charged with leaking information to Risen in
violation of the Espionage Act. The information was made public
in a chapter in Risen’s “State of War: The Secret History of
the CIA and the Bush Administration,” which revealed a covert
operation involving an attempt to supply Iranian officials with
flawed nuclear weapons plans.  His trial was put on hold while the appeals court
considered challenges to evidence the jury may hear.  Sterling is one of at least seven Americans charged under
the Espionage Act of 1917 during President  Barack Obama ’s
administration, twice as many as in the previous 90 years. All
were accused of leaking secrets to journalists in violation of a
law that prohibits disclosure of national defense information to
anyone not authorized to receive it.  Previous Cases  Before Obama took office, the Espionage Act, signed by
President Woodrow Wilson, had been primarily employed against
some of the most damaging double agents in U.S. history. They
included Aldrich Ames, a Central Intelligence Agency official
convicted in 1994 of spying for  Russia , and Robert Hanssen, a
former Federal Bureau of Investigation agent convicted in 2001
of similar offenses.  “We are disappointed by and disagree with the court’s
decision,” Joel Kurtzberg, a lawyer for Risen at Cahill, Gordon
& Reindel LLP in New York, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are currently evaluating our next steps.”  Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, was among news
organizations filing court papers on Risen’s behalf.  The ruling comes one week after the Justice Department
tightened guidelines its prosecutors use in investigations that
involve members of the news media. The new rules were designed
in the wake of criticism from lawmakers, journalists and free
press advocates over the handling of two cases, one involving
the Associated Press, the other Fox News. The guidelines
restrict the use of subpoenas and search warrants for
journalists.  ‘Legal Standard’  In a letter to the appeals court yesterday, Kurtzberg said
the department’s new policy means Risen need not testify because
of a common-law legal privilege.  “The DOJ’s recent change of position is nothing less than
an admission that the legal standard it asks this court to apply
provides wholly inadequate protection for the interests at stake
in this case,” Kurtzberg wrote.  The Justice Department is “examining the next steps in the
prosecution of this case,” spokesman Peter Carr said in an e-mailed statement.  The First Amendment doesn’t protect reporters who are
called to testify in criminal proceedings about criminal conduct
they may have “personally witnessed or participated in, absent
a showing of bad faith, harassment or other such non-legitimate
motive,” Traxler said.  ‘Only Witness’  Traxler also said Risen has information that the government
cannot obtain through other means, such as witnesses or
documents.  “Risen is without dispute the only witness who can offer
this critical testimony,” said Traxler, whose opinion was
joined by Judge Albert Diaz.  In a dissent, Judge Roger Gregory said the majority’s
decision was “contrary to the will and wisdom of our
Founders.” He also accused his colleagues of overstating the
importance of Risen’s testimony.  He referred to affidavits filed in the case by journalists
explaining how confidential sources were integral to informing
the public of the government’s actions, such as the abuse of
prisoners in Abu Ghraib,  Iraq , and the Watergate scandal.  Shield Law  “The paramount importance of the free press guaranteed by
our Constitution compels me to conclude that the First Amendment
encompasses a qualified reporter’s privilege,” Gregory said.  The decision underscores the need for a shield law
protecting journalists from revealing their sources, Gregg
Leslie, a lawyer at the  Reporters Committee for Freedom of the
Press , said. The U.S. should stop prosecuting people who reveal
to the media important information about government operations
without intending to damage the U.S., he said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  “If the only evidence is having the reporter testify, the
better thing to do -- the judicious thing to do -- is maybe say,
‘We won’t prosecute this case,’” said Leslie, whose group filed
court papers in support of Risen.  Prosecutors allege Sterling was the source for a chapter in
Risen’s 2006 book that detailed a failed effort by the CIA to
have a former Russian scientist plant flawed nuclear weapons
blueprints with the Iranians.  Sterling was charged in a 10-count indictment in December
2010 with unauthorized retention and communication of national
defense information, unauthorized conveyance of government
property, mail fraud and obstruction of justice.  The case is U.S. v. Sterling, 11-05028, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  