-- Navy Chief Says Budget Cuts Keep Second Carrier From Gulf
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-07-19T16:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/navy-chief-says-budget-cuts-keep-second-carrier-from-gulf.html
Automatic budget cuts will prevent
the Navy from returning a second aircraft carrier to the Persian
Gulf region in fiscal 2014, the service’s top officer said.  Admiral Jonathan Greenert, the chief of naval operations,
said an estimated $14 billion that the service must absorb under
the budget cuts known as sequestration will restrict the Navy to
a single carrier in the Gulf and one in the western Pacific for
the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1.  To move a second carrier to the Gulf region, the Navy would
have to make cuts in  money  that’s needed for training, he said
today at a Pentagon news conference.  In anticipation of the budget cuts, the Navy announced in
February that it would delay the deployment of the USS Harry S.
 Truman  to the Persian Gulf to save money. The decision left one
carrier in the volatile region instead of the two that had been
maintained there for much of the previous year.  The Navy now has only one carrier strike group ready to
deploy to either the Persian Gulf or the western Pacific if a
surge of forces is required, Greenert said. A year ago, it had
three carriers available, he said.  The decision to forgo a second carrier next year came as
Greenert reported an increase in piracy in the Gulf of Oman over
the last eight months. He said he’s seen no evidence that the
reduced carrier presence has altered the activity of  Iran ’s
navy.  Greenert also announced plans to expand pilot programs to
combat sexual assaults, including increased the use of roving
patrols and shore patrols. Programs that are already in place at
Naval Station Great Lakes, in  Illinois , and Naval Base San
Diego, in  California , will be extended to all Navy bases by Oct.
1, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  