-- NE Opco Wins Approval of Bankruptcy Financing, Settlement
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-07-19T21:33:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/ne-opco-wins-approval-of-bankruptcy-financing-settlement.html
NE Opco Inc., the largest closely
held envelope maker in  North America , won court approval of
bankruptcy financing and a settlement with creditors and lenders
that paves the way for an uncontested sale of the company.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Christopher Sontchi  approved the
company’s request to borrow as much as $67.5 million to help
fund operations as it pursues the sale, at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  “It’s really the kind of case that can’t languish,”
Sontchi said at the hearing. “It needs to be moving forward”
toward a sale to maximize the value of its assets.  The settlement, announced last week when the envelope maker
was originally set to seek approval of the financing, gained the
support from key parties on how the case would proceed and
removed potential obstacles.  “Avoiding the cost, uncertainty, and delay of litigation
is the best way to maximize value,” and validates the necessity
and reasonableness of the settlement, John H. Knight, a lawyer
for NE Opco, told Sontchi.  Under the agreement, $25,000 will be put into a trust every
week for 10 weeks for general unsecured creditors and those with
503(b)(9) claims, referring to the section of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code  about creditors that have supplied goods within
the 20 days preceding a company’s bankruptcy filing.  Sale Agreement  In addition, $500,000 would be deposited when the company
reaches a sale agreement with a buyer, a lawyer for unsecured
creditors said at last week’s hearing.  After the lenders providing bankruptcy financing are
repaid, the next $4 million from sale proceeds would be split 75
percent with second-lien lenders and the other 25 percent to the
unsecured creditors’ trust, giving them potentially another $1
million, according to Knight. Everything above $4 million would
be allocated 97 percent to the secured creditors and 3 percent
to the trust.  “The evidence is sufficient that they will more likely
than not get paid in full,” Sontchi said referring to the
503(b)(9) creditors.  NE Opco, formerly known as National Envelope, sought
 bankruptcy protection  June 10 for the second time as the
Internet continued to supplant mail for communications. The
Frisco, Texas-based company listed as much as $500 million in
both assets and liabilities in Chapter 11 filings.  The envelope maker has eight plants and two distribution
centers capable of producing 37 billion envelopes a year, giving
it a 15 percent share of the U.S market.  The case is In re NE Opco Inc. 13-bk-11483,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  