-- NHL Creates New Metropolitan Division as Part of Realignment
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/nhl-creates-new-metropolitan-division-as-part-of-realignment.html
The  National Hockey League ’s four
divisions will now be known as the Pacific, Central,
Metropolitan and Atlantic as part of realignment for the 2013-14
season.  The division changes were announced yesterday as the
world’s top professional hockey league released its full
schedule, which will include 82 games per team and six outdoor
games in Ann Arbor, Michigan; Los Angeles; New York; Chicago,
and Vancouver.  The realignment plan will add a team to the Eastern
Conference, and create two eight-team divisions in the East and
two seven-team divisions in the West by switching the Winnipeg
Jets to the West and the  Detroit Red Wings  and Columbus Blue
Jackets to the East.  The changes were necessary after the  Atlanta Thrashers 
moved to Winnipeg, Manitoba, following the 2010-11 season. The
team, which was renamed the Jets, played last season in the
Eastern Conference’s Southeast Division. The realignment was
delayed by a lockout at the beginning of last season and the
collective bargaining agreement that resulted from it.  The NHL’s Eastern and Western conferences previously had
five teams in three divisions.  Each conference will still have eight teams in the
playoffs, comprising the top three teams from each division and
the next two teams with the best records as wild cards.  The 82-game schedule for Eastern teams will be made up of
30 games against division opponents within conference, 24 non-division conference games and 28 non-conference contests.
Western teams will play 29 games against division opponents, 21
against non-division conference teams and 32 against non-conference teams.  Outdoor Series  Next year’s schedule will include outdoor games at Michigan
Stadium on Jan. 1 (Detroit Red Wings versus  Toronto Maple
Leafs ); Dodger Stadium on Jan. 25 (Anaheim Ducks versus  Los
Angeles Kings ); Yankee Stadium on Jan. 26 ( New York Rangers 
versus  New Jersey  Devils) and Jan. 29 (Rangers versus  New York
Islanders ); Chicago’s  Soldier Field  on March 1 ( Pittsburgh
Penguins  versus  Chicago Blackhawks ), and Vancouver’s BC Place on
March 2 ( Ottawa Senators  versus Vancouver Canucks).  The Blackhawks, who defeated the  Boston Bruins  to win the
Stanley Cup championship last month, will open the season on
Oct. 1 against the Washington Capitals. The  Montreal Canadiens 
will also host the Toronto Maple Leafs on opening night.  The league will take a two-week break from Feb. 9-25 to
allow many of its players to compete in the 2014  Olympic Games 
in Sochi, Russia. The Stanley Cup playoffs will begin April 16.  New alignment:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  