-- Nigerian Lawmakers Want Shell, Eni Oil Award Revoked
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-07-19T13:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/nigerian-lawmakers-want-shell-eni-oil-block-award-revoked.html
Nigeria  should revoke oil rights for
which  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  paid $1.1 billion, a
parliamentary committee said, alleging that the acquisition
process was “highly flawed.”  Shell and Eni jointly bought Oil Prospecting License 245
from Malabu Oil & Gas Ltd., controlled by Dan Etete, a former
oil minister, in 2011. Located in the deep offshore waters of
the Gulf of Guinea, it is estimated to hold at least 9 billion
barrels of crude reserves worth $1 trillion, according to a
probe report by a  House of Representatives  committee filed as a
public record and provided to Bloomberg yesterday.  “Unfortunately our national interest, knowingly or
unknowingly, was ceded away to the two oil majors,” the
committee said. The sale violates a law to promote increased
Nigerian ownership of oil assets by giving foreign companies 100
percent ownership as well as the country’s tax regulations, the
report said, alleging a “lack of transparency and full
disclosure” by Shell in acquiring the license.  Nigeria is Africa’s largest oil producer, with Shell,  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and Eni running joint
ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that
pump more than 90 percent of the country’s oil. The West African
nation produced 1.83 million barrels a day of oil in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bonny Light crude, a
key export grade from Nigeria, rose 0.1 percent to $109.98 at
2:40 p.m. in London, the highest in more than three months.  Technical Partnership  While Shell and Eni now hold 50 percent each of Malabu’s
former oil field, the “indigenous policy authorizes 40 percent
maximum ownership to foreign  oil companies ,” the committee
said. Taxes weren’t paid on the transaction on the basis that
“no sale or transfer occurred,” yet both companies became
beneficiaries of a new asset, according to the report.  “Shell companies have acted at all times in accordance
with both Nigerian law and the terms of the OPL 245 resolution
agreement,”  Precious Okolobo , a Lagos-based spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. Eni, based in
 Rome , didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting
comment.  Malabu was awarded the rights to OPL 245 in 1998 by former
military dictator Sani Abacha, whose son, Mohammed Abacha, got a
50 percent stake while 30 percent went to Etete, his oil
minister. The company then formed a technical partnership with
Shell.  License Canceled  President Olusegun Obasanjo, elected a year after Abacha
died in 1998, canceled the license in 2001 without giving any
reason and awarded it to Shell a year later. Malabu challenged
the decision in court, saying the government revoked its license
unfairly, leading to the agreement to sell its interests to
Shell and Eni.  President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s government resolved the
dispute over the license in a “satisfactory and holistic
manner” after it considered a 2006 settlement reached by Malabu
Oil and Shell, the government’s indigenous policy and the fact
that Shell has “substantially de-risked” the oil license,
Justice Minister Mohammed Adoke said yesterday in an e-mailed
response.  Calls to Malabu Oil on numbers listed for its Lagos office
didn’t go through.  “Our findings could not indicate anywhere Malabu Oil
willingly inclined to relinquish the oil block,” the
parliamentary report said. “Where such inclination is presumed,
they were rather forced on the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  