-- Nigeria’s Proposed Oil Bill May Cause Output to Drop 25% by 2022
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-07-19T09:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/nigeria-s-proposed-oil-bill-may-cause-output-to-drop-25-by-2022.html
International energy companies in
Nigeria,  Africa ’s top producer, say higher taxes proposed under
a new law risk cutting output by 25 percent by 2022.  “The fact is the Petroleum Industry Bill fiscal terms make
projects uneconomic and therefore they will not happen, leading
to significant contraction of the industry,” Mark Ward,
managing director of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Nigerian unit told
lawmakers at a hearing in the capital, Abuja. Under the proposed
terms output will fall more than 500,000 barrels a day of oil.
This compares with about 60 percent increase if the terms are
favorable, said Ward, who spoke on behalf of the Oil Producers
Trade Section, a group of energy companies in Nigeria, which he
chairs.  The Petroleum Industry Bill, or PIB, is aimed at increasing
the country’s share of profit from oil pumped off its shores.
The bill to reform the way Nigeria’s oil and gas industry is
regulated and funded proposes to boost the government’s share of
revenue to at least 73 percent, from 61 percent currently,
according to Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke. Previous
terms introduced in 1993 were based on an oil price of $20 a
barrel, and are no longer realistic because crude has since
stayed above the benchmark, she said.  “The PIB establishes a flexible fiscal regime that will
increase government take and yet encourage investment,” Alison-Madueke told lawmakers at the hearing. The new law will take at
least three years after it is passed by parliament before it
becomes operational, she said.  Exploration ‘Uneconomical’  The Oil Producers Trade Section, or OPTS, includes  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , Exxon Mobil,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni
SpA. (ENI)  The companies pump more than 90 percent of Nigeria’s oil
through ventures with state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum
Corp. They said in a joint presentation to lawmakers in 2009
that proposed increased taxes in the legislation would make
exploration “uneconomical”.  “Nigeria will have one of the harshest fiscal regimes in
the world,” Ward said. The country will be uncompetitive and
projects “uneconomic, meaning there is not an a eatable return
on investments,” he said.  International energy companies shouldn’t “threaten” to
stop investing in the West African nation’s oil industry because
of the proposed structure of the PIB, Senate President David
Mark told the hearing.  Lawmakers are “are conscious of the fact that there is
frustration in the oil industry,” he said. The new law “must
be a fair deal for everybody.”  Licensing Rounds  The PIB was first sent to Parliament four years ago and
wasn’t passed before the end of the last legislative session in
May 2011. Under a revised bill sent to Parliament last July,
royalties, rentals and penalties would be calculated on the
basis of output and will be set by the petroleum minister, while
the country’s president would be able to award licenses without
competitive bidding.  Nigeria last held an oil licensing round in 2007. The major
energy producers had backed away from that exercise because of
political interference.  “The PIB does not provide any certainty on the timing and
frequency of new bid rounds, which are critical for growth of
all companies,” Ward said.  The OPTS advocates that oil licensing rounds be held every
two years, including marginal fields wards, referring to areas
producing volumes of crude too low to be profitable for bigger
companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  