-- NSA Puts Limits on Systems Staff in Wake of Snowden Leaks
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-19T04:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/nsa-puts-limits-on-systems-staff-in-wake-of-snowden-leaks.html
The U.S. National Security Agency is
imposing new restrictions on systems administrators and other
personnel following “irreversible damage” caused by fugitive
former contractor Edward Snowden, the NSA director said.  Without providing details, Army General Keith Alexander
said he has seen signs that Snowden’s exposure of classified
surveillance programs hurt U.S. intelligence efforts and made it
harder for the government to thwart terrorist plots.  Morale at the NSA, a Defense Department agency responsible
for communications intelligence, has also been undermined by
Snowden’s disclosures and the public controversy that followed,
Alexander said. He praised the agency’s workforce and cited 20
NSA code-breakers who died in Afghanistan and  Iraq .  “These are the heroes, not this leaker,” he said at the
Aspen Security Forum in Aspen,  Colorado .  Alexander’s comments yesterday marked his latest effort to
defend U.S. surveillance activities after Snowden’s leaks
exposed top-secret NSA collection of telephone and Internet
data. The revelations last month sparked an international
controversy and stirred calls among members of Congress and
privacy-rights advocates for the programs to be curtailed.  During an earlier panel discussion at the forum, Anthony Romero, executive director of the  American Civil Liberties
Union , credited Snowden for igniting a much-needed public
discussion about the reach of U.S. surveillance.  “He did this country a service by starting a debate that
was anemic, that was left to government officials when people
did not understand fully what was happening,” Romero said.
“Regardless of where you come out on it, we have now a vigorous
public debate.”  Plots Disrupted  Alexander said it was unfortunate that much of the initial
information that emerged on the once-secret programs was wrong
or incomplete. He reiterated that the activities were authorized
by U.S. law and subject to judicial and congressional oversight,
points that he said weren’t made clear to the public.  The NSA director said the programs exposed by Snowden
played a role in breaking up terrorist plots and identifying
people connected to terrorist groups without any major
compromise in Americans’ privacy rights. Last month, Alexander
told U.S. lawmakers that the surveillance activities disrupted
more than 50 terrorist conspiracies worldwide.  Earlier at the conference, the director of the U.S.
National Counterterrorism Center, Matthew Olsen, said the
Snowden leaks have benefited terrorist organizers.  “We have seen, in response to the Snowden leaks, al-Qaeda
and affiliated groups seeking to change their tactics, looking
to see what they can learn from what is in the press and seek to
change how they communicate to avoid detection,” Olsen said.  ‘Taking Action’  Alexander said the NSA has determined which files Snowden
took and said they amounted to a lot of information, though he
wouldn’t say how much. “We’re taking action to fix this” so it
can’t happen again, said Alexander, who was interviewed on stage
at the forum by Pete Williams of NBC News.  The new security measures include restricting the use of
removable media, such as thumb drives, by systems administrators
to move data among network servers, Alexander said. U.S.
officials have said that Snowden used a thumb drive to copy the
documents he took.  Alexander outlined other steps, including requiring two
people to execute some activities, such as gaining access to
server rooms, and speeding programs to encrypt files to make
them readable only to authorized users.  Phone Companies  Alexander said the NSA and Congress are also weighing
proposals to shift responsibility for maintaining so-called
metadata on phone calls to telecommunications companies from the
NSA under a court-mandated process that would ensure ther
government has access when necessary. That might be done in
response to public concerns about the government keeping the
data itself, he said.  The NSA set up that database to save information such as
telephone numbers and duration of conversations -- not content
of calls -- after the companies in 2009 rejected a government
request that they do it, according to former Director of
National Intelligence Dennis Blair.  Alexander said President  Barack Obama ’s administration is
also considering a request from a coalition of companies,
privacy advocates and trade groups to let Internet and phone
carriers publish the number and types of U.S. data requests they
receive. He said the response depends on whether that can be
done without risking damage to investigations.  The 63 organizations that made the request in a letter
yesterday included  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ;
the Center for Democracy and Technology, a non-profit privacy
advocate; and trade groups the Computer and Communications
Industry Association and the Internet Association.  Espionage Charges  Amid the U.S. debate over surveillance, Snowden remains
holed up in a Moscow airport as he pursues requests for asylum.
The 30-year-old former employee of McLean, Virginia-based
government contractor  Booz Allen Hamilton Holding Corp. (BAH)  faces
federal charges including espionage.  The U.S. is pressing  Russia  to expel Snowden and has
revoked his passport. He applied for temporary asylum this week
at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo Airport and has been confined to the
transit area there since arriving from  Hong Kong  on June 23.  While Venezuela, Nicaragua and  Bolivia  have indicated
they’d be willing to take him in, Russian President  Vladimir Putin  has accused the U.S. of stranding Snowden in Moscow by
pressuring other countries to prevent his travel through their
airspace and to deny him refuge. The standoff has cast a shadow
on preparations for a summit in early September between Putin
and Obama.  ‘Bad Message’  Romero said the ACLU hasn’t decided whether it would be
willing to aid in Snowden’s legal defense if he were to return
for to the U.S. for trial. He criticized White House spokesman
 Jay Carney  for saying that Snowden isn’t a human-rights activist
or whistle-blower.  “Well, who made him king of the human-rights community?”
Romero said of Carney.  Another panelist, Jeh  Charles Johnson , a former Defense
Department general counsel, said, “It is a bad message to send
to people who decide to take the law into their own hands that
they are doing a public service.”  Former U.S. Representative  Jane Harman  said Snowden
shouldn’t be viewed in the same category as national-security
whistle-blowers such as  Daniel Ellsberg , who made public the
Pentagon papers about the  Vietnam War .  “This is completely different from Ellsberg,” said
Harman, a California Democrat who headed the House intelligence
committee. “This is a kid who had nothing to do with
formulating the policy; for my lights is totally self-centered
and narcissistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  