-- ModCloth’s Vintage Threads Lift Sales Past $100 Million
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2013-07-19T19:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/modcloth-s-vintage-threads-lift-sales-past-100-million.html
For Eric and Susan Koger, the
husband-and-wife duo who founded online shopping site ModCloth
Inc. as high school sweethearts, a division of labor has always
been clear: he’s tech and she’s fashion.  That balance helped ModCloth stand out in a sea of e-commerce rivals and expand sales to “well over” $100 million
last year, according to Chief Executive Officer Eric Koger, 29.
It also informed a push into wireless devices, which now account
for nearly half of visits to its store, he said.  “What really sets us apart is this marriage of art and
science, left brain and right brain,” said Susan, 28, the chief
creative officer. E-commerce companies “don’t really get the
fashion” and the world’s top clothing designers “don’t have
that analytical background” to compete online, she said.  ModCloth and upstart e-retailers Fab.com Inc., Zulily Inc.
and The Fancy, are vying for shoppers in the $186.2 billion U.S.
online commerce market dominated by  Amazon.com Inc.  Led by the
Kogers, ModCloth is focused on the mobile-buying experience,
turning smartphones into vintage clothing boutiques and using
customer feedback to decide which items to stock.  Sales will increase by over 40 percent this year, Eric
Koger said in the interview, the first time he’s publicly
revealed details about ModCloth’s 2012 revenue and growth rate.
He declined to say whether the company is profitable.  Amazon Investments  E-commerce has traditionally been a challenging market for
startups, because Amazon invests heavily in new businesses at
the expense of profitability. The Seattle-based company also has
close to $8 billion in  cash  and marketable securities.  Still, most purchases happen offline, so ModCloth and
others are betting there are plenty of opportunities for growth.
In the first quarter, e-commerce accounted for 5.5 percent of
total U.S.  retail sales  , up from 4.9 percent a year earlier,
according to the U.S. Department of Commerce.  Started in 2002 -- the year Eric and Susan left their
hometown in southern  Florida  to attend  Carnegie Mellon
University  in Pittsburgh -- ModCloth has become a top shopping
site for women. It buys dresses and other female apparel from
designers, stores the items in its Pittsburgh fulfillment center
and promotes them online using whimsical names like “Olive Your
Dress” and “Sailor Swift Skirt.”  Data collected from users on its website and social
networks such as Pinterest Inc. help ModCloth decide which items
to keep in stock and which ones to abandon. Its “Be the Buyer”
program, started in 2009, encourages users to give detailed
feedback on newer pieces offered in the store, which designers
may then incorporate into future products.  User Feedback  “A customer might be saying, ‘I like the print, but I
don’t feel like the silhouette is flattering,’” said Trisha
Kiblinger, a national sales manager at Tulle, which has sold
goods on ModCloth since 2007. The fashion label adjusts designs
based on feedback from ModCloth users, Kiblinger said.  Customers increasingly view, rate and buy products using
mobile devices, which account for 42 percent of visits to
ModCloth, up from 27 percent at the beginning of 2013, Eric
Koger said. This year, the company  released  apps for Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and iPad, and saw higher spending per purchase on
tablets than on desktop computers.  While the CEO declined to discuss ModCloth’s profitability,
he said margins are comparable to those of  Asos Plc (ASC) , the U.K.’s
largest fashion-only retailer. The London-based website’s gross
margin last year was about 50 percent.  IPO Alternative  ModCloth investors including  Accel Partners , First Round
Capital and  Norwest Venture Partners , have put $40 million into
ModCloth. Norwest  led  the most recent financing round last May,
helping the company put off a potential initial public offering
while it focuses on growth.  “We’re going to deliver liquidity to them eventually, but
we don’t have a specific timeline yet for an IPO or an
acquisition,” Eric Koger said.  ModCloth has about 450 employees in San Francisco,
Pittsburgh and  Los Angeles , and plans to add about 100 workers
in 2013, he said. As the male CEO of a growing company full of
stylishly dressed women, Koger takes comfort in knowing that he
has a personal style consultant.  “I would be markedly less fashionable if it weren’t for
Susan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  