-- Hollande Won’t Waver on French Pension Revamp, Moscovici Says
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   R y a n   C h i l c o t e
-- 2013-07-19T09:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/hollande-won-t-waver-on-french-pension-revamp-moscovici-says.html
President  Francois Hollande  won’t
allow his plan to overhaul France’s pension system this year to
be derailed by public opposition and a  stalled economy , Finance
Minister  Pierre Moscovici  said.  “We are reforming the country, we won’t stop,” Moscovici
said in an interview today with Bloomberg Television in Moscow,
where he was attending a meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs.
“People are realistic, they want results. The results are
coming,” he said, adding that the government’s popularity will
start to improve when unemployment begins to decline.  With  joblessness  at a record high and an economy that has
barely grown in more than two years, Hollande is less popular
one year into his mandate than any of his predecessors in the
past half century. Only 29 percent of French voters approve of
his leadership, compared with the 35 percent who backed his
predecessor  Nicolas Sarkozy  after one year in office, according
to an  Ifop poll  published last month.  Hollande is preparing to lengthen the number of years
needed to work before eligibility for a state pension in a
system that lost 14 billion euros ($18 billion) last year.  “The government is now pushing reforms at a speed it
believes is compatible with economic and social constraints,”
said Philippe Gudin, head of economic research at Barclays Plc
in Paris. Like elsewhere in  Europe , “growing dissatisfaction
with austerity and government policies in general could create
friction.”  Since taking office, Hollande has offered a payroll tax
credit to business, loosened  labor laws  to make it easier to
trim staff and sought to hold  government spending  in check after
raising taxes to reduce the  budget deficit .  France slipped into recession in the first quarter.
National statistics office Insee expects gross domestic product
figures that will be published next month will show a return to
growth in the second quarter. It expects the economy to shrink
0.1 percent in all of 2013.  “It’s tough to govern a country that is in recession or
low growth,” Moscovici said. “For me, it’s the beginning.
Growth is coming back,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Chilcote in London at 
 rchilcote@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  