-- Honda Overhauls Fit Hatchback After Enlisting Supercar Designers
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-07-19T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/honda-overhauls-fit-hatchback-after-enlisting-supercar-designers.html
Tensions already ran high at  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  in October 2011, two months after Consumer Reports
ridiculed the onetime favorite Civic as a substandard car, when
President Takanobu Ito saw drawings of the next Fit. He ripped
up the plans and summoned his top two designers.  “The design had no character and looked very much like its
predecessor,” said Yoshinori Asahi, who co-designed Honda’s
top-of-the line NSX supercar. “That made us worried about the
future of the car.”  Almost two years later, Tokyo-based Honda is unveiling the
overhauled Fit today with a stretched front grille, tapered
headlights and indented doors. Ito has said much is riding on
the Fit, singling out the car as a driver of Honda’s global
growth until at least 2015, especially in  emerging markets , as
motorists increasingly shift toward smaller automobiles.  “The new Fit will be very important for the carmaker,”
said Koichi Sugimoto, a Tokyo-based auto analyst at BNP Paribas
SA. “It will also be important for Honda in changing the
perception among investors that the carmaker is solely dependent
on sales from North America.”  Though the Fit, called Jazz in markets such as China and
U.K., is the smallest-sized car in Honda’s global product
portfolio, it’s also the company’s best-seller in Japan and
ranks fourth worldwide after the Civic, CR-V and Accord.  Fuel Economy  The Fit goes on sale in Japan in September and the
gasoline-electric version will run 36.4 kilometers a liter under
Japanese standards, according to the carmaker. That’s better
mileage than  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s most fuel efficient hybrid,
the Prius c, which gets 35.4 kilometers per liter. Honda said
the new hybrid Fit will probably be priced higher than the
previous version, which starts at 1.59 million yen ($15,855), or
100,000 yen cheaper than the Prius c.  The next Fit will reach U.S. dealerships in the spring of
2014, said Makoto Konishi, chief engineer of the new vehicle.  Besides fuel economy, Ito, 59, is betting that traditional
buyers of small cars -- singles, young families and retirees --
will embrace the new look. The slimmer headlights give the
previous bug-eyed Fit more of a scowl, the rear lights have been
stretched and the indented sides are meant to create the
illusion of perpetual motion, according to Toshinobu Minami,
global creative director at Honda,  Japan ’s third-largest
carmaker.  Civic Debacle  As differences between brands narrow in terms of fuel
economy and other specifications, carmakers are under mounting
pressure to sharpen their designs, said Yoshiaki Kawano, a
Tokyo-based analyst at industry researcher IHS Automotive said.  Designs were in focus in 2011, when the then-new Civic
compact flopped in tests by Consumer Reports and failed to
receive the magazine’s “Recommended” rating. The redesigned
car was less agile, had poorer interior quality, offered a
choppier ride and was noisier than the last Civic, the magazine
said at the time.  Honda, in the quickest turnaround of a car in the company’s
history, rolled out a new version of the Civic in about 19
months and regained the “Recommended” status from Consumer
Reports. The Civic debacle rippled through other vehicles.  “The first thing that President Ito ordered us to do was
to build a car that’s cool,” said Minami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  