-- Honeywell Profit Beats Estimates on Energy-Related Sales
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-07-19T20:14:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/honeywell-profit-beats-estimates-on-energy-related-sales.html
Honeywell International Inc. (HON) ’s
second-quarter profit topped analysts’ estimates as sales of
security products increased and revenue at the unit selling
turbochargers rose for the first time since the end of 2011.  The Morris Township, New Jersey-based manufacturer also
raised the lower end of its 2013 forecast today, after reporting
a 13 percent gain in quarterly net income to $1.02 billion, or
$1.28 a share. That beat the $1.21 average of analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Honeywell, which like other industrial companies faces
slowing global economic growth, has reported quarterly earnings
that  beat  projections for more than four years by holding down
costs and introducing products such as advanced natural-gas
filters. Sales increased 2.7 percent, the slowest growth for a
second quarter since 2009.  “Even though they had pretty sluggish sales growth
overall, their cost-containment strategy plus their productivity
improvements helped drive margins higher,” said Christian Mayes, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co. who
recommends buying the stock. “Any way you look at it, it was a
fairly strong quarter.”  The shares gained 0.7 percent to $83.57 at the close in
New York. They have risen 32 percent this year, outpacing the
19 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  General Electric Co. (GE)  also reported earnings that exceeded
estimates today, as demand for jet engines and oil-and-gas
drilling equipment drove the order backlog to a record. Both
companies “are starting to get a little momentum,” Mayes said.  Transportation Sales  Revenue at Honeywell’s transportation unit, which makes the
auto turbochargers, rose 5.2 percent. Commercial vehicle sales
improved in  China  and the decline in European light-vehicle
production decelerated to 1 percent. Automation and Control
Solutions -- the largest unit and maker of products from hand-held gas detectors to video-surveillance systems -- had sales of
$4.07 billion, a 2.6 percent gain.  “Despite operating in a slow-growth macro-environment, we
saw good organic growth in ACS’s Energy, Safety and Security
business and in Turbo Technologies, both of which continue to
outgrow the key end markets in which they compete,” Chief
Executive Officer Dave Cote said in the statement.  Beacon Deactivated  The performance-materials division, which supplies the
energy industry, had the highest sales growth among all
divisions with 8.9 percent. Aerospace sales, hurt by defense
cuts in the U.S., dropped 1 percent to $3 billion.  The company forecast third-quarter earnings of $1.20 to
$1.25 a share, which implies a gain of as much as 4.2 percent
from a year earlier. Analysts predicted $1.24 average on
average. The company sees sales of $9.8 billion to $10 billion,
led by the performance-materials business.  Yesterday, the U.K.’s Air Accidents Investigation Branch
said a Honeywell beacon on Boeing Co. 787 jets should be
deactivated. The agency is investigating a July 12 fire on a 787
at  London ’s Heathrow airport. The beacon, which is installed
close to where the blaze occurred, should be shut off as a
precautionary measure, the AAIB said.  Honeywell, which also makes cockpit controls and
thermostats, raised the lower end of its 2013 earnings forecast
by 5 cents to $4.85 a share. The top end was unchanged at $4.95.  Last quarter, Honeywell completed the purchase of RAE
Systems Inc., a maker of portable gas and radiation detectors,
for $340 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  