-- Hong Kong Adds to Charges Against Two in HKMEx Probe
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-07-19T03:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/hong-kong-adds-to-charges-against-two-in-hkmex-probe.html
Hong Kong  prosecutors told a court
that two men arrested as part of an investigation into the
failed Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange had more false documents
than they were first charged with possessing.  They include papers relating to an account holding $10.6
billion, according to an amended charge sheet. Kowloon City
Magistrate Ko Wai-hung set Aug. 5 to hear the prosecution’s
request for the case to be transfered to the District Court.  Three men were charged May 24 with having false documents
including letters related to a $460 million check and $11
million of funds after being arrested by police as part of an
investigation. Hong Kong Mercantile Exchange surrendered its
trading license earlier that month after failing to attract
sufficient revenue to support its operations.  The Securities and Futures Commission said on May 21 it
found “serious” suspected irregularities in the exchange’s
financial affairs and referred the case to the police. A fourth
man has been charged separately with possessing a fake statement
of funds for $516 million and three other people have been
arrested in the probe, according to a police spokesman.  Barry Cheung , chairman and largest shareholder of HKMEx, as
it is known, resigned from all public service positions he held
including the city’s executive council because he’s under police
investigation.  Directors Resign  Cheung, who ran the 2012 election campaign of Hong Kong
Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, said he would cooperate with
the investigation and could not comment further.  HKMEx co-president William Barkshire resigned as a director
of the company on June 6, according to a filing to Hong Kong’s
Companies Registry.  Hong Kong Cyberport Management Co. sued the commodities
bourse company in June for unpaid rent. Aubrey Ho, a spokeswoman
for HKMEx said the company was still operating out of the
offices and that there were no further updates.  The case is Hong Kong Commercial Crime Bureau v. Dai Linyi,
Lian Chunren and Li Shanrong, KCCC1951/2013 in the Kowloon City
Magistrates’ Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  