-- Detroit Bankruptcy Filing Prompted by Pension Lawsuits
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2013-07-20T02:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/orr-says-lawsuits-made-him-seek-detroit-bankruptcy-protection.html
Lawsuits and passing time were
reasons to put  Detroit  into bankruptcy, Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr and Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  said a day after the city
sought protection in federal court.  Orr and the Republican governor who appointed him said in
an interview in Detroit yesterday that it became clear that too
few creditors would accept a plan Orr put forth June 14 to pay
off $11.5 billion in unsecured debt with $2 billion in borrowed
money -- an offer that would have provided as little as 10 cents
on the dollar owed and cost pensioners some benefits.  Snyder said Orr told him last month he’d know in 30 days
whether a deal outside bankruptcy was possible.  “By July 14, there should be a pretty good assessment of
where we stand in terms of creditors coming to the table or
not,” said Snyder, 54, recalling Orr’s advice. “Some creditors
did come to the table. Many others ran into court, though.”  “Let’s leverage bankruptcy in a positive way,” Snyder
said. “The court is created to bring all these issues to the
table and address them in a positive way.”  Michigan ’s largest city, an erstwhile industrial giant,
joins Jefferson County,  Alabama , and San Bernardino and Stockton
in  California  in bankruptcy with its record $18 billion case.  Legal Challenge  Detroit’s filing came over lawsuits by city pension funds,
who said cutting retiree benefits would be illegal. Circuit
Court Judge Rosemarie E. Aquilina in Lansing ruled yesterday
that the bankruptcy violated the state constitution and ordered
Snyder to withdraw it. The state is seeking to appeal the order.  Orr, 55, and Snyder said Detroit’s crisis, 60 years in the
making, would take time to resolve. Orr’s term as emergency
manager isn’t limited, though he and Snyder assume that 18
months after his March appointment he will be dismissed by a
two-thirds vote of the City Council, as state law allows.  Orr said the decision to enter bankruptcy came after a long
build-up of resistance to his plans and what he called an olive-branch approach to creditors.  “What did we get for that? We’re getting sued,
consistently,” Orr said.  “There were questions about my sanity and standing by and
not making a recommendation to the governor that we do something
about it, because people were getting frustrated with how long
we were taking in an environment where we were receiving hostile
actions,” the bankruptcy lawyer said.  Not Selling  Detroit residents should see improvements in services
within 60 days as he shores up funding, Orr said. He said he has
no plans to sell assets, such as the city-owned collection at
the  Detroit Institute of Arts .  “There’s nothing for sale, including Howdy Doody,” he
said at a news briefing, referring to the puppet stored at the
museum that was used in the 1950s children’s television show.  Snyder said there are no plans for a state or federal
bailout for the city. Putting Detroit in bankruptcy was among
his most difficult decisions, the governor said.  “This is probably one of the most challenging situations
in the entire  United States ,” he said. “Let’s get to
stability, let’s get to growth again in Detroit instead of
watching the can get kicked down the road, which has gone on far
too long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Detroit at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  