-- Hospital Declines Seen Persisting as Patients’ Costs Rise
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-07-19T17:07:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/hospital-declines-seen-persisting-as-patients-costs-rise.html
A drop in U.S. hospital admissions
that is hurting profit at  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH) ,  Tenet
Healthcare Corp. (THC)  and other operators may persist as companies
and consumers grapple with shifts in health-care economics.  Community Health, the second-largest U.S. hospital system,
reduced its full-year earnings forecast yesterday as it said
2013 admissions would fall 1 percent to 3 percent. Tenet, the
third-biggest hospital chain, said last month second-quarter
admissions would drop 3.5 percent. Community Health shares fell
as much as 11 percent today, while Tenet lost 3.2 percent.  Hospital admissions have been falling as patients who have
seen their deductibles rise put off seeing a doctor and as some
types of services are being shifted away from inpatient to
outpatient treatment. Hospitals also are being squeezed by the
Affordable Care Act and related government efforts to improve
care, curb costs and eliminate excessive readmissions.  “We’ve seen such a long trend of weaker volume despite the
improving economy and it will be a lasting change for the
industry,” Megan Neuburger, a senior director at Fitch Ratings
in New York, said in an interview. “A lot of this is a shift
from inpatient to outpatient. At some point, there will be a
baseline. When do we get to that bottom? No one knows.”  Same-hospital adjusted admissions dropped 2.7 percent
industrywide in the first quarter, according to a Fitch report
Neuburger wrote in June. The percentage of insured workers with
a deductible of $1,000 or more for single coverage jumped to 34
percent in 2012 from 12 percent in 2007, according to a  study 
last year by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and the
Health Research & Education Trust.  HCA Performance  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest publicly traded hospital
chain, has so far been the outlier -- saying July 16 that it
will report a 1.3 percent gain in same-facility admissions for
the second quarter. The Nashville, Tennessee-based company said
net income was about 91 cents a share, topping by 13 cents the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Despite HCA’s growth, analysts said hospital operators are
experiencing systemic shifts in how they care for and charge
patients.  “The bottom line is that the jury is out about whether
volume will ever return to hospitals, whether HCA’s increase was
real or just a fluke, or if the volume shortfall will carry into
next year and eliminate the upside of health reform,”  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at  Stamford , Connecticut-based CRT Capital
Group LLC, said in an interview.  Community Health fell 7.2 percent to $43.91 at 12:29 p.m.
New York time. Dallas-based Tenet dropped 2.8 percent to $42.44.
HCA fell less than 1 percent to $38.99.  Doctor Turnover  Community Health, which operates, owns or leases 135
hospitals in 29 states, said preliminary second-quarter results
showed that same-facility admissions dropped 5.7 percent before
adjustments. The Franklin, Tennessee-based company is scheduled
to release full quarterly results on July 29.  Community Health noted that involuntary physician turnover
was a 20 percent factor in the expected decline in same-store
inpatient admissions. The health system is known for actively
recruiting doctors, and reducing that staff may indicate the
volume weakness is expected to persist, Vicki Bryan, an analyst
at debt researcher Gimme Credit LLC, said in an interview.  “With these weak volumes, it may be a permanent thing if
they’re laying people off,” she said. “They’re culling their
physician base, and that’s troubling.”  Federal Probes  At the same time, for-profit hospitals are facing an
increasing number of federal investigations into overly
aggressive admissions and Medicare and Medicaid billing --
probes that may be further curtailing admissions.  Community Health said it received an additional subpoena
July 9 related to a 2011 investigation.  Health Management
Associates Inc. (HMA)  in April received a subpoena from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission requesting documents,
including those tied to revenue from Medicare and Medicaid, the
government health programs for the elderly and poor,
respectively. Tenet hospitals in Atlanta are also under federal
investigation, the company said in May.  The investigations may have hospitals more wary about
admitting patients, putting them on observation status, which
brings in less revenue and hurts inpatient admissions, Bryan
said.  Community Health’s report also raises doubt as to whether
it may be a potential acquirer of Naples, Florida- based Health
Management Associates , which operates 71 U.S. hospitals. Reuters
reported in July that the company had attracted interest from
Community Health and other competitors.  Community Health’s troubles have the potential to make the
company even more interested in Health Management as a tool to
expand their base, Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in an interview.  “If anything, it can be more imperative to do a deal and
get bigger to offset weakness in your business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  