-- Most Hong Kong Stocks Decline on Developers, Utilities
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-07-19T09:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/most-hong-kong-stocks-decline-amid-china-growth-concern.html
Most  Hong Kong   stocks  fell, with the
city’s broadest equity measure paring this week’s gain, as
utilities fell and developers slid amid concern more cities will
take steps to cool the  property market .  China Resources Power Holdings Co. (836) , a mainland generator
facing allegations of overpaying for coal assets, dropped 4.5
percent to lead utilities lower. China Resources Land Ltd., the
second-biggest mainland developer traded in Hong Kong, slumped
2.6 percent.  Man Wah Holdings Ltd. (1999) , a sofa maker that gets half
its sales from the U.S., rose 1 percent after Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said it was too early to decide on an
exit to record U.S. stimulus.  About five stocks slid for every two that gained as the
Hang Seng Composite Index lost 0.1 percent at the close in Hong
Kong, paring the week’s gain to 0.3 percent. The Hang Seng Index
rose 0.1 percent to 21,362.42 after dropping as much as 0.6
percent. Volume was 37 percent lower than the 30-day average.
The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland shares fell
0.5 percent to 9,448.51.  “The market is discounting the further slowdown in  China’s
economy ,” said  Steven Leung , director of institutional sales at
UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. in Hong Kong. “It’s obvious the
government won’t launch large-scale policy to boost the economy
in the near term. I’m not too worried about the scaling back of
U.S. quantitative easing.”  Growth Outlook  China’s gross domestic product may slow to 6.5 percent in
2014 from 7.5 percent last quarter, BlackRock Inc. said in a
media briefing yesterday, while Societe Generale SA said the
nation’s growth may disappoint for the next two years.  The Hang Seng Index rebounded 2.7 percent after posting its
 biggest monthly decline  in a year in June, on speculation China
may act to ease a deepening slowdown. The government this week
reported economic growth slowed a second quarter as factory
output weakened.  Shares on the  benchmark   Hang Seng Index (HSI)  traded at 10.16
times estimated earnings, compared with 15.3 times for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 13.36 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Utilities Drop  China Resources Power fell 4.5 percent to HK$16.86,  leading 
declines on the Hang Seng Index. The utility yesterday said it
paid a fair price for its 2010 purchase of coal mines in Shanxi.
The shares have plunged since the official Xinhua News Agency
posted a letter on its website written to the Communist Party’s
corruption inspector by a reporter alleging China Resources
Power paid about double what another company bid for the assets.  Utilities had the  biggest drop  on the Hang Seng Index,
followed by property developers. China Resources Land dropped
2.6 percent to HK$19.72.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) ,
the largest mainland property company traded in Hong Kong,
retreated 2.1 percent to HK$20.75.  The housing authority of Guangzhou city, the capital of
 Guangdong province , held a meeting yesterday to discuss measures
to curb real-estate prices, the Xinkuaibao newspaper reported on
its website, without saying where it got the information.  Gold Manipulation  Authorities are investigating price manipulation by gold
sellers in Shanghai, including at shops operated by  Chow Tai
Fook Jewellery Group Ltd. (1929)  and Chow Sang Sang Holdings
International Ltd., the People’s Daily Online reported, citing
unidentified persons. Brunswick, the external public relations
firm representing Chow Tai Fook, couldn’t immediately comment on
the report. Cathy Tam, assistant manager of communications at
 Chow Sang Sang (116) , said the company is not under investigation.  Chow Tai Fook, the world’s biggest jewelery chain, dropped
1.7 percent to HK$9.48. Chow Sang Sang, a retailer of gold and
gem-set jewelry, fell 1.2 percent to HK$16.98.  Stimulus Debate  Shares rose earlier after Bernanke yesterday told the  U.S.
Senate  that economic data since the Fed’s June meeting was
mixed, and that it was “way too early to make any judgment” on
whether tapering of asset purchases will begin in September.
Central-bank policy makers have been debating the timing of cuts
in $85 billion of monthly bond purchases. Bernanke has said any
reduction will be tied to sustainable gains in the labor market
and a rise in inflation.  Futures on the  S&P 500  fell 0.2 percent today after the
U.S. equity index gained 0.5 percent to a record yesterday in
New York. Shares rose after earnings from Morgan Stanley and
UnitedHealth Group Inc. beat estimates, and  jobless claims 
dropped to the lowest level since early May, the Labor
Department said.  Man Wah gained 1 percent to HK$9.36.  Techtronic Industries
Co. (669) , a maker of power tools that gets 73 percent of its sales
from North America, increased 3.1 percent to HK$19.14.  Solar Tariffs  GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd., the world’s biggest producer
of solar-grade polysilicon, gained 4.3 percent to HK$1.96. The
shares surged after China’s government announced plans to impose
duties of as much as 57 percent on polysilicon from the U.S. and
South Korea. GCL-Poly was also raised to outperform from neutral
at  Macquarie Research .  AAC Technologies Holdings Inc. (2018) , an acoustic-components
maker which supplies Nokia Oyj, tumbled 5.7 percent to HK$33.85.
Nokia, the Finnish mobile-phone maker attempting a comeback,
yesterday reported revenue that missed estimates.  Among other shares that rose,  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. (489) ,
which makes vehicles with Nissan Motor Co., climbed 2.6 percent
to HK$9.82 after being raised to outperform from underperform at
Daiwa Securities Group Inc  Hang Seng Index  futures slipped 0.1 percent to 21,334. The
HSI Volatility Index rose 0.4 percent to 19.23, indicating
traders expect a swing of 5.5 percent for the equity benchmark
in the next 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  