-- OTP Plunges Most Since 2011 as CEO Csanyi Sells Stock
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-07-19T15:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/otp-plunges-most-since-2008-as-ceo-csanyi-sells-stock.html
OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest
lender, plunged the most in 22 months as its top executive sold
shares after the cabinet said it may retroactively amend the
terms of foreign-currency loans, putting bank earnings at risk.  Chief Executive Officer Sandor Csanyi yesterday sold a
combined 1.7 million OTP shares he held personally and in
Bonitas 2002 Zrt., a company he controls, the lender said in a
statement today. The value of the sale is 7.83 billion forint
($35 million), according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
average sale prices. OTP tumbled as much as 14.5 percent and
traded down 9.1 percent at 4,200 forint at the close in
Budapest, the biggest drop since September 2011.  OTP lost 17 percent of its market value in four days amid
uncertainty over government policy toward lenders, which have
been targeted by special taxes since Prime Minister  Viktor Orban 
came to power in 2010. OTP plunged 36 percent in 2011 when
Hungary forced banks to take losses by allowing clients to repay
foreign-currency loans at below-market rates.  “There’s been a tough battle between the government and
Csanyi for years as the cabinet has treated the sector as a
milking cow,”  Akos Kuti , head of research at broker Equilor
Befektetesi Zrt., said by phone from Budapest today. “Csanyi
must have been aware that such a share sale, which is
substantial even for him, sends a message to the market.”  ‘Domestic Investments’  Csanyi sold 342,818 OTP shares yesterday, decreasing his
holding to 10,000 shares, while Bonitas sold 1.35 million
shares, Budapest-based OTP said. The BUX stock  index , in which
OTP has a 29 percent weighting, slumped 3.8 percent today. The
turnover in OTP shares was almost seven times the three-month
average today.  The CEO is Hungary’s richest person, with a wealth of 135
billion forint ($600 million), according to a ranking by
newspaper  Napi Gazdasag  published on May 3. Csanyi’s investments
include the Bonafarm Group, which includes salami maker Pick
Szeged Zrt. and a winery bearing Csanyi’s name.  Csanyi and his companies will use the proceeds from the
share sales to finance “domestic investments, mainly in the
agriculture and food industry,” OTP said in an e-mail, without
giving further details.  “It’s a negative message for shareholders that Csanyi
prefers to invest in agriculture rather than in his own
company,” Attila Gyurcsik, an analyst at Concorde Ertekpapir
Zrt., Hungary’s biggest broker, said by phone from Budapest
today.  Hungary is looking at the possibility of retroactively
modifying the conditions of foreign-currency loans, probably
focusing on exchange-rate changes, the Justice Ministry said by
e-mail yesterday. Banks may have to bear part or all of the
costs, newspaper Magyar Nemzet reported on the same day.  “The market was already very nervous because of the
foreign-currency loan plans and on top of that came” Csanyi’s
sale, Gyurcsik said. “The market priced in the worst-case
scenario.”  Csanyi Pressure  Orban’s past policies, criticized as “ad hoc” by the
 International Monetary Fund , included the introduction of
special taxes on industries including banking,
telecommunications and energy, and a levy on financial
transactions such as cash withdrawals from ATMs. Orban has also
taken over $13 billion in privately managed pension assets to
help cut public debt.  “We can only guess if something else has happened, for
example, if the government or other actor forced him into the
move,” Equilor’s Kuti said.  Shares in OTP, whose trading was briefly halted today when
they declined more than 10 percent, have gained 22 percent over
the last 12 months, compared with a 5.4 percent increase in the
BUX Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  