-- Tourre Jurors Hear Phone Call Misstating Paulson Role
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-07-19T18:37:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/tourre-jurors-hear-phone-call-misstating-paulson-role.html
Jurors in the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s case against Fabrice Tourre heard a much-fought-over phone call the SEC is using as evidence that Tourre
misled a key participant in the 2007 transaction at the center
of the fraud case against him.  An SEC lawyer today played a recording of the phone call,
between Gail Kreitman, a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
saleswoman, and an employee of ACA Management LLC, the firm that
was paid to select the 90 mortgage-backed securities underlying
the deal, known as Abacus 2007-AC1.  The SEC claims Tourre, 34, a former Goldman Sachs vice
president, hid from investors in the deal the role of the
Paulson & Co. hedge fund in helping select the assets, which it
was betting would fail. Tourre also misled ACA into thinking
Paulson, run by billionaire  John Paulson , was making an equity
investment in Abacus, rather than taking a purely short
position, the SEC claims.  In the Jan. 17, 2007 call, Kreitman told the former ACA
employee, Lucas Westreich, that Goldman Sachs planned to place
“a hundred percent of the equity” with Paulson.  Evidence presented in the case shows Paulson never
considered an equity investment in Abacus. The SEC claims that
Tourre falsely told Kreitman that Paulson was long, not short.
Lawyers for Tourre lost a pretrial bid to bar the recording from
the trial.  Dozing Jurors  The recording was played at the end of a week that featured
dozing jurors, hostile witnesses and a former hedge fund
executive claiming the SEC frightened him into changing his
testimony.  Jurors are scheduled to hear next week from Laura Schwartz,
the SEC’s star witness, who was the senior ACA executive on the
Abacus deal, and from Tourre himself. Paulson is expected to
testify as a witness for Tourre, possibly on Aug. 1.  Paulson’s bet against Abacus was part of a strategy that
made it $15 billion shorting the U.S. home mortgage market.
Investors on the other side of the Abacus deal lost more than
$1 billion. Goldman Sachs, based in  New York , paid a then-record
$550 million to settle SEC claims. Paulson and his firm weren’t
sued.  The case is SEC v. Tourre, 10-cv-03229, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  