-- Toyota Settlement of Acceleration Cases Wins Approval
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/toyota-settlement-of-acceleration-cases-wins-approval.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  won final
approval of a settlement, valued at as much as $1.63 billion by
plaintiff lawyers, with U.S. consumers who claimed that recalls
related to sudden, unintended acceleration caused their vehicles
to lose value.  U.S. District Judge James V. Selna, who gave the accord
preliminary approval in December, signed off on it at a hearing
yesterday in  Santa Ana ,  California . The judge in June had
delayed a decision until he received further documentation how
the money would be distributed.  “I reaffirm my conclusion that this settlement is fair,
adequate and reasonable,” Selna said during yesterday’s
hearing. “I find this settlement to be extraordinary because
every single dollar in the cash fund will go to claimants.”  The settlement resolves economic-loss allegations brought
by Toyota drivers following the recall of more than 10 million
vehicles worldwide in 2009 and 2010 for problems related to
possible unintended acceleration, including sticky accelerator
pedals and floor mats that could shift out of position.  Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , said in December it
would take a one-time $1.1 billion charge to cover the costs of
the settlement.  ‘Maximum Amount’  “This settlement is focused on getting the maximum amount
to our customers,” John P. Hooper, a lawyer for Toyota, said.
The company was confident it would have won at trial and agreed
to settle only because it was “trying to find a resolution that
would be of value to Toyota customers and put this litigation
behind us,” he said.  The settlement includes $757 million in cash, including
$227 million in attorneys’ fees and costs, and $875 million in
non-monetary benefits, including free installation of a brake-override system for eligible vehicles, according to the
plaintiff lawyers’ April 23 request for final approval.  “Those people who submitted claims are getting 100 percent
of their claims in this settlement,” said  Steve Berman , an
attorney for the plaintiffs. Individual payments will range from
$9.74 to $10,000, depending on the Toyota model owned, rented or
leased, he said.  The settlement doesn’t resolve personal-injury and
wrongful-death lawsuits based on allegations Toyota’s vehicles
caused accidents through unintended acceleration. A trial is
scheduled in Los Angeles this month on claims by the widower and
son of a 66-year-old woman whose  Toyota Camry  crashed against a
tree in 2009.  The economic-loss cases are combined as In re Toyota Motor
Corp. Unintended Acceleration Marketing, Sales Practices and
Products Liability Litigation, 8:10-ml-02151, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Santa Ana).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Bill Callahan  in federal court in Santa Ana, California;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  