-- Philippine Bonds Gain for Week as Fed Quells Tapering Concern
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2013-07-19T04:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/philippine-bonds-gain-for-week-as-fed-quells-tapering-concern.html
Philippine 10-year bonds rose for a
second week, sending the yield to the lowest level in a month,
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke quelled investor’
concerns about tapering its monetary stimulus.  The Fed chief said this week that asset purchases aren’t on
a “preset course,” comments that should halt one-way bets in
financial markets, Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Governor Amando
Tetangco said in a text message yesterday. The inflation outlook
in the  Philippines  is manageable and “current policy settings
continue to be appropriate,” Tetangco said ahead of a July 25
interest-rate review. The details of a retail bond sale will be
announced next week, Treasurer Rosalia de Leon said July 16.  “The market has rallied on seemingly dovish comments by
Bernanke and Tetangco’s signal that BSP won’t make any
adjustment on rates,” said Dave Estacio, chief dealer at First
Metro Investment Corp. in  Manila . “There’s a bit of profit-taking today before the retail bond details next week.”  The yield on the 11.875 percent debt due May 2023 fell 21
basis points, or 0.21 percentage point, to 3.973 percent this
week, according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp. It reached 3.971 percent yesterday, the lowest
since June 21.  Rate Review  Bangko Sentral (PPCBON)  will keep its overnight borrowing rate at
3.5 percent, according to all seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The central bank has left rates at a record low since
a 25 basis-point cut in September 2012. Instead, it opted to
reduce rates on special-deposit accounts three times this year
to 2 percent.  The Bureau of the Treasury plans to offer 30 billion pesos
($691 million) of 10-year notes to individual investors this
quarter as part of its borrowing program announced June 25. The
Philippines local-currency bonds are offering the best returns
in Asia of 7.5 percent this year, according to indexes compiled
by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The peso was little changed at 43.390 per dollar today and
this week, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in the exchange rate
used to price options, fell 40 basis points this week to 6.88
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  