-- Pope Francis Names Panel to Overhaul Vatican Finance Structure
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-07-19T11:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/pope-francis-names-panel-to-overhaul-vatican-finance-structure.html
Pope Francis set up a committee to
overhaul the Holy See’s financial structure and improve its
transparency following several corruption investigations.  The eight-member panel will propose solutions “to avoid
the misuse of economic resources, to improve transparency in the
processes of purchasing goods and services,” the Vatican said
in a statement on its website today. It will also give advice on
how “to work with ever greater prudence in the financial
sphere,” according to the statement, which didn’t mention the
Vatican Bank by name.  The bank’s director Paolo Cipriani and deputy director
Massimo Tulli stepped down July 1.  Their resignations followed
the arrest on June 28 of a senior Vatican cleric in a corruption
investigation that’s part of a wider probe into the bank’s
transactions. On July 10 the Vatican said it may extend its
probe of suspicious bank transactions to people beyond Nunzio
Scarano, the prelate arrested. Scarano’s funds were frozen at
the IOR.  In 2012 the  Holy See , the Vatican’s central administration,
posted a profit of 2.19 million euros ($2.83 million) even as
donations from Catholics throughout the world fell, according to
a July 4 statement. Last year’s earnings compare with a 14.9
million-euro deficit in 2011, the Holy See said today in a
 statement . The Vatican bank, formally known as Institute for the
Works of Religion or IOR, last year gave the Pope a contribution
of 50 million euros, the Holy See said.  The new body set up by the pontiff will be led by Joseph FX Zahra, currently chairman of Middlesea Insurance Co Ltd. It will
hold its first meeting “shortly after” Francis’s return from a
visit to  Brazil  that begins July 21,  according to today’s
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  