-- Portuguese Parties Fail to Reach ‘National Salvation’ Agreement
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2013-07-19T19:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/portuguese-parties-fail-to-reach-national-salvation-agreement.html
Portugal’s ruling coalition parties
and the main opposition Socialists failed to reach an agreement
on how to meet the terms of a European Union-led bailout after
six days of talks.  “The  Social Democratic Party  and the CDS party made a
national salvation agreement unfeasible,” Socialist Party
leader Antonio Jose Seguro said in a speech in Lisbon broadcast
by television station SIC. “It was clear for those who took
part in the meetings that there were two distinct views about
the way to exit this crisis.”  The coalition government’s plan to carry out 4.7 billion
euros ($6.2 billion) of spending cuts was “one of the important
obstacles” to reaching an agreement, Seguro said. It’s up to
the president to decide what happens now, he said.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva, who has the power to
dissolve parliament, called on the parties on July 10 to reach a
“national salvation” agreement that will allow  Portugal  to
complete its aid program through June 2014 and set early
elections for after that date. He also urged them to ensure debt
will be sustainable with a new government after the bailout.  The parties gave themselves one week to reach an accord
when talks began on July 14. The government is backed by the
Social Democrats and the smaller conservative CDS party, which
together have a majority of seats in parliament, and the
coalition’s term ends in 2015. The Socialists had already
opposed some of the government’s planned spending cuts.  The two governing parties settled a split over budget
policy on July 6, with Social Democrat Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  offering CDS leader and Foreign Minister Paulo Portas the post of vice premier and control over economic
policy. While ruling out early elections right now, the
president didn’t immediately endorse their deal, calling for a
broader pact also involving the Socialists.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Henrique Almeida at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net  