-- Portuguese Parties Fail to Reach ‘National Salvation’ Pact
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-07-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/portuguese-parties-fail-to-reach-national-salvation-pact.html
Portugal’s ruling coalition parties
and the main opposition Socialists failed to reach an agreement
to help the country complete a European Union-led bailout plan
after six days of talks.  “During this week we fought for the government to stop
with austerity policies,” Socialist Party leader Antonio Jose Seguro said in a speech in Lisbon yesterday. The coalition’s
planned 4.7 billion euros ($6.2 billion) of spending cuts was
“one of the important obstacles” to reaching an agreement, he
said.  The Socialists want to renegotiate the aid program and have
proposed renegotiating the maturities of the aid loans and
deferring interest payments, Seguro said. They also argued
against asset sales included in the bailout program, such as the
plan to sell state-owned airline TAP SGPS SA. It’s up to the
president to decide what happens now, Seguro said.  President Anibal Cavaco Silva, who has the power to
dissolve parliament, called on the parties on July 10 to reach a
“national salvation” agreement that would help Portugal
complete its aid program through June 2014 and set early
elections for some time after that date. He also urged them to
ensure debt will be sustainable with a new government after the
bailout.  The government is backed by the Social Democrats and the
smaller conservative CDS party, which together have a majority
of seats in parliament. The coalition’s term ends in 2015.
Parliament on July 18 rejected a censure motion against the
government presented by the Greens.  Other Solutions  The two governing parties settled a split over budget
policy on July 6, with Social Democrat Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  offering CDS leader and Foreign Minister Paulo Portas the post of vice premier and control over economic
policy. While ruling out early elections right now, the
president didn’t immediately endorse their deal, calling for a
broader pact also involving the Socialists.  “Without an agreement, other solutions will naturally be
found in the framework of our legal and constitutional system,”
the president said on July 10.  Uncertainty about elections could harm the country’s
efforts to regain access to the bond market, Prime Minister
Coelho said July 18. Debt agency IGCP said on July 12 that it
plans to resume “regular issuance” of bonds “only if market
conditions are conducive.” Financing needs for 2013 are “fully
covered,” and in the second quarter the debt agency started to
“pre-fund” for borrowing needs in 2014, IGCP said.  Bailout Review  Portugal’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  bond yield was 6.8 percent yesterday, up
from 6.39 percent on July 1, the day before the rift in the
coalition emerged. The yield breached a seven-month high of more
than 8 percent on July 3. The country pays 3.2 percent on its
bailout loans.  The eighth review of Portugal’s progress on meeting the
terms of the 78 billion-euro EU-led aid program has been pushed
back to the end of August or the start of September because of
the political situation, the Finance Ministry said on July 11.
The review had been due to start on July 15.  On March 15, the government announced less ambitious
targets for narrowing its budget deficit as it forecast the
 economy  will shrink twice as much as previously estimated this
year. Portugal targets a deficit of 5.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2013, 4 percent in 2014 and below the EU’s 3
percent limit in 2015, when it aims for a 2.5 percent gap. It
forecasts debt will peak at 123.7 percent of GDP in 2014.  A Socialist minority government requested the bailout in
April 2011 before losing elections in June 2011, and since then
the party voted alongside the ruling coalition on certain key
policy decisions including the European Stability Mechanism
treaty, the fiscal compact and the country’s budget framework
law. The Socialists led the Social Democrats by 12 percentage
points in a poll published on July 12 and have asked for early
elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  