-- Qihoo 360 in Initial Talks to Buy Sohu.com’s Search Engine
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-19T20:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/qihoo-360-in-initial-talks-to-buy-sohu-com-s-search-engine.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , a Beijing-based  software developer , is in initial talks to buy  Sohu.com
Inc. (SOHU) ’s Sogou unit to help it compete with  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  for
Internet searches in China.  Any deal will probably be financed with cash and stock,
Qihoo Chief Financial Officer Alex Xu said by phone yesterday,
declining to put a value on the size of a deal. Sogou is valued
at about $1 billion to $1.4 billion, said Lucy Zhang, a Beijing-based analyst at Internet consulting group iResearch.  Combining Qihoo and Sogou would unite China’s second- and
third-largest search engines to create a larger competitor to
Baidu, which controls more than 80 percent of China Internet
queries. Sohu said yesterday that it’s exploring options for
Sogou, including seeking minority investors or pursuing a
combination. It said it hasn’t yet picked a partner or deal.  “It makes strategic sense for Qihoo to pursue this deal,”
said  Elinor Leung , head of Asia telecommunications and Internet
research at CLSA Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “If they can acquire it
they will exceed 20 percent market share for search. They can
scale with it.”  Reuters earlier reported that Qihoo may buy Sogou.  Sogou accounted for 5.5 percent of search-engine queries in
China in the March quarter, placing it in third place. Baidu had
82 percent and Qihoo 360 was in second place with 9 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “If you want to be relevant, to challenge the dominant
player Baidu, you need more market share,” said Alen Lin, a
Hong Kong-based analyst with BNP Paribas Securities Asia, who
has a hold rating on Qihoo. Even if it completes a deal, Qihoo
would remain “the big underdog” in China’s search industry,
said Lin.  Qihoo 360 said in a statement yesterday that no agreement
has yet been reached with respect to a significant potential
investment or strategic alliance.  Sohu.com  rose  0.9 percent to $68.73 at the close in  New
York  yesterday and has gained 45 percent this year. Qihoo rose
1.8 percent to $58.34, extending its advance in 2013 to 96
percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in Hong Kong at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  