-- Railway Weighing Viability After Quebec Crash, Chairman Says
-- B y   M a r l e y   D e l D u c h e t t o   K a y d e n
-- 2013-07-19T19:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/railway-weighing-viability-after-quebec-crash-chairman-says-1-.html
Montreal, Maine & Atlantic Railway
Ltd. is evaluating whether the company remains viable after the
July 6 crash of one of its trains in  Quebec  that killed as many
as 50 people, Chairman Ed Burkhardt said.  “Whether we can survive is a complex question,” he said
today in a telephone interview from the Rosemont,  Illinois ,
offices of  Rail World Inc. , the closely held company’s parent.
“We’re trying to analyze that right now.”  Burkhardt, who also is chief executive officer of the
parent, had said in a July 11 interview that he thought the
railway would survive and that it was “pressing up against the
limits of our insurance but not exceeding it.”  A Montreal, Maine & Atlantic train hauling crude oil rolled
from its parking spot and crashed in Lac-Megantic, Quebec,
incinerating 30 buildings. The engineer responsible for the
train may not have set enough hand brakes to secure it before he
left for his hotel that evening, Burkhardt said last week. The
brakes weren’t applied with sufficient force to hold the train,
 Canada ’s Transportation Safety Board said today.  There have been 42 confirmed deaths, and Quebec police have
said the toll was probably about 50. The crash was the nation’s
worst rail disaster since 1910, when about 63 people were killed
in a derailment in Spanish River, Ontario, according to the
Canadian Disaster Database.  Potential Cost  “Judging from similar accidents and the number of people
killed, the number of businesses annihilated and those that are
losing business, as well as the environmental factors, it will
probably cost upwards of $100 million,” Chris Damas, an analyst
at BCMI Research in Barrie, Ontario, said in a telephone
interview. “This kind of small railway likely doesn’t have
$100 million in its safe.”  Damas said he asked for Montreal, Maine & Atlantic’s
financial information, and hasn’t been granted access. Losses
for insurers could include death benefits, business-interruption
costs and expenses tied to replacing damaged property, as well
as environmental cleanup, he said.  XL Group Plc (XL)  said on July 10 that it is among insurers of
the railroad.  A motion to file a class-action lawsuit on behalf of the
residents of Lac-Megantic in Quebec Superior Court in Sherbrooke
names Burkhardt as a defendant. Montreal, Maine & Atlantic;
Robert Grindrod, the railway’s president; and Tom Harding, the
train’s operator, are also among those listed in the motion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marley DelDuchetto Kayden in Chicago at 
 mdelduchett2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 