-- Rand Set for 2nd Weekly Gain as Bernanke Quells Stimulus Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-07-19T09:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/rand-set-for-2nd-weekly-gain-as-bernanke-quells-stimulus-concern.html
The rand strengthened, set for a
second weekly advance, and bonds gained after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke quelled concern that a reduction of
U.S. stimulus was imminent.  Bernanke said yesterday it was “way too early to make any
judgment” about starting tapering in September. On July 17, he
said the central bank’s quantitative easing is “by no means on
a preset course.” Bond purchases by the Fed and other
developed-nation central banks helped boost demand for high-yielding assets including South African stocks and  bonds ,
supporting the rand.  “Quantitative easing in some form or another is going to
be with us at least for the rest of the year,” Mohammed Nalla,
head of strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in
Johannesburg, said by phone. “The market is paring back its
expectations” of a reduction in Fed asset purchases. he said.  The rand appreciated 0.3 percent to 9.9063 per dollar as of
10:31 a.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its advance this week to
0.8 percent. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December
2026 fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.90
percent for a decline of 11 basis points in the last five days.  South Africa’s central bank left its repurchase rate at 5
percent for a sixth meeting yesterday to help stimulate growth
in the continent’s biggest economy, which has been buffeted by
slowing demand for the nation’s exports. The bank won’t
automatically raise rates if inflation quickens, Governor Gill Marcus said. Central banks in Brazil and  India  have raised rates
in recent weeks after their currencies weakened.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  