-- TransCanada Rebuffs EPA’s Call for Keystone Clean Energy
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-07-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/transcanada-rebuffs-epa-s-call-for-keystone-clean-energy.html
The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency says  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  should be required to buy
renewable power to run pumps along the route of its proposed
Keystone XL pipeline, a measure the company said is unworkable
and unnecessary.  In a July 17 letter to the U.S. State Department, the
Calgary-based company said the EPA suggested it buy renewable
energy to run pumping stations from  Alberta  to Steele City,
 Nebraska . The EPA, in an April filing with the State Department,
also said the U.S. should work with  Canada  to promote technology
to capture and store underground the carbon-dioxide emissions
generated in the production of Canadian oil.  The State Department is reviewing the $5.3 billion project
because it crosses an international border. TransCanada first
applied for a permit for the project in 2008.  “Keystone does not control the source of the power it
purchases,” according to the letter, released yesterday by the
company. “TransCanada has invested over $5 billion in emission-less energy sources including the largest wind farm in  Maine  and
13 hydro power stations in the U.S. Northeast.”  The EPA said the pipeline will increase global warming
emissions because developing crude from western Canada’s oil
sands produces more carbon dioxide than the typical oil used in
the U.S. In addition to the impact on climate change,
environmental groups oppose the project because of the potential
for oil spills along its more than 875-mile (1,408-kilometer)
route.  Revised Path  President  Barack Obama  in 2012 rejected the original route
proposed by TransCanada after officials in Nebraska said it
endangered a sensitive wetland. The company has since proposed a
new pathway that extends further east in the state to avoid the
area.  A draft environmental analysis prepared for the State
Department said Keystone wouldn’t raise the risks of climate
change because Alberta’s oil would probably be developed with or
without the pipeline. If both Keystone and the other proposed
pipelines from the oil sands aren’t built, the reduction in
annual emissions would be at most 5.3 million metric tons a year
of carbon dioxide, less than 0.1 percent of total U.S.
emissions, the department’s analysis found.  In a speech in  Washington  last month on the risks of
climate change,Obama said his administration would reject
Keystone if it finds that the project would “significantly
exacerbate the problem of carbon pollution.”  TransCanada Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said the
project would not increase greenhouse gas emissions.  Canada, Venezuela  “I think it’s clear that the Keystone pipeline has no
impact on GHG emissions,” Girling said yesterday in an
interview at the New York headquarters of Bloomberg News. “What
we’re really talking about is Canadian oil versus Venezuelan oil
and what is the net difference between the two, and it’s zero.”  The carbon-dioxide emissions tied to the pipeline would
have “an unmeasurable impact on climate,” according to
TransCanada’s letter.  The EPA is one of eight government agencies reviewing the
project under the direction of the State Department. Girling
said he hopes for a final decision later this year. The EPA
asked the State Department to conduct a fuller market analysis
in its final report, which may be released as early as
September.  Nayyera Haq, a State Department spokesman, didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  Keystone Review  Once the environmental assessment is completed, the
department will have 90 days to review whether Keystone is in
the U.S. national interest.  Environmental groups like 350.org and the Sierra Club
welcomed Obama’s speech as a sign that the administration would
reject the project. They contend by encouraging development of
the oil sands, which release more greenhouse gases than the
drilling and processing of more conventional crude, Keystone
does pose an extra risk to climate.  Heather Zichal , a White House energy and climate-change
adviser, said Obama “raised the bar” concerning the importance
of carbon-dioxide emissions in the Keystone decision with his
speech, which also laid out actions the administration would
take to lower greenhouse gases.  Ultimately, the State Department will decide whether the
project is in the national interest, Zichal said yesterday at a
conference sponsored by Politico, a Washington-based
publication.  “The decision on one pipeline will not impact the oil
sands achieving its ultimate potential as a global supplier,”
said Kristine Delkus, senior vice president for pipelines law
and regulatory affairs at TransCanada, in the letter to the
State Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  