-- Resilient Won Extending Advance to BofA on Shipyards: Currencies
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g ,   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-07-19T01:39:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/resilient-won-extending-advance-to-bofa-on-shipyards-currencies.html
South Korea ’s won is proving to be
 Asia ’s most resilient currency as a recovery in exports from the
world’s biggest shipyards outweighs gains in the dollar.  The won rose 1.4 percent against the greenback this month,
the only one of 11 Asian peers tracked by Bloomberg to advance,
after plunging 7 percent in the first half of 2013. Bank of
America Corp. sees the won gaining 4.1 percent to 1,080 per
dollar by year-end, while the median forecast of 29 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg is for a 1.6 percent drop to 1,144.  Ship deliveries, which as recently as 2011 were South
 Korea ’s biggest exports, increased last month for the first time
in a year amid a resurgence in global trade. That’s helping
boost a current-account  surplus  that the  Bank of Korea  predicts
will climb to a record $53 billion this year.  “Rising dollar flows from shipbuilders are in accord with
the Bank of Korea’s optimistic forecast on its current-account
surplus,” Lee Jaewoo, the chief Korea economist at Bank of
America in  Seoul , said in an interview. “The won is much more
stable now.”  Asian Currencies  The won advanced to as high as 1,114.06 per dollar on July
17, the strongest level in more than a month, and traded little
changed at 1,126.20 today in Seoul. It’s the only one of 11
Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg to climb versus the dollar
this month, with the Thai baht and  Singapore  dollar both little
changed at close to their lowest levels in about a year.  The Indonesian rupiah led a July slump in the region,
falling 1.3 percent to 10,060 per dollar and touching a four-year low of 10,205 yesterday, as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke ’s signals that U.S. policy makers may reduce monetary
stimulus pushed the Dollar Index to a three-year high last week.  The won stands out because of South Korea’s robust balance
of payments, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts wrote in a July 12
report. They recommended the currency as a buy.  Citigroup Inc., the second-largest currency trader, said in
a July 15 report that investors should hold “overweight”
positions on the won. The firm still forecasts a decline to
1,163 per dollar by year-end, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Beyond Bernanke’s comments on paring stimulus, the won
weakened in May and June on speculation that a slide in the yen
would make it harder for South Korea’s exporters to compete with
Japanese rivals. Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok said yesterday in
Moscow that global finance chiefs must work together to make
sure the end of the Fed’s bond buying doesn’t weaken economic
recovery in other nations. He reiterated that  Japan  must be
careful to design its policies in a way that won’t trigger
competitive devaluations.  Yen Recovers  The yen has recovered 3.6 percent since reaching a 4 1/2-year low of 103.74 per dollar on May 22, when Bernanke raised
the prospect of a reduction in the U.S. central bank’s
quantitative easing program.  “The won is undervalued, given the widening current-account surplus,” Wai Ho Leong, a Singapore-based economist at
Barclays Plc, said in an interview. “Korean exports to key
third markets such as  China ,  Europe , the U.S. have not been
dented by the weaker yen. Now, with the yen settling in a more
predictable range, the won could continue to strengthen
gradually.”  Ship Exports  More than 90 percent of vessels produced at South Korea’s
shipyards are destined for overseas customers. Exports rose 12
percent last month from a year earlier, the first increase since
June 2012. Deliveries will jump 50 percent in the second half of
this year to $21.5 billion, according to the Korea Offshore &
Shipbuilding Association.  “We expect to have more dollars in the second half as we
deliver more drill ships and offshore projects this year,” Kim
Ki Young, a spokesman at Ulsan, South Korea-based Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co., the world’s biggest shipyard, said in an
interview. “We will have to sell those dollars into won because
we need money to work on other shipbuilding orders.”  Samsung Heavy Industries Co. (010140)  and  Daewoo Shipbuilding &
Marine Engineering Co. (042660)  make up the list of the world’s three
largest shipbuilders. Daewoo Shipbuilding said in an e-mailed
response to Bloomberg that it also expects increased dollar
receipts as deliveries come on stream.  Dollar’s Rise  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to monitor the greenback against the currencies of six major
U.S. trading partners, jumped 2 percent in May on the prospect
of the Fed paring stimulus measures. It climbed to 84.75 on July
9, the highest level since July 2010.  The index rose for the past two days after Bernanke told
lawmakers this week that the central bank’s $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases “could be reduced more quickly or
expanded” depending on the pace of recovery in the U.S. The
gauge has fallen 0.1 percent this month.  Until July, the won was also hurt as overseas investors
pulled $6.2 billion from South Korean stocks over the last three
months, the heaviest net sales since the third quarter of 2008,
exchange data show.  The country is less vulnerable now to asset flight. Its
short-term overseas  debt  slid 36 percent to $122.2 billion in
the first quarter, after touching an all-time high of $189.6
billion in 2008, central bank data show. The ratio of foreign-exchange reserves to short-term liabilities has improved to more
than 2.5, from 1.5 in 2008, according to Bank of America.  Hot Money  Tim Condon , the head of Asian research at ING Groep NV in
Singapore, forecasts that the won will drop to 1,150 per dollar
by year-end, while saying that “hot money” is likely to propel
a short-term rally in the nation’s government bonds and stocks.  An upper-house election due July 21 in Japan, coupled with
the prospect of the U.S. tapering its stimulus, could lead to a
resurgent dollar and reverse the won’s rally, Condon said.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  of stocks has increased 5.4 percent since
touching an 11-month low in June, when global funds sold $4.5
billion more South Korean stocks than they bought. Foreign
ownership of won-denominated bonds rose in each of the last five
months, official data show.  Central banks account for 41 percent of the overseas bond
holdings, which is higher than other Asian debt markets and
makes South Korea less vulnerable to capital outflows, Daniel Hui, the head of emerging Asia foreign-exchange strategy at
JPMorgan in Singapore, wrote in a July 12 report.  ‘Best Hedge’  The won is the “best hedge to balance out” the U.S.
firm’s “very bearish” recommendation that investors bet on
declines in the rupiah, Malaysian ringgit, Indian rupee and
Chinese  yuan , according to Hui.  Korean exports across all industries  averaged  $46 billion
in the last six months, roughly in line with the past three
years, according to trade ministry data. Electronics shipments
totaled $81.1 billion, automobiles added up to $22.5 billion and
ships accounted for $16.1 billion.  Growth in world trade, more than 90 percent of which is
transported by sea, slowed to 2.7 percent last year from 6.2
percent in 2011, the  World Bank  said in a June report. The
organization predicts an increase of 4 percent this year and 5
percent in 2014.  The outlook for faster economic expansion in Korea will
“trigger resurgent interest in Korean assets, most notably in
equities,” said Leong at Barclays, forecasting the won will
strengthen to 1,100 per dollar by year-end. “The risks are
tilted toward an even stronger currency as the growth outlook
improves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net 
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  