-- U.S. Rewrite of No-Child Law Would Limit Federal Role
-- B y   C a i t l i n   W e b b e r
-- 2013-07-19T15:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/rewrite-of-no-child-left-behind-would-limit-federal-schools-role.html
The Republican-led U.S. House voted
to curb the federal government’s role in elementary and
secondary education -- defying a veto threat and the opposition
of teachers’ unions and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “We agree on both sides of the aisle the status quo is not
working,” the bill’s author, Education and the Workforce
Committee Chairman John Kline of  Minnesota , said today on the
House floor before the bill passed, 221-207.  “It is time for the Congress, the House and the Senate, to
step up and do its job and write a new law and get the
administration out of the business of writing education
policy,” he said.  This is the first time Congress has revisited the George W. Bush administration’s signature education law known as  No Child
Left Behind  since it was enacted in 2001.  Kline’s bill, H.R. 5, would give states and local school
boards more authority over how they spend the money they get
from  Washington , D.C. Local educators also would gain
flexibility to eliminate some federal progress standards.  It would end a requirement that all students be proficient
in reading and math by 2014 and instead allow states to create
their own evaluation systems. It would eliminate a standard that
measures each class’s performance on standardized tests against
the performance of the preceding year’s class.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a traditional Republican
ally, went on record yesterday in opposition, saying that
approach could lead to lower academic achievement.  Disability Protections  State officials have chafed under the No Child Left Behind
law’s restrictions, leading the administration of President
 Barack Obama  to give most states a waiver to implement
variations.  House Democrats argue that the Republicans’ approach would
provide inadequate funding and weaken protections for
disadvantaged students, including those with disabilities.  The bill would “move backward on equity and
accountability, harming the education of our nation’s children,
” the office of Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of  Maryland  said
today in a message to House Democrats.  The Obama administration has threatened a veto of the bill,
saying it could result in lower state investments in education
and academic standards that don’t prepare students for work or
college.  Chamber Opposition  Forty-five states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico
and the Bureau of Indian Education have requested waivers of No
Child Left Behind requirements. The administration has issued
waivers for 37 states and D.C.; the rest are under review. Only
 California ,  Montana ,  Nebraska , North Dakota and  Vermont  haven’t
sought waivers.  The Chamber of Commerce said in a statement yesterday that
while the House bill “would require school performance
transparency, it would not require true accountability.”  The Chamber said it may include the bill as a key vote on
its annual scorecard of lawmakers.  It’s also opposed by the National Education Association, a
union which represents public school teachers. The NEA said it
may include votes on the bill in its annual legislative report
card.  Although the No Child Left Behind law was originally passed
with bipartisan support in both chambers, Democrats and
Republicans have battled over the federal government’s role in
education since the law expired in 2007.  Senate Bill  Senate Democrats have their own bill, which more closely
resembles the approach of the Obama administration.  Sponsored by the chairman of the Health, Education, Labor
and Pensions Committee, Iowa Democrat Tom Harkin, the Senate
bill would retain the standardized-testing program, which
requires reporting of the performance of subgroups, such as
minorities, children with disabilities and those that speak
English as a second language. The House bill wouldn’t require
states to report subgroup performance data.  Harkin said yesterday that the Senate would vote on his
bill, S. 1094, sometime “this fall.” Despite the divergence
between the two chambers’ approaches,“I’m sure there’s some
sweet spots someplace that will allow compromise as we get to
the floor and hammer it out,” he said.  The House measure would extend for six years the law
governing federal education funding. Although expired, its
provisions have been continued through annual appropriations
bills.  Standardized Testing  The legislation would allow the U.S. to spend about $22.9
billion a year, with about $16.7 billion annually designated for
Title I schools with large populations of low-income students.
It would allow schools to decide how to allocate federal funding
that is currently reserved for subgroups of students - including
children of migrant workers and those that speak English as a
second language. It would still require standardized testing at
certain levels, and mandate that states disclose graduation
rates and other performance data in annual report cards.  The bill may benefit charter school operators such as
 Pearson Plc (PSON)  under provisions that would increase funding for
charter schools and require states to reserve Title I funding
for school choice programs. It would require funds be set aside
for tutoring and after-school activities provided outside of
schools -- a provision that could benefit companies that offer
those services, such as Sylvan Learning Corp. and  The Washington
Post Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan Inc. unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caitlin Webber in Washington at 
 cwebber4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  