-- Rooney Won’t Be Sold Even With Transfer Request: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-07-19T07:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/rooney-won-t-be-sold-even-with-transfer-request-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  No Sale  Manchester United won’t sell Wayne Rooney, who was the
subject of a bid from Chelsea this week, even if the striker
submits an official transfer request, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Rooney, who left the club’s pre-season tour of Asia and
 Australia  with a hamstring injury, is said to be doing bicycle
work at United’s training complex and may return in an Aug. 6
exhibition match in  Sweden , the newspaper added.  United officials want to hold talks with Rooney and his
agent Paul Stretford following confusion regarding comments made
by manager David Moyes about the  England  forward’s status in the
squad, the  Independent reported .  40 Million  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has been told he can spend 40
million pounds ($61 million) to try to sign Liverpool striker
Luis Suarez, the  Daily Mail reported .  Such a bid would trigger a clause in Suarez’s contract that
forces Liverpool to consider the offer, the Mail added.  Top Bracket  Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers said Suarez is worth more
than 40 million pounds after his fellow Uruguayan forward
Edinson Cavani joined Paris Saint-Germain from Napoli for 55
million pounds this week, the  Sun reported .  “Luis is up there in that bracket of top talent,” the Sun
cited Rodgers as saying. “There’s no guarantee Luis would be
sold even for that because we are trying to build something, we
don’t have to sell.”  Salvio Bid  Manchester City bid 30 million euros ($39.4 million) for
Benfica winger Eduardo Salvio, the  Independent reported .  Benfica’s president, Luis Filipe Vieira Ferreira, is said
to want 40 million euros for the Argentina international, the
newspaper added.  Rafa Wants Reina  Napoli bid for Liverpool goalkeeper Pepe Reina after
failing to acquire Julio Cesar on a season-long loan from Queens
Park Rangers, the  Daily Mail reported .  Rafael Benitez, Napoli’s manager, is an admirer of Reina’s
having initially taken him to Liverpool in 2005 when he coached
the Premier League club, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  