-- Trucker Rests Boost Shipper Costs on Productivity Drop: Freight
-- B y   A l e x a n d r i a   B a c a   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-07-19T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/trucker-rests-boost-shipper-costs-on-productivity-drop-freight.html
New U.S. safety  regulations 
requiring truckers to work shorter shifts may cut productivity,
worsen a driver shortage and boost freight costs for the  $8.4
trillion  in goods hauled each year by American big rigs.  That is to be balanced by a decline in deaths and injuries
from crashes and savings in health-care costs as the regulations
improve driver safety, according to federal regulators.  The rules that took effect this month may reduce
productivity by about 3 percent, translating into $18 billion in
additional costs for an industry with annual revenue of around
$600 billion, according to freight data and forecasting firm FTR
Associates. Training and transition expenses may add another
$320 million to truck companies’ annual tabs, according to an
estimate by the Department of Transportation.  “That cost of transportation has to be passed on,” said
Charles W. Clowdis, a Nashville-based director of transportation
advisory services at IHS Global Insight. “If I run a company,
it means I’ll have to have more drivers doing the same thing,
which means I’ll have to raise my rates, and that’ll raise the
cost of the goods I’m transporting to the consumer.”  Companies such as  YRC Worldwide Inc. (YRCW)  and  Werner Enterprises
Inc. (WERN)  will be scouring an already tight labor market in trucking
for additional help as the rules reduce the maximum number of
weekly hours drivers can spend on the road to 70 from 82.  The rules also mandate a 34-hour rest period each week that
would require the nation’s 1.6 million long-haul drivers to be
off two consecutive nights. And the regulations mandate a 30-minute break after eight hours on the road.  Accident Projections  About 1,400 crashes, 560 injuries and 19 deaths each year
will be prevented, said Marissa Padilla, a spokesman for the
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. The  regulation  will
bring about annual savings of about $470 million from improved
driver health and $280 million as a result of fewer highway
accidents, the Department of Transportation said July 1.  Truck-related fatalities rose 2 percent to  3,757  in 2011
and injuries increased 10 percent to 88,000, according to data
compiled by the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration .
Those levels were below the annual average 4,296 deaths and
74,800 injuries over the decade ended in 2011. Fatigue was a
factor in about 13 percent of serious crashes involving large
trucks, according to a July 2007  study  by NHTSA and FMCSA.  Joan Claybrook , consumer co-chairman of the  Advocates for
Highway and Auto Safety  in Washington and a former NHTSA
administrator, said the regulations don’t go far enough and that
truckers should be limited to 10 consecutive hours behind the
wheel and a continuous 48-hour rest period per week.  ‘Five Cents’  “I don’t know any consumer who wouldn’t rather pay an
extra five cents for a can of beans in order not to have a
driver fall asleep,” Claybrook said in a telephone interview.  The International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which
negotiates time behind the wheel and mileage rates, said the 34-hour weekly rest period is too brief for the 600,000 people it
represents in the industry.  “There’s concern that we’re sharing the road with drivers
who are not as well-rested or as alert as they should be,” Fred McLuckie, director of federal legislation and regulation for the
Teamsters in  Washington , said in a telephone interview. “What
price do you put on safety?”  Trucking accounts for the biggest share of freight
transportation in the world’s largest economy in terms of value
and tonnage, according to a 2009 Transportation Department
 report , the latest available. Trucks moved about 71 percent of
the total value transported. In terms of volume, they hauled 9
billion tons, a 69 percent share.  ‘Extremely Efficient’  “Our economic system has been blessed by an extremely
reliable, extremely efficient truck system,” said Larry Gross,
a senior consultant at Bloomington, Indiana-based FTR. “People
will end up paying more for trucks.”  Some Federal Reserve districts have highlighted the effect
on labor from the regulation. Businesses in the Federal Reserve
Banks of Richmond and Cleveland districts said the regulations
may make it harder to find truck drivers, the Fed said June 5 in
its Beige Book business survey. The Cleveland Fed noted that the
rule’s impact on operations, productivity and pricing is the
“biggest concern facing trucking companies at this time.”  “The industry will lose some degree of operating
flexibility,”  Steve Williams , former American Trucking
Associations chairman and chief executive officer of Maverick
USA Inc., a trucking company based in  Little Rock ,  Arkansas ,
said June 18 in  testimony  to the House Transportation Committee.  Labor Market  Adding more drivers to payrolls will be a difficult
undertaking. The industry was  158,000 drivers  short of what it
needed to meet demand in the second quarter, according to FTR.  The shortfall probably will widen by the end of this year
to 251,000 truckers, the biggest deficit in nine years, and
reach a record 338,000 by the end of 2015, according to FTR’s
Driver Shortage Surplus gauge. The economic expansion and higher
turnover help explain the industry’s labor shortage.  “Every cost gets passed down,” said Sean McNally, a
spokesman for the ATA, an Arlington, Virginia-based industry
group. “As the labor market tightens and as demand for drivers
goes up, typically wages go up as well. The competition is
already fierce for good drivers. This is only going to increase
that competition.’  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  will face higher costs on long-haul routes as it will require new drivers to comply with the
requirements, according to  Tom Jensen , the Washington-based vice
president for transportation policy for the world’s largest
package-delivery company.  Routing Changes  “We’re going to have to change some routing, change the
network, which is going to change some drivers and handoff
points,” Jensen said in an interview. “Costs would occur where
we now have to have three drivers move freight across the
country instead of two because we’re shortening shifts. We’re
going to have to add some drivers to long haul runs.”  Derek Leathers, president and chief operating officer at
Werner Enterprises in Omaha,  Nebraska , said in an interview that
“these are the kinds of costs that will inevitably be passed on
to the consumer. They’re going to have to be.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexandria Baca in Washington at 
 abaca3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  