-- TSA to Expand Signup Options for Faster Security Lines
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-19T21:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/tsa-to-expand-signup-options-for-expedited-airport-screenings.html
The U.S.  Transportation Security
Administration  for the first time will let travelers apply
directly for expedited airport screening to avoid lanes
requiring shoe removal and laptop checks.  In the agency’s biggest expansion of eligibility for its
PreCheck program, U.S. air travelers will be able to apply
online or at airports for access to speedier security lanes.
PreCheck was previously restricted to frequent fliers nominated
by airlines or enrolled through U.S. Customs’ programs for
international travelers.  TSA Administrator  John Pistole  has set a goal of increasing
eligibility to 25 percent of U.S. passengers by the end of 2013,
up from about 2 percent last year. The goal is for 50 percent by
the end of 2014.  “PreCheck is becoming a more accessible program for
everyday travelers,” Erik Hansen, director of domestic policy
for the U.S. Travel Association, a Washington-based trade group,
said in an interview. “That’s what the travel industry has
always hoped it would be.”  Advocates for expanding PreCheck have said eligibility is
too restricted, limiting the program’s potential to speed up
security checks and make screenings less invasive for people who
pose no risk. Some travelers call PreCheck’s less onerous queue
the airports’ “happy lane,” Pistole said at the Aspen Security
Forum in Aspen,  Colorado  today.  Airport Applications  U.S. Customs and  Border Patrol ’s  Global Entry  program,
which offers a backdoor way to get into PreCheck for travelers
who aren’t top-level frequent fliers, requires a passport and a
personal interview at an international airport. The TSA’s new
efforts are targeted at travelers who don’t have passports and
don’t fly often, especially overseas.  “This initiative will increase the number of U.S. citizens
eligible to receive expedited screening, through TSA PreCheck,”
Pistole said in a statement. “PreCheck enables us to focus on
the travelers we know the least about, adding efficiency and
effectiveness to the screening process.”  Dulles International Airport near Washington and
Indianapolis International Airport will be the first two
airports to take applications, Pistole said. The effort will
expand to more than 300 locations, he said.  Travelers would have to provide certain personal
information, including date of birth, address, height, weight,
and hair color -- similar to what’s required now under the  U.S.
Customs  programs. They’ll need a government-issued
identification card.  $85 Fee  An online application will be followed by an onsite
interview, at which candidates for PreCheck will be
fingerprinted. The tentative plan is to charge $85 for a five-year membership, TSA said.  The TSA will use existing programs that provide background
checks on truck drivers and port workers, Pistole said in an
interview. The agency’s enrollment sites will include airports
and facilities used to vet applications for the Transportation
Worker Identification Credential, he said.  “In the short term, we’re fine,” Pistole said.  Once approved, fliers will be provided a PreCheck number to
give to airlines or enter when making a reservation.  Giving airports more options to market PreCheck to all
customers will help drive enrollment, Hansen said. TSA has been
hampered by its inability to reach more than a few pockets of
travelers, he said.  TSA may eventually expand signup into convention centers,
hotels or rental-car offices, Hansen said.  “There’s flexibility here that will allow TSA to put
enrollment centers where people are actually going,” Hansen
said. “If TSA can partner with the private sector to grow the
program, that’s the next big win for the traveling public.”  Drive Enrollments  Forty U.S. airports and six airlines --  Alaska Air Group
Inc. (ALK) , American Airlines Inc.,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  and Virgin
America Inc. -- already participate in PreCheck, according to
TSA’s website.  Pistole has said the agency doesn’t have the technical
capability to do PreCheck background vetting in volume. It has
been evaluating proposals from companies including Alclear LLC,
which manages a private screening program called the Clear card
at five U.S. airports, to do that work.  The TSA is evaluating private partnerships, which may be
attractive to consumers who don’t want to share personal data
directly with government, Pistole said in Aspen today. The
companies would vet applicants using the agency’s criteria and
TSA would have final approval, Pistole said.  Private Partnerships  TSA received nine proposals in response to a January
solicitation, Pistole said. The agency is now working with an
independent group to evaluate three of those, he said.  “We think those three that we’re looking at are viable
options,” he said.  Travelers going through a private company wouldn’t have to
submit personal details to the government, but the fee might be
more than $85 depending on what companies charge, Pistole said.  Alclear teamed up with Visa Inc., U.S. Travel and the
 American Association of Airport Executives  on one of the three
proposals being evaluated, Caryn Seidman Becker, Alclear’s chief
executive officer, said in a statement.  “This complements TSA’s continued efforts to scale risk-based security,” Seidman Becker said. The companies “look
forward to moving ahead with our proposed solution into the
pilot phase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  