-- Saab Says Margins to Fall Amid Shrinking Defense Markets
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-07-19T07:22:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/saab-says-margins-to-fall-amid-shrinking-defense-markets.html
Saab AB (SAABB) , the Swedish maker of Gripen
fighter jets, cut its profitability forecast for 2013 as
shrinking defense markets prevent sales growth.  Revenue this year will about match the figure for 2012
while earnings before interest and taxes and excluding one-time
items are projected to decline to about 6.6 percent of sales,
Chief Executive Officer Hakan Buskhe said in an interview today.
The company previously expected sales to grow “slightly,” with
the margin about equal to last year’s 7.7 percent.  Sustained U.S. government disputes over military spending
has held back sales growth for defense contractors such as
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and BAE Systems Plc,  Europe ’s largest,
forcing companies to pursue cost cuts. Questions over the budget
have also slowed decision making on new programs.  “We had anticipated that the budget uncertainty in the
U.S. should be solved in the first four months,” Buskhe said.
“Now we can see that it may go on for some more years.” In
2012, “we grew our U.S. business around 6 percent to 8 percent,
and there is no reason over time that is not coming back.”  Saab  fell  as much as 9.2 percent to 125.7 kronor, the
biggest intraday drop since February 2012, and was trading down
7.6 percent at 9:18 a.m. in  Stockholm . That propelled the stock
to a 5.3 percent decline this year.  Second-quarter sales totaled 5.89 billion kronor ($898
million), the company said today in a statement. Revenue missed
the 6.26 billion-krona average of six analyst  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Ebit fell to 149 million kronor from 730 million
kronor a year earlier, while net income plunged to 2 million
kronor from 572 million kronor because of a charge this year and
a gain in the 2012 period that inflated earnings.  Electronics Hurt  The defense-electronics and missile-making Dynamics units
were particularly hurt by the slowdown, Buskhe said. Sales
increased at the aeronautics unit that’s in charge of the Gripen
fighter and makes parts for commercial planes such as Airbus SAS
jets, he said.  Saab has implemented a range of restructuring measures to
boost profitability, including ending the sale of some products,
to adjust to the more austere sales environment. Those should
deliver 500 million kronor in earnings improvements in coming
years, it said.  The company also is turning to other countries to help
offset the effects of a stagnant U.S. market with a presence in
32 markets worldwide, Buskhe said.  “We have been able to compensate for the problems we have
had in U.S sales in  South America , in the Nordic countries and
also in  Asia ,” he said. Even so, in the second quarter those
markets weren’t sufficient to counterbalance the North American
dip.  Buskhe said the company is continuing in efforts to sell
the Gripen fighter, used by air forces from  Sweden  to  Thailand ,
to new customers. A further sale this year is “not unlikely,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  