-- SAC’s Cohen Traded on Horvath’s Dell Inside Tip, SEC Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/sac-capital-s-cohen-got-traded-on-horvath-s-dell-tip-sec-says.html
SAC Capital Advisors LP founder
 Steven A. Cohen  traded on tips about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  obtained by
analyst Jon Horvath from a company insider in August 2008, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said.  The SEC filed an administrative action against Cohen
yesterday, accusing him of failing to properly supervise
employees at his  Stamford , Connecticut-based hedge fund, which
has been the focus of a federal insider-trading probe.  In the filing, the SEC said that on Aug. 26, 2008, two days
before Dell was to report earnings, Horvath warned SAC portfolio
manager Michael Steinberg in an e-mail that one of his sources
said the computer-maker’s gross margins would be lower than
analysts had expected.  “I have a 2nd hand read from someone at the company --
this is 3rd quarter I have gotten this read from them and it has
been very good in the last two quarters,” Horvath said in the
e-mail, which also included a detailed list of reasons that
provide Dell operating expenses and revenue. He then added,
“Please keep to yourself as obviously not well known.”  While the SEC didn’t file an  insider-trading  lawsuit
against Cohen, the agency’s administrative action alleges he
sold off more than $11 million in Dell stock within minutes of
getting a copy of a “highly suspicious” e-mail by Horvath and
Steinberg.  The SEC action also shows that the U.S. has amassed more
evidence against Cohen, including telephone toll records and e-mails, than was previously known.  Federal Indictment  In March, Steinberg was indicted by federal prosecutors in
 New York  for insider trading in Dell in these August 2008
trades, making an illicit profit of $1 million based on
Horvath’s tip. Steinberg has pleaded not guilty and is scheduled
to go to trial in November while Horvath has pleaded guilty to
funneling illicit tips to SAC fund managers and is cooperating
with  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s crackdown on
insider trading.  While the U.S. previously presented Horvath’s e-mail at a
federal criminal insider-trading trial in December, showing that
he was consulted on the Dell trade, this is the first time the
U.S. has said Cohen got a copy of the Horvath e-mail and traded
on its contents.  The SEC doesn’t say Cohen was aware that Horvath’s
information was improperly obtained, only that he was a
recipient of the analyst’s “highly suspicious e-mail which
reflected the clear possibility that Steinberg and Horvath were
unlawfully in possession of material nonpublic information,”
the SEC alleged.  Vacation Home  According to the SEC, Cohen was working from his vacation
home on New York’s  Long Island  on Aug. 25 and 26th when Horvath
and Steinberg realized he was holding a long position in Dell
that was contrary to the information Horvath was getting from an
insider at the  Round Rock , Texas-based computer maker.  Cohen had begun purchasing Dell stock on the morning of
Aug. 25, 2008, and eventually held 450,000 shares at a cost of
more than $11 million, the SEC alleged.  After Horvath received an e-mail alerting him that Cohen’s
position was contrary to Steinberg’s, Horvath notified the fund
manager, “Steve is long Dell,” regulators said. Steinberg and
the analyst discussed whether to tell Cohen their view on Dell.  Dell Shares  By 9:31 a.m. on Aug. 26, Cohen held 500,000 Dell shares,
the agency alleged. At 1:29 p.m., an SAC employee forwarded
Horvath’s e-mail to Cohen on the phone and 10 minutes later,
Cohen began selling off Dell stock, regulators said. By 3:49
p.m., Cohen had dumped his entire Dell position, the SEC
alleged.  While there is no evidence that Cohen knew Horvath had
illicitly obtained the information, the SEC said, Cohen was
“looped into a highly suspicious e-mail” and “failed to take
prompt action to determine whether an employee under his
supervision was engaged in unlawful conduct.”  Horvath’s e-mail first emerged at the trial of two fund
managers who were arrested and charged with being part of a
group of portfolio managers, analysts and insiders at technology
companies that funneled nonpublic information to each other.  Guilty Pleas  Of the eight people charged by the U.S. in the scheme, six
have pleaded guilty to insider trading and are cooperating with
the U.S.  Two fund managers who went to trial, Level Global Investors
LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and former Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman , were convicted by
a federal jury in New York of  securities fraud  and conspiracy.
Newman was sentenced to 4 1/2 years in prison while Chiasson was
sentenced to 6 1/2 years. Both are free pending appeal.  “The SEC’s administrative proceeding has no merit,”
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, said in a statement
yesterday. “ Steve Cohen  acted appropriately at all times and
will fight this charge vigorously. The SEC ignores SAC’s
exceptional supervisory structure, its extensive compliance
policies and procedures, and Steve Cohen’s strong support for
SAC’s compliance program.”  Barry Berke, a lawyer for Steinberg, and Jerika Richardson,
a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment on the SEC’s
administrative action.  The criminal case against Steinberg is U.S. v. Steinberg,
12-cr-00121, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  