-- Eni-Enel Stake Sales Weighed by Italy to Reduce Debt
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2013-07-19T16:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/saccomanni-says-italy-considering-selling-stakes-in-eni-enel.html
Italian Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said the government may sell stakes in  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Enel
SpA (ENEL)  and  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , or use the assets as collateral in a
bid to lower debt.  “We are considering the possibility of reducing our
participation in state-controlled companies,” Saccomanni said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview with Ryan Chilcote
from Moscow. When asked then if he was referring to companies
like Eni, Enel and Finmeccanica, Saccomanni said: “We are
considering this.”  “There are a number of issues to be addressed from this
point of view because these companies are profitable and are
giving dividends to the budget,” he said. “So we have to
consider also the possibility to use this as collateral for debt
reduction schemes we are considering.”  Saccomanni’s office said later in an e-mailed statement
that specific plans reported in the media had not been
formulated by the Finance Ministry.  “The minister responded in general terms, speaking about
the strategy of reduction of debt, citing many possibilities of
creating value from public assets, but without ever citing
specific companies,” the ministry said in the statement.  The Italian government, led by Prime Minister Enrico Letta,
is turning its attention to the $2.7 trillion debt after reining
in the deficit after almost two years of austerity. The debt
load has weighed on confidence throughout the European financial
crisis and Italy’s two-year recession, with foreign ownership of
Italian debt declining to 34.6 percent in April from 35.1
percent in May 2012.  ‘Overall Strategy’  “I hope that before the end of the year we can make clear
what are we concretely envisioning in the overall strategy of
accelerating the debt-reduction scheme,” Saccomanni said. He
didn’t clarify his intention regarding collateral.  Eni, Enel and Finmeccanica underperformed the benchmark
FTSE MIB stock index’s 0.4 percent gain as of 5:32 p.m. in  Rome .
Eni rose 0.2 percent to 16.64 euros and Enel declined 0.8
percent to 2.39 euros. Finmeccanica was the index’s second-biggest loser, falling 1.6 percent to 3.71 euros.  Saccomanni’s remarks “could lead to some pressure on share
prices,” analysts at Equita Sim SpA said in a note to investors
today.  The sale of government holdings could deepen fissures in
the coalition. Deputy Finance Minister Stefano Fassina said in a
January interview that the benefit “in terms of debt reduction
would be little, while the state would lose control of valuable
pieces of industry.”  State Stakes  The Treasury and state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti own
about 30 percent of Rome-based Eni, the oil producer with a
market value of 60 billion euros. The Treasury owns about 31
percent of power producer Enel and 30 percent of Finmeccanica,
the Rome-based defense contractor.  Italy  is mired in its longest recession in at least two
decades and unemployment has risen to 12.2 percent, a record.
Italy met about 60 percent of its debt-issuance needs for 2013
in the first half, according to the Treasury. Saccomanni said
the presence of non-Italian investors has been adequate.  “We are satisfied with the results we have achieved so
far,” Saccomanni said. “Apart from some volatility, the share
of foreign holders of Italian debt has remained more or less
constant. It has declined during the crisis, but then gone up
again.”  Accelerating Payments  Letta, 46, is seeking to stimulate the economy by paying
back debt owed by the public administration to its private-sector suppliers. That effort is being accelerated as the
government aims to complete 40 billion euros of arrears payments
within 12 months, Saccomanni said today.  “We are anticipating there will be a powerful impact from
the program of accelerated repayment of commercial arrears,”
Saccomanni said.  Still, Letta needs to meet a commitment to European Union
allies to keep the budget deficit below 3 percent of gross
domestic product.  “I think it’s necessary to couple the current policy to
contain the deficit with an effort to accelerate the reduction
of debt that can have an effect on the spreads and debt
financing costs,” Saccomanni said later to reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  