-- Starwood Capital Said to Join Bidding for Saks Chain
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/saks-jumps-on-report-starwood-capital-has-made-a-bid-for-chain.html
Starwood Capital Group LLC, the
investment firm led by  Barry Sternlicht , has joined the bidding
for the  Saks Inc. (SKS)  luxury department-store chain, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The person, who asked not to be identified because the
talks are confidential, didn’t disclose the value of the offer
by the Greenwich, Connecticut-based firm.  Saks, which is based in New York, has hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. for advice on its options, two people with knowledge
of the matter told  Bloomberg News  in May. The company’s sales
haven’t recovered from their pre-recession high. Last year, the
retailer posted revenue of $3.15 billion, short of the $3.28
billion it recorded in the retail year that ended in early 2008.  The company could fetch $16 a share in a buyout, Michael Binetti, an analyst at UBS AG in  New York , wrote in a note to
clients on May 21. That would value the retailer at $2.4
billion, or about 8.5 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization.  Saks rose as much as 19 percent yesterday after the New
York Post reported that Starwood Capital has offered between $17
and $18 a share for the chain, equal to an offer from  Hudson’s
Bay Co. (HBC)  The newspaper cited an unidentified source and said a
Middle Eastern sovereign wealth fund may be a third bidder.  The company’s shares increased 8.2 percent to $15.89 at the
close in New York, after climbing as high as $17.51. They’ve
climbed 51 percent this year, compared with the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index’s 19 percent gain.  Underperforming Branches  Julia Bentley, a spokeswoman for Saks, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  Tom Johnson , a Starwood Capital
spokesman with New York-based Abernathy MacGregor Group,
declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Sadove, who has held the
post for six years, has been closing the chain’s underperforming
branches. It operates 42 namesake stores, compared with 54 in
early 2007. Industry sources value the Fifth Avenue flagship
store at $1 billion,  Liz Dunn , an analyst at Macquarie Group in
New York, said.  Starwood Capital invests in retail, office and residential
real estate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  