-- Scania Looks at Adding Production on Europe Replacements
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-07-19T08:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/scania-looks-at-adding-production-on-europe-replacements.html
Scania AB (SCVB) , the Swedish truckmaker
controlled by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , plans to increase production rates
to ensure short delivery times after second-quarter orders rose
15 percent.  Sales contracts increased to 22,564 trucks and buses from
19,586 vehicles a year earlier, while deliveries jumped 33
percent, Soedertaelje, Sweden-based Scania said today in a
statement. Net income fell 6 percent to 1.37 billion kronor
($210 million) as a strengthening Swedish currency and truck-price pressure weighed on earnings. Revenue gained 19 percent to
22.8 billion kronor.  “The economic climate remains uncertain, but there is a
replacement need,” Chief Executive Officer Martin Lundstedt
said in the statement. “Scania is continuing its efforts to
expand annual technical production capacity toward 120,000
vehicles.”  The manufacturer is rolling out new vehicles that meet
tighter emissions standards to drive sales in a bid to counter
recessions across  Europe . New registrations of heavy commercial
vehicles weighing more than 16 metric tons in the region,
excluding buses and coaches, fell 13 percent in the first five
months of 2013, with double-digit declines in all major markets,
industry association ACEA said on June 28.  Scania  fell  as much as 5.1 percent to 140.3 kronor, the
steepest intraday drop since April 2012, and was trading down
2.7 percent at 10:30 a.m. in  Stockholm , valuing the manufacturer
at 113.8 billion kronor.  Margin Declines  Operating profit in the quarter rose 5 percent to 2.04
billion kronor. The operating margin narrowed to 8.9 percent of
sales from 10.1 percent a year earlier.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its  recommendation  on Scania
stock to neutral from overweight earlier this month, with a
share-price estimate of 140 kronor, saying risks to growth in
the European truck industry next year are increasing.  “We continue to view Scania as the best executor amongst
our truck coverage but, with no upside to our price target, we
prefer a neutral positioning until the risks in Europe and
 Brazil  are understood or reflected in the stock,” Alexander Whight, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan, said in a note to
clients on July 9.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest automaker, is forging a truck
alliance between Scania and its Munich-based  MAN SE (MAN)  truck
division to reap cost savings and take on global market leader
 Daimler AG. (DAI)   A domination and profit and loss agreement giving VW full
control of MAN is now in effect after being entered in the
corporate register, the truckmaker said on July 17. VW promoted
former Scania CEO Leif Oestling to run its group trucks
operation last year to lead cooperation efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Frankfurt at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  