-- Schibsted Advances as Online Unit Growth Accelerates: Oslo Mover
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   R e e d   a n d   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-07-19T09:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/schibsted-advances-as-online-unit-growth-accelerates-oslo-mover.html
Schibsted ASA (SCH) , Norway’s biggest
media group, climbed to the highest price since it sold shares
in Oslo more than 20 years ago after growth at its online
classified unit accelerated.  The shares rose as much as  7 percent  to 302.4 kroner, the
highest level since July 1992. The stock was up 6.1 percent at
299.8 kroner as of 11:28 a.m., making Oslo-based Schibsted the
biggest gainer on the benchmark  OSEBX index  today and giving the
company a market value of 32.4 billion kroner ($5.4 billion).  Schibsted, which traces its roots back to 1839, is
expanding its online business as readers increasingly forgo
traditional print media. Web-based operations, which include
Leboncoin.fr, one of  France ’s 10 most-visited websites,
contributed 45 percent of second-quarter revenue, up from 39
percent a year earlier, it said today.  “The numbers were better than expected, especially in
online classifieds, which is really what’s driving the share
price,” Preben Rasch-Olsen, an analyst at Carnegie ASA, said in
an interview. “They show that they are able to make money from
the printed newspapers as well. Revenues were up, which is
impressive, and costs were down even more than expected.”  Underlying revenue rose 2 percent in the second quarter, as
underlying sales at the online classifieds unit climbed 15
percent, accelerating from 11 percent in the  first quarter .  Schibsted, which also owns Aftenposten,  Norway ’s largest
newspaper, and Swedish tabloid Aftonbladet, is investing to
boost growth and plans to spend 500 million kroner to increase
revenue as it seeks to replicate the success of its Finn.no,
Blocket.se and  Leboncoin.fr  websites in nations including
Malaysia and  Brazil .  Second-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortisation dropped to 555 million kroner from 600 million
kroner a year earlier, beating the  519.3 million-kroner  average
of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alastair Reed in Oslo at 
 areed12@bloomberg.net ;
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  