-- Schlumberger Profit Rises on More Deep-Water Drilling
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-07-19T20:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/schlumberger-profit-rises-on-more-deep-water-drilling.html
Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the largest
oilfield-services provider, will buyback $10 billion in shares
as quarterly profit rose and it forecast “double-digit”
customer spending increases on crude exploration.  Second-quarter net income climbed 49 percent to $2.1
billion, or $1.57 a share, from $1.4 billion, or $1.05, a year
earlier, Houston- and Paris-based Schlumberger said in a
statement today. Excluding one-time items, earnings per share
exceeded the $1.10 average of 33  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales climbed 8.1 percent to $11.2 billion.  The quarterly average price for Brent oil, an international
benchmark, has remained more than $100 a barrel since the start
of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Customers are
spending more to get access to harder to reach oil and gas
reserves around the world, including deep-water fields, and the
company said it expects those increases to continue.  “They beat in every region,” Stephen Gengaro, an analyst
at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in New York who rates the shares a
buy and owns none, said in a phone interview today.
“International revenue growth and margins were stronger than
expected.”  Sales in its international services segments climbed 8
percent from the first quarter, compared with a 2 percent
increase in the U.S. and Canada unit.  Shares Rise  Schlumberger gained 5.4 percent to $82.74 at the close in
New York, the most since Nov. 30, 2011.  Schlumberger’s board yesterday approved a $10 billion share
repurchase program to be completed by June 2018. The company
said it will finish an $8 billion buyback program in the third
quarter that was approved in April 2008.  While the market for oil and gas remains stable, demand for
exploration and production “has been revised upwards making
this year the fourth consecutive year of double-digit spending
increases and pointing to the long-term nature of oil and gas
developments,” Chief Executive Officer Paal Kibsgaard said in
the statement.  Schlumberger generates about two-thirds of  sales  outside of
North America, the highest ratio among the biggest service
providers, including  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   Baker Hughes, the third-largest provider of services to
drill and complete wells, today reported second-quarter net
income fell 45 percent to $240 million, missing the average of
14 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Results were hurt by less activity and higher costs in
Brazil and  Mexico , the company said in a statement today. Baker
Hughes dropped 2.6 percent to $47.80, the biggest decline in
more than three months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  