-- SEC’s White Takes on Two Billionaires in One Day to Make Mark
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-07-19T23:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/sec-s-white-takes-on-two-billionaires-in-one-day-to-make-mark.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White picked fights with two
billionaire hedge-fund managers this week, the strongest signs
yet that she plans to run the “bold and unrelenting”
enforcement program she promised.  Under her leadership, the commission voted to seek
sanctions against  Steven A. Cohen , the founder of SAC Capital
Advisers LP, who had so far escaped direct implication in a
sprawling insider-trading case involving his employees. She also
rejected a proposed $18 million settlement with Harbinger
Capital Partners LLC founder  Philip Falcone  because it wasn’t
stringent enough.  The actions signal that White may be more willing than her
predecessors to approve cases that could test the litigation
prowess of the agency, which has become better known for
reaching settlements than taking cases to trial. Cohen has said
he will fight the administrative claims; Falcone has been
contesting the SEC’s lawsuit for more than a year.  “This makes plain that Mary Jo White is taking an
aggressive approach in going after high-profile matters,” said
Steve Crimmins, a former SEC attorney who is now a partner at
law firm K&L Gates LLP. “It shows that White and her team will
not be afraid to take tough matters into litigation.”  SEC investigators claimed Cohen ignored red flags that two
of his employees who are facing criminal insider trading charges
were illegally using confidential information to make trades.
The agency is seeking to bar Cohen from managing investor money.  Harbinger Filing  Falcone, who once ran one of the biggest  hedge funds  in the
industry, was sued by the SEC in June 2012 over claims he
improperly borrowed $113 million from his fund to pay his taxes
and of manipulating a stock price. In May, Falcone and SEC
litigators agreed to a $18 million sanction and two-year bar
from the industry; Harbinger revealed the agreement in a public
filing before the commission had voted to approve it.  After reviewing the terms, White and the two Democratic
commissioners,  Luis Aguilar  and Elisse Walter, rejected it. They
questioned why the deal didn’t bar Falcone from serving as an
officer or director of a public company. They also objected to
the lack of an injunction -- an order not to violate securities
laws -- that is characteristic of most SEC settlements and can
be used as a basis for future sanctions if the person doesn’t
comply with the agreement, according to two people knowledge of
the matter.  In nominating White, President  Barack Obama  highlighted her
reputation as a brass-knuckled prosecutor with experience
bringing terrorists and mobsters to justice.  “You don’t want to mess with Mary Jo,” Obama said as he
introduced her at the White House.  About two months after being sworn in, White announced the
agency would depart from a decades-old practice of settling
cases without requiring defendants to admit to wrongdoing.  “This shows Mary Jo White’s tenure as SEC Chairman will be
a particularly active time for the enforcement division,”
Crimmins said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  