-- Cohen’s SAC Career Faces End as SEC Presses Supervision
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/sec-sues-cohen-for-failure-to-supervise-traders.html
Billionaire hedge-fund manager
 Steven A. Cohen  faces an attempt by U.S. regulators to force him
out of business for failing to supervise two employees charged
with  insider trading .  The Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday presented
new details that it said showed Cohen received “highly
suspicious” information that should have caused any reasonable
hedge-fund manager to investigate the basis for trades made by
Mathew Martoma and Michael Steinberg. Cohen, 57, ignored red
flags and allowed illegal trades that earned profits and avoided
losses of more than $275 million, the SEC said in an
administrative proceeding.  “Hedge-fund managers are responsible for exercising
appropriate supervision over their employees to ensure that
their firms comply with the securities laws,” Andrew Ceresney,
co-director of the SEC’s enforcement division, said in a
statement. “After learning about red flags indicating potential
insider trading by his employees,  Steven Cohen  allegedly failed
to follow up to prevent violations of the law.”  If its proceedings are successful, the SEC said it would
seek to bar Cohen, who boasts one of the best long-term  track
records  in history, from managing money for investors. The
move could effectively end his hedge-fund career even though the
SEC isn’t pursuing insider-trading claims against him personally.  SAC, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , oversees $15
billion, about 60 percent of which is money from Cohen and
employees. Cohen hasn’t been charged criminally despite a
multiyear probe by the U.S. attorney’s office in  Manhattan  and
the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation.  Unsurpassed Record  Cohen, whose net worth is estimated at about $9 billion by
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , has returned 25 percent a year
in his funds since founding his firm in 1992 -- after taking
half of the profits in fees -- a record unsurpassed by any other
equity hedge-fund manager.  “The SEC’s administrative proceeding has no merit,”
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, said in a statement.
“ Steve Cohen  acted appropriately at all times and will fight
this charge vigorously. The SEC ignores SAC’s exceptional
supervisory structure, its extensive compliance policies and
procedures, and Steve Cohen’s strong support for SAC’s
compliance program.”  The SEC moved against Cohen four months after his firm
agreed to pay $616 million to settle a complaint of insider
trading by Martoma and Steinberg, without admitting or denying
wrongdoing. At least nine current and former employees of SAC
have been linked to insider trading while working at the firm.  Elan, Dell  The SEC’s five-year statute of limitations deadline to sue
Cohen for a series of trades sparked by Martoma’s tip expires
this month. Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said this week
that prosecutors have an arsenal of statutes to bring  securities
fraud  and insider trading charges and aren’t limited to a five-year deadline.  The Martoma case, which centered on trades in drugmakers
 Elan Corp. (ELN)  and Wyeth Inc., was the first to link Cohen directly
to alleged inside information. Martoma, who has pleaded not
guilty and is scheduled to go on trial Nov. 4, allegedly
received inside information on the drug trial from Dr. Sid
Gilman, who was involved in the trial of an Alzheimer’s drug.  The SEC’s administrative action showed that the U.S. has
amassed more evidence against Cohen than was previously known.
Cohen knew that his employees were talking to at least one
doctor about the trial, the SEC alleged in its order.  ‘No Concern’  On April 11 and April 12, 2008, two unnamed analysts told
Cohen they had a conversation with a doctor who they said
implied he had seen some confidential phase II trial data on the
Alzheimer’s drug being developed by Wyeth and Elan and that it
did not have a statistically significant effect on patients.  “During his e-mail exchanges with the analysts, Cohen
displayed no concern about the apparent disclosure of nonpublic
information by the doctor to the analysts or about the analysts’
use of such information to inform their investment decisions on
the firm’s behalf,” the SEC said.  Cohen then asked Martoma to speak with the unnamed doctor,
the SEC said in its order. Martoma came back and said the
information was a “non issue.” Cohen replied: “How come?”
The SEC didn’t say in its order how Martoma responded. During
that time, Martoma was getting nonpublic information from
another doctor, Gilman, the SEC said.  The SEC also said in its order that Cohen got and traded on
a tip about  Dell Inc. (DELL)  that was forwarded to him by Steinberg.
Cohen sold off more than $11 million in Dell stock within
minutes of getting a copy of a “highly suspicious” e-mail from
Jon Horvath, Steinberg’s analyst.  White ‘Unrelenting’  Steinberg was indicted in March on charges of conspiracy
and securities fraud. The U.S. alleges he engaged in insider
trading in Dell based on illicit tips provided to him by
Horvath. Steinberg has pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go
to trial in November. Horvath pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S.  The SEC’s order -- the first time ever that government has
brought an action against Cohen personally -- coincided with
news that the regulator had rejected a proposed $18 million
settlement with hedge-fund manager  Philip Falcone  as too
lenient, suggesting its new Chairman Mary Jo White is following
through on a pledge to run a “bold and unrelenting”
enforcement program.  Falcone’s Deal  Falcone in April agreed to a two-year suspension from
investing client money in order to settle claims that he
improperly borrowed money from his fund to pay his taxes. White
and Democrats Luis A. Aguilar and Elisse B. Walter, in a 3-to-1
vote, were concerned that Falcone wasn’t barred from serving as
officer or director of a public company, said two people briefed
on the matter, asking not to be named because the deliberations
aren’t public.  Failure to supervise claims, such as brought against Cohen
yesterday, are most commonly seen in cases targeting abusive
sales practices at brokerages. The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission used a similar provision in its June lawsuit against
 Jon Corzine  when it accused him of failing of supervise
employees who misused customer funds at now-defunct MF Global
Holdings Ltd.  Failure to supervise claims can only be brought
administratively and will be heard by an administrative judge
within the SEC, not in a federal court like civil insider-trading allegations would.  Cohen had previously considered offering the government a
deferred prosecution agreement under which SAC would admit
wrongdoing and become a family office, but wouldn’t be
prosecuted unless it broke the law again, a person familiar with
his thinking told  Bloomberg News  in May.  SAC, which initially cooperated with the investigation,
told clients in May that it will no longer do so
unconditionally. Cohen last month declined to testify before a
grand jury about allegations of insider trading at SAC. His firm
has said it doesn’t plan to stop managing outside money even
after clients pulled billions of dollars amid the investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  