-- Senate Said to Reach Student-Loan Deal Ending Rate Jump
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-07-19T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/senate-said-to-reach-student-loan-deal-ending-rate-jump.html
A bipartisan Senate deal to cancel
the doubling of a popular student loan rate by pegging the
interest to market fluctuations will have to wait until next
week for a vote, while Democratic leaders placate dissenters
within their ranks.  The agreement announced yesterday by Republican and
Democratic negotiators after weeks of talks aims to break the
legislative logjam that prevented Congress from acting to avert
the July 1 doubling of the Stafford subsidized loan rate from
3.4 percent to 6.8 percent.  The accord backed by the Obama administration would lower
rates for all 11 million undergraduate Stafford borrowers in the
coming academic year. Congress faces a looming deadline on the
issue -- it must pass legislation before lawmakers leave
 Washington  for a five-week recess after Aug. 2 to ensure that
students who begin borrowing next month aren’t hit by the higher
rates.  The Republican-backed market-based approach had been
opposed by many Democratic senators. Still, the Democrats faced
enormous pressure to resolve an issue that has such a pocket-book impact on so many voters.  The deal was spurred by last-minute presidential arm-twisting and probably has majority support in the chamber. The
Senate’s Democratic leaders, though, decided to delay an
immediate vote on the measure to allow some of their colleagues
time to make their case for an alternative approach.  Amendment Chance  A group of Democrats who led the resistance to the idea of
flexible-rate loans -- which was first proposed by President
 Barack Obama  -- will get a chance to offer at least one
amendment, said Democratic leadership aides. Allowing debate on
the amendments could put off the vote until July 24, said the
aides, who spoke on condition of anonymity while the legislative
maneuvering continues.  The delay would give Rhode Island Democrat  Jack Reed , who
has opposed the compromise, a chance to introduce his amendment
to cap undergraduate loan rates at 6.8 percent, the aides said.
That would be lower than the 8.25 percent rate limit in the
compromise reached by negotiators led by Democratic Whip  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois  and Republican Senator  Lamar Alexander  of
 Tennessee .  Reed said the 6.8 percent cap is needed because under the
compromise “inevitably, mathematically, those rates will go
beyond 6.8 percent.”  He made his comments on the floor yesterday as the
bipartisan group was announcing the terms of the deal, which had
been struck late July 17.  Education Costs  The compromise “will increase the cost of education of
students” as interest rates rise, Reed said.  Vermont Senator  Bernie Sanders , an independent who caucuses
with Democrats, may also get a chance to offer an amendment that
would end the new rate-based loan framework in two years.  The compromise measure would save the government $715
million over 10 years, according to a Congressional Budget
Office analysis. Those savings were criticized as unfairly
disadvantaging student borrowers by Massachusetts Senator
 Elizabeth Warren , a Democrat who won election last year on a
pledge to crack down on unfair lending and investment practices
of big banks.  “Our students are drowning under a $1 trillion in loan
debt,” Warren said in a floor speech yesterday. “I cannot
support a compromise proposal that squeezes even more profits
off our kids.” Congress must “eliminate government profits
from new  student loans , period,” she said.  Political Reality  Her opposition sparked a rebuke from Durbin, who rushed to
the floor to urge her to understand the need for compromise.  “We can do better for students,” Durbin said. “But we
don’t have the votes,” he said in floor remarks responding to
Warren.  Durbin said Warren and other opponents of the deal need to
“accept the political reality” that their goals wouldn’t pass
a politically divided Congress.  Dissident Democrats had allies among student advocacy
groups.  “The student-loan interest rate compromise reached by
the Obama administration and Senate negotiators from both
parties is more a missed opportunity than a cause for
celebration,”  Lauren Asher , president of the Oakland,
California-based Institute for College Access & Success, said in
a statement. “While  Senate Democrats  succeeded in including
caps on how high rates can rise, the agreement is still
projected to cost students more, not less.”  Republican Backing  Substantial support exists among Senate Republicans for the
compromise, according to a Republican Senate aide who spoke on
the condition of anonymity.  The agreement was embraced by Senate Minority Leader  Mitch
McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, who said in a statement it
“is what should’ve been agreed to weeks ago.”  The Republican-run House has already passed its version of
market-based student loan legislation, capping rate increases at
8.5 percent. Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , suggested
yesterday that the House was considering taking up the Senate
proposal because it followed the structure of the House measure.  “So when we see the details, I am hopeful that we will be
able to put this issue behind us,” he said.  Lawmakers have said the House and Senate needed to act
before the recess to ensure that students who begin borrowing
money next month to finance their college educations don’t pay
the higher rates that went into effect on July 1.  10-Year Treasuries  Under the compromise, rates would be tied to the yield on
the last auction of 10-year Treasuries before June 1. This year
that yield was 1.81 percent. Undergraduate Stafford loans would
be marked up 2.05 percentage points so students will pay 3.86
percent for the coming academic year. The deal is retroactive to
the July 1 expiration of the 3.4 percent rate for subsidized
Stafford loans.  Unsubsidized rates were already at 6.8 percent and the
bipartisan agreement will lower rates for all 11 million
undergraduate Stafford borrowers to 3.86 percent in the coming
year, lawmakers said.  Republicans couldn’t “envision that we would charge a
student one  interest rate  and charge a student sitting at the
next desk a different rate,” said Senator Richard Burr, a North
Carolina Republican and one of the negotiators.  Middle-income students shouldn’t be required to pay a
“surcharge” so “they can subsidize others” paying lower
rates, he said yesterday. “That is insane and we have now done
away with that.”  Durbin, citing CBO projections, said interest-rate
increases wouldn’t push the undergraduate student loan rate to
more than 6.8 percent for five years.  “Doing nothing means that students that would be protected
with lower interest rates for four out of the next five years”
would pay 6.8 percent for the whole period, Durbin said. “How
is that a victory for students?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  