-- Singh Says Rupee Volatility Is Immediate Worry for India Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-07-19T07:25:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/singh-says-rupee-volatility-is-immediate-worry-for-india-growth.html
The volatility in the Indian rupee
is the “immediate cause of worry” as the government seeks to
revive economic growth from the slowest pace in a decade, Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh told businessmen today.  Listing the steps his government has already taken to curb
the record current-account deficit, he said more measures to
lure foreign direct investment are on the anvil and told
investors not to be overwhelmed by “negative sentiments” about
Asia’s third-largest economy. He was speaking at an annual event
of the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of  India , or
Assocham, in New Delhi.  “The most immediate cause of worry is the recent
volatility in foreign-exchange markets,” he said. “I agree
that we’ve had one bad year, but I assure you that we will get
out of it.”  Singh, serving the final year of his second consecutive
term, is struggling to stop outflows amid concerns that a
potential tapering of stimulus by the U.S. Federal Reserve will
accelerate money leaving  emerging markets . His government this
week proposed to ease FDI limits in some industries as part of
efforts to woo long-term capital after the local currency
touched an unprecedented low against the dollar on July 8.  RBI Intervention  The rupee has tumbled 8 percent this year, the worst
performance in Asia after the yen, prompting the Reserve Bank of
India to intervene by selling dollars and most recently this
week to tighten liquidity in the local banking system by raising
two interest rates.  The weakening currency has stoked concerns inflation will
accelerate and force Governor Duvvuri Subbarao to desist from
cutting the benchmark interest rate after three reductions of
quarter-percentage points each this year.  “The RBI has done its bit to stabilize market
expectations,” Singh said. “Initially it injected dollars into
the market, this helped to some extent. More recently, it took
additional steps to raise short-term interest rates.”  The rupee has recovered 2.3 percent from the record-low
61.2125 a dollar, and traded at 59.81 as of 11:50 a.m. in Mumbai
today. The yield on the 10-year government bond rose 5 basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 8.04 percent, while the
benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index gained 0.3 percent.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, touched 13.55
percent on July 8, the highest level since May 2012. The rate
has since fallen to 12.44 percent after the central bank steps.  Fuel Subsidy  “Volatility will most likely continue to decline in
response to the recent measures,” analysts at Deutsche Bank AG,
including Singapore-based Taimur Baig, wrote in a research
report today. “Depreciation pressure on the exchange rate would
however abate only when capital flows stabilize and the trade
deficit begins to ease.”  Currency depreciation is unraveling Singh’s decision to cut
fuel subsidies as India pays for crude oil imports, he said. The
rupee’s slump and a 6 percent rally in Brent crude since May
have increased the subsidy bill.  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s biggest refiner, and its
state-run rivals sell diesel, kerosene and cooking gas below
cost to help curb inflation. They are partly compensated by the
government in cash and producers including  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC)  and  Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  give discounts on crude they sell to
the refiners.  The government in January allowed the refiners to raise
diesel prices by half a rupee a liter every month until they are
pegged to market rates to recover full cost.  Six Times  Indian Oil has raised diesel prices at least six times
since then, according to its  website . Revenue losses on diesel
sale at Indian Oil and its state-run rivals has widened to  9.45
rupees  a liter from 3.80 rupees on May 1, according to oil
ministry data.  Singh began a series of policy changes in September to spur
expansion and avert a credit-rating downgrade to junk. The steps
have included liberalization of foreign investment limits in the
retail and aviation industries, faster approvals for public
works, lower levies on overseas buyers of local bonds and higher
taxes on gold imports.  Singh’s policy push had foundered as protests over alleged
graft in government disrupted parliament, impeding bills seeking
to allow overseas companies to invest in the pensions industry
for the first time, and hold as much as 49 percent of insurance
businesses.  Foreign-direct investment slid about 21 percent to $36.9
billion last fiscal year compared with 2011-12.  The current-account deficit widened to $31.8 billion in the
last quarter of 2012, or equivalent to about 6.7 percent of
gross domestic product, before narrowing to $18.2 billion in the
following three months. The nation’s goods exports declined in
May and June from a year earlier.  “We need to push our exports and the depreciation in the
rupee will help but of course there is a time lag before this
benefit will felt in export volume,” Singh said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  