-- TSMC Slumps After Sales Forecast Trails Estimates: Taipei Mover
-- B y   C i n d y   W a n g   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-07-19T06:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/tsmc-slumps-after-sales-forecast-trails-estimates-taipei-mover.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2230) , the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips, fell
the most in more than four years after forecasting sales that
trailed analyst estimates.  TSMC  dropped  6.9 percent, the most since December 2008, to
close at NT$98.20 in Taipei. The company yesterday forecast
third-quarter sales of as much as NT$164 billion ($5.5 billion)
in the three months ending September. That compared with the
NT$164.5 billion average of 25 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg before the announcement.  Slumping demand for personal computers is crimping growth
for the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company even as it benefits from
rising demand for mobile phone chips. TSMC joins  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
the  Santa Clara , California-based semiconductor maker, in
predicting third-quarter sales below analyst expectations.  “The guidance is slightly lower than expectations,” said
Alan Tseng, vice president of Capital Investment Management
Corp. in Taipei, which has a neutral rating on TSMC. “The
company isn’t likely to post stunning growth any more.”  TSMC yesterday posted earnings that beat analyst estimates,
with net income rising 24 percent to NT$51.8 billion in the
three months ended June. That compared with the NT$49.4 billion
average of 20 analysts.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Morris Chang , 82, said
yesterday he plans to hand over the CEO position next year and
will remain as chairman of the board. Chang didn’t elaborate on
the succession plans after saying last year he may appoint more
than one CEO after relinquishing the post.  Intel forecast July 17 that third-quarter sales may fall
short of some analysts estimates as a slump in the personal
computer market erodes its largest business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Cindy Wang in Taipei at 
 hwang61@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  