-- Soccer World Cup Tickets to Range From $990 to $15, FIFA Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-07-19T16:28:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/soccer-world-cup-tickets-to-range-from-990-to-15-fifa-says.html
World Cup soccer ticket prices will
range from $990 for the final next July to an option that would
allow Brazilians to watch opening-round games for as little as
$15, the sport’s governing body said today.  Sales will start Aug. 20. The price announcement was
delayed from last month as Brazil’s biggest demonstrations in
two decades occurred during the Confederations Cup, a warm-up
for next year’s tournament also conducted by FIFA, soccer’s
international federation.  Organizers, after coming under pressure from government,
have included half-price tickets for Brazilian citizens over 60
and a selection of discounted $15 tickets at group-stage matches
for Brazilians with low income, $5 cheaper than the lowest-price
tickets sold to South Africans for the World Cup in 2010. As
many as 60,000 free tickets will be distributed to construction
workers on the 12 stadiums.  “These prices are extremely competitive,” Thierry Weil,
FIFA’s marketing director, said today at a press conference in
Sao Paulo. “I hope  FIFA  together with the local organizing
committee and government has proven to be reasonable when it
comes to prices, especially for an event which is the biggest
sporting event in the world.”  Crowds took to the streets during the Confederations Cup to
protest about poor public services, political corruption and the
near 30 billion reais ($13.4 billion) being spent on projects
linked to the World Cup.  Entrance prices have been among the most-contentious issues
in the country, where the average real income fell 0.3 percent
to 1,863 reais in May from the previous month, according to the
national statistics office.  Brazilian Prices  Tickets will be sold in four categories, with the last one
reserved for Brazilians, meaning the country’s citizens will be
able to buy access to 47 group games, not including the June 12
tournament opener, for as little as $30. The elderly, students
and people in households receiving social benefits get a further
50 percent discount on that price. International prices for
group games will range from $175 to $90.  Entry to the opening game in Brasilia, which will feature
 Brazil , the host and record five-time champion, will cost
between $220 and $495. Visitors wanting to attend the final will
have to pay a minimum of $440. That compares with $400 for the
final of the 2010 World Cup in Johannesburg, where the most
expensive entry cost $900. Priority will be given to students,
the elderly and low-income families -- all of whom will get a
50-percent discount on some tickets in the opening sales phase,
Weil said.  ‘Immense’ Resistance  Brazil’s Deputy Sports Minister Luis Fernandes said in a
June 29 interview that FIFA “initially resisted immensely” to
incorporate discount tickets for the elderly in its sales plan
before relenting.  “That I think was a major achievement because we have
discounts for elderly that live in Brazil or if they’re
Brazilian and living overseas in all categories of
legislation,” he said.  The profile of fans that attended the Confederations Cup, a
test event that used six of the 12 World Cup stadiums, differed
from the usual makeup of spectators that attend soccer games in
Brazil. The eight-team competition attracted more families and
wealthier supporters, with  ticket prices  much higher than those
for club matches.  All Seats  The games were the first in the country’s history to assign
seats to spectators used to arriving at stadiums and choosing
where to sit, or stand. The World Cup will be an all-seated
event.  “I know in Brazil it is still today different when it
comes to seat categorization but this is the international
standard of seat categorization,” Weil said.  The income from ticket sales will go toward the hosting
costs. In South Africa, revenue from tickets amounted to $300
million after FIFA said it sold 97.5 percent of the 3 million
seats available. Some spaces remained empty after sponsors and
other FIFA partners failed to take up their seat allocation,
which amounts to about 20 percent of the total available.  A “big portion -- nearly 80 percent -- are going to fans
in a free way” as FIFA sponsors give away seats to supporters
in contests, Weil said.  Brazil won the right to host the World Cup in October 2007
after the only other candidate, Colombia, withdrew six months
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at  celser@bloomberg.net  