-- Structured Products Exchange Sets Sights on Interbank Trading
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-07-19T08:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/structured-products-exchange-sets-sights-on-interbank-trading.html
Europe ’s biggest exchange for
structured products is moving into the over-the-counter market
for the securities to attract new business and to capitalize on
any potential regulatory changes.  Switzerland’s Scoach exchange will offer a new service
starting July 22 to process trades between issuers and large
investors, such as private banks, Chief Executive Officer
Christian Reuss said in an interview. Scoach, which is owned by
SIX Group, also has a regulated exchange based in Zurich where
individual investors buy and sell securities.  Scoach is wagering that regulators will increase oversight
of structured products and push for over-the-counter trading to
move onto electronic systems. Scoach could profit, just as
clearinghouses are benefiting from new rules for derivatives.  “The OTC market where a lot of trading is still conducted
over the telephone is mostly decentralized, potentially
inefficient and more likely prone to errors,” Reuss said.  Scoach’s new platform, known as XBTR, will allow the more
than 200 participants of the Six Swiss Exchange, the stock
exchange run by Scoach’s parent, to buy, sell and settle OTC
products. Scoach is trying to get all major market participants
to join the service within a year and a half, Reuss said.  Reuss, who joined the company in 2009 from  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  where he worked as co-head of public distribution for
Europe, said  Switzerland  has a large and inefficient OTC market
for structured products. A centralized platform would make the
market more efficient, he said.  Unknown Size  XBTR may also “have the added benefit of providing an
improved understanding of the size of the OTC market” in the
country, for which there currently aren’t any official
statistics, said Daniel Sandmeier, who is president of the Swiss
Structured Products Association. The group represents banks that
buy and sell products in the $184 billion market, including
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Societe Generale SA.  Scoach, which earns fees when issuers list and trade
products on its exchange, could boost its revenue by charging
users of XBTR. Trading on its exchange dropped to an eight-year-low of 32 billion Swiss francs ($34 billion) last year,
according to Scoach data. More than  17.4 billion  francs have
changed hands this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  