-- U.K. Economy Seen Expanding Most Since 2012 as Services Gain
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-07-19T15:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-k-economy-seen-expanding-most-since-2012-as-services-gain.html
U.K. economic growth  probably
accelerated in the second quarter to the fastest pace since 2012
as newly confident Britons took to the shops.  Gross domestic product  increased 0.6 percent from the first
quarter, when it rose 0.3 percent, according to the median of 37
forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The Office for National
Statistics will publish the data, a first estimate, at 9:30 a.m.
in London on July 25.  Growth is forecast by economists to be led by services, the
largest part of the economy, with recent reports suggesting
rising  house prices  and falling unemployment are spurring
 consumer confidence . In a shift of policy, Bank of England
officials are looking to forward guidance to maintain stimulus
while the recovery gains traction.  “It looks like  consumer spending  has held up and we should
see a decent pickup in services,” said  Ross Walker , an
economist in London at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The
risk of another negative quarter has receded but we’re not going
to see a blistering pace of expansion. The recovery looks weak
by historical standards.”  The economy probably expanded 1.4 percent from a year
earlier, according to 30 economists in a separate survey.  Retail sales including fuel rose 0.2 percent from May, when
they gained 2.1 percent in the first consecutive monthly
increase since July 2012, the ONS said yesterday. Acadametrics
Ltd. reported last week that house prices rose to a record in
June.  Consumer sentiment rose to a two-year high last month,
according to a GfK NOP Ltd. index. At the same time, claims for
 unemployment benefits  fell the most in three years, dropping
21,200 from May to 1.48 million, data from the ONS showed.  Incomes Squeeze  The return to growth in the first quarter was partly due to
consumers saving less of their incomes, with the savings ratio
falling to 4.2 percent, the lowest in four years. Some
economists have questioned the durability of a consumer-led
rebound when unemployment is close to 8 percent and inflation
continues to outstrip growth in wages.  With the U.K. government sticking to plans for the biggest
fiscal squeeze since World War II and risks of renewed turmoil
in Europe, Britain’s biggest trade partner, Bank of England
officials sought this month to shield the recovery from the
prospect of a scaling back of monetary stimulus in the U.S.  At Mark Carney’s first decision as governor, all nine
members of the Monetary Policy Committee voted to leave their
bond-purchase program at 375 billion pounds ($572 billion) and
the key rate at a record-low 0.5 percent.  Paul Fisher  and  David Miles  dropped a call from previous months for more gilt
purchases in favor of a “mixed strategy” involving guidance on
the path of  interest rates , minutes of the July 3-4 decision
published this week show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  