-- U.K. Hires JPMorgan to Provide Bank-Privatization Advice
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-07-19T10:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-k-hires-jpmorgan-to-provide-bank-privatization-advice.html
The U.K. hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
whose senior advisers include former Prime Minister  Tony Blair ,
as it accelerates efforts to reduce its stakes in  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc .  “JPMorgan Cazenove will provide ad hoc input which will
complement UKFI’s expertise in devising strategies for realizing
value for the government’s shareholdings in the banks,” U.K.
Financial Investments Ltd., the body that oversees the
government’s stakes in the lenders, said in a statement today.
“This appointment does not involve any commitment in relation
to other roles at any other time and UKFI intends to review this
appointment on a periodic basis.”  UKFI also named a panel of 11 banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. eligible to be selected as
bookrunners in future stock offerings.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said last month
the U.K. government is “actively considering” selling shares
in Lloyds. RBS’s return to private ownership is still some way
off because it’s weighed down by too many poor assets, he told
financiers in his Mansion House speech in London on June 19.  Lloyds shares exceed the level at which the government says
it will break even on its 39 percent holding after providing a
20 billion-pound ($30 billion) rescue almost five years ago. The
stock was down 1 percent at 69.34 pence by 11:26 a.m. in London,
surpassing the 61 pence break-even price.  Osborne said last month the first block of government
shares in Lloyds will probably be sold to institutional
investors as “the most effective way of  managing risk  and
getting value.” The government will consider an offering to
individual investors at a later stage, he said.  RBS is trading at 336.8 pence, below the 407 pence the
Treasury says it will break even on its 45.5 billion-pound
investment in the 81 percent government-owned lender.  Following is a list of prequalified service providers:  
Source: UKFI  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  