-- U.K. to Remove Market Hurdle for Small Renewable Power Producers
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-07-19T11:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-k-to-remove-market-hurdle-for-small-renewable-power-producers.html
The U.K. government will require
electricity suppliers to buy power from independent renewable
generators, an effort to help them compete in an  electricity
market  dominated by  SSE Plc (SSE) ,  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and EON SE.  Smaller producers without strong electricity sales
departments struggle to enter the power market, the Department
of Energy and Climate Change said today in a statement. The
government said it intends to create a system to ensure there’s
always a buyer to sign contracts for their power.  The move is aimed at reducing the dominance of the so-called big six energy companies including EDF Energy Plc, RWE
Npower Plc and Scottish Power Ltd., which supply about 95
percent of the market. Britain is seeking to open up the system
to smaller companies such as Ecotricity Group Ltd. to boost
competition. Energy regulator Ofgem said in June suppliers must
trade fairly with smaller companies or face fines.  “Our new reforms will create the framework for a far more
dynamic and entrepreneurial market, while still ensuring that we
get the large scale investment that industry needs,” Energy
Minister  Greg Barker  said. “Opening up the electricity market
to more competition is a fundamental part of the reforms we are
introducing through the energy bill.”  The plans are set out in an amendment to the energy
legislation as it progresses through Parliament. The bill is
aimed at luring 110 billion pounds ($168 billion) of investment
in  power plants  and infrastructure to replace about a fifth of
current generating capacity scheduled to retire within a decade.  The amendment that involves setting up an off-taker of last
resort for power. The department will conduct a consultation
with industry about the proposals later this year. Suppliers
would be forced to buy power from generators under certain
conditions if they were unable to agree a commercial contract,
according to DECC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  