-- U.K. Budget Gap Widens on Municipal Spending
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-07-19T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-k-budget-gap-widens-on-local-government-tax-income-rises.html
Britain’s  budget deficit  widened in
June due to a deterioration in the finances of local government,
while a recovering economy boosted tax receipts in the economy.  Net borrowing excluding temporary support for banks was
12.4 billion pounds compared with 11.9 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said in London
today. The figures exclude 3.9 billion pounds of coupon cash
received from the  Bank of England  on its holdings of gilts.
Underlying tax receipts rose 2.9 percent and spending climbed
1.8 percent.  With the economy returning to growth, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  may find it easier to hold the budget
deficit to 119.8 billion pounds, or 7.5 percent of gross
domestic product, in the current fiscal year as forecast by his
fiscal watchdog, the  Office for Budget Responsibility .  Osborne “will be fervently hoping that the economy can
extend and build on its recent signs of improvement,” said
 Howard Archer , chief U.K. economist at IHS Global Insight in
London. “If it can, it will not only increase the chances of
beating the fiscal targets for 2013/14 but make it easier for
him to rebut calls for an easing up in the pace of fiscal
austerity.”  Weaker-than-forecast growth has forced Osborne to extend
his budget-cutting drive until 2018, turning the question of how
to do it into a key battleground for the 2015 general election.  Osborne insisted this month he can achieve his goals
through spending cuts alone, putting pressure on the Labour
opposition to say whether it would match his plans, raise taxes
of increase borrowing. The deficit has fallen by less than a
third from its peak above 11 percent of gross domestic product
in 2009-10 instead of the half originally projected.  Accrued revenue from a deal with  Switzerland  to fight  tax
evasion  in May was revised to 342 million pounds from 3.2
billion pounds.  The deficit for the first three months of the fiscal year
was unchanged at 35.9 billion pounds from a year earlier. The
figures exclude BOE coupon payments and the 28 billion-pound
transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets in April 2012.  In 2012-13, the deficit was 116.4 billion pounds, lower
than previously thought.  In total, the BOE will transfer 23.4 billion pounds -- 3.9
billion pounds each month between April and September -- to
clear cash that had accumulated in its asset-purchase facility
as of March 2013. In addition, there will be quarterly payments
of cash that build up during the current fiscal year, probably
starting this month.  While European Union rules mean only 12.3 billion pounds of
the income can count against net borrowing this year, cash
measures of the public finances will receive the full benefit.  There was a public-sector cash requirement of 3.1 billion
pounds in June, a figure boosted by the financial position of
publicly controlled banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net  