-- U.K. Stocks Drop From a Seven-Week High as ARM Declines
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-07-19T16:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-k-stocks-retreat-from-seven-week-high-as-arm-declines.html
  U.K. stocks  slipped from their
highest level in seven weeks, trimming the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index’s
fourth consecutive weekly gain, as Google Inc. and Microsoft
Corp. posted worse-than-projected earnings.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  lost 2.6 percent, leading European
 technology companies  lower before it publishes half-year results
next week.  IMI Plc (IMI)  gained 2 percent as Citigroup Inc. listed the
engineering company among its most preferred stocks.  The FTSE 100 declined 3.69 points, or 0.1 percent, to
6,630.67 at the close, paring a loss of as much as 0.6 percent
in the final 30 minutes of trading in London. The gauge still
advanced 1.3 percent this week as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank remains flexible on when
to reduce its asset purchases. The FTSE All-Share Index lost 0.1
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index fell 0.3 percent.  “An altogether more repressed sentiment prevails today,”
Brenda Kelly, a market strategist at IG Group, wrote in a note
to clients today. “Disappointing earnings from the global
technology sector threaten to take the wind out of the stock
market’s sails.”  Google, the owner of the Internet’s most popular search
engine, posted second-quarter sales and profit that missed
estimates as advertisers shifted their budgets toward mobile
devices, lowering the average cost per click. Microsoft posted
fiscal fourth-quarter profit that fell short of analysts’
projections because of weaker demand for personal computers
running its  Windows operating system .  ARM Holdings  lost 2.6 percent to 897.5 pence for its fourth
decline this month. The company, which designs chips for devices
running Google’s Android software, will release  half-year
earnings  on July 24.  British Banks  U.K. lenders dropped, with  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  slipping 0.5
percent to 737.5 pence. Investec Plc lowered its rating on the
FTSE 100’s heaviest stock to hold from buy. The stock’s price
doesn’t reflect potential  analyst cuts  to net-interest margin
and income forecasts, according to Investec.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  fell 1.1 percent to 69.25 pence.
Two people familiar with the matter said the U.K. government has
considered selling as much as 5 billion pounds ($7.6 billion) of
the lender’s shares. The state may sell a 5 to 10 percent stake
as soon as September, the people said.  IMI increased 2 percent to 1,400 pence, extending its
highest price since at least 1988. Citigroup analyst Mark Fielding predicted further “significant margin upside” for the
company. He also cited its strong balance sheet.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  added 1.3 percent to 193.85 pence, its
biggest advance in two weeks. The world’s second-largest
wireless carrier posted a smaller drop in first-quarter service
sales than analysts had predicted as markets outside Europe
improved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  