-- U.K. Farmer Recalls GM Rapeseed Trial After Monsanto’s Decision
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2013-07-19T14:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-k-farmer-recalls-gm-rapeseed-trial-after-monsanto-s-decision.html
Monsanto Co.’s decision to withdraw
applications for approval of genetically modified crops in the
European Union was “deeply disappointing,” said Paul Temple, a
farmer in Driffield,  England , who was part of a three-year trial
of GM rapeseed in 1999 to 2001. Temple is on the board of the
Home Grown Cereals Board, was vice president of the U.K.’s
National Farmers Union from 2006 to 2009 and was chairman of the
cereals, oilseeds and proteins group of farm lobby Copa-Cogeca
in Brussels from 2004 to 2010. Temple made the following
comments by telephone today from his farm.  On Monsanto’s decision:  “I am deeply disappointed because there isn’t any
government with any money to invest in GM crops in  Europe . My
argument as a farmer is the hypocrisy in the argument that if
for some reason we don’t want it, why are we allowed to import
it. And effectively, the livestock sector is benefiting from the
technology. Look at maize production across North and South
America. Those farmers and those countries have effectively
responded to the  food security , the food supply debate. And
Europe has got itself stuck in a strange position where we’re
depending on GM crops for feeding everybody but we aren’t
providing the choice. I always emphasize, it is about choice.”  On the three-year trial:  “We found after three years we were getting a yield
benefit, we could leave weeds in the crop for longer and the
product we were using had a lower environmental impact. It made
me realize with the pressures we have, we need to look at all
sorts of genetic solutions. This isn’t something that will solve
every problem. It allows us to do things that we will have to
tackle in the future, whether it’s drought, whether it’s
nutrient retrieval.”  The trial was for an Aventis trait, now part of Syngenta
AG, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at  