-- U.S. Automakers Thrive as Detroit Goes Bankrupt
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-07-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-s-automakers-thrive-as-detroit-goes-bankrupt.html
The Motor City was the car capital
of the world when  David Cole  graduated from a  Detroit  high
school in 1955 and headed off to college to study auto
engineering. Six decades later, the “motor” has mostly moved
out, he said.  Many of the factories that used to dot the city and employ
thousands moved to suburbs, other U.S. states or to  China  and
 Brazil  as the auto industry became global and manufacturing
focused on getting faster and less expensive, said Cole,
chairman emeritus of the Center for Automotive Research in  Ann
Arbor ,  Michigan , and son of a  General Motors Co. (GM)  president.  “The auto industry was forced to change, driven by
industry pressure, and it evolved,” Cole said. “Detroit did
not. It’s sad to see. We just took it all for granted.”  Detroit, hamstrung by $18 billion in debt, was forced to
file the largest bankruptcy for a U.S. municipality yesterday.
GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, the automakers that
call the region home, are profitable and thriving.  “For much of the 20th century, the auto industry and
Detroit were synonymous,” said  Harley Shaiken , a labor
professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley. “You
couldn’t drive through Detroit but be aware of the presence of
the automakers.”  “The industry has become both global and very much
decentralized in the U.S.,” he said. “There’s still a vital
presence in Michigan and an important presence within the city,
but their fates have diverged.”  ‘Much Messier’  It isn’t likely that Detroit’s recovery will be as quick
and easy as the turnaround of the U.S. automakers, said  Steven Rattner , a  New York  financier who headed President  Barack Obama ’s auto-industry task force in 2009 that ultimately put GM
and Chrysler into bankruptcy.  GM and Chrysler were scrubbed clean of debt by U.S.-backed
bankruptcies that lasted about six weeks. Ford suffered through
a painful restructuring on its own that cut debt and labor
costs.  “This will be much messier than the auto companies,”
Rattner said in an interview. “This will go on for a long
time.”  Detroit’s ties to the fortunes of the auto industry have
been fraying for six decades, as manufacturing jobs in the city
fell from about 296,000 in 1950 to fewer than 27,000 in 2011.
The U.S. automakers, still ruling the road in the ’50s and ’60s,
moved much of their manufacturing out of Detroit as they built
new factories elsewhere in the U.S. and world. That evacuation
of the city accelerated Detroit’s decline.  What’s Left  Chrysler, majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , has factories to make
Jeeps and Viper  sports cars  in the city and a 70-person office
downtown, about 30 miles (48 kilometers) from the suburban
headquarters where it employs more than 10,000. GM builds the
plug-in hybrid Chevrolet Volt at a factory in Detroit, where it
also has its headquarters downtown. Ford, based in neighboring
Dearborn, built Model Ts in Detroit until 1910 and hasn’t built
cars in the city since.  The automakers each said yesterday that they will continue
to play a role in the city as it restructures.  “Chrysler Group believes in the city of Detroit and its
people,” the company said in an e-mailed statement. “We not
only continue to invest in the city and its residents by adding
to our presence in Detroit, we also are committed to playing a
positive role in its revitalization.”  For GM, the filing may mark a “clean start” for the city.  “A healthy  auto industry  will play a part in Detroit’s
comeback story and GM is doing its part,” the company said in a
statement.  Shares Surge  The automakers can afford to be magnanimous. Ford, the
oldest U.S. automaker, founded 110 years ago, reached a 29-month
high on July 15 and its shares surged 31 percent this year
through yesterday. GM has gained 28 percent so far this year.  In contrast, Michigan’s largest city has seen its
population decline to just 701,475 in 2012, down from a peak of
1.85 million in 1950, when it was the fourth-largest city in the
U.S., according to U.S. Census data.  The city listed assets and debt of more than $1 billion in
a Chapter 9 petition filed yesterday in court in Detroit.
Detroit Emergency Financial Manager Kevyn Orr, who helped with
the Chrysler bankruptcy, precipitated the filing after failing
to reach cost cutting deals with debtors and city unions.  “Detroit has been working its way to a level of insolvency
for decades -- decades,” Orr said at a press conference
yesterday in Detroit.  Detroit’s Spiral  “Even the casual observer has had to understand for some
period of time now that Detroit” was “simply not on a
sustainable footing, continuing to borrow, continuing to defer
pension payments, continuing not to pay its bills on time,
continuing a deepening insolvency -- $18 billion,” Orr said.  Detroit’s decline started in the 1950s with the closing the
massive Packard plant, said  John Wolkonowicz , an independent
auto consultant based in  Boston  and a former Ford product
planner. The crumbling factory hasn’t been torn down and
redeveloped. It’s an image of Detroit’s decay.  The city and the automakers got complacent, Wolkonowicz
said. Until the U.S. government forced GM and Chrysler to change
during the 2009 bankruptcies, they seemed destined for the same
fate, he said.  “The Detroit mentality contributed to the decline of the
auto industry,” Wolkonowicz said. “I worked in Detroit for a
long time. I ran into so many people who worked for the car
companies who could care less about the car companies or the
industry. They were there because that’s the industry that was
there.”  Now, with the automakers doing well financially, “there is
this disconnect,” Shaiken said. “An industrial revitalization
within the city would be very positive, but that reaches beyond
what the automakers can do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  