-- Foreign Fighters Flocking to Syria Stirs Terror Concerns
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-07-20T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-s-stakes-in-syria-grow-as-radicals-rally-to-the-fight.html
The U.S. and European Union are
seeing an increasing number of radicalized young Muslims going
to  Syria  to fight, a development that raises the danger that
they will return to conduct terrorist attacks at home.  The war is providing both a rallying point and a training
ground for radical Islamists from other nations, according to
Matthew Olsen, director of the U.S. government’s National
Counterterrorism Center. Their numbers are increasing and the
radicals, such as those joining the al-Nusra Front, an offshoot
of the terrorist group al-Qaeda in  Iraq , are now “the most
capable fighting force within the opposition” to Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad, he said.  “Syria has become really the predominant jihadist
battlefield in the world,” Olsen said at the Aspen Security
Forum in Aspen,  Colorado . “We see foreign fighters going from
Western  Europe  and, in a small number of cases, from the  United
States  to Syria to fight for the opposition.”  Olsen and other forum speakers highlighted terrorism as
part of the growing stakes in the Syrian civil war, which
threatens to destabilize the region. Efforts by the U.S. and
European countries to promote peace talks have stumbled, and
President  Barack Obama  has balked at deeper American
involvement, citing concerns that some rebel groups may have
terrorist links.  About 600 fighters have gone to Syria from Europe,
according to Gilles de Kerchove, the European Union’s counter-terrorism coordinator. That number grows to the thousands if
fighters from the Balkans and North Africa are counted, he said.  Different Scale  “The scale of this is completely different from what we’ve
experienced in the past with  Afghanistan ,  Pakistan , with Yemen
and Somalia,” de Kerchove said at the forum yesterday.  Most of those from Europe are self-radicalized and
traveling on their own initiative, as opposed to being recruited
by a radical network, de Kerchove said.  He called it “at bit surprising” that they are going to
Syria, to fight other Muslims, rather than going the  Mali , where
 France  has intervened militarily to push back advances by
Islamic radicals. That may be the case because travel is easier
to Syria, through  Turkey , and because many of the young radicals
are more attuned to fighting in urban conditions rather than in
Mali’s vast desert territory, he said.  Those men may pose a threat in their home nations if they
survive and return home, he said. European governments lack the
capabilities to monitor all of them around the clock, he said.  Olsen declined to disclose U.S. estimates of the numbers,
though he said the pace has been increasing recently.  ‘Jihadist Movement’  “The concern going forward from a threat perspective is
there are individuals traveling to Syria, becoming further
radicalized, becoming trained and then returning as part of
really a global jihadist movement to Western Europe and,
potentially, to the United States,” Olsen said during a panel
discussion July 18.  Richard Barrett, former coordinator of the  United Nations ’
al-Qaeda Taliban Monitoring Team, said the risks are real. At
the same time, he said it is important to recognize that not all
who return home will be inclined to conduct terrorism.  The UN estimates that more than 93,000 people have died in
Syria’s civil war, which began with peaceful protests in March
2011. The fighting has sent hundreds of thousands of refugees
fleeing into neighboring countries such as  Jordan .  In recent weeks, fighting has broken out between radical
and mainstream elements of the Sunni-dominated opposition as
they compete for power in a country increasingly splintered
among warring factions. Meanwhile, Assad holds on to Damascus
and has gained momentum in the fighting.  ‘Break Up’  “It wouldn’t surprise me if Syria were to break up as a
result of what is going on there now,” said  John McLaughlin ,
former deputy director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  The turmoil in Syria is destabilizing an already volatile
region swept up in the Arab Spring movement. Tensions have
spilled into Lebanon, the Sunni insurgency in Iraq has revived,
and Jordan faces a flood of refugees straining its ability to
handle them.  At the same time, Shiite  Iran  and its Lebanese ally
Hezbollah, which the U.S. and Israel regard as a terrorist
group, have sent fighters to aid Assad, who is an Alawite, an
offshoot of Shiite Islam. Persian Gulf Arab nations, which are
Sunni, as well as the U.S., U.K. and France are supporting the
mainstream opposition.  “We have a perfect witches’ brew evolving in Syria which,
I think, is going to explode out and affect the entire Levant in
ways that are detrimental to U.S. interests,” said Charles Allen, a 40-year CIA veteran who is now at the Chertoff Group, a
Washington-based global security advisory firm.  Terrorist Dream  Al-Qaeda’s leader,  Ayman al-Zawahiri , has long sought to
gain control of territory as the terror group had in Afghanistan
before the U.S. invasion, said McLaughlin. One of al-Qaeda’s
stated goals is the re-establishment of a caliphate across the
Mideast and North Africa as there was in the early days of
Islam.  “Wherever he’s hiding right now, he’s probably looking at
Syria and saying ‘this is my dream come true,’ because probably
one part of Syria is going to end up in the hands of people like
that,” McLaughlin said, referring to Zawahiri.  Touring a Syrian refugee camp in Jordan on July 18,
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said that the U.S. was concerned
by the involvement of Hezbollah and Iran and that the
administration was considering a buffer zone and a no-fly zone.
The Obama administration has so far resisted such deeper
involvement.  “A lot of different options are under consideration,”
Kerry said. “I wish it was very simple.’‘  Stalled Talks  Obama has authorized providing small arms to the Syrian
opposition. U.S. plans in conjunction with  Russia  for peace
talks have stalled for months as Assad’s regime and opposition
leaders jockey for stronger positions.  Allen and Olsen also expressed concern that Assad’s
stockpile of chemical weapons poses a threat, with Allen
wondering who would gain control of those arms if Syria breaks
up. U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  announced this week
that his government will send the opposition’s Supreme Military
Council some defensive chemical weapons equipment following
evidence that Assad’s forces have used chemical agents against
the opposition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  