-- U.S. Stock ETFs Draw Most Since 2008 as Stimulus Concern Recedes
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-07-19T16:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-s-stock-etfs-draw-most-since-2008-as-stimulus-concern-recedes.html
U.S. equity exchange-traded funds
are getting money at the fastest rate since September 2008,
underpinning a record rally as stock investors shrug off concern
that the Federal Reserve is poised to slow stimulus.  About $27.9 billion was sent to American share ETFs in the
last 13 days, about four times the amount deposited last month
and the most in almost five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from about 1,500 funds. Securities tracking everything
from shares to bonds and commodities have received $32.4 billion
in July, the most since September.  Surging inflows show equity investors didn’t need long to
get over Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s warning that he may slow
the program of bond purchases known as quantitative easing. More
than $1 trillion has been added to American  equity values  in the
last four weeks as data on hiring, housing and manufacturing
showed the four-year U.S. economic recovery is gaining momentum.  “If you are looking for the source waters of the recent
melt-up in U.S. stock markets, look no further than U.S.-listed
exchange-traded funds,” Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist
at ConvergEx Group in New York, wrote in a note to clients
today. “Investors have fallen very much in love with U.S.-based
securities of late.”  The  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , the largest ETF for American
equities, drew $13.7 billion in July. The deposits lifted the
fund from the 1,478th worst-ranked by 2013 flows on June 30 to
the best now, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stock Baskets  The amount of money being sent to ETFs, which are baskets
of stocks and other assets that trade throughout the day, is
dwarfing totals collected by mutual funds this year. July’s U.S.
equity ETF inflows added to $58.2 billion of deposits during the
first six months of the year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Mutual funds that invest in U.S. shares had $4.55 billion
of inflows during the week through July 10, ending a streak of
withdrawals stretching back almost two months, according to  data 
from the Washington-based ICI released July 17. About $4.72
billion has been added to U.S. stock funds since the end of 2012
after $426 billion in withdrawals from 2009 to 2012.  “If you look at retail, they see the press and it’s a
typical recovery from the great recession,” Matt Lloyd, the
chief investment strategist at Advisors Asset Management Inc. in
Monument,  Colorado , said in a telephone interview. His firm
oversees $11.8 billion. “The fund flow is a by-product of there
being huge amounts of cash.”  Favoring Shares  The ETF flows show that Americans are gaining confidence in
the economic recovery and beginning to favor shares. That would
reverse the trend since 2008, when investors looked for safety
after the financial crisis and housing collapse and poured the
most money into bonds.  In the past two months, about $30 billion has been added to
all stock ETFs, compared with outflows of $5.8 billion for ones
that buy and sell debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Last year, investors put $11.7 billion in the equity funds and
deposited $56.5 billion to debt funds.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  rose to an all-time high yesterday as earnings
from Morgan Stanley and UnitedHealth Group Inc. beat estimates
and jobless claims fell. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities
has surged 150 percent from a 12-year low in 2009, driven by
profit growth and three rounds of central bank monetary
stimulus.  Bond Purchases  The central bank’s bond purchases “are by no means on a
preset course” and could be reduced more quickly or expanded as
economic conditions warrant, Bernanke said on July 17. Data
since the Fed’s June meeting is mixed and it is “way too early
to make any judgment” as to whether policy makers will start
tapering purchases in September, he said in testimony to the
Senate Banking Committee on July 18.  Losses in emerging-market stocks are leading investors to
remove money from international funds. Chinese ETFs lost $550.5
million during the month and investors pulled $158.3 million out
of Mexican funds. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is down 9.8
percent this year.  Among ETFs tracking other assets, fixed income attracted
$3.58 billion in July, while those tracking currency and
commodities experienced withdrawals of $23.5 million and $1.11
billion, respectively.  “Everyone wants to increase exposure to U.S. equities,”
Jeffrey Saut, chief investment strategist at Raymond James &
Associates in St. Petersburg,  Florida , said in a phone
interview. His firm oversees about $420 billion. “If you look
at what’s going on in this country, I’m pretty damn bullish
longer term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  