-- U.S. Won’t File Brief for Now Backing Argentina on Bonds
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-07-19T16:41:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/u-s-won-t-file-brief-for-now-backing-argentina-on-bonds.html
The Obama administration won’t file
a brief next week urging the U.S. Supreme Court to hear
Argentina’s appeal in a clash with implications for tens of
billions of dollars in defaulted debt, according to a Justice
Department spokesman.  The decision is a setback for Argentina, though it leaves
open the possibility that the administration might recommend
high court review at a later stage. The administration backed
Argentina at a federal appeals court.  Argentina is appealing a lower court ruling that bars
payments to the investors in restructured Argentine debt unless
holders of the nation’s defaulted bonds, led by billionaire Paul Singer’s Elliott Management Corp. and its NML Capital Ltd. unit,
are also paid.  The U.S. government usually waits for the justices to ask
for a brief before taking a stand on requests for a Supreme
Court hearing.  Brian Fallon, the Justice Department’s spokesman, said the
administration won’t file an “uninvited” brief, which would be
due by July 26. The decision, which came after U.S. officials
met with lawyers on both sides of the case, was reported earlier
by La Nacion and Clarin in Argentina.  The International Monetary Fund is considering backing
Argentina’s bid for review. Under its normal schedule, the high
court will act on the appeal in late September or early October.  Argentina contends a New York-based federal appeals court
failed to properly apply the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act,
which limits suits against foreign governments. The country has
said that forcing it to pay the defaulted bondholders
immediately would expose it to $43 billion in additional claims
it can’t pay and trigger a new default.  The Supreme Court case is Argentina v. NML Capital,
12-1494. The appeals court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic
of Argentina, 12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  