-- Huawei Denies Spying Claims of Ex-CIA Director Hayden
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-19T05:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/huawei-denies-spying-claims-of-ex-cia-director-michael-hayden.html
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s
largest maker of telecommunications equipment, denied that it
poses a security threat after the former director of the U.S.
Central Intelligence Agency said it spies for China.  Huawei is a “proven and trusted” information and
communications technology company, spokesman Scott Sykes said in
an e-mailed statement today. The company was responding to
remarks made by Michael Hayden, the former head of the CIA, to
the Australian Financial Review.  Legislative committees in the U.K. and U.S. have expressed
concern with links between the closely held company and China,
with Huawei locked out of government-backed projects in
 Australia  and the U.S. Huawei is fighting concerns over cyber
security after intelligence agencies and security companies
traced web attacks to China.  “These tired, unsubstantiated, defamatory remarks are sad
distractions from real-world concerns related to espionage,
industrial and otherwise,” Huawei’s Sykes said in today’s e-mail.  A U.S. congressional committee in October said Huawei and
 ZTE Corp. (763) , both based in Shenzhen, provide opportunities for
Chinese intelligence services to tamper with telecommunications
networks for spying.  Huawei was barred by the U.S. in 2011 from participating in
building a nationwide emergency network and last year Australia
banned the company from bidding for work on its national
broadband fiber network citing “national interests.”  ‘Extensive Knowledge’  Hayden, now a director at  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , told the
Australian Financial Review it isn’t acceptable for Huawei to
create the backbone of telecommunications networks and the risks
are too great for governments.  “At a minimum, Huawei would have shared with the Chinese
state intimate and extensive knowledge of the foreign
telecommunications systems it is involved with,” Hayden told
the Australian Financial Review, according to the transcript.  Hayden confirmed the accuracy of the  transcript  supplied on
the newspaper’s website in an e-mail to Bloomberg News today.
Hayden told the newspaper he couldn’t comment on specific
instances of espionage or any operational matters.  The U.K. Cabinet Office yesterday announced the national
security adviser will conduct a review of Huawei’s Cyber
Security Evaluation Centre, known as the Banbury Cell.
Parliament’s Intelligence and Security Committee last month
expressed concern over the lack of clarity on links between
Huawei and the Chinese government.  Ren Zhengfei  “Huawei shares the same goal as the U.K. government,”
Sykes said. “Huawei is open to new ideas and ways of working to
improve cyber security.”  Huawei, the world’s second-largest maker of equipment for
phone networks after Ericsson AB, was founded by Ren Zhengfei in
1987 after retiring from the Chinese military in 1983.  Ren reduced his role at the company since October 2011,
when he split the role of chief executive officer with a panel
of three executives who rotate at six-month intervals.  Huawei is employee-owned, with about 74,000 of its 155,000
workers holding shares, according to the company’s annual report
released in April.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  