-- Hughes’s American Homes 4 Rent Seeks $794 Million in IPO
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-07-19T17:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/hughes-american-homes-4-rent-seeks-to-raise-794-million-in-ipo.html
American Homes 4 Rent (AHOOZ) , a real estate
investment trust led by Public Storage founder Wayne Hughes,
filed to raise as much as $794.1 million in a U.S. initial
public offering.  The housing landlord, based in Malibu,  California , is
offering 44.1 million shares at $16 to $18 each, according to a
regulatory filing today. American Homes 4 Rent, which owns
almost 18,000 houses, plans to list on the  New York  Stock
Exchange under the symbol AMH.  Operators of single-family rental homes are going public,
creating a new real estate asset class in a field once dominated
by small investors. There are 14 million for-lease houses in the
country, according to an April report by Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. that valued the industry at $2.8 trillion. REITs, private-equity funds and international investors are capitalizing on
 home values  that are about 26 percent below their 2006 peak and
leasing demand among Americans who can’t qualify to buy or don’t
want to own property.  “The recent drop in  home prices , constraints on mortgage
lending, job volatility requiring greater geographic mobility,
economic uncertainty, evolving demographics and expanded rental
options are changing the way many Americans live,” American
Homes 4 Rent said in the filing. “Many people, who in the past
might have become homeowners, are instead becoming long-term
renters of single-family homes.”  The U.S.  homeownership  rate fell to 65 percent in the first
quarter, down from a high of 69.2 percent in June 2004, Census
Bureau data show.  REIT IPOs  American Homes 4 Rent’s IPO would be the largest for a
company specializing in single-family rentals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company plans to use proceeds from
the offering to purchase and renovate more homes and to reduce
debt, according to the filing.  Single-family rental companies are struggling in the stock
market as they acquire properties faster than they can fill them
with tenants. Silver Bay Realty Trust Corp., a Minnetonka,
Minnesota-based REIT, has fallen about 11 percent from its
December IPO. American Residential Properties Inc., a REIT based
in Scottsdale,  Arizona , is down about 15 percent from its debut
in May.  Colony American Homes Inc., a single-family rental company
headed by  Tom Barrack , postponed an IPO in June after REIT
stocks fell amid concerns that rising interest rates would
threaten investor returns.  21 States  American Homes 4 Rent spent $3.1 billion on 17,949 houses
in 21 states as of June 30, with 1,152 other properties worth
about $191 million in escrow, according to the filing.  Hughes, 79, founded the company in 2011 with a group of
executives from Public Storage, which he started in 1972. Public
Storage is the third-largest U.S. REIT by market value, after
Simon Property Group Inc. and American Tower Corp.  Blackstone Group LP has the largest U.S. single-family
rental venture, having invested more than $5 billion on 30,000
rental houses through its Invitation Homes division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  