-- Multiplus Gains as Smiles Misses on Drop in Brazil’s Real
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-07-19T14:38:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/multiplus-gains-as-smiles-misses-on-drop-in-brazil-s-real.html
The Brazilian real’s 9 percent slide
in three months is bolstering  revenue  at  Multiplus SA (MPLU3) , the
nation’s largest loyalty-points program. The company’s biggest
rival,  Smiles SA (SMLE3) , is mostly losing out on the gains.  About 80 percent of Multiplus sales come from dollar-denominated credit-card purchases, while the points it awards to
customers are tied to the real, Chief Executive Officer Eduardo Gouveia said. That means as the real weakens, Multiplus grants
fewer points for each dollar spent.  “We’re in a very favorable situation,” he said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Sao Paulo office. “Revenue has already
begun to improve a bit now, but margins will improve soon.”  Gouveia said he’s optimistic the weaker real will help
Multiplus report 2013 profit and sales that beat market
estimates. The Sao Paulo-based company is betting that will halt
a 40 percent stock-price plunge  this year  after parent airline
Tam SA proposed selling new shares in the unit. The sale was
later canceled.  The plan by  Latam Airlines Group SA (LAN) , which acquired Tam in
2012, “did not go over well with the market,” Carlos Eduardo Picchi Daltozo, an analyst at BB Investimentos, said by
telephone from Sao Paulo. “It reinforced the image that Latam
doesn’t appreciate the Multiplus business, that they want to
appropriate the money in detriment to the minority
shareholders.”  Smiles Waits  Smiles, which sold shares in an initial public offering in
April, won’t see the results of the stronger dollar immediately,
Chief Financial Officer Flavio Vargas said. The Sao Paulo-based
company sold 400 million reais ($179.6 million) of tickets at a
fixed exchange rate of 2 reais a dollar before Brazil’s currency
fell to as low as 2.27 last week.  “We’ll probably see a more significant impact as of the
third and fourth quarters,” Vargas said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s  Sao Paulo  office.  Loyalty programs get cash from point sales and earn
interest on the money for several months before awards are
redeemed by customers. Multiplus and Smiles expect to benefit as
investors search for defensive bets amid a plunging currency,
the benchmark Ibovespa index’s June 11 entry into a  bear market 
and rising interest rates.  The central bank last week increased the benchmark  interest
rate  by 50 basis points for the second straight time to 8.5
percent. The rate should reach 9 percent by year-end, according
to a Bloomberg  survey  of 22 economists.  Slowing Economy  Gross domestic product expanded 1.9 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, missing analysts’ estimates for 2.3
percent growth as household spending fell to its lowest level
since 2011. GDP growth slowed to 0.55 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three-month period.  Multiplus is “a defensive company especially because of
the distribution of dividends and because it requires little
investment,” Felipe Silveira, an analyst at Coinvalores, said
by telephone from Sao Paulo. “Even marketing and publicity ends
up being done by its partners, so you basically have 100 percent
of results being distributed to shareholders.”  Smiles probably will pay an “elevated dividend,” CFO
Vargas said, which will be discussed at an April 2014 board
meeting.  Ratings Cut  Analysts cut their ratings on Multiplus after the follow-on
offering was announced and later canceled, and after Itau
Unibanco Holding SA, one of its biggest credit-card partners, in
February changed rules requiring customers to spend more to
accumulate points. Of the  14 analysts  that follow Multiplus,
four say buy while 10 say hold, including Silveira. That
 compares  with nine buy ratings for Smiles and one sell.  “It’s a question of ramp-up -- Smiles has more potential
to ramp up than Multiplus, which is cruising along,” CEO
Gouveia said. “We have already lived through this.”  Smiles gained  7.2 percent  through yesterday since April 29,
when it made its debut in Sao Paulo trading following its IPO,
compared with declines of 13 percent each for Multiplus and the
Ibovespa. Multiplus was little changed at 28.86 reais at 11:36
a.m. in Sao Paulo, while Smiles fell 0.8 percent to 24.46 reais.  Each of the companies is spending about 20 million reais
this year on marketing, and both have room to gain customers,
Gouveia and Vargas said. Only about 5 percent of  Brazil ’s
population of 191 million is enrolled in Smiles or Multiplus,
while the estimated penetration rate for loyalty programs in the
U.S. is 40 percent.  “All of our drivers of growth are amplified -- the airline
segment has historically grown two to three times GDP and
looking ahead it should continue to grow more than GDP,” Vargas
said. “Credit cards, too, grew five times GDP in the past,
maybe they will grow 3 times now. But it’s still the case that
Brazil’s growing in banking overall -- people are using more
credit cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  