-- Mursi Backers Rally in Egypt as Opponents Defend Ouster
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-07-20T01:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/mursi-backers-rally-in-egypt-as-opponents-defend-ouster.html
Rallies by supporters of toppled
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi have entered their third week
as the opposing camp continues to defend the Islamist leader’s
ouster, extending a standoff that risks wider instability.  Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood is urging Egyptians to continue
protesting what it sees as a military coup against an elected
president. His supporters clashed with opponents after Friday
prayers yesterday in Cairo’s Al-Azhar mosque, resulting in some
injuries, the state-run Middle East News Agency said.  Military jets flew over central Cairo yesterday, and
armored vehicles surrounded the presidential palace, where
security forces fired tear gas at Mursi supporters blocking
opposition protesters from entering the area, MENA said. A woman
and a child were killed and at least six injured in clashes in
the city of Mansoura, according to Hisham Massoud, a health
department official.  Daily protests have roiled Egypt since Mursi’s July 3
removal, leaving scores dead including at least 50, mostly
Brotherhood supporters, killed outside an army installation in
Cairo last week. The military-backed interim government is
seeking to revive an economy that has stalled since longtime
leader  Hosni Mubarak  was overthrown in 2011.  Egyptian politics have become “a zero-sum game -- the idea
of compromise doesn’t exist that much,” Omar Ashour, a senior
lecturer in Middle East politics at the University of Exeter and
a fellow at the Brookings Doha Center, said yesterday by phone
from  London . In the absence of any credible guarantor for a deal
between the sides, “the Brothers believe that their lifeline is
sustaining their mobilization,” he said. “That’s the only
option they have.”  ‘Played Democracy’  The Brotherhood has vowed to continue protests until Mursi
is restored to office and refused to cooperate with the interim
government, which is due to guide Egypt to presidential
elections early next year. Yesterday, military helicopters
hovered over tens of thousands of Mursi supporters camped out in
Cairo’s Nasr City district, according to state-run Ahram Gate’s
website.  “We’re not the ones who called for democracy in the first
place,” Mohamed Ibrahim, a 46 year-old engineer and Brotherhood
member taking part in the protest, said yesterday. “It was the
secular bloc who did, and when we played democracy and they
lost, they came up with this whole plot to gain some political
advantage. We’re ready to give our lives to defend our president
and our principles.”  Gift Vouchers  Helicopters dropped Egyptian flags and gift vouchers over
thousands of demonstrators gathered in Tahrir Square and around
the presidential palace, according to state-run media.  Mursi supporters also gathered in Alexandria and several
other cities. The government hasn’t said where the ex-president,
who was detained by security forces when he was removed from
office, is being held.  The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay has requested information “about the  legal basis  on
which the former president and his team are detained,” Rupert Colville, Pillay’s spokesman, said yesterday, according to the
agency’s website. Pillay has also requested information about
the number of people detained since July 3 and the authorities’
approval to deploy a team to the country, he said.  “We’re here because we want to keep the momentum to
continue our fight against whoever wants to steal our
revolution,” Ali Hussein, 22, said at the Tahrir Square rally.
“We won’t allow anyone to hijack our revolution, remnants of
the Mubarak regime, Muslim Brotherhood or military.”  New Cabinet  Adly Mansour, the former judiciary chief who was installed
as president by the army after its intervention, urged
reconciliation and said all Egyptians would be included in the
process. In a brief televised address on July 18, he said forces
that he didn’t identify are seeking to push the country into
violence and chaos.  Mansour presided over the swearing in of a new cabinet on
July 16. Its leader, Prime Minister Hazem El-Beblawi, said the
government will convene next week and plans to discuss new
economic policies and security conditions, Ahram Gate reported
on July 18.  The cabinet has yet to decide on resuming talks with the
International Monetary Fund on  Egypt ’s bid for a $4.8 billion
loan, El-Beblawi told Ahram Gate. The country’s main stock index
was little changed on July 18, and gained 1.3 percent during the
past week.  The Brotherhood described Egypt’s political turbulence as a
“serious nightmare” that carries the threat of civil war.  By sustaining protests against Mursi’s ouster, the group
“is doing its best to press for better terms of negotiations,”
Ziad Akl, a senior analyst at the Cairo-based Al Ahram Center
for Political and Strategic Studies, said by phone yesterday.  He said the Brotherhood is probably seeking guarantees that
it will be included in the political process and that its
leaders won’t be jailed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  