-- Li’s Hutchison Signals Possible Sale of ParknShop Chain
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2013-07-20T05:52:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/hutchison-may-sell-parknshop-for-2-billion-wsj-reports.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , controlled
by Hong Kong’s richest man  Li Ka-shing , signaled it’s
considering selling the ParknShop chain, potentially exiting one
of the two biggest supermarket businesses in the city of 7
million people.  Hutchison is conducting a strategic review of ParknShop,
the Hong Kong-based operator of ports and telecommunication
networks said in a statement today. A timetable hasn’t been set
for the review and there is no certainty of a transaction being
announced or completed, it said in the statement.  The group wants to sell ParknShop for as much as $2 billion
and hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Merrill
Lynch to handle the deal, the Wall Street Journal said
yesterday, citing unidentified people. Li plans to exit a Hong
Kong grocery market that’s mature and growing slowly, the
newspaper reported.  Hutchison said the review of ParknShop, which it called
Hong Kong’s market-leading supermarket chain, doesn’t indicate
Li will withdraw from the city where his investing prowess won
him the nickname “Superman.”  Hans Leung, a Hutchison spokesman, declined to comment
today. Connie Ling, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs, and  Paul
Scanlon , a spokesman for Bank of America Merrill Lynch, both
declined to comment on the report in e-mailed responses today to
queries from  Bloomberg News .  ParknShop and  Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd. (DFI) ’s
Wellcome are the two largest supermarket chains in Hong Kong.
They had a combined 73 percent market share last year, the WSJ
said, citing Euromonitor. Hutchison decided last month on a sale
and will complete its internal review process by mid-August, the
Journal reported. Potential bidders will receive details soon,
it said.  Li’s net worth of $27 billion makes him the 17th richest
individual in the world, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adrian Kennedy at 
 adkennedy@bloomberg.net  