-- Vietnam Stocks Climb to 1-Month High on Central Bank Loans Order
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-07-19T04:21:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/vietnam-stocks-climb-to-1-month-high-on-central-bank-loans-order.html
Vietnamese stocks advanced, pushing
the benchmark index to the highest level in a month, after the
central bank ordered banks to boost lending to businesses.  The Ho Chi Minh City Stock Exchange’s  VN Index (VNINDEX)  rose 1.1
percent to 502.11 at 11:20 a.m. local time, on course for the
highest close since June 19. Vietnam Dairy Products Joint-Stock
Co., the country’s second-biggest listed company by market
value, climbed 2.1 percent to a record.  Joint-Stock Commercial
Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam  climbed 1.5 percent, poised
for the highest close since June 28.  The State Bank of Vietnam requested commercial lenders to
increase loans to help industries including farming, fisheries
and coffee, targeting 12 percent credit growth by the end of
this year, according to a statement on its website yesterday.
Banks must implement measures to ensure liquidity to cover an
expected rise in demand for business loans toward the end of
this year, according to the statement.  “The message is that the government and the central bank
want to push economic growth, as inflation is stable,” Attila Vajda, Ho Chi Minh City-based analyst at ACB Securities Co.,
said today.  Vietnam ’s economy expanded 4.9 percent in the first half
from a year earlier, compared with the median estimate of 5
percent in a Bloomberg survey of seven economists. The
government is aiming for growth of 5.5 percent this year. That
would be the first time the economy has grown less than 6
percent for three consecutive years since 1988, according to
data on the International Monetary Fund’s website.  The country may meet its target of curbing inflation to 7
percent this year, the Ministry of Planning and Investment said
in a statement earlier this month. Consumer price growth
 accelerated  to more than 20 percent for five consecutive months
in June through October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  