-- Vodafone Service Revenue Drops Amid Germany Price War
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-07-19T10:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/vodafone-service-revenue-drops-as-price-war-spreads-in-germany.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the second-largest wireless carrier, reported first-quarter service revenue
that fell less than in the prior period as improvements outside
Europe helped offset ongoing price wars there.  Service sales excluding currency swings and acquisitions
decreased 3.5 percent in the three months through June, the
fourth consecutive quarterly decline, the Newbury, England-based
company said today in a statement. That was better than the 4.2
percent drop in the previous quarter and the 3.6 percent fall
analysts had projected, according to the average of six
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Vodafone is seeing improvements in markets outside of
Europe. Prices in  India , the country where Vodafone has the
highest minutes of use and one of the lowest customer bills on
average, are “gently increasing,” Chief Executive Officer
 Vittorio Colao  said on a conference call today, helping drive a
14 percent increase in the unit’s revenue during the quarter.  “The pace of growth in places like India and  South Africa 
have both gotten better,” said Guy Peddy, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in  London . “The outlook for the next two
or three quarters for those markets is probably more
encouraging.”  Colao is reducing Vodafone’s reliance on lagging European
markets with investments in higher-growth countries such as
India, South Africa and the U.S. The average European consumer
spent $38 per month in 2012 on mobile subscriptions, compared
with $69 in the U.S., according to the GSMA industry group.  Vodacom, Verizon  Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , Vodafone’s African business, yesterday
reported a 3 percent increase in quarterly revenue as more
customers switched to smartphones. Sales at Vodafone’s U.S.
mobile venture with  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , Verizon
Wireless, grew 7.5 percent last quarter to $20 billion as it
added 941,000 contract customers, the New York-based company
reported yesterday.  Vodafone rose 0.7 percent to 192.70 pence at 11:05 a.m. in
London trading. The shares had risen 24 percent this year
through yesterday.  Excluding cuts to mobile termination rates -- what
providers charge other carriers to carry calls on their network
-- Vodafone’s service revenue fell 0.7 percent, the company
said.  While high-growth countries are cushioning Vodafone’s sales
decline, price cuts have hit Vodafone all over  Europe , its
biggest source of revenue. Tough competition is driving down
tariffs and increasingly stringent regulation has capped what
carriers can charge for roaming or connecting mobile calls, the
company said.  German Sales  The German unit, which is Vodafone’s biggest and accounts
for almost a fifth of revenue, reported a 5.1 percent drop in
service sales. The carrier is bulking up in  Germany , bidding 7.7
billion euros ($10 billion) to buy the largest cable company,
 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , as it seeks to add bundled
services across Europe by combining phone, Web and TV to
increase customer loyalty and stabilize prices.  “The European business is actually a lot weaker than
people were expecting,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at
Sanford C Bernstein in London, said. “Most people expected
Europe to get a little bit better, and it was worse.”  Vodafone will file its official offer for  Kabel Deutschland 
to the German financial regulator “shortly,” Chief Financial
Officer Andy Halford said on the conference call.  Discount Packages  Vodafone Red, the company’s discounted bundled packages of
voice, text and  Internet access , may be helping to drive the
price wars, Peddy and Bienenstock said in today’s interviews.
The packages, offered in 16 markets, have helped increase data
traffic and revenue in that segment, the company said today.  “It’s them leading the pricing down in the market,”
Bienenstock said. “It’s in part to get Red off the ground, but
I think it’s also an attempt to reach after market share and
reach after revenue.”  Vodafone said it was also under pressure to cut prices in
the U.K., which contributed to a 4.5 percent decrease in service
revenue there. Still, mobile sales tied to bundled services grew
1.5 percent in Britain.  Service revenue in  Italy  declined 17.6 percent because of
“intense price competition” and the weak economy, Vodafone
said.  Spain  fell 10.6 percent as hard-hit subscribers look for
discounted bundles to save cash.  Colao said today there’s “no update” to the  Verizon
Wireless  stake, the fate of which investors care most about,
Bienenstock said. Vodafone’s 45 percent share of the largest
U.S. mobile-phone company, valued at $120 billion or more by
analysts including her, accounts for about half of Vodafone’s
adjusted operating profit.  Majority-owner Verizon, which reported a 4.3 percent growth
in revenue yesterday, is interested in buying out Vodafone’s
share this year, people familiar with the matter said in March.  “The question is: ‘Will they get to yes?’” Bienenstock
wrote in a note yesterday. Vodafone “needs the cash to resolve
structural problems at home.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  