-- Widening Budget Deficit Masks Signs of U.K. Economic Revival
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-07-19T08:59:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/widening-budget-deficit-masks-signs-of-u-k-economic-revival-1-.html
Britain’s  budget deficit  widened in
June amid a deterioration in the finances of local government,
masking signs of an improving economy as tax receipts rose.  Net borrowing excluding temporary support for banks was
12.4 billion pounds ($18.9 billion) compared with 11.9 billion
pounds a year earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said
in  London  today. The figures exclude 3.9 billion pounds of
coupon cash received from the  Bank of England  on its holdings of
gilts. Underlying tax receipts rose 2.9 percent and spending
climbed 1.8 percent.  With the economy returning to growth, Chancellor of the
ExchequerGeorge Osborne may find it easier to hold the budget
deficit to 120 billion pounds, or 7.5 percent of gross domestic
product, in the current fiscal year as forecast by his fiscal
watchdog, the  Office for Budget Responsibility .  The government appears to be “on track” to meet its full-year forecast,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING
Bank in London. “With economic activity starting to show some
positive signs and with employment continuing to grow we would
not be surprised to see the full-year borrowing figure creeping
below this forecast.”  The pound was little changed after the data and was trading
at $1.5241 as of 9:50 a.m. in London, up 0.1 percent on the day.  More Austerity  Weaker-than-forecast growth has forced Osborne to extend
his budget-cutting drive until 2018, turning the question of how
to do it into a key battleground for the 2015 general election.  Osborne insisted this month he can achieve his goals
through spending cuts alone, putting pressure on the Labour
opposition to say whether it would match his plans, raise taxes
or increase borrowing. The deficit has fallen by less than a
third from its peak above 11 percent of gross domestic product
in 2009-10 instead of the half originally projected.  Revenue in May from a deal with  Switzerland  to fight  tax
evasion  was revised to 342 million pounds from a previous
estimate of 3.2 billion pounds. A statement from the  Swiss
Bankers Association  “cast significant doubt” over the amount
that will finally be received, the ONS said.  The deficit for the first three months of the fiscal year
was unchanged at 35.9 billion pounds from a year earlier. The
figures exclude BOE coupon payments and the 28 billion-pound
transfer of Royal Mail Group Ltd. pension assets in April 2012.  Tax Jump  In June, revenue rose across the board, led by an 11
percent annual increase in  corporation tax , today’s figures
showed.  In 2012-13, the deficit was 116.4 billion pounds, or 7.4
percent of GDP, lower than the 118.8 billion pounds previously
thought. The revision was due to updates to tax estimates.  In total, the BOE will transfer 23.4 billion pounds -- 3.9
billion pounds each month between April and September -- to
clear cash that had accumulated in its asset-purchase facility
as of March 2013. In addition, there will be quarterly payments
of cash that build up during the current fiscal year, probably
starting this month.  While European Union rules mean only 12.3 billion pounds of
the income can count against net borrowing this year, cash
measures of the public finances will receive the full benefit.  There was a public-sector cash requirement of 3.1 billion
pounds in June, a figure boosted by the financial position of
publicly controlled banks. The central-government deficit was
7.7 billion pounds. Net debt climbed to 1.2 trillion pounds, or
74.9 percent of GDP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net  