-- WTI Rises to Highest in 16 Months as Brent Spread Narrows
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-07-19T12:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/wti-oil-near-highest-in-16-months-as-brent-spread-falls-below-1.html
West Texas Intermediate climbed to
its highest in 16 months and was poised for a fourth weekly gain
on signs the U.S. economic recovery is gaining strength. WTI’s
discount to Brent shrank to the narrowest since October 2010.  Futures advanced as much as 0.6 percent in New York,
heading for a 2.5 percent increase this week, amid China’s plan
to remove the floor on lending rates offered by the nation’s
financial institutions from tomorrow. The WTI-Brent spread
shrank to as little as 67 cents a barrel, from more than $20 in
February. The number of Americans who filed for  jobless benefits 
dropped to the fewest since early May, the Labor Department said
yesterday. WTI may drop next week on speculation gains have been
excessive, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  “WTI may start trading at a premium to Brent,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . “One might argue it’s the better outlook for the
U.S. economy versus the rest, and lower stockpiles” supporting
WTI while “lower geopolitical risks weigh on Brent.”  WTI for August delivery rose as much as 98 cents to $109.02
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the highest intraday level since March 2, 2012, and
was at $108.91 as of 1:24 p.m. London time. The volume of all
futures traded was 9 percent below the 100-day average. The more
actively traded September contract gained 85 cents to $108.66.  China Lending  Brent for September settlement on the ICE Futures Europe
Exchange gained 45 cents to $109.15 a barrel. The European grade
was at a premium of 49 cents to WTI for the same month.  The People’s Bank of  China  will also remove the cap on
lending rates offered by rural cooperatives, while maintaining
its differentiated mortgage policy, according to a statement on
its website today. The actions are effective tomorrow.  The convergence between Brent, a pricing benchmark for more
than half the world’s oil, and WTI shows how improved pipeline
networks and the use of rail links have helped to unlock a
supply glut at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the biggest oil-storage hub.
WTI, the bellwether U.S. crude, had typically been the more
expensive grade until mid-2010.  Cushing Stockpiles  Stockpiles at Cushing fell 3.57 million barrels in the two
weeks ended July 12 to 46.1 million, the lowest level since Nov.
30, the Energy Information Administration reported on July 17.
Total crude inventories declined by 16.8 million over the same
period to 367 million.  The number of workers who filed applications for
unemployment insurance payments slid by 24,000 to 334,000 in the
week to July 13, the Labor Department data showed. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg forecast a median 345,000.  “The U.S. economy is doing much better than Europe and
Asia, including China,”  Ken Hasegawa , an energy-trading manager
at Newedge Group in  Tokyo , said by phone. “Fundamentally WTI
will be supported. The WTI-Brent spread may hit parity next week
as a lot of people are betting on it now.”  The U.S. is the largest oil consumer and accounted for
about 20 percent of global demand last year, according to the
International Energy Agency’s most recent monthly report on July
11. China, the second-biggest, used 11 percent.  Gasoline futures rose as refiners in  California  shut plants
for unplanned work. The contract for August delivery climbed as
much 1.7 percent to $3.1632 a gallon in electronic trading in
New York, before paring about half of the gain.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is performing unscheduled maintenance at its
Golden Eagle refinery after a line leak, according to Tina Barbee, a San Antonio-based spokeswoman.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
said operations at its Martinez plant have been “returned to
normal” after a unit was shut on July 14.  Sentiment Survey  WTI may drop next week on signs that this month’s rally of
12 percent has been excessive, a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Nineteen of 33 analysts and traders, or 58 percent, forecast
futures will decline through July 26. Seven respondents, or 21
percent, predicted a gain, while another seven projected no
change. Last week, half of those surveyed estimated an increase.  Political changes in  Egypt  spurred oil price gains earlier
month though shipments have continued uninterrupted through the
Suez Canal, a main artery of westbound cargoes of Middle Eastern
crude. Supporters and opponents of toppled president Mohamed Mursi have called for rival protests today as the fault lines
dividing them deepen.  About $1.3 billion in annual U.S. military aid for Egypt
would be maintained pending certification from the State
Department under a draft State-Foreign Operations spending bill
unveiled yesterday by the House Appropriations Committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  