-- WTI Crude Exceeds Brent for First Time in Almost Three Years
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-07-19T20:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/wti-crude-surpasses-brent-for-first-time-in-almost-three-years.html
West Texas Intermediate crude became
more expensive than Brent for the first time in almost three
years as pipeline and rail shipments helped clear a bottleneck
that reduced the price of the U.S. benchmark.  WTI hadn’t been higher than Brent since Aug. 17, 2010. The
move was in intraday trading. WTI averaged $17.47 less than
Brent in 2012 and traded as much as $23.44 lower than its
European counterpart Feb. 8.  Improved pipeline networks and the use of rail links are
helping to ease the North American oil glut created by rising
production of crude from shale formations. WTI has jumped 18
percent this year, while Brent has decreased 2.5 percent as
North Sea supplies stabilized after maintenance.  “The price change reflects the changing balance in the
market,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “It’s the
perception of traders that you are not going to have the surplus
in the U.S. longer term. We are having more rail and pipeline
capacity.”  WTI for September delivery rose to as much as 3 cents above
Brent futures for the same month in intraday trading. WTI
settled at a 20-cent discount to the U.S. benchmark.  16-Month High  August WTI futures, which expire on July 22, increased 1
cent to $108.05 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest level for a front-month contract in 16 months. The
September contract advanced 6 cents to $107.87. Brent for
September settlement dropped 63 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$108.07 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The difference between WTI and Brent widened to a record of
$28.08 a barrel on Oct. 14, 2011, prompting Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. to forecast in February 2012 that planned pipeline capacity
would cause the spread to shrink. It was $19.29 at the end of
last year.  Goldman closed its bet on the spread on July 2 after it
narrowed to $5 a barrel.  Since the start of 2012, new and reversed pipelines have
boosted capacity to Houston by almost 1.2 million barrels a day,
with 850,000 more coming online by the end of the year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  switched
the direction of the Seaway pipeline last year to move barrels
to the Houston area from Cushing, Oklahoma, the hub that serves
as the delivery point for WTI futures traded on the Nymex.  More Pipelines  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP) ’s Longhorn pipeline
expansion and  Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (SXL) ’s Permian Express
line are expected to divert more crude from Cushing in the third
quarter, while  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s southern leg of Keystone XL
will increase capacity from Cushing to Houston by the end of the
year.  “The dynamics are changing,” said  Phil Flynn , senior
market analyst at the Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “It’s a
sign that oil is not just sitting in Oklahoma anymore. We are
getting oil out of the storage to the market.”  U.S. crude  inventories  dropped 6.9 million barrels in the
week ended July 12 to 367 million, the lowest level since Jan.
18, the Energy Information Administration reported July 17.  Stockpiles at Cushing decreased 882,000 barrels to 46.1
million, the lowest level since Nov. 30, according to the EIA,
the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  “The main factor has been de-bottlenecking of the pipeline
systems around Cushing,” said  Francisco Blanch , head of
commodities research at Bank of America Corp. in  New York . “WTI
and Brent shouldn’t trade very far apart conceptually.”  North Sea  North Sea  crude production in July is set to rise to 1.94
million barrels a day, the most since April and 3.1 percent
higher than a year earlier, as the main maintenance period for
the region’s oilfields ended, according to loading program data
compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. crude  output  rose 89,000 barrels a day to 7.49 million
in the week ended July 5, the highest level since December 1990,
EIA data showed. U.S. production has climbed as the combination
of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
has unlocked supplies from shale formations in states including
 North Dakota .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  