-- Yuan, Rupee Declines May Diverge from Won Gains, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-07-19T16:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-07-19/yuan-rupee-declines-may-diverge-from-won-gains-jpmorgan-says.html
China’s  yuan  may fall versus the
dollar on slowing economic growth and a current-account
financing shortfall may spark further rupee weakness, while
South Korea’s currency has “supportive buffers,” according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Gross domestic product in China may expand about 7.4
percent this year and 7.2 percent in 2014, compared with a
previous forecast of 7.6 percent and 7.7 percent, JPMorgan said
today in a report. The world’s second-biggest-economy’s currency
may “end mostly flat if not even slightly weaker than current
levels,” on export weakness and slowing growth, the New York-based firm said.  The yuan rose 0.04 percent to 6.1385 per dollar today in
Shanghai, China Foreign Exchange Trade System prices show. That
is up from 6.2306 at the end of 2012.  India ’s $25 billion current-account-deficit “has emerged
because of a likely permanent worsening of the emerging-market
funding landscape,” JPMorgan said. The gap developed as the
U.S. Federal Reserve has debated winding down its asset purchase
program that has driven down  interest rates  and pushed investors
into higher yield assets, including those of  emerging markets .  While policy makers in India have sought to stem  currency
depreciation  through intervention and regulatory changes,
“policy options are largely limited to helping manage a more
orderly depreciation trend of the rupee rather than being able
to stop or reverse the trend,” according to the report.  ‘Materially Stronger’  The rupee rose 0.6 percent to 59.35 per dollar after
touching a record low of 61.2125 on July 8. The currency
rebounded as the  Reserve Bank  of India announced measures to
curb speculation and boost returns on local-currency assets. The
currency may weaken to 62 by the end of the year, JPMorgan said.  The risk of outflows from South Korea’s won “is
considerably lower compared to other Asian peers,” according to
the JPMorgan report. The nation’s 12-month, rolling current-account  surplus  doubled, reaching its highest since 1999, the
bank said.  The won, which trades at about 20 percent below the average
of its Asian peers, will end the year “materially stronger”
versus the dollar and yen, the report said.  The currency rose 0.4 percent to 1,121.75 per dollar in
Seoul.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  