-- 
3M Sued by U.K. Over Development of Superbug Detection Product

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-06-15T14:11:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/3m-sued-by-u-k-over-development-of-superbug-detection-product.html
3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of products
including Scotch tape and  Post-it Notes , is being sued by
investors including the U.K.’s Ministry of Defence for failing
to market and develop technology that detects hospital superbug
MRSA.  A U.K. unit of 3M bought the superbug detector in 2007 and
then let it “wither,” Stephen Phillips, a lawyer for Porton 
Capital Ltd. and  Ploughshare Innovations Ltd ., a civilian unit
of the the Ministry of Defence, said today. The investors 
are seeking $54 million in lost profits, he said.  Porton and Ploughshare Innovations sold 3M a company called
Acolyte, which had obtained regulatory approval for MRSA
detection product BacLite, Phillips said. Part of the sales
price was a payment based on net Acolyte sales in 2009, capped
at 41 million pounds ($66.5 million) according to court
documents.  “By a mixture of delay, incompetence and lack of due
diligence by the 3M group, BacLite was allowed to whither on the
vine,” Phillips said on the first day of trial.  In 2008, 3M scaled back, and then terminated the marketing
of Acolyte’s sales activities, resulting in no payment for the
claimants, Phillips said.  The  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company said in a statement
on its website that it ceased marketing BacLite because it
proved not to be “commercially viable.”  “In the view of the company, BacLite was not commercially
viable and it failed to meet certain standards of the
marketplace, so the company discontinued its efforts to sell the
product,” 3M lawyer William A. Brewer III said in the
 statement .  Lawyers for 3M will present their case later in the trial.  The case is 2008-877 Porton Capital Technology Funds & 3
otrs v 3M UK Holdings Limited.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons in  London  at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 