-- 
Adelphia’s Rigases, Jailed for Fraud, Lose Bid to Block Criminal Tax Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-06-15T21:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/adelphia-s-rigases-lose-bid-to-dismiss-criminal-tax-case-2-.html
Adelphia Communications Corp.
founder John Rigas and his son Timothy, who are in prison for
 securities fraud , failed to persuade a U.S. judge to dismiss a
pending criminal tax case against them.  John Rigas, 86, is serving 12 years and Timothy Rigas, 55,
17 years for looting the cable company and lying about its
finances. After a federal jury in New York convicted them in
2004, U.S. prosecutors in Pennsylvania charged the two with
conspiring to dodge taxes on $1.9 billion they stole from
Adelphia, a cable-television company that collapsed in 2002.  The Rigases asked a judge to dismiss the tax charges,
claiming prosecutors in the New York case interfered with their
rights to legal counsel and a fair trial by threatening Adelphia
with indictment if it supported them, including by advancing
legal fees. U.S. District Judge John E. Jones III in Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania , said yesterday that those actions were irrelevant
because they occurred before the New York fraud case.  “When the Rigases were indicted in the instant tax evasion
prosecution, they had already been convicted of federal
securities fraud violations,” he wrote. “That Adelphia did not
provide them at that point with legal fees to defend themselves
in the instant indictment is nothing short of typical business
practice.”  The judge referred to a 2006 ruling by U.S. District Judge
 Lewis Kaplan  in  Manhattan , who dismissed an indictment against
former senior partners at accounting firm  KPMG  LLP.  KPMG Ruling  Kaplan ruled that KPMG refused to pay the defendants’ legal
expenses “because the government held the proverbial gun to its
head,” Jones found. “Had that pressure not been brought to
bear, KPMG would have paid these defendants’ legal expenses,”
Jones said.  Prosecutors don’t dispute that before the  New York  case,
authorities “met with high-ranking Adelphia officials and, in
rather short order, the Rigases were compelled to resign from
their positions within the company,” Jones wrote.  Still, he said, the Rigases “have made absolutely no
allegation or argument that prosecutors in any way interfered
with their Fifth and Sixth Amendment rights in this
prosecution.”  An attorney for the Rigases, Lawrence McMichael, said he
was disappointed by the ruling. He intends to file a similar
motion in federal court in New York, he said.  New York Next  “The essence of the judge’s ruling is that we have to
raise this in New York and not here,” he said.  McMichael questioned the wisdom of prosecuting the Rigases
again. “Obviously, the government is worried about  John Rigas 
being on the loose at age 95,” he said.  The Pennsylvania case, laid out in a 2005 indictment,
charges the two men with conspiring to defraud the U.S. of more
than $300 million in  tax revenue  by diverting $1.9 billion from
Adelphia for use by Rigas family members. It charges that John
Rigas evaded $51 million in income taxes for 1998 to 2000 and
that Timothy Rigas evaded $85 million.  The Rigases founded Adelphia in Coudersport, Pennsylvania,
and built it into the fifth-largest U.S. cable-TV provider. It
filed for bankruptcy in 2002. Adelphia’s assets were sold to
Time Warner Inc. and Comcast Corp.  The Rigases were convicted of securities fraud and bank
fraud, as well as conspiring to commit securities fraud, bank
fraud, falsify books and records and make false statements to
the Securities and Exchange Commission. They are in a federal
prison in Butner,  North Carolina .  The case is U.S. v. Rigas, 05-cr-402, U.S. District Court,
Middle District of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 