-- 
Peter Madoff’s Aston Martin to Be Auctioned to Pay Victims

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-15T21:53:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/madoff-brother-s-1958-aston-martin-will-be-sold-to-help-compensate-victims.html
A vintage  Aston Martin  automobile
previously owned by  Peter Madoff , brother of Bernard L. Madoff,
will be sold at auction to help pay the jailed con man’s former
investors.  Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s
firm in New York, today won permission from U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge  Burton Lifland  to sell the car, a law clerk for the judge
said. Bernard Madoff’s U.K. firm bought the 1958 Aston Martin MK
III Drophead Coupe for Peter Madoff in 2008 for $267,000 and
wasn’t reimbursed for the expense, Picard said in a court
filing.  RM Auctions  will sell the Drophead Coupe at the Monterey
Auction in  California  in August. The Blenheim, Ontario-based
car-auction company last year sold a 1958 Drophead Coupe for
$330,000, compared with an estimate before the sale of $300,000
to $400,000, according to an RM Auctions catalog.  “The price paid in 2008 would relate to a very nice
example” of the Drophead Coupe, said James Knight, a car
specialist at Bonhams, a London-based auction house. “The
market has moved upward for these cars since.”  Asked if the Madoff name would hurt or help the price,
Knight said, “I can see some bidders liking the idea in a
ghoulish way. If it were me, I’d bid on the merits of the car
and I’d not particularly want to brag about the Madoff
provenance.”  As many as 3,500 people attend the vintage sports car event
in Monterey, Picard has said.  ‘ Le Mans ’  The Madoff car isn’t yet showing on RM Auctions’
preliminary catalog for the Monterey sale on its website.
Featured lots include a 1970 Porsche 911S delivered to late
actor Steve McQueen on the set of the motorsport movie, “Le
Mans,” according to the website.  RM Auctions will post details of the Madoff car on its
digital catalog “mid next month,” said Amy Christie, a
spokeswoman for the auction company. Charles Spada, a lawyer for
Peter Madoff, has declined to comment on the pending auction.  Peter Madoff, sued by U.K. liquidators in 2009 for
allegedly enriching himself unjustly by taking the Aston Martin,
transferred ownership of the car to Picard on May 4, the trustee
said in a filing. It is being auctioned with agreement from the
U.K. liquidators, Picard said.  Family Members  Picard has sought a total of $198.7 million from Peter
Madoff and other members of  Bernard Madoff ’s family, including
his son Mark, who committed suicide in December, and niece Shana Madoff Swanson, who had jobs at the defunct firm, according to
court documents.  Peter Madoff was chief compliance officer at Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC. He was among those to whom
Bernard Madoff confessed shortly before his arrest, according to
Ira Sorkin, a lawyer for Bernard Madoff. Peter Madoff also co-
signed Bernard Madoff’s $10 million bond following the money
manager’s arrest.  Liquidators of the U.K. firm previously said a 1964 Aston
Martin was delivered to Peter Madoff at his residence in  Palm
Beach ,  Florida , in 2008. The U.K. firm, Madoff Securities
International Ltd., wire-transferred about $200,000 to Gaydon,
England-based  Aston Martin  to buy the car for Peter Madoff, they
said in court documents filed in 2009.  Picard has recovered about $7.6 billion for investors who
lost more than $17 billion in the Ponzi scheme, although most of
it isn’t yet available for distribution, he has said. He and his
 law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, charged more than $175 million
for their work, according to court filings.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 