-- 
Aegon Repays Balance of State Aid

-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 
2011-06-15T08:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/aegon-cleared-of-state-aid-with-final-1-06-billion-payment-1-.html
Aegon NV (AGN) , the Dutch owner of U.S.
insurer Transamerica Corp., repaid the final tranche of state
aid to the Netherlands, releasing the firm from European Union-
imposed constraints on dividends and acquisitions.  Aegon will transfer 750 million euros ($1.06 billion), plus
a 50 percent premium, to the Dutch state today, The Hague-based
insurer said in a statement. The funds were raised internally,
Chief Executive Officer Alex Wynaendts said.  Aegon, the recipient of 3 billion euros of state aid in
2008, was banned from making acquisitions and paying dividends
as conditions for the EU approving the bailout. The firm repaid
half the money before this year, and settled another 750 million
euros in March after raising 903 million euros in a share sale.  “It is a good sign that the Dutch Central Bank approved
the final repayment, stressing Aegon’s healthy capital
position,” Maarten Altena and  Albert Ploegh , analysts at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam, said in a note. “Aegon is now able to
fully focus on delivering to its strategy.”  Aegon gained 1.3 percent to 4.63 euros at 9:38 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading, giving the company a value of about 8.7
billion euros.  Aegon plans to resume paying a dividend in May 2012 and
aims to return 10 cents a share to shareholders over the second
half of 2011. The company’s goal is for a “sustainable
dividend, growing with the business and capital,” Wynaendts
reiterated today, adding it is too early to discuss share
buybacks.  ‘Significant Milestone’  “This is a significant milestone,” he said on a
conference call. “This allows us to leave the financial crisis
behind us.”  Wynaendts, who aims to grow Aegon’s businesses in central
and eastern  Europe ,  Spain ,  Latin America  and  Asia , said the
firm’s priority isn’t on acquisitions.  “Now obviously we’ll have flexibility but our main
priority remains organic growth,” he said.  The Dutch state’s return on its 3 billion-euro investment
was 18.5 percent, according to a finance ministry statement.  The insurer earlier this year agreed to sell most of its
global reinsurance business Transamerica Reinsurance to  Scor SE (SCR) 
in a deal with a post-tax value of $1.4 billion. The insurer
expects to complete the transaction in the summer and said the
process is “on track.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  