-- 
Aeon Credit, Maxwell, Tenaga, YTL Power: Malaysia Stock Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-15T00:20:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/aeon-credit-maxwell-tenaga-ytl-power-malaysia-stock-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in  Malaysia  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,548.51.       Aeon Credit Service (M) Bhd. (ACSM MK): The consumer
financing provider’s fiscal first-quarter net income rose 45
percent from a year earlier to 19.2 million ringgit ($6.3
million), according to a company statement. Aeon Credit rose 1.7
percent to 4.90 ringgit.  Maxwell International Holdings Bhd. (MAXWLL MK): The China-based
sports shoemaker said it will seek shareholder approval for its
proposal to buy back 10 percent of the company’s outstanding
capital, according to a stock filing. The shares were unchanged
at 50 sen.       Petrol One Resources Bhd. (PORB MK): The provider of
storage facilities for oil and gas products plans to form a
joint venture in  Thailand  with Nathalin Offshore Co. to invest
in a new vessel. The venture will help expand its vessel fleet,
it said in a statement. The stock fell 0.6 percent to 1.58
ringgit.  Systech Bhd. (SYTC MK): The technology-based company will
trade for the first time in place of  Viztel Solutions Bhd. (VIZ) , a
communications software provider which completed a restructuring
to restore its finances. The reference price for Systech is 22
sen and the trading limit will be 30 sen above the reference
price, the stock exchange said in a statement.        Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB)  : Malaysia’s state-controlled
power producer signed an agreement with Laraib Energy Ltd. to
operate a hydroelectric power complex in  Pakistan , according to
a company statement. The shares lost 1.2 percent to 6.60
ringgit.  YTL Power International Bhd. (YTLP)  : The Employees
Provident Fund, Malaysia’s largest pension fund, bought 3.05
million shares in the independent power producer, raising its
stake to 10.2 percent, a stock exchange filing shows. The shares
were unchanged at 2.15 ringgit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  