-- 
Aeroportuario Pacifico Gains on Grupo Mexico Share Offer

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-15T00:44:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/aeroportuario-pacifico-gains-on-grupo-mexico-share-offer-2-.html
Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB
gained the most in nine months in  Mexico  trading after Grupo
Mexico SAB, the country’s largest mining company, said it will
try to take control of the airport operator.  Grupo Mexico will offer as much as 50 pesos ($4.24) per
share, valuing Aeroportuario del Pacifico at as much as $2
billion, according to a stock exchange filing yesterday. The
unsolicited bid values Aeroportuario del Pacifico at 5.7 percent
more than its closing price yesterday of 47.31 pesos.  Aeroportuario del Pacifico, based in Guadalajara, Mexico,
jumped 1.96 pesos, or 4.1 percent, to 49.27 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time in Mexico City trading, the biggest gain since
September.  “Grupo Mexico is offering fair value, not much of a
premium,” said Pablo Abraham, an analyst with BBVA Bancomer SA,
in a phone interview from Mexico City. “Shareholders could
still come back and ask for a higher price.”  Based on Aeroportuario del Pacifico’s enterprise value,
which measures the value of equity and debt, Grupo Mexico would
pay 11 times its estimated earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, Abraham said. As a
group, Mexican airport operators trade at about 11.5 times on a
weighted average, he said.  The acquisition would add to Grupo Mexico’s transportation
holdings, which include railroads Ferrocarril Mexicano SA and
Ferrosur SA. The mining company has doubled its stake in
Aeroportuario del Pacifico to 20 percent in the past year,
challenging the airport operator’s bylaws that limit
shareholdings to 10 percent. Grupo Mexico is disputing that
limit in court, while the airport company is defending it.  Voting Shareholders  Aeroportuario del Pacifico’s management has no position on
whether shareholders should accept Grupo Mexico’s offer, said
Miguel Aliaga, the company’s investor relations director, in an
interview today. The airport operator has asked Grupo Mexico to
reduce its stake to the 10 percent permitted under the bylaws
and can’t force the mining company to do so, he said. Changing
the bylaws would require the vote of investors representing 85
percent of the company’s shares, he said.  “The market is pricing in this offer of 50 pesos per
share,” said Pablo Duarte de Leon, an analyst with Corp.
Actinver SAB in Mexico City. “It gives you the idea that their
interest is as strong as ever.”  Expand Stake or Sell  If Grupo Mexico doesn’t get 51 percent or more of the
shares, it will decide whether to keep expanding its stake or to
sell it, according to the company. Shares of Mexico City-based
Grupo Mexico fell 30 centavos to 38.07 pesos.  Aeroportuario del Pacifico is controlled by a group of
Spanish and Mexican investors that own all of the company’s
voting shares, representing a 15 percent financial stake. The
Mexican holder, Controladora Mexicana de Aeropuertos SA, has
been feuding since last year with Spanish holders  Abertis
Infraestructuras SA (ABE)  and Aeropuertos Espanoles y Navegacion Aerea
SA over board appointees and company control.  Grupo Mexico and Aeroportuario del Pacifico bid together on
a government auction this year to build an airport in the
Riviera Maya beach resort area. The government canceled the
auction last month after concluding that no participant made a
qualified bid.  Aeroportuario del Pacifico operates 12 airports in Mexican
cities including Guadalajara, Tijuana and Puerto Vallarta. The
company also is considering expanding to Natal,  Brazil .  Diversification Move  Grupo Mexico’s mining division, which includes Southern
Copper Corp. and Asarco LLC, would still generate 90 percent of
the company’s Ebitda were the Mexico City-based company to
acquire Aeroportuario del Pacifico, Abraham said. The airport
operator would contribute about 3.5 percent of the company’s
Ebitda, he added.  “They may see this as a way to diversify,” Abraham said.  By acquiring Aeroportuario del Pacifico, Grupo Mexico would
gain access to an industry that has attracted less traffic
because of the bankruptcy last year of Cia. Mexicana de
Aviacion, which was Mexico’s largest airline before it shut down
operations.  Aeroportuario del Pacifico “is still a very attractive
investment for some investors,” said Aliaga, the airport
operator’s investor relations director. “This is important, in
spite of the crises we’ve had. This means that they are seeing
the company and the sector as attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  