-- 
African Leaders Demand Halt to NATO Bombing Campaign in Libya

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-15T19:38:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/african-leaders-demand-halt-to-nato-bombing-campaign-in-libya.html
African leaders today demanded an
immediate end to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s
bombing campaign in  Libya  and called for the  African Union  and
 United Nations  to take the lead in reaching a political
solution.  “We have not voted for a substitute for bombing of one
group by the other,” South Africa’s Foreign Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane told reporters in  New York , referring to the UN
resolution authorizing military action against Libya leader
Muammar Qaddafi’s regime, which her government supported. “All
forms of military intervention and bombing must stop now.”  Nkoana-Mashabane and ministers of Mali, Mauritania, Uganda
and Republic of Congo, which formed the AU’s Ad Hoc Committee on
Libya, expressed their concern about the NATO bombing campaign
to the UN  Security Council . Adoption of a draft statement
demanding a “complete end to violence and all attacks against
and abuses of civilians” was blocked by the U.S. and other
Western nations.  Western and Arab leaders have demanded an end to Qaddafi’s
four-decade rule, and NATO aircraft have targeted his forces in
a military campaign about to enter its fourth month.  “This was a meeting for expressions of frustration,” said
Ambassador Nestor Osorio of  Colombia , a Security Council member.
Ambassador Jose Moraes Cabral of Portugal, also a council
member, said Uganda’s Foreign Minister Ruhakana Rugunda
suggested the NATO intervention amounted to “going back to
colonialism” in Africa.  Call from  Russia ,  China   The meeting in New York followed a statement today by the
 Shanghai Cooperation Organization , a security alliance led by
China and Russia and including the former Soviet states of
Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, urging an end to the NATO
campaign. “Domestic conflicts and crises have to be regulated
exclusively by peaceful means, through political dialogue,” the
group said in Astana, Kazakhstan, where it is holding a summit.  The African ministers stopped short of directly criticizing
the NATO campaign, saying only that it has contributed to a
humanitarian crisis rather than a political solution.  “The situation also underscores the moral and also
political imperative to seek a rapid solution, to spare the
suffering of the civilian population, create conditions for the
return of sustainable peace in Libya and to spare the region
from new tribulations that stand the risk of plunging it back
into instability,” Mauritania’s Foreign Minister Hamady Ould
Hamady said.  South Africa ’s President  Jacob Zuma  was more direct
yesterday in  Cape Town , saying the UN resolution authorizing
military action was “being abused for regime change, political
assassinations and foreign military occupation.”  Hamady called for an “immediate humanitarian pause” in
the fighting and expressed the AU’s “surprise and
disappointment at the attempts to marginalize the continent in
the management of the Libyan conflict.”  Britain’s Ambassador Mark Lyall Grant said a precondition
of a halt to the NATO bombing was a cessation of attacks on
civilians by the Qaddafi regime.  “The ball is in Qaddafi’s court,” Lyall Grant said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  