-- 
Thai Army Warns Voters Over Elections, Won’t Tolerate Insults to Royalty

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-15T09:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/thai-army-warns-voters-over-elections-won-t-tolerate-insults-to-royalty.html
Thai Army chief Prayuth Chan-ocha,
who commanded troops in the 2006 coup that ousted former premier
 Thaksin Shinawatra , urged voters to pick “good people” in July
3 polls and warned criticism of the monarchy won’t be tolerated.  “We should come out to vote to solve the country’s
problems by picking good people,” Prayuth said, according to a
video on the website of the army-controlled Channel 7 station.
He told voters not to pick the “same thing” in elections, the
last four of which have been won by parties loyal to Thaksin.  Pheu Thai, headed by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra,
is now leading in opinion surveys. The last three election
results have been overturned by the coup and legal challenges,
provoking street protests that have cost more than 100 lives.  The army has seen a growing number of insults to the
monarchy during the election campaign, Prayuth said, citing
examples of Thais who live overseas including former Thaksin
spokesman and Cabinet minister Jakrapob Penkair. The military
has accused Thaksin and his supporters of undermining  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 83, who took the throne in 1946 and has his
picture hung in the majority of Thai homes out of reverence.  Prayuth is “clearly trying to set some of the ideological
groundwork for possible intervention if that proves necessary,”
said  Andrew Walker , a professor at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “It’s hard to see them accepting a Pheu
Thai government when the prime ministerial candidate is so
transparently a proxy for Thaksin.”  Baht Weakens  Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
downgraded the nation’s equities this week on concern over the
election, inflation and increased valuations. Thailand’s baht
weakened toward a three-month low as global funds sold $678
million more Thai equities than they bought this month.  The benchmark SET Index fell 0.4 percent as of 4:13 p.m.
local time. The baht lost 0.1 percent to 30.49 per dollar as of
4:15 p.m., according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
touched 30.54 on June 13, the weakest level since March 3.  Thailand ’s  constitution  says the king “shall be enthroned
in a position of revered worship and shall not be violated.”
The lese-majeste law makes it a criminal offense to defame,
insult or threaten the king, queen, heir apparent or regent.
Offenders face as many as 15 years in prison per charge.  ‘ Royal Institution ’  “We can’t let them violate the law,” Prayuth said.
“Thailand can be the Thailand of today because of the royal
institution.”  In 2009, 164 lese-majeste cases went before the lower
courts, up from 33 in 2005, according to statistics compiled by
David Streckfuss, an academic at Khon Kaen University in
northeast Thailand. A court revoked bail last month for two
Thaksin allies who led anti-government protests in which 90
people were killed, on the grounds they made political speeches
that insulted the royal family.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  set up a panel to vet
lese-majeste complaints after he took power in a 2008
parliamentary vote. The body is designed to establish “the
norms and the precedent cases clearer to law enforcement
agencies,” he told reporters yesterday.  Thaksin has directed party affairs from overseas since
fleeing a two-year jail sentence for abuse of power in 2008. He
read the party’s economic policies to a Bangkok rally last month
and its campaign slogan reads “Thaksin Thinks, Pheu Thai
Does.”  Overturning Thaksin’s verdict “would set a new and very
dangerous precedent,” Abhisittold reporters yesterday. 
“Bringing Thaksin back with amnesty is likely to cause a lot of 
controversy. It’s not something the people want, it’s not something
the country wants.”  Thailand has seen 18 successful or attempted military
takeovers since absolute monarchy was abolished in 1932. In
2009, about 100,000 pro-Thaksin protesters marched to top royal
adviser Prem Tinsulanonda’s house in Bangkok to demand he quit
for backing the 2006 coup, a charge he denies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  