-- 
Taiwan Dollar Ends Little Changed on Suspected Intervention

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 
2011-06-15T08:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/taiwan-dollar-advances-after-china-raises-banks-reserve-ratio.html
Taiwan ’s dollar erased gains in the
last minute of trading to close little changed on suspected
intervention by the central bank.  The currency was up 0.1 percent one minute prior to closing
before the monetary authority sold the local dollar, according
to two traders who declined to be identified as the central bank
doesn’t usually disclose such details. The currency earlier
strengthened for a second day after China increased the reserve-
requirement ratio for banks, spurring speculation the island’s
policy makers will boost  interest rates  this month to tame
accelerating inflation.  “Asian currencies were down today and the authorities may
be limiting the Taiwan dollar’s rise relative to its
counterparts,” said  Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-exchange
trader at Taiwan Shin Kong Commercial Bank. “China’s tightening
move supports the idea Taiwan will raise rates to rein in prices
too at the end of this month.”  The currency closed at NT$28.860 against its U.S.
counterpart as of 4 p.m. local time, compared with NT$28.850
yesterday, according to Taipei Forex Inc. Lin forecast it will
strengthen to NT$28.650 by the end of the week.  Taiwan’s government bonds were little changed. The yield on
the 1.375 percent note due March 2021, the most-traded debt, was
1.531 percent, from 1.536 percent yesterday, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The rate reached 1.548 percent on June 13,
the highest level this year.  The overnight money-market rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, fell one basis point to 0.33 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  The People’s Bank of  China  lifted the amount of cash
lenders must set aside as reserves yesterday for a sixth time
this year after reporting consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in
May from a year earlier, the most in almost three years.
Taiwan’s inflation quickened to 1.66 percent last month, the
fastest pace since February 2010, official data showed on June 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  