-- 
Thaksin Looms Over Thai Vote as Sister Yingluck’s Lead Unsettles Investors

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-16T04:27:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/thaksin-looms-in-thai-vote-as-yingluck-lead-unsettles-investors.html
Left motherless at a young age,
Yingluck Shinawatra says her eldest brother became like a parent
to her. From college in the U.S., to running  Thailand ’s biggest
mobile phone company and now seeking to become prime minister,
 Thaksin Shinawatra  guided her life.  Just how much the 61-year-old exiled former leader
continues to do so is a growing risk for investors as Yingluck,
43, leads in polls before July 3 elections. Concern a victory
would reignite the political conflict that has racked the
country and prompt a coup like that which toppled her brother in
2006 has helped drive more than $1 billion in overseas money
from Thai stocks since she emerged as a candidate last month.  “He’s the one who took care of me and helped in terms of
education and teaching me on the management style,” Yingluck
said in a June 8 interview conducted in English at a Bangkok
slum, where hundreds of supporters thronged around her. She
described Thaksin as her “second father,” while adding that
when it comes to leading the country, “I will be myself.”  The youngest of Thaksin’s eight siblings, Yingluck has
spent the past month introducing herself to voters after being
picked by the pro-Thaksin Pheu Thai party on May 16 to challenge
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  and his Democrats. As
Thailand’s first female leader, Yingluck would inherit inflation
at a 32-month high and a political divide that has seen parts of
Bangkok consumed by clashes leaving more than 100 killed since
2007, and the seizure of its international airport by
protesters.  Losing Streak  At the center of the political divisions in Thailand that
have seen 10 military takeovers since absolute monarchy ended in
1932 are ethnic and social segmentation, with the poorer north
and northeast supporting Thaksin’s group. The benchmark SET
index of stocks has dropped the past four weeks, the longest
losing streak since 2008, as concern escalated that violence may
accompany the aftermath of the vote.  The baht fell 0.2 percent to 30.59 per dollar as of 11:02
a.m. local time today and earlier touched 30.62, the weakest
level since March 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The baht has weakened almost 1 percent in the past month, the
worst performer among 10 major currencies in Asia excluding the
yen.  A veteran corporate executive in the Shinawatra family’s
business group, Yingluck’s lack of political experience means
Thaksin will likely continue to steer the party from abroad,
where he’s lived since fleeing a two-year prison term for abuse
of power in a 2008 court ruling, analysts said.  ‘My Clone’  “People know very little about her thoughts,” said
Kongkiat Opaswongkarn, chief executive officer of  Asia Plus
Securities Pcl (ASP) , Thailand’s third-biggest brokerage. “She
reports directly to Thaksin. The slogan the party uses, ‘Thaksin
thinks, Pheu Thai implements,’ will be exactly the way it is.”  Thaksin described Yingluck as “not my nominee but my
clone,” in an interview published May 20 in the Bangkok-based
Matichon newspaper. “I raised her like my eldest daughter
because mom passed away when she was young,” Matichon cited him
as saying, referring to Yingluck’s childhood in their northern
hometown of Chiang Mai. Thaksin declined, through his aides,
requests for an interview.  Yingluck said she still contacts Thaksin two or three times
a week to check on how he’s doing. “We are a very close
family.”  Her father, Loet Shinawatra, who died in 1997, owned two
cinemas, a bus service and a BMW dealership in  Chiang Mai 
province before he was elected as a lawmaker in 1969, according
to the biography “ Thaksin: The Business of Politics in
Thailand .” Thaksin followed in his footsteps, winning a state
concession to start a mobile-phone business in 1990 and joining
Parliament five years later.  Burden of a Name  Yingluck obtained a master’s degree in public
administration in 1990 from Kentucky State University in the
U.S. The Frankfort-based school is about 50 miles northwest of
Eastern Kentucky University, where Thaksin earned a master’s
degree in criminal justice fifteen years earlier.  On her return, Yingluck took a role in Thaksin’s business
group, serving at Shinawatra Directory Co., then as president of
Advanced Info Service Pcl, Thailand’s largest mobile-phone
company. In a 2003 interview with The Nation newspaper, Yingluck
said she was “a little bit nervous to show up, knowing that
somebody might think I’m here because of my name.”  Thana Thienachariya, former chief corporate affairs officer
for Total Access Communication Pcl, Advanced Info’s top rival,
said that in business Yingluck was “honest, compromising and
diplomatic.” He said she didn’t use “the media to attack her
competitors or anything like that. She avoided confrontation.”  Property Developer  When the family sold its flagship Shin Corp. to  Singapore ’s
Temasek Holdings Pte for 73 billion baht ($2.4 billion) in 2006,
Yingluck netted 985 million baht, stock-exchange filings show.
The deal sparked protests on grounds no tax was paid on the
proceeds, and it paved the way for a coup later that year.  Since then, Yingluck has run SC Asset Corp., a property
developer owned by Thaksin’s children. She has one son and is
married to Anusorn Amornchat, managing director of M Link  Asia 
Corp. Pcl, a Thai distributor of mobile-phone handsets founded
by another of Thaksin’s sisters.  Yingluck echoes Thaksin’s populist style, tapping into the
enduring support for her brother among urban poor and in rural
areas. The north and northeast, joined in the 1800s to the
nation then known as Siam, has an average income about one third
that in Bangkok, according to data from the National Statistical
Office. The areas were home to a Communist insurgency that faded
in the 1980s.  Shanty Town Embrace  Wearing a short-sleeved white shirt with a sketch of
herself on the front, she picked her way through cheering
Bangkok slum dwellers in temperatures that reached 34 degrees
Celsius (93 degrees Fahrenheit). After wiping sweat from her
face with a tissue and brushing away a fly, she sat down on a
white plastic chair for the interview.  “This is better than any television studio,” she said,
glancing at the houses made of tin and scrap metal 30 feet (9
meters) away as people crowded around her on the debris-strewn
dirt floor. “I feel very glad for all the support.”  One area where support is less forthcoming is among
investors, with stocks underperforming since Yingluck announced
her candidacy. The SET Index has fallen 5 percent in the past
month, lagging behind benchmarks in  Indonesia , the  Philippines 
and  Malaysia .  Red Versus Yellow  “Foreign investors were buying Thai stocks before on the
assumption that the Democrat party would win,” said Takahide Irimura, head of emerging-market research at Tokyo-based Kokusai
Asset Management Co., which oversees $57 billion. “Since
Thaksin’s sister was assigned to lead the Pheu Thai party, it
has regained popularity and in line with that foreign investors
have accelerated stock sales as their victory may reignite
political instability.”  Opponents of Thaksin, who wore yellow shirts at protests in
distinction from the red-shirted supporters of the former prime
minister, have said he posed a threat to  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 83, who has ruled Thailand since 1946.  Thai Army chief Prayuth Chan-ocha, who commanded troops in
the coup that ousted Thaksin, urged voters to pick “good
people” in the election and warned that criticism of the
monarchy won’t be tolerated, in a nationally televised interview
on June 14.  ‘No Hiding’  An internal police poll excluding Bangkok and the far south
found Pheu Thai leading in half of 331 constituencies, compared
with 25 percent for the Democrat party, the Bangkok Post said
June 12. Of 500 seats, 375 are selected in districts and 125 are
through proportional representation. A Bangkok University poll
June 2-9 showed Pheu Thai leading in 21 of 33 constituencies in
Bangkok, with Democrats ahead in six and six too close to call.  The Democrat party, seeking its first general election win
since 1992, has sought to convince voters that Yingluck’s top
priority would be to grant Thaksin amnesty. She has avoided a
debate with Abhisit, 46, who has a master’s degree in
philosophy, politics and economics from Oxford University.  Yingluck “has in business consistently acted as a nominee
for her brother,” Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij , deputy
leader of Abhisit’s party and a former chairman of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s Thai unit, said in a May 26 interview. “There’s
no hiding the fact that he’s using her again as his nominee.”  There are signs that Yingluck’s connection to Thaksin may
be used to disqualify her. A member of the military-appointed
panel that investigated Thaksin’s wealth after the coup, leading
to the seizure of 46.4 billion baht, has urged police and
prosecutors to file perjury charges against Yingluck for
testimony at the trial.  “This is an old case and must be followed by due
process,” Yingluck said. “I would be ready to explain
myself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  