-- 
Algosaibi Drops Defense of HSBC $250 Million Default Case

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-15T17:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/algosaibi-drops-defense-of-hsbc-case-in-u-k-over-loan-default.html
Ahmad Hamad Algosaibi & Brothers
Co., a Saudi  investment company  that defaulted on billions of
dollars of debt, won’t defend itself against a $250 million U.K.
lawsuit filed by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and four other banks.  Algosaibi switched course during a  London  trial after
deciding the judge would likely find the company hadn’t done
enough to prevent the forgery and fraud it alleges were behind
the loans, the family said today in a statement. The company
has said Maan al-Sanea, a family relation and founder of
Saudi conglomerate  Saad Group , wrongfully got about $9.2
billion of loans in Algosaibi’s name.  “It could be found in this case that if the Algosaibis
knew there was” improper use of loans “they should have taken
more aggressive steps to detect and prevent the massive forged
lending scheme,” said Eric Lewis, Algosaibi’s legal coordinator
with the law firm Baach Robinson & Lewis Pllc in  Washington .  The case follows a global dispute between Algosaibi and
al-Sanea, one of  Saudi Arabia ’s richest men who married into the
family before founding Saad Group. Units of the conglomerates,
both based in the Saudi oil city of Al-Khobar, defaulted in 2009
after borrowing about $15.7 billion from more than 80 banks.
Algosaibi has sued al-Sanea in the  Cayman Islands , Saudi Arabia
and  New York .  James Milton, a spokesman for Saad Group from Cardew Group
in London, declined to comment when reached today by phone. The
company has previously denied all claims by Algosaibi, sometimes
referred to as AHAB.  Forgery Allegations  Algosaibi, whose interests include construction, beverage
bottling and finance, alleges Kuwaiti-born al-Sanea forged loan
documents while he was running Algosaibi’s Money Exchange unit
and later laundered the proceeds.  “The evidence was clear that there was massive forgery and
that Maan al-Sanea diverted billions to his companies and that
the Algosaibis received no material benefit,” Lewis said in the
statement.  The London case, stemming from the largest Saudi default to
come out of the credit crunch, includes HSBC’s $85 million
claim, British Arab Commercial Bank Ltd.’s $19 million claim,
Arab Banking Corp.’s claims totaling $140 million and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) ’s $6 million claim.  “It now appears, after 14 months of bitterly contested
litigation and huge legal costs, that AHAB themselves have
finally realized their evidential case is completely
unsustainable,” said Gregory Mitchell, the lawyer for British
Arab Commercial Bank, according to a transcript of the hearing.  Saad Group, which began building sewage and storm-water
systems in Jeddah in western Saudi Arabia, expanded into real
estate, health care and banking, including taking a stake in
London-based HSBC.  HSBC spokesman Brendan McNamara declined to comment on the
case until a judgment is handed down.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 