-- 
AMD CEO Candidates Spurn Overtures to Lead Comeback at Chipmaker

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-06-15T20:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/amd-ceo-candidates-spurn-overtures-to-lead-comeback-at-chipmaker.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  has
approached at least four candidates to succeed ousted Chief
Executive Officer Dirk Meyer and been rebuffed, slowing the
chipmaker’s effort at a turnaround.  Apple Inc. Chief Operating Officer  Tim Cook ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
Co-President  Mark Hurd , EMC Corp. Chief Operating Officer Pat Gelsinger and Carlyle Group  Managing Director  Greg Summe spurned
approaches by Sunnyvale, California-based AMD, according to
people familiar with the search, who asked not to be named
because the talks are private.  AMD’s next CEO will need to push the company into new
markets for tablet computers and mobile phones -- a task that
eluded Meyer, prompting his ouster in January. The company also
has struggled to gain ground on  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in the $36 billion
personal-computer processor industry. AMD, founded a year after
Intel, has spent 42 years in the shadow of its larger rival.  “With the state of the economy in that industry, it can be
relatively hard to get people,” said  Daniel Grassi , an Atlanta-
based  managing director  at executive-search firm Boyden.  Bruce Claflin, AMD’s chairman, has been leading the search
for Meyer’s replacement. Claflin was a manager at International
Business Machines Corp.’s personal-computer division, which was
sold in 2005 to  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  He was also CEO of 3Com Corp.
from 2001 to 2006. Hewlett-Packard bought 3Com in 2010 for about
$2.7 billion.  ‘Good Progress’  Chief Financial Officer Thomas Seifert, who is serving as
interim CEO, said at a conference on May 17 that the board has
made “good progress” in its quest for a new leader. Seifert
has said he doesn’t want the job permanently. The Chicago-based
recruitment firm  Heidrick & Struggles  is helping with the
search.  With no new strategy, AMD shares have declined 8.3 percent
this year. They fell 17 cents, or 2.2 percent, to $7.50 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, compared
with a 2 percent slide in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index
today.  Founded in 1969, AMD has less than 20 percent of the
semiconductor market. In recent years, it also has missed out on
the shift to smartphones and other devices.  “The search is obviously a priority and the board is
moving the process forward to ensure that we select a person
with the right vision, experience and track record to lead AMD
into the future and to create increased  shareholder value  over
time,” said Drew Prairie, a spokesman for AMD.  ‘I Said No’  EMC’s Gelsinger said last week that he turned down AMD’s
overtures.  “I said no, and I said no again,” he said in an
interview. Gelsinger, a former Intel executive, said he’d rather
be considered for the job of CEO at his own company. EMC CEO Joe Tucci this month reiterated plans to step down after next year.  When asked about Hurd,  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for
 Redwood City , California-based Oracle, declined to comment.
Christopher Ullman, a spokesman for Washington-based Carlyle,
declined to comment about Summe.  While a leadership vacuum can make a company vulnerable to
a takeover, there aren’t any likely acquirers for AMD, said  Cody Acree , an analyst at Williams Financial Group in  Dallas .  “You have to have a buyer,” he said. “I don’t see
anybody of size that would want to compete with Intel.”  Private Equity   Private-equity firms capable of buying a company with AMD’s
$5.3 billion market value may shy away from chipmakers after the
ill-fated takeover of Freescale Semiconductor, he said.
Freescale’s private-equity owners, which included Blackstone
Group LP, TPG Capital and Carlyle, paid $17.6 billion for
Freescale, which is now valued at less than $4 billion.  Recruiters would typically plan on taking about six months
to fill a CEO position of this nature, said Louis Gerhardy, a
former consultant at Heidrick & Struggles and ex-Morgan Stanley
analyst.  Candidates will want to know whether there is consensus on
the board as to the company’s direction, and how much leeway the
new CEO will have in setting a strategy, said Gerhardy, who’s
now an independent investor.  “Faster is better, but quality is critical and in this
case the search is not just about finding a proven CEO who fits
into the culture, but much more importantly, a transformative
leader,” he said. “The selection will have a profound impact
on shareholder value at AMD.”  Longstanding Companies  The board wants Meyer’s replacement to find a way for AMD
to compete in tablets and mobile phones. That may prove just as
challenging as taking on Intel, said Sean Conner, an analyst at
 Nuveen Investments Inc.  in  Minneapolis . AMD would again find
itself up against well funded competitors, including Qualcomm
Inc. and Texas Instruments Inc.  “If you’re just going to move into tablets and handsets,
you’re competing against guys who’ve been in this a long time,”
Conner said.  Under Meyer and his predecessor,  Hector Ruiz , AMD suffered
product delays that cost it orders in the lucrative market for
chips used in server machines. AMD’s share of that industry
peaked at 26 percent in 2006, according to Cave Creek, Arizona-
based Mercury Research. At the end of the first quarter, that
number had fallen to 6.8 percent.  The company has delivered profit in only four of the past
10 years. Its stock decline this year has underperformed the
3.2 percent slide in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index and
Intel’s 1.9 percent gain.  Investors may lose patience with AMD if the search
languishes, saidHans Mosesmann, a  St. Petersburg , Florida-based
analyst for Raymond James & Associates.  “If by the end of the summer they haven’t done something,
then they’ve got a problem,” Mosesmann said. “I would suspect
they are looking for a visionary type guy. Drafting behind Intel
doesn’t work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  