-- 
Tottenham Rejects Chelsea Offer for Modric, Sky Says: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-06-16T11:03:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/manchester-united-set-to-sign-sanchez-for-44-million-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  No to Chelsea  Tottenham rejected a 22 million pound ($35 million) bid
from Chelsea for midfielder Luka Modric,  Sky Sports said .  The Croatian came to Spurs in 2008 and is wanted by several
clubs, including  Manchester United , the broadcaster said.
Chelsea, which doesn’t have a manager, may be planning a higher
offer, Sky said.  Guaranteed Titles  Arsenal captain Cesc Fabregas said his future is not
certain after another season without a trophy,  the Guardian
said.   The 24-year-old may return to Barcelona, where he started
his career, and said “going there guarantees titles,” the
newspaper reported.  Thiago Swap  Chelsea may try to sign Barcelona midfielder Thiago
Alcantara, who may become available if Fabregas joins the
Spanish club,  the Daily Mail said.   The 20-year-old may be sent to Arsenal to lower the fee for
Fabregas, the newspaper said.  Newcastle Plans  Newcastle manager Alan Pardew wants to sign West Ham
striker Demba Ba and St. Etienne midfielder Blaise Matuidi after
selling captain  Kevin Nolan ,  the Daily Mail said.   Ba can join on a free transfer, while Matuidi, who’s been
watched by Arsenal for three years, is valued at 13 million
pounds by his French club. Newcastle wants to pay around 8.5
million pounds, the newspaper said.  Liverpool Exits  Liverpool’s  Maxi Rodriguez  may want to return to Newell’s
Old Boys, where he started his career,  the Sun said .  He left  Argentina  in 2002 to join Espanyol, and is looking
at ways to get out of his Liverpool contract, the newspaper
said.  Adebayor’s Future  Blackburn wants to sign Manchester City forward  Emmanuel Adebayor ,  the Mirror said.   Manager  Steve Kean  will be able to spend about 30 million
pounds before the start of next season, the newspaper said.  City wants to get rid of Adebayor, who joined from Arsenal
for 25 million pounds two seasons ago, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 