-- 
Manufacturing in New York Area Unexpectedly Contracts on Parts Shortages

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-06-15T12:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-area-unexpectedly-contracts-on-parts-shortages.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  region
unexpectedly shrank in June, a sign the industry still faces
parts shortages following the disaster in Japan.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest level since November,
from 11.9 in May. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists was 12. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New
York, northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  The figures are consistent with May reports that showed
disruptions following the earthquake and tsunami in Japan are
weighing on American factories. As parts shipments resume,
energy costs recede and overseas demand boosts sales at
manufacturers like industrial filter-maker  Pall Corp. (PLL) , the
industry may rebound in the next six months.  “The slowing is reflective of the situation in Japan,
which is going to work itself out,”  David Semmens , a U.S.
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in New York, said before
the report. “We’ll be back to business as usual in the second
half. Manufacturing will stay a positive for growth.”  A separate report today from the Labor Department showed
that the cost of living rose more than forecast in May,
reflecting higher prices for everything from autos to hotel
rooms and signaling raw-material expenses are filtering through
to other goods and services.  Consumer Prices  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent, compared
with the 0.1 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The so-called core measure, which excludes more
volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.3 percent, the biggest
increase since July 2008.  Stock-index futures extended earlier losses after the
reports. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
maturing in September fell 0.9 percent to 1,273 at 8:35 a.m. in
New York.  Treasury securities  erased earlier gains and were
little changed.  Estimates for the Empire State index in the Bloomberg
survey of 52 economists ranged from 3.8 to 18.  The headline index is based on a separate question and does
not reflect changes in areas like orders and employment. For
that reason some economists consider it a measure of sentiment.  The Empire State gauge of new orders decreased to minus 3.6
in June from 17.2 the prior month. A measure of shipments fell
to minus 8 from 25.8.  Employment Measure  The employment measure decreased to 10.2 from 24.7. Fewer
manufacturers in June said they expect to boost payrolls in the
coming year compared with January, according to a supplemental
question in the Fed’s survey of businesses.  An index of prices paid fell to 56.1 from 69.9, while
prices received dropped to 11.2 from 28.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
optimistic about the future. The gauge measuring the outlook six
months from now declined to 22.5 from 52.7.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the  U.S. economy 
and about 6 percent of New York’s. U.S. factory payrolls dropped
by 5,000 workers in May, according to Labor Department data.  Pall reported a 15 percent jump in sales in the quarter
ended April 30. Revenue from  Europe  grew, and “China and  India ,
in particular, did very well,” according to Chief Executive
Officer Eric Krasnoff.  Improving Economies  “A confluence of trends are supporting the business and
setting the stage for future growth,” Krasnoff said on a
conference call with investors on June 9. These include
“improving economies” and “a rising middle class in
developing regions,” he said.  At the same time, Pall is not immune to supply constraints
arising from  Japan , he said.  “We could continue to see business disruptions in Japan in
the short term,” Krasnoff said on the call. “Longer term,
opportunities with the third-largest economy in the world, as
they rebuild, will improve our prospects.”  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management figures on U.S. manufacturing during the month. The
Philadelphia report is due tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  