-- 
Tanzania’s Mines Ministry Says Mooted Super-Profit Tax Remains a Proposal

-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 
2011-06-15T15:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/tanzania-s-mines-ministry-says-mooted-super-profit-tax-remains-a-proposal.html
Tanzania’s Mines Ministry said a so-
called super-profit tax for mining companies mooted by the
country’s Planning Commission remains a proposal and won’t be
implemented unless it is justified by economic conditions.  “We understand that miners need profits to cushion them
when prices fall and that policies should direct the sector for
say 15 years,” David Jairo, permanent secretary in the ministry,
said in a phone interview today from  Dar es Salaam , the
commercial capital. “We will not impose any tax. It will depend
on prevailing circumstances and time considerations.”  Tanzania vies with  Mali  to be  Africa ’s third-biggest gold
producer and is the world’s only known source of the blue
gemstone tanzanite. Lawmakers in the East African nation’s
parliament yesterday approved a 42.9 trillion-shilling ($27.4
billion) economic-development plan that proposed using the levy
to help fund the program. The tax may be appropriate
“considering the increasing trend in mineral prices,” the
commission said, without providing a timeframe.  The commission cited data that showed gold exports from the
East African country increased to $1.5 billion, or 7 percent of
gross domestic product, from $500 million over the past five
years, while annual government revenue from sales of the metal
remained at $100 million, or 0.5 percent of GDP.  “The super-profit tax is a statement that remains a
proposal and will not be implemented unless it is economically
justifiable,” Jairo said.  IMF Discussions  The International Monetary Fund’s Fiscal Affairs Department
held talks with the Tanzania’s Finance Ministry about the tax
prior to its announcement and backs an additional levy on mining
projects with “particularly high” returns, an IMF official said.  “The IMF supports the idea of what we call a resource rent
tax on mining projects,” John Wakeman-Linn, the IMF’s
representative in Tanzania, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on June 13. He didn’t say when the mission met the
Finance Ministry officials.  “The appropriate level for any tax would depend on many
factors, including the broader economic policy framework,
spending plans and any other measures being taken to increase
 tax revenue ,” Wakeman-Linn said.  Tax Guarantee  African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG) , the biggest producer of the
metal in Tanzania, operates four mines in the country. The
company said on June 8 its mines in Tanzania are subject to
Mineral Development Agreements that guarantee tax and “fiscal
stabilization” for projects. The accords can’t be amended
without the company’s approval, it said in a statement.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the world’s third-biggest gold
miner, said its Geita mine in Tanzania won’t be affected because
an existing arrangement is valid for the life of the mine.  Other companies that have a presence in Tanzania include
Bermuda-based  Tanzanite One Ltd. (TNZ) , and Tanzania Royalty
Exploration Corp. of  Canada .  The Tanzania Chamber of Minerals may meet on June 16 to
discuss the tax, Godvictor Lyimo, chairman of the chamber’s
finance committee, said in a phone interview today.  “We discussed this issue earlier when  Australia  introduced
the resource rent tax, which is also a windfall tax, because
some of the members at the chamber have interests there,” Lyimo
said. “We thought it was not a good tax. Government has not
talked to us about this tax yet.”  Australian Levy  Australia is planning a 30 percent levy on iron-ore and
coal profits that will earn the country A$7.7 billion ($8.2
billion) in its first two years, the Treasury Department said
last month. The tax is scheduled to start in July 2012 after the
laws are passed by parliament.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  in July scaled back
the original proposal for a 40 percent tax on all resource
profits to a levy with a higher threshold that exempts most
commodities.  Tanzania’s five-year plan targets an annual average
economic growth rate of 8 percent from 2011-12 to 2015-16. The
expansion is expected to accelerate to 10 percent by 2025, it
said.  The country’s gold output ranked behind  South Africa  and
Ghana, and alongside Mali’s 44.6 metric tons in 2010, according
to London-based research company  GFMS Ltd.   Last year, Tanzania’s Parliament passed a mining law that
increases royalties paid on minerals to 4 percent from 3 percent
and gave the government a stake in all future projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 