-- 
Army Tests Apple IPhones, Other Tech Gear

-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/apple-s-iphones-join-drones-as-army-tests-commercial-technology.html
The U.S. Army, conducting the
biggest test of its tactical communications network, is seeking
to speed adoption of technology such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
 AeroVironment Inc. (AVAV) ’s Puma drone.  The six-week exercise, called the Network Integration
Evaluation, pits products in the military-development pipeline
against available commercial technology in combat-like
scenarios. It’s the first in a planned series of semi-annual
events that officials said may change how the service buys
equipment in a $6 billion market.  Some 3,800 soldiers in the exercise will assess about 35
systems -- many with subcomponents -- across thousands of square
miles of terrain at Fort Bliss,  Texas , and White Sands Missile
Range,  New Mexico . The goal is to help the Army better integrate
networked components and avoid costly delays that have plagued
programs in the past, while taking advantage of rapid advances
in the telecommunications industry, Army officials said.  The event, running through July 15, is a competition for
Army dollars at a time of budget cutbacks and will draw major
defense contractors such as Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD) , based in  Falls Church , Virginia.  “This is the Super Bowl,” said Dennis Moran, vice
president of government business development for Melbourne,
Florida-based  Harris Corp. (HRS) , which makes military radios and
other products. “We are absolutely excited to be
participating.”  Six-Week Exercise  The Army will spend the first four weeks testing equipment
it’s been developing and the final two weeks testing products
available in the market, including smart phones such as the
iPhone made by Cupertino, California-based Apple, the Puma
unmanned aerial vehicle developed by Monrovia, California-based
AeroVironment, and the Rite 3G mobile wireless network developed
by  CACI International Inc. (CACI)  of Arlington, Virginia.  “We must ensure we have the most current technology
available so that ultimately we may get it into the hands of our
soldiers as quickly as possible,” Army Vice Chief of Staff
Peter Chiarelli said last month during a press conference at the
Pentagon.  During the past decade, the military has rushed commercial
radios and other communications gear into the field to support
the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan . Any problems that arose, such
as unexpected interference, were fixed in theater, straining
forces on the ground, Chiarelli said.  With the creation of regular, brigade-level field tests in
the U.S., “we will bear that integration burden, not our
soldiers and commanders downrange,” he said.  Radios  Harris has benefited from the military’s need for more
capable tactical radios. The company invested more than $300
million developing the AN/PRC-152 hand-held and AN/PRC-117G
portable radios. The Defense Department has purchased more than
160,000 of the devices. Revenue growth in the company’s RF
Communications segment, which includes military radios, has
increased to $2.07 billion in 2010, from $1.51 billion in 2008.  The company wants the AN/PRC-117G, known as the “117
golf,” to compete against radios still in development as part
of the Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS), known as “jitters,”
which has experienced delays and cost overruns.  “We think we’re going to perform extremely well,” Moran
said in a telephone interview.  The Army will be scrutinizing five programs whose
performance will play a role in production or fielding
decisions, Paul Mehney, a spokesman for Program Executive Office
Integration, the Army’s network modernization office, said in a
telephone interview.  Equipment Delays  The five programs are the  JTRS  “manpack” radio developed
by General Dynamics; Mounted Soldier System developed in part by
Cedar Rapids, Iowa-based  Rockwell Collins Inc. (COL) ; Force XXI Battle
Command Brigade and Below (FBCB2) software developed by Los
Angeles-based  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ; Early-Infantry Brigade
Combat Team ( E-IBCT ) Network Interface Kit developed by Boeing;
and the Spider XM-7 networked land mine developed by Providence,
Rhode Island-based  Textron Inc. (TXT) , Mehney said.  Some of these systems have had significant delays,
according to a recent Pentagon  analysis  of 40 acquisition
programs.  A full-production decision on the  Spider , for example, has
been deferred six years because of problems found during
operational testing, according to the Pentagon. Recurring
deficiencies in the system include software that is complex and
difficult to operate, the Pentagon found.  Infantry Systems  Three of the five systems originally slated for the Early-
Infantry Brigade Combat Team, a system of sensors and unmanned
vehicles designed to improve a brigade’s situational awareness,
were canceled in December after users raised questions about
their military value during testing, according to the Defense
Department.  And full-production approval of the JTRS Handheld, Manpack,
Small Form Fit ( HMS ) radios was pushed back two years due to
deficiencies in reliability, range and battery life, according
to the Pentagon.  Michael McCarthy, a program manager for the Future Force
Integration Directorate at Fort Bliss, who has helped develop
the Army’s smart phone initiative,  Connecting Soldiers to
Digital Applications , said the network test will include a total
of 450 smart phones and tablets, made by companies such as
Apple,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  of  Round Rock , Texas, and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
of  Palo Alto ,  California .  ‘Strengths and Weaknesses’  Soldiers will use the devices to evaluate about 85 mobile
applications, McCarthy said. Other products slated for review
include the Rite 3G, a wireless network for the war zone, and
the  Puma , a small, low-altitude unmanned aircraft designed to
improve surveillance for ground troops looking for the enemy
nearby.  “Each of the systems has strengths and weaknesses and
that’s what we’re trying to identify,” McCarthy said in a
telephone interview.  The evaluation comes as pressure increases for the Defense
Department to curb defense spending. President Barack Obama has
proposed cutting $400 billion in anticipated defense spending
through fiscal 2023, in addition to $78 billion in reductions
for the next five years.  The Army has requested a budget of $6.17 billion for
communications and electronics procurement in fiscal 2012, down
from an estimated $7.23 billion in fiscal 2011 and $6.61 billion
in fiscal 2010, according to budget  documents .  The service earlier decreased the number of radios it
planned to buy as part of the JTRS Ground Mobile Radio (GMR)
developed by Boeing, to 10,293 from 86,209, according to a May
13 letter from Army Secretary John McHugh to lawmakers.  The move triggered a provision of the 1982 Nunn-McCurdy
law, which requires the Pentagon to explain to Congress why an
over-budget program should continue.  “The Army,” said General Chiarelli, “will buy what it
needs, when it needs it, for those that need it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in  Washington  
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 