-- 
Canadian Stocks Decline as U.S. Economic Data Trail Estimates

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-06-15T20:36:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/artis-brigus-gold-cadente-copper-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell, led by banks
and energy producers, as European leaders failed to agree on a
new bailout for  Greece  and data on manufacturing and industrial
production in the U.S. trailed economists’ forecasts.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-biggest lender by
assets, declined 1.2 percent after U.S. industrial production
gained less than most economists had estimated.  Suncor Energy
Inc. (SU) , the country’s largest oil and gas producer, dropped 2.6
percent as crude oil futures retreated the most in a month.
 Breakwater Resources Ltd. (BWR) , a mining company with operations in
Canada, Honduras and Chile, soared 43 percent after agreeing to
be bought by Nyrstar NV.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index lost 125.79
points, or 1 percent, to 12,972.03.  “We’ve been getting some numbers that aren’t as robust as
people would have liked,” said Jennifer Radman, a  money manager 
at Caldwell Investement Management Ltd., which oversees about
C$1 billion ($1 billion). “It’s hard to really tell where the
economy’s going.”  The S&P/TSX fell 5.1 percent this month through yesterday
as data on U.S. employment and manufacturing trailed economists’
forecasts. Seventy-five percent of  Canada ’s exports went to the
U.S. last year, according to  Statistics Canada .  A monthly index of manufacturing in  New York , northern  New
Jersey  and Connecticut dropped to the lowest level since
November, the  Federal Reserve  Bank of New York said today.
National industrial production climbed 0.1 percent in May, the
Federal Reserve said in  Washington , missing the median economist
forecast of 0.2 percent.  European finance officials meeting in Brussels were unable
to break a deadlock on how to enroll investors in a second Greek
bailout without causing a default. Greek Prime Minister  George
Papandreou  will name a new government tomorrow and call a vote
of confidence in parliament as he seeks to pressure rebel
lawmakers to back the austerity plan that aims to secure a new
bailout.  All S&P/TSX banks and all but one insurer dropped. TD,
which has more than 1,000 U.S. branches, declined 1.2 percent to
C$78.48.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, slipped 1.1 percent to C$53.78.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) , the
No. 3 bank in the country, lost 0.8 percent to C$57.23.  Crude futures retreated to the lowest price since Feb. 22.  Suncor decreased 2.6 percent to C$37.36. Canadian Oil Sands
Ltd., the largest owner of the Syncrude project, fell 2.5
percent to C$28.01.  Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG) , a western
Canadian oil and gas producer, dropped 2.3 percent to C$43.03.
Oil-sands developer  BlackPearl Resources Inc. (PXX)  slumped 5.5
percent to C$6.19.  Breakwater, which mines base and precious metals, surged 43
percent to C$7.42, reaching a three-year high after Nyrstar
agreed to buy it for C$7 a share, plus a special dividend of 50
Canadian cents a share. Nyrstar, based in Balen,  Belgium , is the
world’s largest maker of refined zinc.  All of the major base metals traded on the London Metal
Exchange declined.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest company
in the industry, lost 1.9 percent to C$45.40.  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FM) , Canada’s second-biggest publicly traded copper
producer, decreased 1.5 percent to C$121.40.  Mercator Minerals
Ltd. (ML) , which mines molybdenum and copper, sank 6.9 percent to
C$2.56, an eight-month low.  Fertilizer producers declined as wheat and corn futures
retreated. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s
largest fertilizer producer by market value, lost 1.3 percent to
C$52.80.  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  decreased 2.7 percent to C$81.42.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the forestry company fighting a short
seller’s assertions of financial manipulation, slumped 4.2
percent to C$3.22 after closing at a five-year low yesterday.
The shares have plunged 82 percent since the day before Carson Block, the founder of Muddy Waters LLC, said Sino-Forest’s
stated land holdings do not match Chinese city records. The
company has denied the assertions.  Mining company China Gold International Resources Corp.
tumbled 8.5 percent to C$3.45, extending its monthly decline to
22 percent. An index of China-focused companies traded in
Canada, other than Sino-Forest, has sunk 20 percent in May.  Other gold producers advanced as the European debt crisis
led investors to seek out safe havens.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the
world’s second-largest gold producer by market value, increased
2.5 percent to C$46.76.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest company
in the industry, rose 1.2 percent to C$43.05.  Air Canada (AC/A) , the country’s largest airline, gained 6.4
percent to C$2.01 to extend its two-day surge to 12 percent, the
most in 10 months. The Canadian government may introduce
legislation to end a strike by call-center, check-in and gate
staff tomorrow, Labor Minister Lisa Raitt said today outside
Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  