-- 
Las Vegas Sands China Unit Agrees to $3.5 Billion of Loans

-- B y   B i l l y   C h a n   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-06-15T11:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/las-vegas-sands-china-unit-agrees-to-3-5-billion-of-loans-1-.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , the casino
operator expanding in Macau and Singapore, said its China unit
received commitments from banks for $3.5 billion of loans and
has the option to raise another $1 billion.  The new credit facilities are expected to “significantly
reduce”  Sands China Ltd. (1928) ’s interest expense and strengthen its
financial flexibility, according to a statement to the Hong Kong
stock exchange today. They will also help the company extend its
debt maturities until 2016, it said.  Macau surpassed Las Vegas as the world’s biggest casino
market about six years ago and is the only place in China where
casino resorts are legal. Las Vegas Sands reported first-quarter
sales and profit last month that rose less than analysts’
estimates on lower winnings from its table games in  Nevada .  Sales for the three months to March 31 rose 58 percent to
$2.11 billion, reflecting the opening in April 2010 of the
company’s $5.5 billion Marina Bay Sands casino resort in
Singapore. Analysts had expected sales to be $2.14 billion.  The new credit facilities will consist of a $3 billion
five-year  term loan  and an undrawn $500 million five-year
revolving loan, according to the statement. In a revolving loan
money that’s been repaid can be borrowed again.  Borrowings under the term and revolving loans are “subject
to a pricing grid and, after a six-month period, will have
initial pricing set at 2 percent above the London interbank
offered rate,” the statement said.  As well as using the proceeds to refinance debt, Sands
China will use the money to fund the completion of the
construction of two phases of a property along  Macau ’s Cotai
strip, the statement said.  About 14 banks were approached for the loans, a person
familiar with the matter said on May 23.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Billy Chan at 
 bchan101@bloomberg.net 
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  