-- 
Asian Currencies Erase Earlier Gains on EU Deadlock Over Greek Aid Plan

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-06-15T09:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/asian-currencies-advance-as-global-growth-boosts-region-s-export-outlook.html
Asian currencies declined, erasing
earlier gains, as concern over  Greece ’s debt crisis outweighed
signs the global recovery is intact, heightening  risk aversion .  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares fell after an
emergency session of European finance ministers failed to agree
to a German-led push for bondholders to shoulder part of the
cost of a new Greek aid package in Brussels late yesterday. The
 European Central Bank , backed by France, warned the move might
constitute the euro area’s first sovereign default. Currencies
climbed earlier after data showed Chinese factory output rose
and U.S. retail sales were better than economists had expected.  Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.1 percent to 8,546 per dollar
as of 3:35 p.m. in Jakarta, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Thailand ’s baht, the Philippine peso and Malaysia’s
ringgit declined 0.1 percent to 30.48, 43.39 and 3.0325,
respectively.  “It’s a bad sign that finance ministers were unable to
come up with even a slight conclusion and when you look at
Europe the amount of risk stays the same,” said Nalin Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based analyst at Kasikornbank Pcl.
“Investors are still not back to risk-on trade.”  Global funds sold $2 billion more South Korean, Taiwanese
and Thai shares than they bought this month through yesterday,
exchange data show. EU finance ministers agreed to convene again
on June 19, a day earlier than planned. Talks may drag on into
July, Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  Thai Political Risk  The baht traded near a three-month low as concern elections
slated for July 3 will spark unrest prompted overseas investors
to pull funds from the nation’s assets. Latest polls show Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrat party is trailing the Pheu
Thai party, led by Yingluck Shinawatra, the sister of ex-leader
Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted in a 2006 coup and lives
abroad after fleeing a two-year jail sentence.  “The election is weighing quite heavily on the baht and
Thai assets,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi
Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “The political problems
in Thailand seem to be quite deep and can’t be easily solved.”  South Korea’s won rose by as much as 0.2 percent earlier
after  China  reported industrial production rose 13.3 percent
last month, compared with the 13.1 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. South Korea’s jobless rate dropped to a six-
month low of 3.3 percent in May, a report today showed. The won
was little changed at 1,083 per dollar.  “There’s room for one more rate hike across  Asia  in the
short term given the inflation pressure, which should support
currencies,” said Suresh Kumar Ramanathan, a strategist at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “Further out, growth is
tailing off a bit and  Europe  remains a risk.”  Elsewhere, China’s yuan weakened 0.03 percent to 6.4822 per
dollar and the Taiwan dollar was little changed at NT$28.86.
India’s rupee was little changed at 44.725.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  