-- 
Asian Stocks Swing Between Gains, Losses as Greece Woes Temper U.S. Data

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-06-15T10:30:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-after-u-s-retail-retail-sales.html
Asian stocks swung between gains and
losses as a better-than-estimated U.S. retail sales report
countered speculation that  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis will
take longer to resolve.  Honda Motor Co., a carmaker that gets about 84 percent of
sales outside  Japan , climbed 2 percent after a report showed U.S.
retail sales were better than forecast.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a
global fashion retailer that gets most its revenue from Europe,
slumped 5.1 percent in  Hong Kong  as European Union officials
struggled to break a deadlock on a second Greek rescue plan.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank, sank 1.3 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent to 132.57 as
of 7:27 p.m. in Tokyo after rising as much as 0.2 percent and
falling 0.4 percent. About the same number of stocks advanced as
fell on the gauge.  “Investors were pleased to see U.S. retail sales beat
expectations, despite still being negative,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps manage about $1 billion in global equities
at Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “A lack of resolution of
 Greece ’s debt situation adds to investor uncertainty not only
for Greece, but other highly indebted nations within the
European Union.”  The Asia-Pacific index climbed 1 percent yesterday after
 China  released reports showing industrial output grew more than
economists forecast and that inflation accelerated at the
fastest pace in almost three years. The gauge pared advances
late yesterday after Chinese authorities ordered lenders to set
aside more cash as reserves.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average gained 0.3 percent today.
South Korea’s Kospi Index advanced 0.5 percent, while
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 0.4 percent. Hong Kong’s
Hang Seng Index fell 0.7 percent.  Retail Sales  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.4
percent today. In  New York , the index gained 1.3 percent
yesterday, the most since April 20, after better-than-estimated
data on American retail sales and Chinese industrial production.  The Commerce Department in  Washington  yesterday reported
sales at retailers fell 0.2 percent in May, less than forecast,
indicating American consumers are weathering higher gasoline
costs. The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a drop of 0.5 percent. Another report showed U.S.
wholesale costs rose last month.  Also boosting the global economic recovery, China reported
yesterday that its industrial production rose 13.3 percent last
month compared with a 13.1 percent forecast.  Japanese Exporters  Honda rose 2 percent to 2,990 yen in Tokyo.  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by revenue, gained 0.6
percent to 3,250 yen.  Hino Motors Ltd. (7205) , a maker of trucks and
buses, gained 4.4 percent to 453 yen after saying it will post a
12 billion yen ($149 million) net profit this fiscal year,
compared with a loss of 10 billion yen last year.  In Sydney, Billabong International Ltd., a surfwear maker
that gets almost half its revenue from the Americas, advanced
1.1 percent to A$6.22.  “Excessive concern about the future of the  U.S. economy 
will recede because retail sales, the most important data
showing U.S. personal spending, weren’t as bad as the market
expected,” said Hiroichi Nishi, an equities manager in  Tokyo  at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “Investors will likely buy companies
sensitive to the global economy.”  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the utility at the center of the
worst nuclear crisis in 25 years, surged 32 percent, extending a
25 percent advance yesterday, as investors bought shares to
cover a record number of short-sale positions.  ‘Pure Short-Covering’  Gains over the past two days are “pure short-covering,”
said Amir Anvarzadeh, a sales manager at BGC Partners Inc.’s
Asian equity sales team in  Singapore . “We see these types of
rebounds because of the massive falls. Tepco trades have become
speculative trades for hedge funds, short-term trades, short-
covering.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 3.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 2.4 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 1.8 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark were valued at 13.5 times
estimated earnings on average, compared with 13 times for the
S&P 500 and 10.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  Among stocks that fell today, Esprit slumped 5.1 percent to
HK$26.30 in Hong Kong, headed for its lowest close since 2004,
and HSBC sank 1.3 percent to HK$78.05.  An emergency session of finance ministers in Brussels late
yesterday failed to reconcile a German-led push for bondholders
to shoulder part of the cost of a new Greek aid package with
European Central Bank warnings that the move might constitute
the euro area’s first sovereign default.  ‘Unprecedented’ Claims  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE) , Australia’s largest insurer by
market value, dropped 3.7 percent to A$16.65 in Sydney as it
forecast a narrower insurance margin after “unprecedented”
claims from catastrophes. After-tax profit for the six months
ending June 30 will be 50 percent to 60 percent higher than a
year earlier, Sydney-based QBE said in a statement late
yesterday.  “Elevated catastrophe claims mean that QBE’s first half
insurance margin will likely be at its lowest level in seven
years,” said Sydney-based analysts at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc including Richard Coles in a note to investors. “It
would now appear quite a stretch for QBE to achieve the bottom
end of its full-year guidance, despite putting through
substantial price increases in catastrophe affected
portfolios.”  HTC Corp. (2498)  fell 7 percent to NT$1,070 in Taipei after the
smartphone maker was cut to “neutral” from “outperform” at
Macquarie Group Ltd., which cited the prospects of competition
for makers of handsets using Google Inc.’s Android system as
low-cost rivals gain market share.  ----With assistance from Norie Kuboyama and Satoshi Kawano in
Tokyo. Editor: Jason Clenfield, Nick Gentle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 