-- 
Astronomers Have Discovered Oldest Black Holes Ever Detected in Space

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-06-15T17:18:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/astronomers-have-discovered-oldest-black-holes-ever-detected-in-space.html
Scientists discovered the universe’s
earliest black holes and, in the process, added support to a
theory that the cosmological objects developed in tandem with
their host galaxies.  Black holes occur when stars implode, creating a
gravitation collapse that collects and compresses mass in such a
way that no light waves can escape. Scientists have sought for
decades to determine how they happen and what attributes they
carry. The most-recent data came from a study of 250 galaxies
detected by the  Hubble Space Telescope , compared with signals
gathered by the orbiting Chandra X-Ray Observatory.  The black holes found are the furthest detected from Earth,
and appear as they existed 13 billion years ago, just after the
Big Bang that scientists believe began the universe, according
to a report today in the journal  Nature . They have a symbiotic
relationship with galaxies, the researchers said, feeding on the
gas and dust they create.  The finding suggests both “were growing together,” said
 Kevin Schawinski , an astrophysicist at  Yale University  in  New
Haven ,  Connecticut , who contributed to the study. “Their co-
evolution goes back to their first moments.”  While scientists have long suspected that black holes’
growth coincides with host galaxies’ growth, this is the first
time that researchers have detected masses old enough to support
the theory, Schawinski said in a telephone interview. The
finding puts astronomers closer to the next goal, he said:
understanding what physical products melded to bring black holes
into existence.  Stacking Images  To find evidence of the black holes, the researchers
stacked multiple images taken by the X-Ray observatory on top of
each other to provide a clearer, more distinct picture. They
determined that the objects were hidden behind large quantities
of gas and dust from the galaxies where they resided. It was no
simple task, Schawinski said.  “It’s like the galaxy was the flesh, covering the black
hole, which is like a bone,” he said. “Now, we can see how the
two operate together. But the flesh covering the bone displays
why the black holes were so difficult to find.”  Once the black holes were identified, the researchers
theorized that they grew and evolved, along with their host
galaxy, said Priyamvada Natarajan, a cosmologist at Yale.  “These observations indicate that extremely massive black
holes already existed as early as 700-800 millions years after
the Big Bang, which suggests that either they were born massive
to start with, or they experienced rapid growth bursts,”
Natarajan said in a statement. “Either scenario tells us much
more than we previously knew, which is very exciting.”  Researchers from  Rutgers University , based in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , and the University of  Michigan , based in
 Ann Arbor , also contributed to the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in  New York  at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 