-- 
Australia, China Plan Prisoner Treaty That May Allow Rio’s Hu to Return

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-06-15T03:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/australia-plans-to-sign-prisoner-exchange-treaty-with-china-1-.html
Former Rio Tinto Group official
 Stern Hu , serving 10 years for taking bribes and espionage in a
Chinese jail, may get to serve out the rest of his sentence in
Australia under a planned prisoner exchange treaty.  The accord will be submitted to parliament “shortly,”
Australian Justice Minister Brendan O’Connor’s office said in a
statement. Once court proceedings are concluded, prisoners will
require consent from both governments and the territory where
they want to serve out their term, before they can be
transferred.  “Obtaining all parties’ consent to transfer can be a
lengthy process,” O’Connor’s spokeswoman Jayne Stinson said in
the e-mailed statement.  There are 25 Australians imprisoned in China including Hu,
who was sentenced in March 2010 for accepting illegal payments
and infringing commercial secrets. There are 16 Australians
awaiting trial or sentencing in  China , Stinson said.  Along with Hu, the Australian executive who led Rio’s iron-
ore unit in China, three Chinese colleagues were given prison
sentences of up to 14 years. Rio officials were not immediately
available for comment.  Ties between the two countries were strained in 2009 after
Hu’s arrest and Rio rejected state-owned Aluminium Corp of
China’s $19.5 billion investment.  Kevin Rudd , then Australia’s
prime minister, said China “missed an opportunity” by holding
parts of the case behind closed doors, adding that Hu’s
conviction raised “serious unanswered questions.”  Trading Partners  China is Australia’s largest trading partner, with a two-
way relationship that amounted to A$97.6 billion ($104 billion)
in goods in 2010.  Iron ore  makes up more than one-third, or
A$34.7 billion, of Australian goods exports to China, government
 figures  show.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , who took the party leadership
from the Mandarin-speaking Rudd a year ago, yesterday refused to
meet exiled Tibetan leader the  Dalai Lama  in Canberra’s
parliament house. Chinese officials accuse the spiritual leader
of fomenting rebellion in Tibet, which makes up about a quarter
of China’s territory.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  