-- 
Hawkins Joins Credit Suisse as Global Head of Commodities From Lukoil Unit

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-06-15T15:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/hawkins-joins-credit-suisse-as-global-head-of-commodities-from-lukoil-unit.html
Paul Hawkins will join Credit
Suisse Group in August as a managing director and global head of
commodities.  Hawkins will be based in  London  and report to Gael de Boissard and Tony Ehinger, co-heads of global securities, Zurich-
based Credit Suisse said in an e-mailed statement today. He 
replaces Adam Knight, who left the bank in January, Adam 
Bradbery, a London-based spokesman for the bank, said by phone.
He declined to comment on the size of the commodities team.  Commodities had their biggest monthly drop in a year in May
as accelerating inflation in  China  and  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis fanned speculation economic growth may slow. Commodity
assets under management were a record $451 billion in April,
according to  Barclays Capital .  Hawkins was most recently head of trading and supply at
LITASCO, the Geneva-based marketing and trading company for
 Russia ’s OAO Lukoil, Credit Suisse said. He spent nine years at
the company in Geneva and  New York  and has specialized in crude
oil, refined petroleum, freight and derivative instruments.  “This appointment underscores our commitment to further
investing in our commodities platform,” De Buissard said in the
statement.  Metals Expansion  Credit Suisse and Glencore International Plc, the largest
listed commodity trader, started an oil-trading alliance in
2006, that expanded to metals, emissions and freight.  About $9.61 billion went into commodity funds in the first
quarter, more than triple the $2.77 billion a year earlier, EPFR
Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm, said in
April. Crude oil climbed to a 2 1/2-year high in May and gold
reached a record that month.  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of 24 commodities slumped
6.8 percent in May and is up 10 percent this year. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of equities is up 0.4 percent in the period
and Treasuries returned 2.5 percent, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  