-- 
Tax Holiday Backed by Google, Cisco Gets Democratic Support

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-06-15T21:31:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/tax-holiday-backed-by-google-cisco-gets-democratic-support.html
Corporations with as much as $1
trillion in profits parked overseas should be allowed to bring
that money to the U.S. without spending the repatriated funds on
job creation, several House Democrats said.  The comments today by Democratic Representatives Loretta Sanchez of  California  and Jared Polis of  Colorado  could provide
new support to a campaign for a repatriation holiday backed by
companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and Brown-
Forman Corp. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican, has said that Congress should pass a repatriation
measure before tackling a broader overhaul of the  tax code .  Under U.S. tax law, multinational corporations owe taxes on
income they earn from active business operations around the
world. They can defer U.S. taxes on money earned outside the
U.S. until they bring it home.  One of the biggest hurdles to a so-called repatriation
holiday on taxation of those profits is a concern -- most
prevalent among Democrats -- that companies would bring money
back to the U.S. at a special low  tax rate  without a requirement
to use the funds to reduce unemployment. Speaking today at an
event sponsored by  Third Way , a Washington-based Democratic
policy group, Sanchez said those concerns miss the point.  “I think you should be able to spend your money how you
want to use your money,” she said. “The last time in 2004 when
we did this, corporations used it and bought back their stock.
So what? If I was a stockholder in that company, I did well.”  Repatriated Profits  In 2004, Congress passed legislation allowing U.S.-based
companies to repatriate overseas profits at a 5.25 percent tax
rate instead of the 35 percent statutory corporate rate.  Sanchez’s remarks don’t reflect the position of her party’s
leadership in Congress or the Obama administration.
Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , who is the ranking
Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, has criticized a
repatriation holiday, and Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner 
has said that it should be considered only as part of a
comprehensive rewrite of the tax code.  Polis said at the Third Way event that he agreed with
Sanchez’s comments. He said that in reality, repatriation would
be unlikely to gain Democratic support unless it includes
provisions that appear to limit layoffs.  “Some of these provisions are important politically,” he
said.  Polis supports legislation proposing a repatriation holiday
that was introduced in May by Representative Kevin Brady, a
Texas Republican and member of the Ways and Means panel, which
seeks to address concerns about  job creation .  Tax ‘Disincentive’  Brady has said that the bill includes a “disincentive”
for job cuts by including a provision that would require
companies to add $25,000 to their taxable income each time they
reduce their total workforce below the business’s average. With
a 35 percent tax rate, the provision would increase a company’s
tax bill by $8,750 for each job reduction.  Brady called on the Obama administration to support his
bill.  “U.S. profits which are stranded overseas would allow
American business to create much needed jobs, invest in
infrastructure, and strengthen their companies,” he said today
in a press release.  Creating Jobs  Speaking at the Third Way event,  Jim Rogers , the president
and chief executive of  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , said the $1.3 billion
his company would return to the U.S. in repatriated profits
would help it to build its workforce. Rogers said Duke Energy
would use repatriated funds to modernize its power generation
fleet, which would create 15,000 to 20,000 jobs at his company
and across the broader economy.  “The way I look at this, this is about jobs,” he said.
“No question.”  Rogers said the amount of money the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based energy company has parked overseas has increased
since the repatriation holiday in 2004. He said such holidays
don’t necessarily create incentives for companies to keep cash
abroad in hopes that lawmakers will allow more repatriation a
few years later, as opponents argue.  “I don’t think the expectation is you’re going to have a
holiday every five or six years,” he said. The higher overseas
profits, he said, “reflect the growth of the investment
opportunities around the world. They have really been escalating
during this period of time and the  U.S. economy  has not been
growing as fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at  
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  