-- 
Banco do Brasil May Expand in Colombia, Peru, Chile Through Acquisitions

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-06-15T21:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/banco-do-brasil-may-expand-in-colombia-peru-chile-through-acquisitions.html
Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) ,  Latin America ’s
biggest bank by assets, is considering buying lenders in
Colombia, Peru and  Chile  to attract corporate clients and
increase business with Brazilian companies in the region.  “We are interested in having a relevant presence in
markets other than Brazil,” Allan Toledo, the company’s
international, private banking and wholesale vice president,
said yesterday in a phone interview.  Banco do Brasil is taking advantage of economic growth in
the region and the globalization of Brazilian companies to
expand in countries where Brazil has strong trade ties. The IMF
forecasts 4.7 percent growth in Latin America this year, down
from 6.1 percent in 2010.  Argentina , Chile and Peru may grow the
fastest, with  Peru ’s gross domestic product expanding 7.5
percent after last year’s 8.8 percent, the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  Profit has expanded at Banco do Brasil as improving
unemployment and rising consumer demand fueled loan expansion.
The Brasilia-based lender’s first-quarter profit rose 42 percent
to 2.92 billion reais ($1.8 billion), the bank said on May 10.  In Chile, Banco do Brasil is still interested in buying a
stake in  Corpbanca (CORPBANC) , the Andean nation’s sixth-largest lender,
Toledo said. He added that there are other possibilities in
Chile, though assets are more expensive than others in the
region and will require more negotiations.  Biggest Gainer  Corpbanca was the biggest gainer on Chile’s benchmark stock
index today, rising 2.15 percent to 7.46 pesos. The IPSA fell
1.6 percent to 4,572.09 at 5:28 p.m. New York time. Banco do
Brasil slipped 0.14 percent to 27.60, while  Brazil ’s benchmark
Bovespa index fell 0.97 percent to 61,603.74.  Colombia is a “very interesting market” because of the
country’s population of more than 40 million and prospects for
economic expansion, he said. Banco do Brasil is also expanding
in the U.S., home to about 1.5 million Brazilians. The bank in
April agreed to buy Florida-based EuroBank for $6 million.  Banco do Brasil plans to invest $25 million in the U.S. to
open 20 branches within five years, and may make acquisitions to
reach that target, Toledo said on April 25. The bank is looking
to have 400,000 customers in the U.S. within five years, up from
about 15,000 at EuroBank currently, Toledo said.  In April 2010, the bank made its first international
acquisition, paying $480 million for a controlling stake in
 Banco Patagonia SA (BPAT) , Argentina’s third-largest bank by market
value. The  lender plans to add about 70 branches to Patagonia’s
network over four years.  Credit for companies at Patagonia jumped 77 percent to $1.5
billion over the past 12 months as Banco do Brasil works to turn
all Brazilian firms operating in Argentina into Patagonia
clients. They include: Odebrecht SA, the Brazilian construction
company that’s the largest in Argentina, and Loma Negra Compania
Industrial Argentina, the biggest cement maker in the country,
owned by Brazil’s Camargo Correa SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  