-- 
Vegas Monorail Says It Must Expand or Close Within 8 Years

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-06-15T19:32:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/bankrupt-las-vegas-monorail-says-it-must-expand-or-close-within-8-years.html
Las Vegas Monorail Co. , the bankrupt
nonprofit company that proposed paying bondholders about
9 percent of the $500 million they are owed, said it must expand
or shut down within eight years.  The company will return to  bankruptcy court  in Las Vegas
next week to seek permission to send its reorganization plan to
creditors for a vote. That plan would cancel $207.3 million in
bonds without any repayment and replace $500 million in higher-
ranking debt with $44.5 million in new debt.  By 2019 the company must be in position to get grants, or
new loans of about $12 million, to build two new stations “so
that the monorail does not cease to operate sometime in the next
8 years,” it said in court papers filed June 6.  The 3.9-mile (6.3-kilometer) driverless transportation
system runs from near the  Las Vegas Strip  to the convention
center and carries passengers between gambling resorts.  A group of bondholders has been battling the company in
court since last year, when the creditors sought to strip the
monorail’s managers of the exclusive right to reorganize the
system.  The bondholders said this month that they are preparing
their own reorganization plan that would compete for the
approval of U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell. Markell must
approve any plan after taking the votes of creditors into
account.  Trying to Settle  The two sides are still trying to settle their differences
before the next court hearing, scheduled for June 20, Susan
Freeman, an attorney for bond trustee Wells Fargo Bank NA, said
in an interview.  Bondholders owed at least $375 million and San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo said last year that they want a plan that
would give them control of any revenue the system collects
beyond what is needed for operations and maintenance. That
demand may conflict with the monorail’s proposed plan.  Under that plan, the company would have the right to borrow
as much as $12 million to construct two new stations along the
existing line. That debt would be guaranteed with a pledge of
100 percent of the additional ticket sales generated by the
expansion and a lien on the two stations.  The bondholders own at least 75 percent of $500 million in
bonds  Las Vegas  Monorail issued to buy the system, court papers
show.  In their reorganization plan, Las Vegas Monorail’s managers
proposed giving those bondholders three new notes worth $44.5
million that mature in 2019, according to court papers.  Tax-Exempt Bonds  Gerald M. Gordon, an attorney for Las Vegas Monorail,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  Ambac Assurance Corp. insured at least $451 million in tax-
exempt bonds issued in 2000 by the Nevada Department of Business
and Industry that were backed by a pledge of revenue from the
monorail, according to court papers.  After Las Vegas Monorail filed for bankruptcy in January,
Ambac said the case might cost the New York-based bond insurer
almost $1.2 billion. Ambac’s holding company,  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , filed for bankruptcy in November in  Manhattan .  Las Vegas Monorail said in its bankruptcy petition that its
assets were $10 million to $50 million.  The case is In re Las Vegas Monorail, 10-10464,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  