-- 
Banxico Selling Most Cetes Since December as Reserves Climb: Mexico Credit

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-06-15T21:42:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/banxico-selling-most-cetes-since-december-as-reserves-climb-mexico-credit.html
Mexico ’s central bank  sold  the most
government bills in six months to drain pesos from the economy
as surging oil exports and record foreign investment in bonds
drive up reserves and the money supply.  Banco de Mexico  auctioned 133 billion pesos ($11.1 billion)
of Cetes, as the bills are known, from its holdings of
government debt today, the most since December. The bank had
offered as much as 145 billion pesos of the security. Cetes that
mature in 28 days yield 4.38 percent, compared with 0.005
percent for similar-maturity  U.S. Treasuries .  Policy makers are seeking to keep inflation near a five-
year low by reducing the supply of cash after oil, Mexico’s
second-largest export, jumped 23 percent in the past year and
investors abroad poured $21 billion into the  debt market  in the
six months through March. The central bank purchase of those
dollar inflows with pesos drove its foreign reserves up 14
percent in the past year to a record $129.6 billion while the
money supply, as measured by the M1 gauge, jumped 14 percent.  “The central bank has to soak up this liquidity,”  Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist for JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Mexico City, said in a telephone interview. “There is a need to
sterilize. All the foreigners that are coming in create
liquidity.”  While inflation is quickening from  Brazil  to  China , Mexican
price increases slowed to 3.3 percent in the 12 months through
May as a record surge in the peso drove down the cost of
imports. The annual inflation rate touched 3.04 percent in
March, the lowest level since May 2006.  Maturing Debt  Overseas purchases of Mexican bonds helped drive down
yields on the government’s benchmark notes due in 2024 by 57
basis points, or 0.57 percentage point, in the past three months
to 7.22 percent, according to Banco Santander SA.  A rally in the peso and moderate inflation are fueling
demand for the country’s debt. The currency is up 5.7 percent
against the dollar in the past year. Local Mexican debt returned
8.2 percent in dollar terms this year, compared with an average
6 percent gain for local-market debt from emerging-market
countries, according to Bank of America Corp.  The central bank is also auctioning bills before 74.8
billion pesos of maturing government debt over the next four
weeks swells the  money supply , said Alejandro Padilla, a debt
strategist at Grupo Financiero Banorte-Ixe in Mexico City.  A press official at the central bank didn’t return calls
for comment. A press official at the  Finance Ministry  did not
return calls for comment.  ‘Draining the Liquidity’  “This has a lot to do with draining the liquidity that
Mexico is getting from the flow of foreign capital,” Padilla
said in a telephone interview. “Even though this is a large
quantity, demand is going to be pretty good.”  Banxico, as the central bank is known, auctioned about 75
billion pesos of debt in March, about half of what it offered
today.  Foreign investment in Mexico will slow as U.S. economic
growth flags, said Eduardo Vazquez, an analyst at  Harbor
Intelligence  in Monterrey. The U.S. buys 80 percent of Mexican
exports.  “A slowdown in flows should be expected,” Vazquez said in
a telephone interview. “It’s going to be a gradual slowdown.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries widened 9 basis points
to 147 at 5 p.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan.  The peso fell 1 percent to 11.9152 per  U.S. dollar .  Rate Outlook  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 4 basis points to 110, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December were unchanged at 5 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank to raise the rate by then.
Mexico is the only major Latin American nation to keep its
benchmark lending rate unchanged in the past year. The central
bank left the rate at a record low 4.5 percent last month.  Traders see a 25.1 percent chance that the  Federal Reserve 
will boost the U.S. overnight rate target of between zero and
0.25 percent at its January meeting, interest-rate futures show.  Foreign investors lifted their holdings of Mexican notes
and bills maturing in less than one-year to 33 percent last
month from 9 percent a year earlier, according to data compiled
by the central bank.  “Investors are devouring any amount of Cetes placed in
front of them,” said Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about
40 billion pesos at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico
City. “This is just one of the many mechanisms they have to
help remove liquidity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  