-- 
FTSE 100 Stocks Decline for Second Day; Glencore, Xstrata, Fresnillo Slide

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-06-16T16:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/barclays-plc-enrc-glencore-lse-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks slid for a second day,
dragging the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  to a three-month low, amid
concern that the European debt crisis is worsening.  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  retreated 1.8 percent,  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  sank
3.4 percent and BP Plc slid 1.8 percent as base metals declined.
 Premier Farnell Plc (PFL)  tumbled 8.8 percent after saying it sees
second-quarter sales growth in line with its forecast.  The FTSE 100 fell 0.8 percent to 5,698.81 at the 4:30 p.m.
close in  London , the lowest level since March 17. The gauge is
heading for a fourth straight week of declines as U.S. jobs data
trailed economists’ forecasts and concern mounted that Greece
will fail to repay all of its debt. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) 
also fell 0.8 percent today, as did Ireland’s ISEQ Index.  “It is difficult to continually kick the can down the road
when the can is breaking up in front of your boot,”  Jim Reid , a
strategist at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in an e-mail today. “That
is how the Greek situation appears at the moment. The most
likely scenario is still a market-friendly outcome, but the
risks are building as the situation gets ever more difficult to
see the endgame.”  The cost of insuring against default on Greek, Irish and
Portuguese government debt surged to records, driving a gauge of
sovereign bond risk to an all-time high. Investors are betting
Greece will default if it’s unable to pass the austerity
measures needed to qualify for the next installment of
international aid.  Greek Cabinet Shuffle  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  was set to shuffle
his Cabinet and seek to win a confidence vote today as protests
over budget cuts fueled speculation the measures will be put in
jeopardy.  Dutch newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad cited European
Central Bank Governing Council member Nout Wellink as saying
that the European Union should double the emergency fund for
euro-area countries if private investors have to contribute to
aid for  Greece .  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  will meet tomorrow in Berlin, with pressure
increasing for the two leaders to reach an accord on a rescue
package for Greece. EU finance ministers agreed on June 14 to
convene again on June 19 after they failed to reconcile
 Germany ’s push for bondholders to bear some of the cost of a new
plan for Greek aid with the ECB’s warning that such a measure
may constitute a default.  6.4% Decline  The FTSE 100 has fallen 6.4 percent from its highest level
this year on Feb. 8 as investors speculated that the pace of the
global economic recovery is slowing.  Anglo American declined 1.8 percent to 2,811 pence and
Lonmin sank 3.4 percent to 1,382 pence. Copper, lead, nickel and
tin dropped on the London Metal Exchange.  Premier Farnell slumped 8.8 percent to 250.4 pence, the
biggest drop since September 2009. Shore Capital Group Ltd.
analyst Robin Speakman retained his recommendation to sell the
shares, saying the results today confirmed an earnings slowdown
in the first quarter.  Laird Plc (LRD)  rallied 38 percent to 188.9 pence after the
company said it rejected a bid which was made by Cooper
Industries Plc to acquire the maker of electromagnetic shields
for mobile phones for 185 pence a share in cash.  Mulberry Group Plc (MUL)  surged 8.6 percent to 1,450 pence. The
English luxury-fashion company said full-year profit rose more
than fivefold as U.K. sales and exports surged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  