-- 
Barry Bonds Seeks New trial or Acquittal on Obstruction of Federal Probe

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-06-15T20:42:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/barry-bonds-asks-court-for-new-trial-or-acquittal-on-obstruction-charge.html
Barry Bonds ,  Major League Baseball ’s
home-run record holder, asked a federal judge to throw out his
conviction for making evasive statements to a grand jury in
2003, saying “unauthorized rambling is not a federal crime.”  Bonds was convicted of obstructing justice in federal court
in  San Francisco  in April for statements he made to a grand jury
when asked whether his trainer ever gave him anything that
required a syringe injection.  In a response of about 130 words, Bonds said his personal
doctor touched him, he didn’t talk baseball with his trainer and
because he was a “celebrity child with a famous father” he
didn’t “get into other people’s business.”  Federal prosecutors said the statement was evasive and
impeded the work of the grand jury. Bonds’s father,  Bobby Bonds ,
was a three-time All-Star who played for eight teams including
the Giants and the  New York Yankees .  “Even if some ‘truthful but evasive’ statements could
constitute obstruction, Mr. Bonds’s ‘celebrity child’ statement
was, at worst, a digression -- a bit of meandering from the
question that was explicitly encouraged by the questioner,”
Bonds said in a motion filed today in San Francisco federal
court.  Bonds answered the same question repeatedly elsewhere in
his testimony, according to the filing. If he isn’t acquitted,
Bonds should get a new trial on the obstruction charge,
according to the motion. A hearing on Bonds’s request was
scheduled for July 1, according to a court filing.  Unable to Agree  Jurors were unable to agree on whether Bonds lied when he
told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t knowingly take steroids
and didn’t take human growth hormone or receive injections by
his trainer. A mistrial was declared on those counts.  Federal prosecutors haven’t said whether they plan to retry
Bonds on any of the three perjury charges he faced during trial.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message.  Bonds, 46, who broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home
runs in August 2007, was indicted in November of that year. He
was the first Major League ballplayer to be charged in a years-
long federal probe of steroid use in professional sports.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  