-- 
Batelco to Manage Zain Saudi After Joint Purchase of Stake

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-06-15T14:24:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/batelco-to-manage-zain-saudi-after-joint-purchase-of-stake-1-.html
Batelco, Bahrain’s largest phone
company, will run Zain’s Saudi unit after it and  Kingdom Holding
Co. (KINGDOM)  complete their purchase of the Kuwaiti company’s 25 percent
stake, the buyers said.  “Batelco will be running the show from a management
perspective,” Ahmed Halawani, executive director for private
equity at Kingdom Holding, said in a conference call from Riyadh
today. “Kingdom is not a technical operator.”  The Bahraini company “will be the technical manager,”
Batelco Chief Executive Officer Peter Kaliaropoulos, said in the
call. He said Zain Saudi staff will run the company “under the
operating direction of Batelco,” as Bahrain Telecommunications
Co. is known.  Zain, as  Kuwait ’s biggest mobile phone operator is known,
signed an agreement in April with Batelco and Kingdom Holding,
controlled by Saudi billionaire Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, to
sell its stake in Zain Saudi Arabia for $950 million. The due
diligence process was scheduled to start yesterday, Zain Saudi
said in a statement to the Saudi bourse.  The transaction will be completed by the end of September,
both executives said today. “If Batelco drops out of the deal,
we are going to drop out of the deal,” Halawani said.  “And vice versa,” added Kaliaropoulos. “This is a
partnership with Kingdom.”  Zain Saudi shares fell 2.1 percent today to 7 riyals,
valuing the company at 9.8 billion riyals ($2.6 billion).  Kingdom and Batelco may jointly seek more
telecommunications opportunities in the region, according to
Halawani. “We are going to use this asset and our alliance with
Batelco to expand in this industry on a regional basis,” he
said. “Most of our future investments in this industry will be
alongside Batelco.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in  Riyadh  at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  