-- 
BHP, Minmetals, First Quantum Plan to Increase Zambian Copper Exploration

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-15T15:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/bhp-minmetals-first-quantum-plan-to-increase-zambian-copper-exploration.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest
mining company,  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208)  and  First Quantum
Minerals Ltd. (FM)  are stepping up copper exploration in  Zambia  after
prices for the metal more than doubled over the past two years.  “We are currently actively seeking more titles in the
country,” Ian Maxwell, president of BHP Billiton minerals
exploration, said today at Zambia’s first mining conference, in
Lusaka. “We intend to build our position in this country.”  Zambia has become Africa’s largest copper producer since
privatizing state-owned Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. 10
years ago. Copper helped fuel a 7.1 percent expansion in the
nation’s economy in 2010 after rising Asian demand for the metal
drove up prices. Copper rose 111 percent from 2009 through 2010
in  London , and now trades above $9,000 a metric ton.  “There’s going to be some pretty large discoveries made in
the next few years here and we want to be part of it,” said
Marcus Tomkinson, a copper commodity team leader for a member of
the Minmetals group. Hong Kong-based Minmetals Resources, a unit
of China’s biggest metals trader, has opened an exploration
office in Lusaka, Tomkinson said at the conference.  The country’s plans to double copper output by 2020 have
attracted mining companies from Canada to  Europe . Vancouver-
based First Quantum intends to invest $1 billion in a new mine
called Trident on the nation’s northern copper belt, while Swiss
commodities company Glencore International Plc has earmarked
$512 million to expand its Mopani mine.  Production Forecast  Zambia may produce about 750,000 tons of copper this year,
up from 713,000 tons in 2010, Mines Minister Maxwell Mwale said
on state television yesterday. It’s targeting 1 million tons by
2015 and 1.5 million tons by 2020, Mwale said at the conference
today. Finance Minister  Situmbeko Musokotwane  said in February
Zambia could produce as much as 2 million tons by 2015.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) , a London-based copper and aluminum
producer, has invested $2 billion expanding mines and processing
plants in Zambia in the past six years, the company’s Konkola
Copper Mines unit said today in an e-mailed statement.  There has been a “flood of investment into Zambia after
privatization,” Mwale said, adding that more than $400 million
has been spent on exploration in the past 10 years.  “Zambia is a key location for us in our global search for
copper resources,” BHP’s Maxwell said. It’s an “attractive and
low-risk” country, with a competitive and stable fiscal regime,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Lusaka, via the Johannesburg newsroom
at   clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  