-- 
Bina Goodyear, CBSA, Gamuda, HPI, Scomi: Malaysia Stock Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-06-15T23:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/bina-goodyear-cbsa-gamuda-hpi-scomi-malaysia-stock-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index rose 0.5 percent to
1,556.19.        Bina Goodyear Bhd. (BGB)  : The Malaysian builder has set
the issue price for its private placement at 1 ringgit per
share, the company said in a statement. That’s 21 percent higher
than the five-day weighted average market price of about 82.5
sen, it said. The shares gained 11 percent to 88.5 sen.  CBSA Bhd. (CBS MK): The software solutions developer signed
a content license agreement to provide with Google Inc. with
business listings for Google maps in Malaysia,  Singapore ,
Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines and Vietnam. The agreement is
for five years, CBSA said in a statement. CBSA fell 1.2 percent
to 41.5 sen.        Gamuda Bhd. (GAM)  : The builder and MMC Corp. (MMC MK)
agreed to form a venture to bid for tunneling and other
underground contracts on a mass railway project, according to an
exchange filing. Gamuda fell 0.5 percent to 3.73 ringgit and MMC
added 0.7 percent to 2.74 ringgit.        HPI Resources Bhd. (HPI)  : Oji Paper Co.,  Japan ’s biggest
maker of paper and forest products, made an offer to buy HPI
Resources for 4.40 ringgit per share in cash. That’s a 12
percent premium to the stock’s closing price of 3.93 ringgit in
 Kuala Lumpur  on June 14 before its shares were suspended. HPI is
a manufacturer of corrugated board and packaging products.  Progressive Impact Corp. (PICB MK): The environmental
consulting group won a 7.1 million-ringgit ($2.3 million)
contract to develop a health monitoring program in Makkah City,
 Saudi Arabia , according to a stock exchange filing. Progressive
was unchanged at 24 sen.  Scomi Marine Bhd. (SMB)  : The marine transport company
scrapped the sale of its marine logistics companies to PT Rig
Tenders Indonesia and a privately managed fund for $171.8
million. The sale was abandoned because some conditions of the
agreement weren’t fulfilled, Scomi Marine said in a statement.
The shares rose 3.5 percent to 45 sen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in Kuala Lumpur at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  