-- 
Birinyi’s Rubin Leads Money Managers Predicting Recovery by Year’s End

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-06-15T15:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/birinyi-s-rubin-leads-managers-forecasting-second-half-recovery.html
Birinyi Associates Inc.’s Jeffrey Yale Rubin said his firm is bullish on equities this year,
leading managers expressing optimism that six straight weeks of
declines in the stock market and weak economic data will be
reversed in the second half.  Rubin said at the Bloomberg Money Managers conference in
Boston yesterday that his firm’s long-term target for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is 2,100. Bond managers Eric Stein
at  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  and Ken Taubes of Pioneer Investment
Management Inc. said the recent slowdown in the economy was
temporary and they weren’t worried that U.S. lawmakers would
block raising the debt limit.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Dan Rice said oil
prices, which hurt consumers this year, will come down.  “For the remainder of the year, we’re positive,” said
Rubin, director of research at Westport, Connecticut-based
Birinyi Associates, which analyzes historical charts and
patterns to make forecasts.  The S&P 500 and  Dow Jones Industrial Average  have fallen
for six weeks, the longest streaks since 2008 and 2002,
respectively, as reports on jobs and manufacturing spurred
concern that the economy is slowing. Higher oil prices following
unrest in the  Middle East  and disruptions from the earthquake
earlier this year in Japan contributed to global market
declines. Concerns that lawmakers won’t agree on raising the
$14.3 trillion U.S. debt limit before Aug. 2 have also weighed
on stocks.  The  S&P 500  is still up 89 percent from its low in March
2009, the month the U.S. Federal Reserve announced large-scale
asset purchases to buoy the economy. The S&P 500 fell 0.9
percent to 1276.33 at 11:33 a.m. after reports showed
manufacturing in the  New York  region contracted and the U.S.
cost of living increased more than forecast.  ‘Phase Two’  “We have a target of 2,100 but that’s not this year,
that’s not next year,” Rubin said. “When we look at stock
markets that go on for a long period of time, that start off
quickly -- 1974, 1982, 2009 -- those markets are not ones that
end quickly. If you also look at those markets during this
period, phase two of the market, it runs into difficulty.”  The forecast represents a 63 percent gain from the S&P
500’s close yesterday, and a 34 percent advance from the gauge’s
record high of 1,565.15 reached in October 2007. In January,
 Laszlo Birinyi , president of the company that bears his name,
said the S&P 500 will rally to 2,854 by 2013.  Peter Andersen, chief investment officer at Boston-based
Congress Asset Management Co., said he is “excited about
individual opportunities” in the stock market.  Avoiding QE3  “I’m hopeful we won’t need a QE3,” Andersen said at
yesterday’s conference, referring to the  Federal Reserve ’s
program of buying assets in a process called quantitative
easing, the second phase of which ends this month.  Some managers on the panel were less optimistic that
markets would rally after the Fed stops buying. Dean Curnutt,
founder and chief executive officer of Macro Risk Advisors in
New York, said the performance of stocks depends on the actions
by the Fed. The S&P 500 could rise to 2,100 if the Fed decided
it wanted it to, he said at the conference.  “One of the problems we’re having is asset prices are
necessarily imposed with a tremendous amount of artificiality
from the Fed, from the fiscal response,” Curnutt said. Tighter
fiscal and monetary policy “could be bad news for equities,”
he said.  The S&P 500 has risen 23 percent since Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled in August the central bank would pursue a
second phase of stimulus measures to boost the economy.  Temporary Slowdown  Stocks and the economy may get a boost as  oil prices  start
to retreat from highs reached in April, the managers said. Rice,
who manages the BlackRock Energy and Resources Portfolio, said
oil prices tend to be “self-regulating” and will come down
over the long term. People substituting natural gas for oil may
also bring down the price of the latter, he said.  “Any time it gets above $90 a barrel, the growth rate
comes down, and prices come down back to $90,” Rice said. “I
think you will find out a year from now, it would have been a
temporary spike.”  Bond managers including Loomis Sayles & Co.’s  Dan Fuss  and
Pioneer’s Taubes said that in addition to oil, the earthquake
and ensuing tsunami in  Japan  in March led to a temporary
slowdown in the  U.S. economy .  Fuss, manager of the top-ranked $20.6 billion Loomis Sayles
Bond Fund, said the U.S. saw a correction in inventories after
the earthquake in Japan, and that has come to an end.  ‘Who’s Going to Buy?’  “I guess that the soft inventory correction in the
industrial sector is over,” Fuss said. “Unless something else
happens, that’s going to start to reshape, with a lag, the
economic numbers.”  Thomas Higgins, global macro strategist at Standish Mellon
Asset Management, said he expects 3 percent growth in the U.S.
economy in the second half of 2011.  The main concern, the asset managers said, is what happens
to Treasuries once the economy stabilizes and the Fed stops
buying the securities.  “When the Fed pulls back, who is going to buy notes and
bonds?” Fuss said. “I don’t see anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Bhaktavatsalam in  Boston  at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  