-- 
Blackstone Sued by Creditor Trust Over Sale of Hotel Owner Extended Stay

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-06-15T16:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/blackstone-group-sued-over-extended-stay-buyout-correct-.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  was sued over
its 2007 sale of Extended Stay Inc., which left the hotel
company insolvent and drove it into bankruptcy, a trust for
Extended Stay creditors said.  Blackstone “siphoned” $2.1 billion from the company as
part of the leveraged buyout without regard for how it would
perform following the deal, the creditor trust said in lawsuits
filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan  and New
York State Supreme Court. Blackstone called the suits meritless.  “Blackstone siphoned $2.1 billion of value from the
debtors, rendering them insolvent, undercapitalized and unable
to survive,” the complaints state. “The defendants were well
aware of the financial harm of the LBO, but nevertheless caused
or allowed it to happen.”  Blackstone, based in  New York , sold Extended Stay to David Lichtenstein’s Lightstone Group LLC for $8 billion, according to
a Lightstone statement at the time. Lichtenstein and Lightstone
are also named as defendants in the lawsuits. Extended Stay
filed for bankruptcy in 2009.  “The real cause of the company’s bankruptcy was an economic
tsunami which resulted in across-the-board revenue per available
room declines of more than 20 percent,”  Christine Anderson , a
Blackstone spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement. “This was
an industrywide phenomenon that landed every large lodging
transaction executed in 2006-2007 in bankruptcy, foreclosure or
restructuring.”  A representative of Lightstone couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  The bankruptcy case is Extended Stay Litigation Trust v.
Blackstone Group LP., 11-02254,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The state-court case is
Extended Stay Litigation Trust v. Blackstone Group, 651667-2011,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  