-- 
Blackstone Turns Graham IPO Flop Into Lucrative Bids: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-06-15T20:15:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/blackstone-turns-ipo-failure-into-lucrative-bids-for-graham-deal-real-m-a.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  may finally get
the payday for Graham Packaging Co. that it was denied last year
as New Zealand’s richest man drives up the acquisition price.  Billionaire  Graeme Hart  offered to buy Graham, the plastic-
container maker controlled by Blackstone, for $25 a share this
week, topping  Silgan Holdings Inc. (SLGN) ’s original April agreement.
After Graham climbed $1.28 above Hart’s proposal, the company’s
valuation is now approaching the 9.21 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization that investors
rejected in its initial public offering in February 2010.  While Hart’s bid is already the most expensive for any
takeover of a U.S. plastic-container maker in nine years,
arbitragers are betting that the winner will have to pay even
more for a company with $2.8 billion in debt, the most in the
industry, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The world’s
largest private equity firm, which chopped the size of the York,
Pennsylvania-based company’s initial offering by more than half
last year, may now sell Graham at more than double the IPO price
and exit an investment that it’s owned for more than a decade.  “Blackstone did not get the price they wanted in the
IPO,” said  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at
Solaris Asset Management in  Bedford Hills , New York, which
manages $2 billion. “The stock has certainly acted like it
could be a bidding war. That does provide Blackstone with the
full value from their investment, and probably the best value
they’re going to be able to get.”  Highest Multiple  Christine Anderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based
Blackstone, declined to comment. Jeff Grossman, a spokesman for
Graham, and  Robert Lewis  of Silgan did not return telephone
calls requesting comment.  Reynolds Group Holdings Ltd., the aluminum foil producer
owned by Hart’s Rank Group Ltd., offered to pay $4.3 billion
including net debt, or 8.96 times its Ebitda in the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest multiple paid for an acquisition of a publicly traded
U.S. company in the paper and plastic container industry since
DuPont Canada Inc. paid 9.61 times Ebitda for Liqui-Box Corp. in
2002, the data show.  Joseph Doyle, a spokesman for Reynolds, didn’t return a
phone call seeking comment.  Hart, 56, is trying to get a hold of Graham’s container
 business , which includes  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s Gain detergent,
H.J. Heinz Co.’s ketchup, Coco-Cola Co.’s Minute Maid juice and
Limited Brands Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret perfume.  Bidding War  Graham’s board yesterday said Hart’s bid was superior to an
agreement with  Stamford , Connecticut-based Silgan, which has the
right to make a counter offer through June 16.  Silgan, which sells metal cans and closures to some of the
same customers that use Graham’s plastic food and beverage
containers, agreed on April 13 to pay 0.402 shares and $4.75 in
cash for each Graham share owned. The $4 billion offer including
net debt valued Graham at 8.31 times Ebitda, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Blackstone’s going to end up with more money,” said
 Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as chief investment
officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania . “They’re
basically trying to engineer a better price. They couldn’t get
it from their IPO, so a bidding war is appearing.”  Graham shares gained 20 percent in the last two days after
saying it received a $25-a-share bid from an unnamed suitor,
disclosed yesterday to be Reynolds. The stock closed at $26.28
yesterday, 5.1 percent above the bid, signaling that traders who
profit from mergers and acquisitions are betting on a higher
offer.  Higher Bid  The spread indicates a takeover price of $27 to $28 a
share, with Silgan matching at $25 and Reynolds countering
again, according to Bill Kavaler, a special situations analyst
at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in  New York .  “Arbs seem to think there will be a higher bid, but it
won’t be too much higher,” said Kimberly Noland, a debt analyst
at Gimme Credit LLC in Shelter Island, New York. “This has
probably been a pretty good deal” for Blackstone, she said.  Graham fell 1.5 percent to $25.89 today, and Blackstone
declined 2.5 percent to $16.59.  Blackstone was forced to cut Graham’s IPO in half in
February 2010, reducing the price and dropping its portion of
the sale. It was at least the fourth attempt by Blackstone to
sell the company since completing the acquisition in 1998, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Graham’s shares sold for $10 each, less than its original
range of $14 to $16 apiece. The initial amount of stock offered
at the $15 midpoint price would have given Graham an enterprise
value, or the sum of its equity and debt minus cash, of $3.09
billion, or 9.21 times trailing 12-month Ebitda.  ‘Bit of Vindication’  “They couldn’t get their IPO done at a good price,” said
Craig Effron, co-founder of New York-based Scoggin Capital
Management LP, which owns 1.1 million shares of Graham
Packaging. “Now all of a sudden two buyers want to buy it at a
very good price. There’s a little bit of vindication.”  Existing shareholders prior to the IPO, including
Blackstone, paid an average of $7.30 a share for their stake in
Graham, according to a February 2010 regulatory filing. The
private-equity firm still owns 40.3 million Graham shares, or a
61 percent stake worth $1.06 billion based on yesterday’s
closing price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Effron said he bought more Graham shares this week at
$25.75, adding that there’s an 80 percent chance that Silgan
matches or tops Hart’s offer.  The winning bid would need to be at least $26.84 a share to
reach the Ebitda multiple of 9.21 initially sought in the IPO,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hart’s Wealth  Hart’s wealth was  estimated  at $5.5 billion in March by
Forbes magazine, ranking him at No. 185 in the world with six
others and No. 1 in  New Zealand . Since quitting most of his food
businesses in 2006, Hart has embarked on an acquisition spree in
packaging, including the purchase of Pactiv Corp., the maker of
Hefty trash bags, for $4.5 billion plus net debt in November.  In the last two days, Silgan slipped 6.1 percent to $40.53.
Graham closed yesterday 25 percent higher than Silgan’s offer
that was worth $21.04 a share, the biggest gap among pending
U.S. takeovers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Silgan
fell 2.5 percent to $39.52 today.  While Silgan can afford to pay $30 a share, the company
likely won’t raise the bid more than “a little bit” because
it’s “never overpaid or chased something,” said Christopher Manuel, an analyst at KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. in  Cleveland .  Silgan, with $1.4 billion in total debt, already has too
much debt to finance an all-cash acquisition like Reynolds, said
Solaris’s Ghriskey.  “The market has changed a lot since Graham went public,”
Ghriskey said. “Silgan certainly could come in and match.
Reynolds might increase their bid at that point, and we might
very well be in a bidding war.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 