-- 
Bono’s New $70 Million ‘Spider-Man’ Dazzles, Peters Out: Review

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-06-15T00:38:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/bono-s-70-million-spider-man-looks-amazing-peters-out-jeremy-gerard.html
“Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark”
opened last night, a $70 million anticlimax to a Broadway season
that ended with Sunday night’s Tony Awards.  After seven months in previews, streamlining and sharpening
an incoherent plot, dumping the director and co-author, sending
one major character off to fat camp and throwing in a few new
songs, what is on offer?  A loud, garish musical-with-flying about young Peter
Parker, a comic-book superhero whose most endearing quality is
his modesty.  George Tsypin’s phantasmagorical, perspective-skewing sets
(the tricks he plays with the Chrysler building are nearly worth
the price of admission), Eiko Ishioka’s wondrous costumes and
Donald Holder’s dazzling lighting make “Spider-Man” a feast
for the eyes.  And there is the flying, which doesn’t begin until an hour
into the show. All told, it consumes about three minutes of the
running time. Those minutes are thrilling, as Spider-Man and his
nemesis, the Green Goblin, swoop and jab above our heads.  And yet a new director, Philip William McKinley, has done
little to improve the muddled mythmaking of  Julie Taymor , who
was fired earlier this spring.  Geeks Gone  Gone is the “Geek Chorus,” the goofy teen quartet
representing Taymor and her collaborators, Bono and the Edge of
U2, and playwright Glen Berger.  Gone are the fun parts written into the role of Arachne,
whose talent with a loom incited the jealousy of the goddess
Athena, leading to her fate as the first spider, eternally
weaving.  Gone, too, is the deliciously off-the-wall scene in which
Arachne and her twisted sisters, the Furies, go on a shoe-
shopping spree. As Arachne’s role shrank, so the juicier part of
Norman Osborne, the mad scientist who becomes the Green Goblin,
has been expanded to provide more comic relief.  Upon his transformation to evil genius, Norman gleefully
exclaims, “I’m the $65 million man! Well, more like $70 or $75
million, now,” as audience members, appreciative of being in on
the joke, titter.  Sticky Limbs  Berger and a new writer, Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa, keep the
focus on Peter -- mild teen turned sticky-limbed crime buster
when he’s bitten by a genetically altered spider -- and his true
love, Mary Jane Watson.  Their romance is played up even though, as characters, they
remain vapid. What was an interesting train wreck is now just an
ordinary, if uncommonly expensive, one.  The Arachne story has been reduced to a school project
that Peter (the charmingly unprepossessing Reeve Carney)
introduces in the first scene. It remains one of Taymor’s most
striking images: a row of women suspended in yellow silk,
swinging back and forth as horizontal strands form a golden
tapestry.  But the cloth now looks wrinkled and tired, as does much of
a cast that has been giving its all for so long. The songs still
stop the show in its tracks because they’re pop songs, not
theater songs that get inside the characters while advancing the
plot.  Jennifer Damiano is affectless as Mary Jane, but she sings
nicely. Patrick Page still seems to be having a ball as Norman
Osborne/Green Goblin. Michael Mulheren still nearly steals the
show as J. Jonah Jameson, the newspaper editor convinced that
Spidey is a thief. After three times sitting through this empty
spectacle, I’m inclined to agree.  At the Foxwoods Theatre, 213 W. 42nd St. Information: +1-
212-307-4100;  http://www.ticketmaster.com 
Rating: *1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 