-- 
Botswana’s State-Worker Strike to Affect Economic Growth, Mohohlo Says

-- B y   J e r r y   B u n g u
-- 
2011-06-15T12:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/botswana-central-bank-s-mohohlo-says-strike-to-have-short-term-impact.html
A state-worker strike in Botswana,
the world’s biggest diamond producer, and a ban on beef exports
to the European Union will have a “short-term effect” on the
country’s economy, central bank Governor Linah Mohohlo said.  Economic growth probably won’t exceed the 7.2 percent
expansion of 2010, Mohohlo told reporters today in Gaborone, the
capital.  “We do not want to talk about the effects of the strike as
yet but definitely it will impact on the growth of the economy
this year,” she said. “This might reverse the gains of
economic recovery recorded so far.”  State workers, including nurses and teachers, went on
strike for eight weeks to demand a 12 percent pay increase.
Schools temporarily closed and police fired tear gas to break up
demonstrations, according to labor union officials. The unions
suspended the protest on June 13 after the government refused to
raise its offer from 3 percent. Shipments of beef from the
southern African nation to the EU were halted in March after the
country didn’t meet European safety requirements, according to
the government.  Botswana’s economy rebounded last year following a 3.7
percent contraction in 2009 when the global financial crisis cut
demand for diamonds.  Balance Budget  Demand for gems, particularly from emerging economies,
continued to improve this year and should support growth,
Mohohlo said. A decline in  government spending , as the state
tried to reduce its  budget deficit , will probably curb the rate
of expansion, she said.  The state plans to cut the fiscal deficit to 6.3 percent of
gross domestic product in the fiscal year through March 2012 and
has pledged to balance the budget by 2013, Minister Kenneth Matambo said on Feb. 7. The shortfall widened to 12 percent of
GDP in 2009.  The Bank of Botswana kept its benchmark interest rate at
9.5 percent to help boost the economy and with inflation
forecast to ease to within its 3 to 6 percent target range by
the second half of next year, the central bank said yesterday.
Inflation was 8.2 percent in April, according to the country’s
statistics office.  Slower growth in disposable income would help to ease
inflation, Mohohlo said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerry Bungu in Gaborone at 
 jbungu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  