-- 
Brasil Foods Posts Biggest Gain in Five Months

-- B y   I u r i   D a n t a s   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-06-17T20:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/brasil-foods-gains-most-in-five-months-after-antitrust-ruling-postponed.html
(Corrects to show only one member voted against the
transaction in second paragraph of story originally published
June 15.)  BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the world’s
largest poultry exporter, posted its biggest gain in five months
on speculation it will reach an agreement with the Brazilian
antitrust regulator to save the deal that created the company.  The Sao Paulo-based food processor rose as much as 1.16
reais, or 4.7 percent, to 25.64 reais, the biggest intraday gain
since Jan. 18, and was trading at 24.85 reais at 3:46 p.m. local
time. The stock increased after the agency agreed to a request
from Brasil Foods to postpone a vote on whether to block the
transaction after one of five commissioners voted against it.  Brasil Foods is offering to negotiate an agreement with the
agency to save the $3.8 billion takeover about two years after
the combination was formed from Perdigao SA’s takeover of rival
Sadia SA. Chief Executive Officer Jose Antonio do Prado Fay
wants time to discuss possible solutions after commissioner
Carlos Ragazzo said the company wields too much market power.  “Cade is giving more time to Brasil Foods,” Fausto Gouveia, who helps manage about 250 million reais ($158 million)
at Legan Asset Management, said today in a telephone interview
from  Sao Paulo . “We still have a bumpy road ahead, but for
today the postponement is good news.”  Fay’s request prompted investors to bet Brasil Foods may be
able to avoid an outright rejection of the purchase by agreeing
to sell assets such as Sadia frozen pizzas or Perdigao sausages,
said Flavio Barros, who helps manage about 300 million reais at
Sao Paulo-based Grau Gestao de Ativos.  ‘Ready to Negotiate’  “We are ready to negotiate,” Wilson Mello, vice president
for corporate affairs at Brasil Foods, said today in Brasilia
after the Cade postponement was made public. The company
“fulfilled everything Cade has requested,” he said.  Brazil’s antitrust agency will convene again June 29, when
commissioner Ruiz may present a proposal for an agreement or put
the deal to a vote. According to Cade’s rules, Ruiz is allowed
to ask for a second delay to the vote and would need Cade’s
authorization for a third postponement.  Brasil Foods , formerly Perdigao SA, bought Sadia in 2009
after the bigger rival booked more than 3 billion reais in
wrong-way currency bets, following the Lehman Brothers Holding
Inc. collapse. The deal was supported by Brazilian pension funds
of state-run companies, which collectively owned 22 percent of
Perdigao and now hold a 23 percent stake in Brasil Foods.  Forced Divestitures  “A deal that was widely supported by the Brazilian
government is unlikely to be outright rejected,” Barros said
June 13 in a telephone interview. “They will probably be forced
to sell some business.”  The maker of Sadia frozen dinners and meatballs, which has
45 brands and may control 90 percent of some markets, has
sufficient market share to increase prices without losing
customers, Cade commissioner Carlos Ragazzo said June 8.  The company has a 78 percent market share of  Brazil ’s
frozen pizza sales, 62 percent of margarine and 69 percent of
frozen meat, according to its annual report, based on data
compiled by market researcher Nielsen Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
or Iuri Dantas in Brasilia at 
 idantas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  