-- 
Brazil’s Central Bank Says Economy Expanded 0.44% in April

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-06-15T16:27:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/brazil-s-central-bank-says-economy-expanded-0-44-in-april-1-.html
Brazil ’s economy continued to grow
in April at a pace that will put pressure on policy makers
seeking to curb inflation that’s running at the fastest pace in
six years.  Economic activity, a proxy for gross domestic product, rose
0.44 percent in April from the previous month, according to the
central bank’s seasonally adjusted index, from 0.51 percent in
March. Activity increased 2.48 percent from a year ago.  “The economy is slowing, but at a pace that is
incompatible with hitting the inflation target of 4.5 percent in
2012,” said  Newton Rosa , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Sul
America Investimentos. “That means the central bank will
probably have to keep raising  interest rates .”  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is using
budget cuts, measures to curb credit and interest rate rises to
try to slow  Latin America ’s largest economy. The central bank
raised borrowing costs for a fourth straight meeting this month,
to 12.25 percent, and said it would increase rates for a
“sufficiently prolonged” period to slow and fastest inflation
since 2005.  A government official, who requested anonymity because he
is not authorized to speak publicly, said the index shows an
economy that is slowing in the second quarter due to the
government’s anti-inflation strategy. The pace of growth should
continue to moderate due to the lagged effect of interest rate
increases, while monthly inflation should remain at a
“moderate” pace, the official said.  Consumer prices rose 6.55 percent in the year through May,
exceeding the upper 6.5 limit of the bank’s target range for a
second straight month. The bank targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  ‘Still Hot’  The economic activity figure shows growth is “still hot,”
said  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Espirito
Santo Investment Bank.  “Consequently, we stick to our call that GDP growth in 2011
should reach 4.0 percent, a level that should keep on requiring
further monetary measures to tame inflationary pressures,”
Santos wrote in a note to clients.  The government earlier this year cut 50.7 billion reais
($32 billion) from its 2011 budget, while in December the
central bank raised banks’ reserve requirements. In April,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  doubled to 3 percent the so-
called IOF tax on  consumer credit .  Unemployment fell in April to the lowest level on record
for the month, keeping pressure on policy makers trying to cool
demand fueled by full-employment conditions. Joblessness in
April fell to 6.4 percent from 6.5 percent in March, after
falling to a series of record lows in 2010.  Total outstanding credit grew 21 percent in the year
through April.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
October 2011, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 12.30 percent at 12:26 p.m.
New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  