-- 
Brazil Urges Sports Minister to Cut Sao Paulo Stadium Cost for World Cup

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-06-15T19:08:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/brazil-urges-odebrecht-to-cut-world-cup-sao-paulo-stadium-cost.html
Brazil ’s Sports Minister Orlando
Silva said Odebrecht SA must charge at least 20 percent less
than its $668 million estimate to build a Sao Paulo soccer arena
that can host the opening game of the 2014 World Cup.  Odebrecht,  Latin America ’s largest engineering and
construction company by revenue, said a new 65,000-seat stadium
in Sao Paulo would cost 1.07 billion reais ($668 million), Silva
said. The stadium should cost about 800 million reais, said
Silva, 40.  “If we get Sao Paulo to move forward, the core problem is
resolved,” he said in an interview at the Bloomberg office in
Sao Paulo. “Sao Paulo is the city with the best conditions to
host the opening of the  World Cup . But it needs a stadium.”  Brazil is moving forward with a plan to expand airports and
urban public transportation to prepare the nation to host the
cup and the  Olympic Games  in 2016, said Silva, who has served as
sports minister since 2006. Brazil should prioritize the airport
infrastructure, International Olympic Committee President
Jacques Rogge said June 14.  Investment in airports, stadiums, ports and urban
transportation before the World Cup will total about 23 billion
reais, Silva said. Most of the funding will come from the
government.  Brazil’s state development bank committed to financing 400
million reais of the new Sao Paulo stadium which will be owned
by the Corinthians soccer club. The city of  Sao Paulo  is
planning a real-estate fund that would supply provide another
300 million reais in credit, the minister said. Government banks
cannot provide any more funding, he said.  Odebrecht said in an e-mailed statement the stadium is
matter to be resolved between the company and Corinthians over
the next six weeks. Both parties aim to complete the stadium by
December 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  