-- 
Brazil Real Drops Most in a Month on Greek Debt Crisis Concern

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 
2011-06-15T21:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/brazil-real-falls-as-greek-debt-crisis-spurs-growth-concern.html
Brazil ’s real tumbled the most in a
month as the risk of a Greek default rose and European leaders
failed to agree on a rescue plan for the country, reducing
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The real fell 1 percent to 1.6002 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m.
 New York  time, from 1.5837 yesterday. The currency weakened 1.1
percent on May 11.  Economic prospects darkened for Greece as European
bickering risked delaying the next rescue payment and defections
weakened Prime Minister George Papandreou’s majority. An
emergency session of European Union finance ministers ended with
no progress on a new aid package, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters yesterday. BNP Paribas SA,
Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA may have their debt
ratings cut because of their investments in  Greece , Moody’s
Investors Service said today.  “The preoccupation with Greece is weighing on the
market,” said Felipe Brandao, an emerging-markets strategist at
ICAP Brasil in Sao Paulo. “A Greek default could weaken the
European region, which is an important partner of Brazil.”  Twenty-four of 25 major emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg weakened against the dollar.  Stocks slid and commodities sank after manufacturing in New
York unexpectedly contracted and the U.S. cost of living
increased more than forecast. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
fell 1.7 percent to 1,265.42. The S&P GSCI Index of commodities
retreated 3.4 percent.  Futures Contracts  Yields on most interest-rate futures contracts fell after
the threat of a Greek default added to concern global growth may
be slowing, said Daniel Ribeiro, economist at Credit Suisse
Hedging-Griffo Asset Management in  Sao Paulo .  A global slowdown could allow the central bank to raise
rates less, Ribeiro said in a telephone interview. “Treasury
yields are falling, and the DI yields are following,” he said.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013 fell three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.44 percent. Yields
on the contract due in January 2017 declined two basis points to
12.16 percent.  The yield on the 10-year  U.S. Treasury  fell 13 basis points
to 2.97 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  