-- 
British Land Says Government Rejected Call to Block Broadgate Development

-- B y   T i m   B a r w e l l
-- 
2011-06-15T10:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/british-land-says-government-rejected-call-to-block-broadgate-development.html
British Land  Co., the U.K.’s second-
largest real estate investment trust, will proceed with plans to
construct an office building for  UBS AG (UBSN)  at the Broadgate complex
after the government rejected a proposal to protect the site
from redevelopment.  “I am delighted by today’s decision as it allows Broadgate
to continue to evolve as a sustainable and flexible office
location,” British Land Chief Executive Officer Chris Grigg
said today in a statement.  The company plans to knock down two buildings in the City
of London office development and construct the UBS offices in
partnership with  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  at a cost of 850 million
pounds ($1.4 billion).  English Heritage, a state-funded conservation group,
recommended on June 3 that Broadgate should be given the second-
highest level of protection from demolition. Culture Secretary
 Jeremy Hunt  rejected the group’s recommendation, allowing the
project to go ahead, British Land said.  The new building at 5 Broadgate will have about 700,000
square feet (65,000 square meters) of space, making it British
Land’s biggest project.  British Land rose as much as 2.8 percent in London trading
after declining earlier in the day. The stock was up 1.9 percent
at 600 pence as of 10:56 a.m. That lifts the gain this year to
14 percent.  “Broadgate Square may not be everyone’s idea of heritage,
but every decade has its architectural high points, and the
1980s are no different,”  English Heritage  said in a statement
today. “There has been some suggestion that listing stunts
investment or creates ‘streetscape museums’. This is to entirely
misinterpret the purpose and effect of listing,” the
organization said.  The new project will enable UBS,  Switzerland ’s biggest
bank, to bring together its operations into one building in the
City, British Land said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Barwell in London on 
 tbarwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  