-- 
Ratner’s Brooklyn Boondoggle Highlights Hoops, Not Homes: Film

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-06-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/bruce-ratner-s-brooklyn-boondoggle-highlights-hoops-not-homes-interview.html
After everyone else in his  Brooklyn 
condo building accepted a buyout and moved to make way for a new
 basketball arena , Daniel Goldstein was the only resident for an
entire year. One day, he got stuck in the elevator with nobody
around to help.  “It was spooky,” Goldstein, 41, recalled. “The alarm
only rang in the building, the phone in the elevator didn’t work
and I didn’t have a phone on me. I thought I was going to die in
there, but after four hours I finally managed to push the doors
open.”  Unwilling to be forced from his home, the  New Yorker  waged
a seven-year battle to stop Bruce Ratner’s massive Atlantic
Yards development in Prospect Heights. The original plans for
the mega-monster contained not only the new home for the  New
Jersey Nets , but 16 towers containing more than 6,000
apartments.  Goldstein’s ultimately unsuccessful fight is the focus of
“ Battle for Brooklyn ,” a documentary by husband-and-wife
filmmakers Michael Galinsky and Suki Hawley that premieres
Friday in New York.  The grassroots campaign proved “you can fight  city hall ,”
Galinsky said in a joint interview with Hawley and Goldstein at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York. “When you see something
wrong, you don’t have to roll over right away.”  No Housing  While the basketball arena is under construction and
scheduled to open next year, no housing is currently being built
and Goldstein doubts that the original project will ever be
completed.  “There will be a massive parking lot there, for a decade
at least,” he said. “Right now, the money and demand simply
aren’t there to build those towers.”  Ratner announced his Atlantic Yards plan in 2003, but
community opposition, legal obstacles and funding problems
delayed the project for many years. To raise money, he sold 80
percent of the Nets and 45 percent of the arena to Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  for $200 million.  The last major roadblock was removed in 2009, when the New
York Court of Appeals ruled that the state could seize private
property for the development. About 800 local residents ended up
losing their homes.  Eminent domain is supposed to benefit the public. In this
case, Goldstein said, the main beneficiary is a private
developer who could receive more than $2 billion in government
subsidies to fund the project.  “Ratner promised all this affordable housing, but where is
it?” he asked.  Eminent Domain  Galinsky, who lives in a nearby Brooklyn neighborhood with
his wife and two young daughters, said abuse of eminent domain
isn’t limited to New York.  “It’s a universal story,” he said. “We showed the film
in Toronto and heard, ‘This is happening in  Vancouver .’ We’re
hoping that when people see the movie, they’ll realize they’re
not alone.”  The Atlantic Yards project received crucial support from
top New York politicians who said the development would create
jobs and spur economic growth in Brooklyn.  “Ratner had some powerful friends,” Goldstein said.  Goldstein, a former graphic designer who now works as a
public relations consultant, went through some dramatic changes
during his lengthy fight against the Atlantic Yards development.
He broke up with his fiancee, fell in love with a fellow
activist, got married and had a baby girl.  “I made a lot of sacrifices, but I also made a lot of
friends and gained a family,” he said.  $3 Million Settlement  Faced with eviction after losing the court fight, Goldstein
finally moved out of his three-bedroom condo last year after
negotiating a $3 million settlement with Ratner. He paid
$590,000 for the three-bedroom condo in 2003.  “If people think I did this for the money, they’re
wrong,” said Goldstein, who now lives in an apartment a few
blocks away with his wife, Shabnam, and 2 1/2-year-old daughter,
Sita. “After legal fees and taxes, believe me I didn’t get
rich.”  Galinsky, Hawley and producer David Beilinson compiled
almost 500 hours of footage while following the case over seven
years.  “We had to wait for an ending,” Galinsky said.
“Sometimes we wondered if that would ever happen.”  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 