-- 
California Democrats Plan No-Tax Budget Vote as Danger of Pay Cut Looms

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s   a n d   N o r a   Z i m m e t t
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/california-democrats-plan-no-tax-budget-vote-as-danger-of-pay-cut-looms.html
California lawmakers plan to vote on
a Democratic budget that papers over a $10 billion deficit
without the tax extensions that Republicans blocked, under
pressure of losing pay if they miss today’s deadline.  The plan would delay $3 billion in school funding; sell
state buildings for $1.2 billion; siphon $1 billion of cigarette
levies from children’s programs and raise $200 million in sales
taxes from online retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , according
to an Assembly aide briefed on the plan who declined to be
identified because details weren’t public.  Governor  Jerry Brown , 73, took office in January with a
pledge to fix the fiscal malfunctions that have left California
with the lowest  credit rating  for any state from  Standard &
Poor’s , an A-, seventh highest. Brown, a Democrat, hasn’t
persuaded enough Republicans to extend about $9 billion of
expiring tax and fee increases that he wants to fix the deficit.
Tax bills must win two-thirds of votes to pass, more than
Democrats can muster.  “We are determined to pass an on-time budget,” Senate
President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from Sacramento,
said in an interview. “The voters of  California  gave the
Legislature, and the majority party specifically, the authority
to pass a budget by a majority vote. So even if we have to act
on our own, we will make a significant dent in California’s
structural deficit.”  Simple Majority  Democrats in the most populous U.S. state control enough
seats to pass the plan, which needs only a simple majority,
thanks to a voter initiative in November that lowered the
threshold for budget approval from two-thirds. That same
initiative strips lawmakers of salary and per-diem pay for every
day they fail to meet their June 15 constitutional deadline for
passing a spending plan. Brown has until June 30 to sign a
budget.  The Legislature met the June 15 deadline just once in the
past 25 years. This fiscal year’s budget was passed a record 100
days late as Democrats and Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  were locked in a similar deficit stalemate. In
the end, they too passed a budget that papered over most of what
was then a $19 billion deficit.  Some of the Democrats’ proposals may face legal challenges,
meaning the revenue may never materialize. For example, Brown
proposed taking the cigarette-tax revenue in January when he
unveiled his budget plan. The governor eliminated that revenue
from his budget in May after agencies funded by the levy sued to
block the move.  The notion of selling state office buildings revives a plan
approved by lawmakers and Schwarzenegger, a Republican, in
October. Brown canceled the sale in February, saying it was an
example of the budget gimmicks he intended to end.  Sales Tax Change  Democrats also plan to raise about $300 million by adding
$12 to the cost of vehicle registration; and get $900 million
more by adjusting the sales tax rate, which is scheduled to drop
by 1 percentage point, to retain a quarter of that amount. The
moves would be structured to get around the two-thirds vote
requirement for tax and fee increases.  The Democrats’ proposal would drop Brown’s plan to close
more than 400 redevelopment agencies and divert $3 billion a
year to schools and local governments. Instead, Democrats would
require the antiblight agencies to fork over about $1.7 billion
next year and about $400 million annually afterward, though they
wouldn’t be shut down. Courts have ruled similar raids aren’t
permitted under the state constitution.  Amazon.com Purchases  The budget plan also counts on sales-tax collections by
online retailers including Amazon on Internet purchases by state
residents. Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, has
threatened to sever ties with more than 10,000 affiliates in
California over threats to impose the levies.  Brown began the year facing a $26 billion deficit through
June 2012. Spending cuts passed in March and better-than-
expected revenue narrowed the projected deficit to $10 billion.  Brown has said for the past six months that he wants a
budget that balances spending with revenue and cuts, or erases
the deficit with deeper reductions. He has refused to say
whether he’d sign or veto the Democratic plan. He has 12 days to
decide and could continue to negotiate for his proposal in the
meantime.  “I will take a very hard look at it,” Brown told
reporters two days ago. “We’ve had discussions with the
leadership, and I’ve told them the way I see things, and we’ll
see what happens when they bring it down.”  Governor’s Plan  The governor’s plan would retain a 1 percentage-point boost
in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent, and a 0.5 percentage-
point increase in vehicle-registration fees to 1.15 percent of
value. Brown also wants to extend a reduction of the annual
 child tax credit  to $99 from $309. All were put in place in 2009
and are set to expire by July 1.  Brown originally said he wanted a statewide referendum this
month asking voters whether they wanted to keep the tax
extensions. Negotiations with Republicans over a June ballot
faltered in March. Brown recently asked lawmakers to directly
extend those taxes until voters are given a chance to decide,
possibly as soon as September.  Republicans, who say the extensions would harm California’s
economy, instead want lawmakers to pass a budget without
prolonging the revenue measures and let voters decide later
whether to reinstate them. Republicans have been using their
position to maneuver for concessions on spending, cuts to
government pensions and changes in business and environmental
regulations.  The fear of losing their pay “is a big incentive” for
lawmakers, said Senator Bob Huff, a Republican from Diamond Bar
who’s vice chairman of the Budget Committee. “It’s introduced
into the equation an unhealthy variable because not everyone can
absorb that kind of hit, so they may vote for a bad budget, even
if they don’t think it represents their district.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in  Sacramento  at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Nora Zimmett in Sacramento at 
 nzimmett@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  