-- 
California Lawmakers Pass No-Tax Budget as Deadline Looms

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-06-15T21:32:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/california-senate-passes-no-tax-budget-plan-as-threat-of-pay-loss-looms.html
California ’s Legislature passed a
Democrat-written budget that papers over a $10 billion deficit
without extending higher taxes blocked by Republicans, as
lawmakers beat a midnight deadline to pass a plan or lose pay.  The Assembly and the Senate approved plans that would delay
$3 billion in school funding; sell state buildings for $1.2
billion; siphon $1 billion of cigarette levies from children’s
programs and raise $200 million in sales taxes from online
retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   “We’re really not seeing any structural changes, it’s kind
of status quo,” said Konstantine “Dino” Mallas, manager of
the T. Rowe Price California Tax-Free Bond Fund, in a telephone
interview from Baltimore. “We’d like to see more substantive
changes to the budget.”  California, with the largest economy in the U.S., has the
lowest  credit rating  for any state from  Standard & Poor’s .
Governor  Jerry Brown ’s preferred plan for balancing the budget
is to extend about $9 billion of expiring tax and fee increases
to fix the deficit. He hasn’t persuaded enough Republicans to
back the extensions. Tax bills must win two-thirds of lawmakers’
votes to pass, more than Democrats can muster.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, hasn’t said whether he will
sign the Democratic plan. He has 12 days to sign or veto the
budget or it automatically becomes law. He could continue to
negotiate for his proposal in the meantime.  Simple Majority Vote  Democrats in the most-populous U.S. state control enough
seats to pass their no-tax plan with a simple majority, thanks
to a voter initiative in November that lowered the threshold for
budget approval from two-thirds. That initiative also strips
lawmakers of salary and per-diem pay for every day they fail to
meet a constitutional deadline of June 15 for passing a spending
plan for the year beginning July 1.  “As usual, the politicians under the Capitol dome are
looking out for themselves,” said Jon Coupal, president of the
Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, which in 1978 sponsored
Proposition 13, California’s property-tax limit. “They are so
desperate to pass a budget -- any budget -- in order to keep
their pay, they are willing to use any means, including illegal
maneuvers and gimmicks, in order to do so.”  The Legislature met the June 15 deadline just once in the
past 25 years. This fiscal year’s budget was passed a record 100
days late as Democrats and Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  were locked in a similar deficit stalemate. In
the end, they too passed a budget that papered over most of what
was then a $19 billion deficit.  Legal Challenges  Some of the Democrats’ proposals may face legal challenges,
meaning the revenue may never materialize. For example, Brown
proposed taking the cigarette-tax revenue in January when he
unveiled his budget plan. The governor eliminated that revenue
from his budget in May after agencies funded by the levy sued to
block the move.  The notion of selling state office buildings revives a plan
approved by lawmakers and Schwarzenegger in October. Brown
canceled the sale in February, saying it was an example of the
budget gimmicks he intended to end.  Democrats also plan to raise about $300 million by adding
$12 to the cost of vehicle registration; and get $900 million
more by adjusting the local sales tax rate, which is scheduled
to drop by 1 percentage point, to retain a quarter of that
amount.  Redevelopment Funds  The Democrats’ proposal would drop Brown’s plan to close
more than 400 redevelopment agencies and divert $3 billion a
year to schools and local governments. Instead, Democrats would
require the anti-blight agencies to fork over about $1.7 billion
next year and about $400 million annually afterward, though they
wouldn’t be shut down. Courts have ruled similar raids aren’t
permitted under the state constitution.  The budget plan also counts on sales-tax collections by
online retailers including Amazon on Internet purchases by state
residents. Amazon, the world’s largest online retailer, has
threatened to sever ties with more than 10,000 affiliates in
California over threats to impose the levies.  Brown began the year facing a $26 billion deficit through
June 2012. Spending cuts passed in March and better-than-
expected revenue narrowed the projected deficit to $10 billion.  Governor’s Plan  Brown has said for the past six months that he wants a
budget that balances spending with revenue and cuts, or erases
the deficit with deeper reductions.  “I will take a very hard look at it,” Brown said of the
Democratic plan two days ago. “We’ve had discussions with the
leadership, and I’ve told them the way I see things, and we’ll
see what happens when they bring it down.”  The governor’s plan would retain a 1 percentage-point boost
in the retail-sales levy, to 8.25 percent, and a 0.5 percentage-
point increase in vehicle-registration fees to 1.15 percent of
value. Brown also wants to extend a reduction of the annual
 child tax credit  to $99 from $309. All were put in place in 2009
and are set to expire by July 1.  Brown originally said he wanted a statewide referendum this
month asking voters whether they wanted to keep the tax
extensions. Negotiations with Republicans over a June ballot
faltered in March. Brown recently asked lawmakers to directly
extend those taxes until voters are given a chance to decide,
possibly as soon as September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  