-- 
Canada May Existing Home Sales (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-06-15T13:07:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/canada-may-existing-home-sales-text-.html
According to statistics released
today by The  Canadian Real Estate Association  (CREA), national
resale housing activity remained stable in May compared to
April.  Highlights:
• Sales activity held steady from April to May, but posted the
first year-over-year gain in over a year due to falling demand
in May 2010.
• Year-to-date sales are in line with the ten-year average.
• New listings also remained stable from April to May.
• National housing market remains firmly entrenched in balanced
territory.
• National average price is still being skewed upward by
historically high sales activity in certain Vancouver
neighbourhoods.  Seasonally adjusted national home sales activity edged down by
less than one per cent in May 2011 compared to the previous
month. Among major markets were activity declines in  Vancouver 
and Ottawa, offsetting gains in Edmonton and Toronto, where
sales reached the second highest level on record for the month
of May.  Actual (not seasonally adjusted) activity came in 2.7 per cent
above levels reported last May. This was the first year-over-
year increase in more than a year, reflecting falling sales
activity in May 2010. Activity fell sharply last year between
April and July, with May marking the mid-point of that slide.
Although activity has been more stable this year, last year’s
sales volatility is expected to continue to affect year-over-
year comparisons in the months ahead.  A total of 196,749 homes have traded hands via Canadian MLS®
Systems so far this year. This is in line with the ten-year
average for year-to-date activity in May.  “The Canadian housing market has seen some big ups and downs in
recent years, making national sales activity so far this year
look like something of a Goldilocks story by comparison - not
too hot, not too cold,” said Gary Morse, CREA’s President.
“Since local housing market trends often differ from national
trends, buyers and sellers should consult their local REALTOR®
to understand how the housing market is shaping up where they
live.”  Seasonally adjusted new residential listings were little changed
from April to May, edging up one tenth of a percentage point.
The number of newly listed homes fell in Vancouver, Fraser
Valley and the Okanagan region in May, offsetting small gains in
Toronto and  Montreal .  With sales and new listings holding steady on a national basis
in May, the resale housing market remained firmly planted in
balanced territory. The national sales-to-new listings ratio, a
measure of market balance, stood at 52.1 per cent in May, little
changed from 52.5 per cent in April.  Based on a sales-to-new listings ratio of between 40 and 60 per
cent, housing markets were balanced in 62 of 101 real estate
boards in Canada. Less than half of the rest can be
characterized as sellers’ markets, based on a ratio above 60 per
cent. “For the most part, sellers’ markets became slightly more
balanced than the previous month,” said Gregory Klump, CREA’s
Chief Economist. “Toronto stood out as an exception, with sales
activity there growing faster than new supply.”  The seasonally adjusted number of months of inventory stood at
6.1 months at the end of May on a national basis. This is little
changed compared to the six months of inventory at the end of
April 2011. The number of months of inventory represents the
number of months it would take to sell current inventories at
the current rate of sales activity, and is another measure of
the balance between housing supply and demand.  The national average price for homes sold in May 2011 was
$376,817, up 8.6 per cent from the same month last year.  A number of compositional factors skewed the national average
price upward in May. These factors include historically high
sales activity in selected pricey Vancouver neighbourhoods and
broadly based price gains in Toronto, where supply remains tight
relative to demand. If Vancouver sales are excluded from the
calculation, the year-over-year change in the national average
price amounts to 5.6 per cent; excluding Toronto and Vancouver
shrinks the increase to 3.7 per cent.  “Changes in the national average home price reflect variations
in home sales activity across and within local markets,” said
Klump. “Failure to recognize changes in the mix of sales
activity can lead to misinterpretation of average price
fluctuations. It can also give rise to faulty predictions of
broadly based home price deflation by way of price correction.”  PLEASE NOTE: The information contained in this news release
combines both major market and national MLS® sales information
from the previous month.  CREA cautions that average price information can be useful in
establishing trends over time, but does not indicate actual
prices in centres comprised of widely divergent neighborhoods or
account for price differential between geographic areas.
Statistical information contained in this report includes all
housing types.  MLS® is a co-operative marketing system used only by  Canada ’s
real estate Boards to ensure maximum exposure of properties
listed for sale.  The Canadian Real Estate Association (CREA) is one of Canada’s
largest single-industry trade associations, representing more
than 100,000 REALTORS working through more than 100 real estate
Boards and Associations.  Further information can be found at:
 http://www.crea.ca/public/news_stats/media.htm   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  