-- 
Canadian Dollar Gains to Three-Week High Versus Euro on Greek Debt Crisis

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-06-15T21:02:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/canada-dollar-strengthens-to-3-week-high-versus-euro-on-deadlock-on-greece.html
Canada ’s dollar gained to its
strongest level versus the euro in almost three weeks as
European bickering and domestic political discord in  Greece 
risked derailing a second bailout for the debt-strapped country.  The currency fell versus the  U.S. dollar  as data showed
Canadian factory sales dropped after the Japanese earthquake
disrupted auto production, and manufacturing in the New York
region unexpectedly shrank. The greenback climbed versus 15 of
its 16 most-traded peers. Canada’s 10-year bond yield dropped
the most in nine months, and stocks tumbled.  “We wax and wane in between believing the policy makers
are close to a deal on Greece, and then we are left with no
answer, which is toxic for the euro,” said  Jessica Hoversen , a
New York-based analyst at the futures broker MF Global Holdings
Ltd. “The Canadian dollar is so tied to the recovery in the
U.S., and the weakness in empire manufacturing and industrial
production were a little bit disconcerting.”  Canada’s dollar gained 0.7 percent versus the euro to
C$1.3884 at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from C$1.3981 yesterday. It
touched C$1.3845, the strongest level since May 27.  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is sometimes called
for the image of the bird on the C$1 coin, has strengthened 3.1
percent against the euro since reaching a 13-month low of
C$1.4380 on June 8.  Resistance Zone  “The late-May, early-June rally in the cross reaffirms the
mid-C$1.43 area as a strong zone of resistance for the euro,”
 Shaun Osborne , chief currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion
Bank, wrote to clients. “We think this area was the only thing
standing in the way of the cross reaching 1.50 again.”
Resistance is an area on a chart where orders may be clustered.  The Canadian dollar may retest C$1.36 against the euro,
Osborne wrote, a level last reached on April 1.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will name a new
government tomorrow and call a vote of confidence in parliament
as he seeks to pressure rebel lawmakers to back austerity plans
needed to secure a new rescue package. Papandreou spoke live on
state-run NET TV.  He needs to clinch a vote on 78 billion euros ($111
billion) of budget cuts and asset sales by the end of June to
ensure Greece gets a new European Union aid package to avoid the
euro area’s first default.  The loonie dropped 1.1 percent to 97.91 cents per U.S.
dollar, from 96.82 cents yesterday. It touched 96.71 cents
earlier, the strongest level since June 1. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0214.  Best Performer  The Canadian dollar was the best performer over the past
week against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The loonie
advanced 2 percent, while the U.S. dollar appreciated 1.9
percent.  Stocks dropped, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index each tumbling 1.7 percent.  Euro-area finance ministers agreed yesterday to reconvene
on June 19 after they failed to reach agreement over a German-
led push for bondholders to share part of the cost of a new
Greek aid plan. European Central Bank policy makers have warned
against proposals that maturities on Greek debt be extended for
seven years, an outcome rating companies have said would be
considered a default.  Investors still expect the ECB to raise its 1.25 percent
benchmark interest rate by 52 basis points in the next 12
months, according to a Credit Suisse Index based on swaps. That
compares with a forecast for a boost of 65 basis points in the
Bank of Canada’s 1 percent rate, a separate index shows. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Modest Pace’  Central-bank Governor  Mark Carney  restated his forecast
that economic growth in Canada is slowing to a “modest pace,”
weighed down by temporary factors such as supply-chain
disruptions in the auto sector and rising energy prices.  Carney, in a speech in  Vancouver , also reiterated that the
bank plans to “eventually” raise its benchmark rate.  Canadian  government bonds  climbed, pushing the yield on the
10-year security down 12 basis points, the biggest intraday drop
since Sept. 7, to 2.95 percent. The 3.25 percent note due in
June 2021 gained C$1.04 to C$102.57.  Two-year note yields fell 10 basis points to 1.42 percent,
the lowest since June 3.  Debt Auction  The government auctioned C$3.5 billion ($3.6 billion) of
two-year notes, drawing an average yield of 1.572 percent.  Bids totaling C$8.48 billion were received for the 2
percent securities maturing in August 2013, for a bid-to-cover
ratio of 2.42, according to data in a statement today on the
Bank of Canada’s Web site. The ratio at the last sale of the
securities, on May 11, was 2.52.  Manufacturing sales in Canada fell in April for the second
time in three months. They decreased 1.3 percent to C$46.7
billion on a seasonally adjusted basis,  Statistics Canada  said.  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s general economic
index, called the Empire State index, dropped to negative 7.8
for June, the lowest level since November, from 11.9 in May.
U.S. industrial production rose 0.1 percent in May, less than
forecast, Fed data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  