-- 
Canadian National Surpasses Canadian Pacific

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/canadian-national-beating-canadian-pacific-with-investors-freight-markets.html
Canada’s two biggest railways are
under pressure from government and customers to reduce delays,
with investors profiting from  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) ’s
performance and losing on  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)   Transport Minister Denis Lebel is promising legislation to
give rail customers a faster way to settle disputes and the
right to a service agreement. Sixty-two percent of shippers said
they lost money because of late trains in 2009, according to a
March government  report  on the industry.  The rail companies say case-by-case service contracts with
customers will ensure more timely delivery than regulation
would. CN shares have given investors a total return of 12.7
percent so far this year, while CP shares have lost 6.3 percent
as earnings were hurt by delays linked to winter storms and
flooding. Canada’s benchmark stock index has fallen 1.5 percent
over the same period.  “There has been some tangible evidence of improvement with
CN,” said Stephen Boland, an equity analyst at Vancouver-based
investment-management company Odlum Brown Ltd., which oversees
C$7.5 billion ($7.7 billion). “CN did a very good job working
through the challenging weather, whereas for CP there was a
significant impact on earnings.” He rates CN shares a “buy”
and doesn’t rate CP.  CP’s first-quarter earnings fell 65.6 percent from the
year-ago period. The company cited “unusually severe winter
weather, decreasing shipping volumes and increasing costs.”
Chief Operations Officer Ed Harris retired April 1 after less
than a year. CN first-quarter earnings rose 12.5 percent.  Earnings Forecasts  CN’s second-quarter earnings will probably grow 11.7
percent versus a CP gain of 0.3 percent, according to Bloomberg
consensus estimates combining 26 responses.  Standard & Poor’s  cut its debt rating on CP to BBB- from
BBB on May 17, citing “the company’s slower pace of
deleveraging relative to our previous expectations.” S&P rates
CN debt A-, three steps higher.  The world’s 11th-biggest economy is the sole Group of Seven
nation that’s a major commodity exporter; those goods made up
half of foreign shipments last year and 16 percent of gross
domestic product amid growing demand from emerging markets.  “The railroads needed someone to say to them that 70, 85
percent service isn’t acceptable” said Chris McIver, vice
president of sales at West Fraser Timber Co.,  North America ’s
largest maker of lumber for building construction. To improve
service, “our preference is to do it between ourselves and the
railroads, and have government there as a bit of a watchdog.”  Found Bottlenecks  Vancouver-based West Fraser ships about half of its
production using CN Rail. McIver says it has also found
bottlenecks with trucking companies and at ports where lumber is
reloaded into containers.  Shares of West Fraser have fallen 17.6 percent since a May
3 earnings report showing first-quarter profit of C$0.30 per
share, below analyst estimates of C$0.87 per share. Lumber
shipments were 11 percent below production in the first quarter
because of transport difficulties and weaker demand, President
Henry Ketcham said on a May 4 earnings call.  West Fraser said 30 percent of its spruce, pine and fir
exports went to  Asia  in the first quarter, up from 20 percent a
year earlier and almost nothing five years ago.  “We would do probably more business over there if we could
make the logistics work,” McIver said. “We have missed some
opportunities and we are all trying to miss as few as we can.”  Declining Satisfaction  West Fraser isn’t alone: 45 percent of rail customers
surveyed in 2009 said their satisfaction had declined in the
prior three years, according to the government rail review.
Grain shippers received 90 percent or more of the cars they
requested only about half the time.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s parliamentary majority
following his May 2 re-election makes it easier to resist
opposition demands for heavy regulation, Royal Bank of Canada
analyst  Walter Spracklin  said in a June 10 telephone interview
from Toronto. He has an “outperform” rating on both CN and CP
shares.  Ralph Goodale , an opposition  Liberal Party  lawmaker from
the wheat-growing province of Saskatchewan and a former
agriculture minister, said legislation should be passed this
year to address “chronic complaints.”  “There is no commercial discipline in the system that
evens up the bargaining power,” Goodale said in a June 7
interview in Ottawa. “The shippers have a right to have
contracts.”  Hard Facts  “Burdensome regulation targeting railways alone is not the
solution,” CN Chief Executive Officer Claude Mongeau said in a
March 18 statement. The review panel “failed to act on the hard
facts” showing good rail service. Mark Hallman, a spokesman for
the Montreal-based railroad, said June 2 that executives weren’t
available to comment further.  “Many of the benefits already achieved have been masked by
the unusually severe winter and spring operating conditions,”
CP Chief Executive Officer Fred Green said at a June 13 investor
presentation in  New York . “We have to earn back the credibility
that we’ve had for a long time and we will get there.” Green
called the government review a “rather abysmal piece of work.”  Bill Gates , the world’s second-richest man according to
Forbes magazine, is the biggest CN Rail shareholder through
Cascade Investment LLC, regulatory filings show. Michael Larson,
chief investment officer of Cascade Investment in Kirkland,
 Washington , didn’t return an e-mail message seeking comment.  ‘On Top of This’  “There could be legislation or regulation, but the rail
companies in  Canada  are on top of this,” said Michael Simpson,
a portfolio manager at Sentry Investments in Toronto, which
manages about C$7 billion, including CN shares. “They will
reach out to their shippers. Railways generate a lot of free
 cash flow  and CN has a history of raising their dividends. As
the economy expands they will expand.”  He cited CN as being “proactive” in dealing with customer
complaints, and said he holds more of its shares than CP,
without giving details.  Railways were crucial to Canada’s formation and settlement.
The CP railway came from a pledge that Sir John A. MacDonald,
Canada’s first prime minister, made to entice British Columbia
to join the country.  Canadian National , a state-run company the
government created in 1919, was sold to investors in 1995 in
what was then the country’s biggest initial share sale.  Canada is seeking more reliable cargo movement as the
government negotiates trade agreements with  India  and the
European Union. Harper said during the election campaign he
wants to sign trade agreements with India in 2013 and the EU
next year, giving access to markets with 1.7 billion people.  Voluntary Agreements  Between the two of them, CN and CP this year have signed
voluntary service agreements with companies and institutions
including the Montreal  Port Authority , Port Metro Vancouver, 
grain handler Viterra Inc., Tembec Inc., West Fraser, Squamish
Terminals Ltd., Canfor Pulp Limited Partnership and Daishowa 
Marubeni International Ltd.  Teck Resources Ltd. says a “landmark” 10-year agreement
announced in October with Canadian Pacific will help it meet
foreign demand. The railway will buy new equipment to match
expanded coal production, said Ron Vance, Teck’s vice president
of corporate development, on a May 26 investor call.  “An efficient rail network from mine site to port is
absolutely essential” Vance said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 