-- 
Canada Labor Minister Raitt Says No Postal Back-To-Work Law is Planned

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-06-15T14:21:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/canada-labor-minister-raitt-says-no-postal-back-to-work-law-is-planned.html
Canadian Labor Minister Lisa Raitt
said today she does not currently plan to introduce legislation
to end a strike by workers by  Canada  Post.  “We’re going to see how this unfolds, and we’re going to
reassess the effect on the general public interest now that
there’s a complete work stoppage,” Raitt said outside
Parliament in Ottawa. “We really have to take a look at what
the effect is on the Canadian interest and reassess the
situation, but certainly it’s a new development that’s
significant.”  Canada Post suspended urban operations across the country
last night by locking out its workers, saying 12 days of
rotating strikes by members of the Canadian Union of Postal
Workers had caused C$100 million ($103 million) in losses.
Employees walked out June 13 in Toronto and  Montreal , Canada’s
biggest cities.  The strike began this month with Canada Post saying it
needs to cut staff costs to avoid taking government subsidies as
traditional mail services are replaced by digital communications
and electronic commerce. The union wants the company to improve
health, safety and sick-leave policies, among other issues.  “The accelerating decline in volumes and revenue combined
with the inability to deliver mail on a timely and safe basis
has left the company with no choice,” the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  The union called the lockout “irresponsible,” in a
statement sent by e-mail. “There is now a considerable amount
of mail in the system that will not be delivered.”  Volumes Decline  The company had previously cut delivery of letters and
packages to Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays in most urban areas,
saying volumes had declined as much as 50 percent since the
workers began rotating 24-hour strikes in cities across Canada.  The two sides remain “far apart on several fundamental
issues and there has been no progress made at the negotiating
table for weeks,” Canada Post said in the statement.  The union and company are negotiating a contract for about
48,000 letter carriers and other staff in urban areas. The
strike doesn’t involve another 7,000 suburban and rural mail
carriers represented by the union, who are involved in a
separate set of negotiations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 