-- 
Carlyle Raises $1 Billion for South American Investments

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-06-15T09:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/carlyle-raises-1-billion-for-south-american-investments-1-.html
The  Carlyle Group , one of the
world’s largest private-equity managers, said it raised $1
billion to invest in South American companies, with an emphasis
on  Brazil .  The leveraged-buyout firm closed a $776 million fund that
will target deals across the continent with a focus on Brazil,
and a 360 million-Brazilian real ($227 million) pool raised with
Brasilia-based  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3)  dedicated to Brazilian deals,
Washington-based Carlyle said today in an e-mailed statement.
The firm got double what it initially sought, it said.  “South America is a vital part of our broader emerging-
markets strategy,” Carlyle co-founder  David Rubenstein  said in
the statement.  Private-equity firms are turning to emerging markets to tap
faster growth than in Western economies as investors look for
higher returns. Carlyle is seeking about $500 million for its
first fund targeting Sub-Saharan Africa, two people with
knowledge of the plans said in March. It agreed to buy a 55
percent stake in developing market-focused hedge-fund manager
Emerging Sovereign Group LLC, it said yesterday. Carlyle has $14
billion under management in emerging markets, it said.  “Broad economic trends, including the rising middle class,
make  South America  in general and Brazil in particular a
desirable investment destination,” Fernando Borges, who heads
Carlyle’s South American buyout team, said in the statement.  Carlyle hired Borges in 2008 to build the Brazil office,
which now includes senior dealmakers Juan Carlos Felix, a former
McKinsey & Co. partner, and Fernando Pinto, previously of
Capital International Research Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The team’s first investment was in CVC Brasil Operadora &
Agencia de Viagens SA, the largest tour operator in  Latin
America , in 2009. A deal for a controlling stake in Brazilian
health-insurance brokerage Grupo Qualicorp, valued at $1.2
billion, followed last July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Berlin at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  