-- 
Carlyle Group Is Said to Interview Investment Banks in Preparation for IPO

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-06-15T21:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/carlyle-is-said-to-interview-banks-in-preparation-for-initial-share-sale.html
Carlyle Group  is interviewing banks
this week in preparation for an initial public offering,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Carlyle, based in  Washington , may raise about $1 billion in
the offering, said the person, asking not to be identified
because the plans are private. Carlyle will probably choose the
main underwriters by the end of the week, according to another
person with knowledge of the meetings.  The firm aims to take advantage of more stable stock
markets to join U.S.-listed rivals  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , KKR &
Co. and Apollo Global Management LLC. Blackstone, the world’s
largest private-equity firm, has gained about 17 percent this
year in New York trading and KKR has risen 8.7 percent. Apollo
has declined 16 percent since its March 29 offering.  William Conway , who founded Carlyle in 1987 with  David Rubenstein  and  Daniel D’Aniello , said in December the company is
gearing up for a public share sale to amass permanent capital
and contend with the growing challenge of raising money for
buyout funds.  In the last year, Carlyle has hired executives to round out
its management team and made acquisitions to increase assets,
moves that may make the company more attractive to public
shareholders. The founders steered the firm into the fund-of-
funds business by taking over AlpInvest Partners NV, a Dutch
asset manager that spreads money for investors among other
buyout funds.  Executive Hires  In February, the firm recruited Adena Friedman, Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc.’s former finance chief, to serve as chief financial
officer. Mitch Petrick, Morgan Stanley’s former sales and
trading chief, joined as a managing director in 2010 with a
mandate that included adding pools that trade securities on a
daily basis. Petrick has led deals to buy majority stakes in two
 hedge funds  and plans more acquisitions or hires to execute
various investment strategies, according to one of the people.  CNBC reported earlier today that Carlyle is talking with
banks. A Carlyle spokesman couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  