-- 
Carney Says Canada Second-Quarter Growth May Miss Forecast

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-06-15T22:33:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/carney-says-canada-second-quarter-growth-may-miss-forecast-1-.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said this quarter’s economic growth rate could be less than the
2 percent pace the central bank forecast in April.  Policy makers said in April that growth would slow from the
3.9 percent pace set from January to March, in part due to
 Japan ’s earthquake and tsunami disaster that’s disrupting
Canadian automobile production.  Statistics Canada  reported June
9 a trade deficit for April while revising the prior two months
to shortfalls from surpluses, and said today April factory sales
fell 1.3 percent.  “We were at 2 percent in our last full projection. We will
update that in July - yes, it’s possible that it could come in
below 2 percent, in the 1 percent range,” Carney, 46, said at a
press conference after a speech in Vancouver today. “The trade
number and revision is broadly consistent over time with our
expectations.”  Carney’s earlier speech reiterated the bank’s prediction
that growth will rebound after the second quarter, and that
 interest rates  will rise eventually as the economy returns to
full capacity. Exporters still face broader challenges than the
short-term decline in production, he said at the press
conference.  “On the export side, we have on numerous occasions pointed
out the challenges that the Canadian economy has with
competitiveness, a product of two factors: first the
persistently strong Canadian dollar and secondly the relatively
poor productivity performance in our economy,” Carney said.  The Canadian dollar reached 94.46 cents per  U.S. dollar  on
April 29, the strongest level since November 2007. A stronger
currency makes imported goods such as clothing and machinery
cheaper.  Carney’s main message in his speech today was that housing
prices in some parts of the country are reaching “severely
unaffordable” levels, reinforcing the need for Canadian
authorities to remain “vigilant” against a correction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in  Vancouver  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 