-- 
Carney Says Authorities Must Remain Vigilant About Canadian House Prices

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-06-15T19:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/carney-says-authorities-must-remain-vigilant-about-canadian-house-prices.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
said housing prices in some parts of the country are reaching
“severely unaffordable” levels, reinforcing the need for
Canadian authorities to remain “vigilant” against a
correction.  Carney reiterated the bank’s forecast that Canada’s housing
market will cool as part of an economic “rebalancing,” in
which business investment and exports will take over from
consumers and governments as engines of growth. He said some
parts of the housing market, such as  Vancouver , may be rising to
“extreme” valuations driven by fear and greed, rather than
supply and demand.  “The risk is that expectations become extrapolative,
prompting the classic market emotions of greed and fear - greed
among speculators and investors, and fear among households that
getting a foot on the property ladder is a now-or-never
proposition,” Carney, 46, said in the text of a speech he’s
delivering today in Vancouver, a city where housing prices rose
26 percent in May from a year earlier, the  Canadian Real Estate
Association  said today.  The central-bank governor restated his forecast that
economic growth in Canada is slowing to a “modest pace,”
weighed down by temporary factors such as supply-chain
disruptions in the auto sector and rising energy prices that are
curbing  consumer spending . Growth should pick up in the second
half of the year, he said.  “Canadian authorities will need to remain vigilant as they
have been in the past to the possibility of financial imbalances
developing,” Carney said.  Eventual Rise  Carney reiterated the bank plans to “eventually” raise
its benchmark rate from 1 percent, where it has stood since
September. He reiterated that any increase will be “carefully
considered,” using language from earlier announcements.  Carney said housing prices have risen 31 percent nationally
from their bottom in early 2009, and are now 13 percent above
their previous peak before the global recession. He attributed
the rise partly to “cheap credit” made available by low
 interest rates .  The bank estimates the proportion of Canadian households
“highly vulnerable” to an economic shock has increased to its
highest level in nine years. Canadians are now as deep in debt
as Americans and the British relative to their incomes, he said,
adding that “households will need to be prudent in their
borrowing, recognizing that over the life of a mortgage,
interest rates will often be much higher.”  He also said that housing-related debt is the “single
largest exposure” for Canadian financial institutions.” Real-
estate loans make up over 40 percent of the assets of Canadian
banks.  ‘Important Vulnerabilities’  “Any housing excesses could generate important
vulnerabilities in the financial system,” he said.  Carney said certain regions and market segments could be
more vulnerable than others, referring to the possibility of an
“overshoot” in the condominium market in major cities. He said
the average selling price of a home in Vancouver now stands at
nearly 11 times average family income, a multiple on par with
 Hong Kong  and Sydney.  “Such valuations are extreme in both Canada and
globally,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Vancouver at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  