-- 
CFPB Bank Supervisor Says Oversight Set to Start July 21

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-06-15T19:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/cfpb-bank-supervisor-says-agency-oversight-set-to-start-july-21.html
Steven Antonakes, the top bank
supervisor at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, said
oversight of banks with more than $10 billion in assets will
start as planned on July 21.  “We are all engines ready to go,” Antonakes, the
assistant director for large bank supervision, said at a
conference of the  American Bankers Association  in  Washington .  Antonakes’s unit will supervise 111 banks, thrifts and
credit unions controlling about 80 percent of U.S. banking
assets, about $10 trillion worth, he said. The consumer bureau
will conduct “point-in-time examinations” that will last four
to 12 weeks, depending on the size and complexity of the firm.  “Presuming that the exam is clean, we’re out of your hair
for two years’ time,” Antonakes said. “You’ll see us more
frequently” if there are issues to be addressed, he said.  At firms with more than $100 billion in assets, “not in
all instances but in most instances, there will be some type of
continuous supervision in which we will have a presence at the
institution throughout most of the year,” Antonakes said. That
regular presence may include, for example, product reviews of
credit cards or mortgage origination, he said.  There were 13 U.S. banks with assets exceeding $100 billion
at the end of the first quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg News:  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  US Bancorp (USB) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , SunTrust Banks Inc.,  BB&T Corp. (BBT) ,
Regions Financial Corp. and  Fifth Third Bancorp. (FITB)   Firms such as Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are less
involved in consumer finance than competitors including Bank of
America and JPMorgan.  Transfers  The consumer bureau has completed the task of transferring
bank examiners from other federal regulators and is wrapping up
that process so it can recruit more examiners from outside the
government, Antonakes said.  “We all recruit all the time,” he said. “It is one of
our big tasks.”  Antonakes said he and Peggy Twohig, the consumer bureau’s
assistant director for non-bank supervision, have agreed to
create a single pool of examiners to supervise deposit-taking
banks and non-bank financial firms such as check cashers.  “We want to be able to deploy assets where needed,”
Antonakes said.  Information-Sharing  The consumer bureau has also concluded information-sharing
agreements with federal and state regulators, he said.  “We are sharing exam information, correspondence,
enforcement actions to the extent they exist -- any of the data
that will allow us to prioritize our examinations,” Antonakes
said.  The agency, created by the Dodd-Frank Act, is scheduled to
begin work on July 21. It won’t gain the full authority granted
by the regulatory law until it has a Senate-confirmed director.
President  Barack Obama  has yet to select a nominee.  Elizabeth Warren, the presidential adviser who is setting
up the bureau, hired Antonakes, a former head of banking
supervision in Massachusetts, to head its corps of consumer-
protection examiners for larger banks. Firms with less than $10
billion in assets will be supervised on consumer issues by their
primary prudential regulator.  Antonakes said the consumer bureau will post more on its
supervisory approach on its website as July 21 approaches, and
will also designate lead examiners for each bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 