-- 
Chevron Bets on $30 Billion Volcanoes Beneath Rainforest

-- B y   S t u a r t   B i g g s
-- 
2011-06-15T11:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/chevron-bets-on-power-from-30-billion-volcanoes-in-indonesian-rainforest.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  drilled 84 wells to a
depth of two miles beneath the Indonesian rainforest to tap
steam, not oil and gas, that’s trapped in the world’s richest
store of volcanic energy.  The oil driller’s geothermal plant, set among wild orchids
and bamboo trees, uses 315 degree Celsius (600 degree
Fahrenheit) heat to spin turbines 24 hours a day, generating
electricity for Jakarta, a four-hour drive to the north.
Chevron, which pioneered geothermal energy 20 years ago in
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest economy, is about to see competition.  Companies from  General Electric Co. (GE)  to  India ’s Tata Corp.
are leading an investment boom in Indonesia that may climb to
more than $30 billion, anticipating President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono will honor his promise in February to boost clean-
energy subsidies. The pledge has spurred the biggest geothermal
spending spree in Asia and the largest outside of the U.S.  “There’s great momentum in  Indonesia ’s geothermal market,
and demand for power is there,”  Mark Taylor , a geothermal
analyst in  Washington  at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in
an interview. “But there are regulatory risks for developers.”  Chevron was burned by Indonesia in the late 1990s, when the
state-owned utility forced it to renegotiate a power-purchase
accord. The  San Ramon , California-based oil company is now
planning to expand its geothermal operations, helping Yudhoyono
eliminate energy shortages that threaten his target for as much
as 6.6 percent economic growth through his term’s end in 2014.  ‘Geothermal Superpower’  Geothermal  is central to Indonesia’s push for alternatives
to fossil fuels such as oil, which the country once exported and
now must import, driving up costs and curbing growth. Brownouts
are frequent on the main island of Java, and 35 percent of the
nation’s 245-million population doesn’t have access to
electricity, the  International Energy Agency  has said.  The nation, described by clean-energy investor  Al Gore  in
January as the first potential “geothermal superpower,” plans
9.5 gigawatts of capacity by 2025. That’s more than triple the
U.S.’s geothermal use and about 33 percent of Indonesia’s
electricity demand, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Indonesia’s 17,000 islands straddle the  Pacific Ocean ’s
volcanic “ring of fire,” making the country to geothermal
power what the  Middle East  is to oil -- the world’s largest
potential resource with 40 percent, or about 28 gigawatts, of
the total.  4% of Potential  Geothermal currently provides about 0.3 percent of global
electricity and 0.2 percent of energy for heat, and with better
policy incentives those levels could climb to 3.5 percent and
3.9 percent, respectively, the Paris-based  International Energy
Agency  said yesterday.  Indonesia has tapped about 4 percent of its potential and
has orders for 2.3 gigawatts of plants, second only to the U.S.,
New Energy Finance data show. A gigawatt, about equal to the
output of a new atomic reactor, needs $2 billion to $4 billion
of investment, Taylor said. In comparison, Iceland, also a
volcanic island, got 27 percent of the country’s electricity
from geothermal, according to  government figures .  “There’s a remarkable opportunity for Indonesia to
increase the amount of power generated from geothermal,” said
 Stephen Green , former head of Chevron’s Indonesia and
Philippines operations and now its vice president of policy,
government and public affairs. “There are synergies between oil
and geothermal and it makes sense for us to exploit that,” he
said in an interview Chevron’s Jakarta office.  Indonesia hasn’t always appealed to foreign investors, and
skepticism still goes beyond questions of how to uncork the
boiling water that’s trapped miles below the surface.  Obama’s Stepfather  After the Asian financial crisis, state-owned utility PT
Perusahaan Listrik Negara canceled power purchase agreements
with companies including PT Paiton Energy, 40 percent owned by
 Irvine , California-based Edison Mission Energy, because it
couldn’t afford the contracts after the collapse of the rupiah.  Unocal Inc., which built the plant in the rainforest and
was acquired by Chevron in 2005, was forced to renegotiate a
deal to sell its power at 4 to 5 U.S. cents a kilowatt-hour
instead of 6 cents to 7 cents. Unocal negotiated Indonesia’s
first foreign-partnership geothermal license in 1982 with the
help of U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s late stepfather, Lolo
Soetoro, who worked for Unocal as a government liaison.  The rainforest plant was opened in Mount Halimum Salak
National Park in 1992. Together with another about 100 miles
west in Dajarat, Chevron lights homes for 4 million people. To
capitalize on the new tariffs for geothermal electricity, the
company is planning new plants including a potential 200-
megawatt facility in South Sumatra.  Investment Interest  Geothermal investors are again “starting to look at
Indonesia as a place where they can do business,” Ravi
Krishnaswamy, a Singapore-based director for energy consultancy
Frost & Sullivan, said in a phone interview.  Indonesia began consuming more oil than its domestic
production capacity in 2004 as economic growth surged. It
suspended membership in the Organization of the Petroleum
Exporting Countries, or OPEC, in 2008.  Higher  oil prices  give the government more incentive to
promote geothermal power, Chevron’s Green said.  The generators use wells to tap underground deposits of
scalding water. At Salak, hot water and steam are pumped from as
deep as 3,211 meters (10,535 feet) below the surface through 54
kilometers (34 miles) of pipes to turn turbines to make power.
Each well takes as much as 90 days to drill and costs up to $7
million, Chevron says.  Oil Dependence  There’s no shortage of foreign interest.  Sumitomo Corp. (8053) ,
 Japan ’s third-biggest trading company, is building a 110-
megawatt plant in nearby Ulubelu.  Australia ’s Origin Energy Ltd.
is partnering with power company Tata in northern Sumatra.  “It’s good for the environment and good for reducing our
dependence on oil,” Widhyawan Prawiraatmadja, General Electric
Co.’s Indonesia company executive, said in a phone interview
from Jakarta. “It also frees up tradable resources such as oil
and gas and coal to be exported.”  Yet geothermal deals in Indonesia remain “very
difficult,” according to BNEF. The government’s decision to
raise the price that state-owned utility PLN pays for geothermal
power to up to 9.7 cents per kilowatt-hour may backfire, Vandana Gombar, a geothermal analyst at BNEF, wrote in a February
report.  The utility usually opts for cheaper coal power that
enables it to sell electricity to consumers at the government-
mandated 6-7 cents per kilowatt-hour. The policy hinges on
whether the government will continue to subsidize PLN at the
higher prices because the increase can’t yet be passed on to
consumers, Gombar said.  The government’s plan is a “pipe dream” until it’s
prepared to force consumers to pay more for their electricity,
Ari Soemarno, former president of Indonesia’s state-owned  oil
company  PT Pertamina, said in an interview. The government can’t
afford to keep subsidizing power yet isn’t brave enough to force
consumers to buy at cost, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stuart Biggs in Tokyo at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  