-- 
China Online Retailer Moonbasa Is Said to Hire Banks for IPO on Nasdaq

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 
2011-06-15T01:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/china-online-retailer-moonbasa-said-to-hire-banks-for-u-s-ipo.html
Moonbasa.com, the China-based online
retailer, hired  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Bank of
America Corp. for an initial public offering on the Nasdaq Stock
Market, said two people with direct knowledge of the situation.  Moonbasa, which plans to go public by the end of the year,
may seek to raise about $150 million in an IPO, said one of the
people, who declined to be identified because the company’s
plans aren’t public.  An IPO from Moonbasa would follow Chinese social-networking
website Renren Inc. and Beijing-based dating site Jiayuan.com
International Ltd. in raising capital from U.S. IPOs this year,
even as the shares have dropped. Renren has plunged by almost
half, to $8.27, since pricing 53.1 million shares at $14 each in
its May 4 IPO, while Jiayuan has fallen almost 10 percent.  Scott Helfman, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, and Brandon Ashcraft, a spokesman for Barclays, declined to comment. Mark Tsang, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
Merrill Lynch unit, declined to comment. Moonbasa officials were
not available to answer phone calls to the company’s Guangzhou
office.  Moonbasa also would join recent U.S. technology offerings.
LinkedIn Corp., the professional-networking website based in
 Mountain View ,  California , raised $352.8 million in an expanded
offering last month. Groupon Inc., the Chicago-based online-
coupon provider, has filed to raise $750 million and Pandora
Media Inc., the Internet-radio company based in Oakland,
California, raised $234.9 million yesterday after pricing the
shares above the top end of the marketed range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 