-- 
Chinese Holdings of Treasuries Climbed in April as Fed Purchases Near End

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-06-15T19:56:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/chinese-holdings-of-treasuries-climbed-in-april-as-fed-purchases-near-end.html
China, the largest foreign owner of
 U.S. government debt , added to its holdings for the first time
in six months in April as economic data weakened and the  Federal
Reserve  signaled no extension of its $600 billion purchase plan.  The Communist nation’s holdings of longer-term notes and
bonds rose 0.8 percent to a record $1.149 trillion in April,
surpassing the $1.145 trillion held in December, U.S. Treasury
data released yesterday show. Holdings of short-term bills
maturing in one year or less declined by 32 percent to $3.9
billion, the least since April 2004, the data show.  Chinese officials, as well as those in Germany and  Brazil 
had been critical of the Fed’s asset purchase plan when it was
first announced in November, said the proposal would be
inflationary and could hurt the value of dollar-denominated
assets. The Fed became the largest owner of Treasuries through
what has become known as its policy of quantitative easing, in
which bonds were bought to add cash into the economy and reduce
the risk of deflation. The purchases end this month.  “One might draw a loose conclusion that they stepped aside
at the onset of QE and during the period of time when the
economy seemed to be gaining better footing and there were some
inflationary concerns,” said  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate
strategist at UBS AG in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of the 20
primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds and other financial
assets rose in April from a month earlier, led by longer-
maturity securities, the Treasury Department reported. Net
buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled $30.6
billion compared with net buying of $24 billion in March.  ‘Foreign Intermediaries’  Foreign holdings of Treasuries rose for a 24th month to
$4.49 trillion.  Japan , the second largest foreign owner, reduced
its holdings by 0.9 percent to $906.9 billion in the month after
suffering its largest earthquake on record and a tsunami,
leading to meltdowns at a nuclear power plant.  Even with the increase, the data “underestimates what
 China ’s buying,” said Scott Sherman, an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York , a primary
dealer. “China deals through foreign intermediaries” leading
to initial tallies counting their purchases as belonging to
other holders, such as the U.K.  Holdings of Treasuries in the U.K. rose 2.4 percent to $333
billion in April, and have increased 23 percent for the year,
the data show.  The Treasury’s initial reports on international purchases
are based on the location where the transaction occurs, while
subsequent revisions are based on location of the beneficial
owner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  