-- 
Citigroup Hires Hoover to Help Lead Americas Capital-Markets Origination

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-06-15T14:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/citigroup-hires-hoover-to-help-lead-americas-capital-markets-origination.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
U.S. bank, hired Elinor Hoover from Morgan Stanley as vice
chairman of capital markets origination in the Americas.  Hoover, a former vice chairman of global capital markets at
Morgan Stanley, will start Sept. 8, according to an internal
employee memo obtained by Bloomberg News and confirmed by
Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the bank.  Hoover, 44, will report to John Chirico and Richard Zogheb,
co-heads of New York-based Citigroup’s Americas capital markets
origination business, according to the memo. The unit helps
raise capital for clients.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, is
trying to boost the firm’s rankings in origination. It was third
among underwriters of U.S. corporate bonds in 2010, behind New
York-based JPMorgan & Chase Co. and  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The lender was the sixth-largest underwriter of U.S.
equities last year, according to Bloomberg data.  “Our ability to develop market-leading solutions is
critical to maximizing revenues from these very sophisticated
clients,” Chirico and Zogheb said in the memo. “We will
benefit significantly from Elinor’s deep corporate relationships
and her extensive product knowledge and expertise.”  Hoover has worked in capital markets for more than 20 years
and held other positions with New York-based Morgan Stanley,
including North American co-head of fixed income capital markets
and corporate derivatives, according to the memo. She has a
master’s degree in business administration from  Harvard
University , according to Bloomberg data.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  