-- 
Colombia Congress Passes Deficit-Reduction Law Capitalizing on Mining Boom

-- B y   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-06-15T13:40:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/colombia-congress-passes-deficit-reduction-law-capitalizing-on-mining-boom.html
Colombia ’s Congress approved
legislation yesterday to allow the Andean nation to capitalize
on a boom in oil and mining investment to reduce debt and build
a stabilization fund to cushion the economy during downturns.  The Senate bill passed yesterday, which still must be
reconciled with a version approved in May by the lower house,
targets a central government  budget  deficit of no more than 2.3
percent of gross domestic product in 2014, down from a projected
4.1 this year. It also seeks to narrow the gap to no more than 1
percent by 2022.  Colombia is counting on surging foreign investment in
mining and energy to boost annual economic growth to 6 percent
and reduce its debt burden. Stricter fiscal targets may win
Colombia further upgrades to its credit ratings.  Fitch Ratings 
said it would wait for approval of the so-called “fiscal rule”
before considering whether to join Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  and raise the country’s credit rating to
investment grade.  “This is basically a good aim toward correct fiscal
behavior,” said Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry after
the approval.  The bill also creates a dollar-denominated rainy day fund,
modeled on one in Chile, which will save excess mining and
energy revenue overseas. Keeping the investment out of Colombia
will limit gains by peso, the best-performing currency in  Latin
America  this year.  The Senate version of the bill calls for a reduction of the
deficit to no more than 2.3 percent in 2014, 1.9 percent in 2018
and 1 percent or a surplus by 2022. The lower house version
seeks a deficit of no more than 2 percent from 2015.  Implications  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 1,779 per  U.S. dollar  at 9:15
a.m. New York time, from 1,771.4 yesterday. The yield on the
nation’s 2024 peso bond was little changed at 7.89 percent.  While Colombia was slower to emerge from the global
recession than its Latin American neighbors, growth this year is
expected to exceed the pace achieved by Mexico and Brazil, the
region’s two biggest economies. After growing 4.3 percent last
year, the government forecasts growth of as much as 6 percent
this year.  President  Juan Manuel Santos , who took office in August,
has vowed to maintain that pace in coming years, fueled by
foreign direct  investment  that the Trade Ministry says will
reach about $13 billion a year by 2014.  Ratings, Peso  Most of the investment is tied to mining and energy as
Colombia aims to expand oil production to 1.7 million barrels of
crude a day in 2020, up from 903,000 currently.  “This guarantees Colombia will have a sustainable and
constant path of growth in the coming years and that we don’t
spend what we don’t have,” said  Andres Jimenez , head of
international sales for Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest
brokerage. “The fiscal rule is the beginning for Colombia to
climb rapidly up the investment grade ranks so that we are
graded A and above.”  Moody’s rates Colombia Baa3, the lowest level of investment
grade, while S&P has a BBB- rating on Colombia.  To ease pressure on the peso, which has strengthened 7.4
percent against the dollar this year, the extra revenue will be
stored overseas along with dividends from state oil company
Ecopetrol SA.  The fund, to be administered by the central bank, may
invest in financial assets including Colombian foreign debt
purchased in the secondary market, and may also be used to pay
interest on debt when needed.  Targets, Chile  While Santos’s government has stepped up efforts to curb
the peso’s rally, Echeverry and central bank President Jose Dario Uribe have said that so far  capital controls  like ones
used in  Brazil  aren’t needed.                                                     Santos, a former finance minister, had promised during his
campaign to balance the budget several years earlier though
heavy rains this past year forced an increase in spending to
rebuild washed-out roads and provide shelter to millions of
flood victims.  Congress last week passed a law to modify distribution of
taxes on commodities production to allow a greater swathe of the
nation to benefit from rising revenue and the accumulation of
savings.  The Colombian fiscal rule is modeled on one in  Chile , which
saves some of its income from copper sales for years when
economic growth slumps and to ensure the nation isn’t as
vulnerable to swings in the price of copper, which makes up 53
percent of exports.  The funds helped the Chilean economy withstand the 2009
recession and provided some of the financing to rebuild after
the 8.8-magnitude earthquake last year that caused almost $30
billion in damage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helen Murphy in Bogota at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  