-- 
German Stocks Slide for Second Day; Commerzbank, Conergy Shares Decrease

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-06-16T15:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/conergy-porsche-prosiebensat-1-media-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks fell for a second day
after Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he will call a
confidence vote, increasing speculation that the Mediterranean
country will default on its debt.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  followed European technology
shares lower.  Metro AG (MEO)  fell after Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. cut
its estimate for the retailer’s shares.  Demag Cranes AG (D9C)  rallied
2.3 percent as Terex Corp. agreed to buy the company.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  dropped 0.1 percent to 7,110.2 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt after earlier retreating as
much as 1.4 percent. The gauge has fallen 5.6 percent from this
year’s high on May 2 as investors speculated that the U.S.
economic recovery is slowing and that Greece will fail to repay
all of its debt. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  lost 0.2 percent today.  “Risks are accumulating today and momentum on stocks has
slowed,” said Emmanuel Bourdeix, head of equities at Natixis
Asset Management in Paris. “A solution for Greece should be
found in the coming weeks and this should reduce  risk
aversion .”  Papandreou sought to reassert his authority in a televised
address last night hours after police used tear gas to break up
protests in central Athens. Thousands remained outside
Parliament late into the evening, with police estimating the
crowd at 8,000 people at 10:20 p.m. local time.  ‘Positive Outcome’  Stocks pared losses in the final minutes of trading as the
 International Monetary Fund  said it sees a “positive outcome”
on  Greece  at the next Eurogroup meeting. The IMF said it is
ready to continue supporting Greece if the economic measures
agreed upon as part of a bailout package with the European Union
are adopted.  Infineon,  Europe ’s second-largest maker of semiconductors,
retreated declined 1.1 percent to 7.40 euros. A gauge of
technology stocks in the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index
retreated 1 percent.  Metro,  Germany ’s largest retailer, sank 2.8 percent to
42.21 euros. Bernstein cut its estimate for the company’s shares
to 52 euros from 58 euros.  ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG (PSM)  slid 2.7 percent to 18.21 euros.
The private broadcaster’s owners have asked lenders to change
the terms on the company’s loans so that it can sell shares
without triggering a debt repayment, Reuters reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Demag Cranes climbed 2.3 percent to 45.30 euros as Terex
agreed to buy the German company for about 963 million euros
after raising its offer to 45.50 euros a share from 41.75 euros
to win over management. Demag has more than 660,000 of its
cranes and hoists installed around the world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  