-- 
U.S. Economy: Consumer Prices Increased More Than Forecast

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-15T21:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-in-may.html
The cost of living in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in May as prices for everything from autos to
hotel rooms climbed, signaling raw-material expenses are
filtering through the economy.  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent last month
and was up 3.6 percent from May 2010, the biggest year-over-year
advance since October 2008, according to figures from the Labor
Department today in  Washington . Another report showed factory
production rebounded last month, easing concern the industry
that helped propel the U.S. out of the recession was stagnating.  Prices excluding food and fuel climbed 0.3 percent in May,
the biggest one-month gain since July 2008, highlighting efforts
by companies like  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) 
to charge customers more. The report may concern Federal Reserve
policy makers like Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  who are trying to
maintain record stimulus while avoiding inflation.  “Economic growth will continue to accelerate and inflation
should accelerate with it,” said  Omair Sharif , an economist at
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford , Connecticut. “The Fed is going
to have to start worrying.”  A third report showed manufacturers in the New York region
unexpectedly turned pessimistic in June, a sign the industry
still faces parts shortages following the disaster in Japan.  Shares Drop  Stocks dropped as European officials failed to agree on a
rescue plan for  Greece  and on concern over the slowdown in the
 New York  Federal Reserve Bank’s Empire State Index. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.7 percent to 1,265.42 at the 4 p.m. in
New York.  Treasury securities  rose, sending the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note down to 2.97 percent from 3.10 percent
late yesterday.  The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected consumer prices increased 0.1 percent in May.
Estimates ranged from declines of 0.2 percent to gains of 0.4
percent. Economists projected the core gauge, which excludes
food and energy, would rise 0.2 percent.  The core CPI climbed 1.5 percent from May 2010, the most
since January 2010.  The gain in May core prices was led by a 1.1 percent
advance in the cost of new vehicles, which may reflect supply
shortages caused by the disaster in  Japan . At the same time, the
cost of other goods and services also advanced. Hotel rates
climbed 2.9 percent last month, clothing prices increased 1.2
percent and recreation expenses increased 0.3 percent.  Pass-Though  “We’re seeing a broad-based bleed-through of energy and
commodity-price pressures into components throughout the core,”
said  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at State
Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston , who correctly forecast the
gain in  core inflation . “The Fed has to be more adamant about
their credibility as an inflation fighter.”  Abercrombie & Fitch’s Chief Financial Officer Jonathan
Ramsden said on June 8 that rising costs would narrow the teen
retailer’s second-quarter profit margins. The apparel industry
is facing higher costs for cotton, oil and Asian labor.
Abercrombie plans to raise U.S. prices in early September,
Ramsden said.  Food costs increased 0.4 percent, today’s report showed.
The 1.5 percent jump in meats, poultry, fish and eggs was the
biggest since November 2003.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, said last
week that U.S. sales at stores open at least 13 months advanced
2.4 percent, the smallest monthly gain since February 2010. The
 Oak Brook , Illinois-based company has raised prices over the
past year to offset surging meat costs, which analysts said
prompted customers to buy cheaper items on the menu.  Bernanke’s View  Fed Chairman Bernanke said the  U.S. economy , which slowed
in the first quarter, will likely pick up as fuel costs fall and
as factories in Japan recover from the March earthquake and
tsunami. There isn’t “much evidence that inflation is becoming
broad-based or ingrained,” Bernanke also said at a June 7
speech in Atlanta.  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 1 percent in April from a year earlier. Fed
policy makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent, according to their April forecast.  Fed officials are discussing whether to adopt an explicit
target for inflation, according to people familiar with the
discussions. Policy makers have argued that greater clarity on
inflation could benefit labor markets by helping the central
bank anchor price expectations even when rates are low.  Factory Production  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.1 percent
in June after no change the prior month, figures from the
 Federal Reserve  showed. Factory production climbed 0.4 percent,
led by the biggest gain in business equipment output in four
months.  Manufacturing may pick up in coming months as Japan
recovers. Overseas demand and business spending may also spur
sales of U.S.-made equipment and technology, helping bolster the
industry that’s been a mainstay of the recovery.  “Underlying manufacturing activity is relatively
healthy,” said Sharif. “We are going through a little bit of
soft patch that will fade over the next couple of months.”  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest level since November,
from 11.9 in May. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Also today, the National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo sentiment index fell to 13 in June, a nine-month low, from
16 the prior month. The drop indicates housing will remain a
weak spot in the economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  