-- 
Cox Communications Considers Selling 3G Network, Esser Says

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-16T00:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/cox-communications-considers-selling-its-3g-network-esser-says.html
Cox Communications Inc., the third-
largest U.S. cable-TV operator, is considering selling its
wireless network to a large telecommunications company,
President Pat Esser said.  Cox will either sell the infrastructure to a company such
as  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  or  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , or tear down the network, Esser said yesterday in an
interview in Chicago. Cox has no plans to upgrade the network,
which uses so-called third-generation technology, to support the
faster 4G standard, Esser said.  Closely held Cox, based in Atlanta, said last month it
would stop building out its own network and would instead rely
on a partnership with Sprint to deliver wireless service to
customers. The decision is based on Sprint’s speedier 4G
network, Esser said, which he said will become the industry
standard.  Cox is also in talks with Philip Falcone’s LightSquared
Inc. to use that venture’s network to further boost its wireless
coverage, Esser said.  Cox has a variety of options for its wireless spectrum,
said spokesman David Deliman. That includes using it for a
future LTE network or working with another wireless provider as
partners. Cox has no "near-term" plans to sell the spectrum, he
said.  Mark Siegel , an AT&T spokesman, declined to comment, as did
 Scott Sloat , a Sprint spokesman, and Brenda Raney, a Verizon
Wireless spokeswoman.  Cox offers mobile-phone service bundled with its broadband,
video and landline voice services. Cox’s program to pay back
customers for unused minutes has been successful with consumers,
said Esser, who plans to roll out wireless service to more than
50 percent of the company’s footprint this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in Chicago at
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  