-- 
Wieandt Joins Credit Suisse German Unit From Deutsche Bank

-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s
-- 
2011-06-15T09:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/credit-suisse-says-axel-wieandt-to-join-investment-banking-unit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  hired Axel Wieandt from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  to join its  investment banking 
department as managing director for Germany and Austria.  Wieandt, 44, will be responsible for Credit Suisse’s
business with clients from the financial industry and “selected
customers” from other sectors, the Zurich-based bank said in an
e-mailed statement today.  Credit Suisse leads the ranking on German mergers and
acquisitions this year after advising on Deutsche Telekom AG’s
planned $39 billion sale of T-Mobile USA Inc. to AT&T Inc. and
Volkswagen AG’s stake increase in German truckmaker MAN SE,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “With Axel Wieandt, another top banker moves to Credit
Suisse in Germany,” Michael Ruediger, Credit Suisse’s head of
 Germany  and Central Europe, said in the statement. “Advising
financial institutions is one of the key tasks in investment
banking in our region.”  Wieandt, the brother-in-law of Commerzbank AG Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , will start his new position
in Frankfurt on July 1. Until recently, he was managing director
responsible for integration projects at Deutsche Bank, Credit
Suisse said.  Previously, Wieandt was CEO of Hypo Real Estate Holding AG,
the lender owned by the German government following a bailout
during the financial crisis, where he helped oversee the
company’s restructuring. He stepped down from that position in
March 2010, because of “differing views” with the owners and
returned to Deutsche Bank, where he had worked as head of
corporate development and corporate investments before.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net 
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
HRX GY <Equity> CN
DBK GY <Equity> CN
CSGN VX <Equity> CN 