-- 
Democrats Propose Cutting Corporate Tax Breaks

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-06-15T17:08:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/democrats-propose-cutting-corporate-tax-breaks.html
Democrats gave Republicans a “menu
of options” for phasing out tax expenditures benefiting
corporations as part of a series of debt-reduction negotiations
led by Vice President  Joe Biden , said Maryland Representative
 Chris Van Hollen , a Democratic member of the bipartisan
negotiating group.  During today’s meeting, talks centered on how to control
the debt long-term through caps on the  budget deficit  that could
include automatic spending cuts and higher taxes to control its
rate of growth, which Democrats favor, Van Hollen said.
Republicans favor dollar-specific spending caps.  Lawmakers and White House officials met for the tenth time
today with a goal of wrapping up discussions by early next month
to slash the federal debt and deficit by trillions of dollars, a
condition Republicans have set for increasing the nation’s $14.3
trillion debt ceiling in the coming weeks.  “The purpose is to get a handle on the deficit and reduce
the deficit, and there are two sides to that equation, spending
cuts as well as revenue,”  Van Hollen  told reporters after
emerging from an almost three-hour-long meeting.  Among the options Democrats offered are cutting oil and gas
subsidies and tax breaks for corporate jets, as well as a range
of special interest tax earmarks in the code, Van Hollen said.  Fight Over Taxes  The remarks demonstrate that the fault line between
Democrats and Republicans in the closed-door negotiations
continues to be a Republican pledge to prohibit revenue
increases as a part of any plan to reduce the deficit.  Van Hollen said while Republicans have publicly stated
their opposition to revenues, there are signs they may be
willing to break with  Grover Norquist , president of Americans
for  Tax Reform , a Washington group that has persuaded 40 of 47
Republican senators to sign its no-tax-increase pledge. Norquist
considers the elimination of tax expenditures to be a tax
increase and violation of the pledge.  Yesterday the Senate voted to block a bid to end a tax
break and a tariff that support ethanol production. While the
effort, led by Oklahoma Republican  Tom Coburn , failed, the
senator succeeded in getting 33 of his Republican colleagues to
join him in supporting its repeal.  “It was a very important signal that Republicans were
willing to get rid of special interest tax breaks for the
purpose of deficit reduction,” Van Hollen said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Asseo at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net  