-- 
Dreyfus’ Simon Says China Government ‘Worried’ About Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-15T05:16:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/dreyfus-simon-says-china-government-worried-about-inflation.html
Hugh Simon, chief executive officer
of Hamon Investment Group and co-manager of the Dreyfus Greater
 China  Fund, comments on China’s economic outlook and his
investment strategy. He spoke in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  Hong Kong  today:  On the economy and inflation:  “The government wants to continue to keep money in tight
and they are worried about inflation still.  ‘‘People are talking about it a lot: is it a hard landing,
is it too much inflation and is it going to be overdone. There’s
confusion in the market, but the long term, we expect all China
is focusing on is employment.  ‘‘I don’t think there will be a hard landing. If you
tighten too much, you get social unrest and you don’t have  job
creation . The whole thing is about how you keep the jobs
going.’’  On the investment opportunity:  ‘‘Five years from now, the service sector will be much
larger. It’s not just about the index, you want to look forward,
not looking back, so it’s not just about banks,  oil companies ,
the large-caps at the moment.  ‘‘The opportunities are in the mid-caps, but mid-caps are
getting hurt at the moment because of the draining of liquidity.
But it creates opportunities because these are the companies
which have the potential to grow faster than the economy and
faster than other large-caps.’’  On the market outlook:  ‘‘The market needs to see some evidence that inflation is
going to sort of neutralize, not keep going up. You need to see
the government saying measures of tightening are working.  ‘‘I don’t think they are going to slam on the brakes. But
when inflation numbers start to come through and ease off, I
think you’ll see all liquidity coming back to the system.’’  On earnings growth and stock valuations:  ‘‘We’ve seen multiple contraction. Earnings have come
through over the last two years and the market has got much
cheaper. I much prefer the argument that China is an attractive
place to invest for the moment because you have earnings growth
and you’ve got multiple contraction. The multiple is cheap.  ‘‘If you also at the same time have money coming into the
region because of the QE3, which may be difficult, you’ll get
multiple expansion again.’’ QE3 is a reference to a possible new
program of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  