-- 
Dubai World’s Limitless to Restart Towers as Demand Picks Up

-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 
2011-06-15T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/dubai-world-s-limitless-to-restart-towers-as-demand-picks-up.html
Limitless LLC, a property developer
owned by  Dubai World , plans to restart work on four office and
residential buildings in the Galleries development next year
after its parent company restructured $25 billion in debt.  The work will complete  the eight-building development ,
adding more than 600 apartments and 1 million square feet
(93,000 square meters), of office space, said Bahaa Abouhatab,
head of projects for Limitless. The buildings are 75 percent to
80 percent finished, he said.  “Hopefully, we can start on the residential side in early
2012 because there is good demand for it,” Abouhatab said in an
interview at a conference in Dubai. “They need about nine
months of work. We’re hoping to start offering them in late 2012
or 2013.”  Developers in Dubai, the  Middle East ’s worst-performing
property market in the last three years, are restarting stalled
projects that are nearest to completion in the most attractive
locations. State-controlled holding company Dubai World, which
also owns developer Nakheel PJSC, is entering “a new phase of
growth,” Chairman Sheikh Ahmed Bin Saeed Al Maktoum said after 
the company reached a final agreement with creditors in March.  The Galleries, on the main road between Dubai and  Abu
Dhabi , has attracted overseas tenants including  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
Ericsson AB, China National Petroleum Corp. and Kraft Foods Inc.
which use the area to move products across the Middle East,
Abouhatab said. The development’s proximity to the Jebel Ali
Free Zone and port makes it convenient for customers with
warehouses in the port, he said.  One Owner  Other advantages include a metro station and the fact that
the development has one owner, he said.  The 800,000 square feet of commercial space in the
Galleries’ four completed buildings is about 50 percent occupied
and Limitless expects to increase that to 70 percent this year,
Abouhatab said. Work stalled on the development’s four other
buildings in 2009 after the financial crisis caused the
sheikhdom’s property market to collapse.  “We have around 200,000 square feet for lease in the
pipeline that we’re hoping to close before the end of the
year,” Abouhatab said. “Lately, we’ve been getting serous
inquiries and that’s an indication that the market is moving in
the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 