-- 
LED Lighting Prices to ‘Plummet’ By 2015, VantagePoint Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-06-16T10:17:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/led-lighting-prices-to-plummet-by-2015-vantagepoint-ceo-says.html
VantagePoint Capital Partners, the
Silicon Valley investor that helped bring  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) 
public, expects prices for LEDs to “plummet” within three
years as competition intensifies to satisfy surging demand for
energy-efficient lights.  Prices for LEDs, or light-emitting diodes, may fall 90
percent by 2015, said Alan Salzman, chief executive officer of
the San Bruno, California-based venture capital company, said in
an interview.  Incandescent bulbs are being phased out in  Europe . In the
U.S.,  efficiency policies  will eliminate the 100-watt bulb in
2012. LED makers stand to gain a bigger share of the $40 billion
a year global lighting market. Bulb companies including  General
Electric Co. (GE)  and  Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  are
producing LEDs, and Salzman said startups that are developing
low-cost LEDs will take a slice of the market.  “We’re just at the beginning of the LED phase,” Salzman
said. “There’s very little quality product yet even on the
shelves.”  VantagePoint has invested about $750 million in  32 clean
technology companies . Those include four that make LED products:
Switch Bulb Co., Bridgelux Inc.,  Huga Optotech Inc. (8199)  and Glo AB.  Timing of Boom  Salzman said that within five years, the use of LEDs for
general lighting purposes may grow to more than 50 percent of
the market from less than 1 percent today. Analysts including
Ben Schuman at Pacific Crest Securities Inc. said it may take
more time than Salzman suggest for the LED boom to happen.  “About half of lighting is residential, and it’s going to
take longer than five years for payback periods for residential
lighting to expand the market beyond early adopters,” said
Schuman, who follows LED maker Cree Inc. “More recently, folks
have become more optimistic about the consumer market. But I
still think it looks like we’ll see industrial and outdoor,
followed by commercial, followed by residential.”  Salzman said that it’s the commercial market that may take
more time to develop.  “All consumer stuff will go,” Salzman said. “Commercial,
where you have the fluorescent tubes -- that will take a little
longer. I think it’s going to be one of the fastest clean-tech
sectors to flip.”  Lighting Costs  A basic LED bulb will save U.S. consumers as much as $7 a
year in energy costs compared with incandescent bulbs, and
they’ll last for about 30 years, according to Salzman.  “If it’s $20 for the bulb, it’s a three-year payback,” he
said. Salzman expects LED prices to drop to about a quarter of a
cent a lumen by the end of 2012 from 1 cent now. By 2015, the
price could be a 10th of a cent, he said.  Lumens  are the unit of measure for light output.
Incandescent bulbs are typically measured in watts, the amount
of energy they consume. A  60-watt bulb  produces about 800
lumens, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
website. The global lighting product market is estimated at $40
billion to $80 billion a year, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
estimated in an October report.  There were an  estimated  2.7 billion type-A bulbs installed
in the U.S. last year, the most common size used in almost all
basic lighting, comprising 1.7 billion incandescents, 990
million compact fluorescents and 240,000 LEDs.  Semiconductor Light  LEDs make light from semiconductors instead of the heated
filament used in conventional incandescent bulbs, and they use
less energy.  Switch Bulb , a company backed by VantagePoint that
formally launched in April, says its products use 85 percent
less power than incandescent bulbs and, unlike compact
fluorescent bulbs, don’t contain mercury.  Switch Bulb plans to begin  selling  its  lamps  later this
year for about $20 to $30, according to Brett Sharenow, the  San
Jose , California-based company’s chief strategy officer.  Its products are designed to replace conventional 40-watt,
60-watt, 75-watt, and 100-watt bulbs. It will use less energy
and produce as much as 1,700 lumens.  Bridgelux, another VantagePoint-backed company, is
developing an LED manufacturing process that it says can reduce
costs by about 75 percent from currently available products,
which typically use semiconductors with a synthetic sapphire or
silicon carbide substrate. The Livermore, California-based
company demonstrated in March its gallium nitride-on-silicon
technology, which produced 135 lumens a watt.  Production Expanding  Bill Watkins, Bridgelux’s chief executive officer, said the
company’s manufacturing process can use existing semiconductor
fabrication lines, and he expects to expand production by
working with chip companies. That business model will “drag
down these  capital costs ,” Watkins said in an interview.  VantagePoint has ranked in the top 10 of New Energy
Finance’s  league tables  for venture capital investments in four
of the last five years, based on the number of deals completed.  Two of the companies it has backed have completed initial
share sales in the last year, Tesla and biotechnology company
Solazyme Inc., and another, the solar-thermal technology
developer BrightSource Energy Inc., registered April 22 to raise
as much as $250 million in an IPO.  VantagePoint has also invested in Taichung, Taiwan-based
Huga Optotech, which makes the wafers and chips used in LED
lighting, and Lund, Sweden-based  Glo , which uses  nanotechnology 
in its LED chips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  