-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Have Gotten Expensive, David Herro Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-06-15T20:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/emerging-market-stocks-have-gotten-expensive-on-growth-story-tom-keene.html
Emerging-market stocks are
expensive, reducing their allure even as developing economies
are poised to keep fueling global economic growth, said David Herro, chief investment officer of international equities at
Harris Associates.  “Money has flooded into these areas, thereby making stocks
in emerging markets relatively less attractive than those of
developed markets,” said Herro today on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The
growth story isn’t over, but the stock story has taken a pause
because of valuation.”  The success of emerging-market stocks in recent years
sparked an inflow of investment that has equities expensive
compared to stocks in developed markets, said Herro, Morningstar
Inc.’s international stock fund manager of the decade. Despite
the high valuation of their equities, emerging markets will
drive global economic growth for the “next generation or two,”
he said.  The MSCI emerging-market index gained 74 percent in 2009
and 16 percent in 2010. This year, the index has lost 2.3
percent. By comparison, the MSCI World Index rose 27 percent in
2009 and 10 percent in 2010. The index of developed-market
shares is little changed this year.  China  remains attractive more as a market for non-Chinese
companies than for those based in the world’s second-largest
economy, Herro said. The country’s central bank has taken
“responsible” actions to combat inflation while not harming
its longer term growth prospects, he said.  Large China-based companies have become expensive, a
problem compounded by being government controlled, he said.  “The larger H-shares are really wards of the state,” he
said. “They’re not companies that have boards that are sitting
around thinking how to make money for the owners.”  Herro said he prefers European companies with operations in
China. He cited  Danone (BN) ,  Diageo Plc (DGE) ,  Nestle SA (NSRGY) ,  Daimler AG (DAI)  and
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  as having “good exposure to
China.”  “It’s a better way to play it in our view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  