-- 
Men With Lean Physiques at 18 More Likely to Live Longer, Researchers Say

-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 
2011-06-15T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/men-lean-at-18-more-likely-to-live-longer-researchers-suggest.html
Men with lean physiques at age 18
have a lower chance of dying from cancer later in life than
those who are obese at that age, a study of Harvard alumni
suggests.  Men with the lowest  body mass index  at age 18 were 35
percent less likely to die from cancer than those with the
highest BMIs, according to the study by British and American
researchers. The findings, published today in the  Annals of
Oncology , also showed that smoking and physical activity as a
young adult didn’t affect results.  Obesity at 18 portends a greater risk for cancer than
obesity at middle age, according to the study, one of the
largest to look at the effect of weight in young adulthood on
risk of cancer death later in life. Early adulthood obesity was
associated with dying from cancers of the lung, skin, esophagus
and kidneys, the study showed.  “Keeping your weight healthy as a young adult reduces your
chances of developing cancer later in life,” said  Linsay Gray ,
a study author and researcher at the  Medical Research Council 
and the Chief Scientist Office’s Social and Public Health
Sciences in Glasgow, in a June 14 telephone interview.  Although the study wasn’t designed to show how obesity
triggers cancer, Gray theorized that hormones created in the
body by being overweight or obese may play a role. The disease
might also develop because heavier people have more cells in the
body that could potentially become cancerous, she said.  About  1.5 billion  adults worldwide ages 20 and older are
overweight and, of those, more than 200 million men and 300
million women are considered obese, according to the  World
Health Organization .  Harvard Alumni Study  Researchers from the U.K. and  Harvard University  used data
from the  Harvard Alumni Health Study . They included 19,593 men
who had a physical exam at the university between 1914 and 1952
when they were about 18 years old and responded to a follow-up
questionnaire in 1962 or 1966. The researchers used information
from the Harvard alumni office and copies of death certificates
through the end of 1998 to determine causes of death. Body mass
index was computed at the start of the study and in middle age.  Body mass index is a measure of a person’s weight in
relation to height, according to the U.S.  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. A reading of 30 and higher is
considered obese, while 25 to 29.9 is overweight. In the study,
the leanest were less than 20, while the other lean individuals
were 20 to 23.  The researchers found that even when they adjusted the data
for smoking and physical activity at college age and weight
during middle age, an individual’s risk of dying from cancer
later in life rose 11 percent for every 2.6 point increase in
BMI, Gray said.  Tracking Over Decades  “Investigating the influence, if any, of obesity in late
adolescence and early adulthood on future cancer risk requires
studies that have the capacity to track individuals over many
decades until they develop cancer,” said study author David
 Batty , a professor in the Department of Epidemiology and  Public
Health  at  University College London , in a statement. “Because
such studies are so rare, our results make an important
contribution to the field.”  The study also showed that the cancer risk didn’t decline
if the men lowered their BMI between age 18 and middle age.  “That’s not to say there’s nothing people can do, said
Gray. “There are lots of things that cause cancer, obesity is
just one of them. People can consider the amount of alcohol they
consume as well as think about their diet and physical activity.
It’s never too late to address your risk of developing cancer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  