-- 
China’s Tencent Will Invest $1.5 Billion to Promote Application Developers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-15T12:05:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/tencent-to-expand-fund-to-1-5-billion-to-promote-developers-ceo-ma-says.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s
biggest Internet company, will double the size of a fund that
invests in technology developers to search for new content and
services and expand its user base.  The company will allocate an additional 5 billion yuan
($772 million) to the fund, set up this year, boosting its size
to 10 billion yuan, Chief Executive Officer Ma Huateng said in
Beijing today. Shenzhen, southern China-based Tencent has so far
used up about 2 billion yuan, he said.  Tencent, China’s biggest online games company, is stepping
up acquisitions and adding partners to expand its range of
services as competition with Chinese rivals such as Baidu Inc.,
Sina Corp. and Renren Inc. intensifies. Founder Ma is moving
away from a strategy of relying only on in-house content and
products, following Facebook Inc. in adopting applications by
external developers to attract users and boost revenue.  “We want the developers to be successful,” Ma said. “Our
principle is to be open, transparent and fair,” he said at a
conference for application developers.  Tencent rose 0.9 percent to HK$203.20 at the 4 p.m. close
of trading in  Hong Kong , valuing the company at HK$373.5 billion
($48 billion). Baidu, owner of China’s most-popular search
engine, has a market capitalization of $43.4 billion based on
its closing price yesterday.  Online Games  In January, Tencent set up the fund to invest in companies
that develop Web services such as online games, social
networking and electronic commerce. Ma said at the time that
it’s difficult for any single company to develop all its own
applications and services.  Tencent, also the operator of China’s most-popular local
instant-messaging service, last month said it bought a 16
percent stake in ELong Inc., the owner of an online travel site
in China. The deal followed the purchase of a controlling stake
in U.S. online-game company Riot Games Inc. for $231.5 million
in cash, in addition to  stock options , in February.  In February, Tencent’s venture with Groupon Inc., owner of
the world’s biggest coupon website, began service in China.
Tencent said a month later that it agreed to team up with  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  on online games.  Tencent has more than 200 million users for its
microblogging website, President Martin Lau said at the
conference today. The service is growing “very fast” and
provides developers with many opportunities, he said.  There were 674.3 million active user accounts for Tencent’s
QQ instant-messaging service at the end of March, compared with
647.6 million three months earlier, the company said in May.  --Edmond Lococo, Mark Lee. Editors: Anand Krishnamoorthy, Lena
Lee.  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6909 or
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  