-- 
Merck With AstraZeneca Leads Rivals-Turned-Allies in Cancer

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/merck-with-astrazeneca-leads-rivals-turned-allies-in-cancer.html
Merck & Co. is teaming with
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  to test two cancer drugs as a single therapy,
leading a wave of alliances among rivals spurred by new evidence
that multiple genetic triggers can lead to tumor growth.  At least eight drugmakers have joined forces to share
treatments since Merck, of  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , and
London-based AstraZeneca began their effort -- now entering
early efficacy tests -- in 2009, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its June 20 issue. In the past, companies seeking a therapy
to complement theirs would take years to craft it internally,
said Gary Gilliland, Merck’s head of oncology. Now, they are
increasingly reaching out to competitors to boost the attack on
cancer and speed time to market, he said.  Many new drugs work for a short time before tumors mutate
and become resistant, limiting survival advances to months, not
years. Only by hitting cancer from multiple angles may doctors
hold it in check longer, said George Sledge Jr., an oncologist
at  Indiana University ’s Cancer Center in Indianapolis.  Doctors need “a magic shotgun loaded with pellets aimed at
multiple targets in multiple pathways,” not just a magic
bullet, said Sledge, immediate past-president of the  American
Society of Clinical Oncology , at the organization’s annual
meeting, which ran through June 7 in  Chicago .  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) , based in New York, and  Roche
Holding AG (ROG)  of Basel,  Switzerland , announced June 2 their
collaboration on two skin cancer therapies, and plan to begin
studies on a combination by the end of the year.  Seeking a Partner  In 2010, Paris-based Sanofi concluded that its drugs
targeting a molecule called PI3K may work better in combination
with a MEK inhibitor, developed by  Merck KGaA (MRK) , of Darmstadt,
 Germany . In December, the companies agreed to develop the drugs
jointly. The first patients were enrolled in studies in May,
said Debasish Roychowdhury, Sanofi’s chief oncology officer, in
an interview.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Novartis AG of Basel, Switzerland,
started testing a combination of the companies’ drugs in April
2010 in patients with advanced solid tumors.  “I see in the future more and more collaboration between
pharmaceutical companies,” said Paolo Paoletti, president of
the oncology unit at London-based Glaxo. “At the end of the
game it is the right thing to do for patients.”  It still isn’t common for the industry, however.  “Working together is not something we’ve typically had to
do,” said Deborah Dunsire, chief executive officer of Tokyo-
based Takeda Pharmaceutical Co.’s Millennium Pharmaceuticals.
Her company is seeking collaborations with several others that
may be announced in the next year, she said. She wouldn’t
identify them.  ‘Makes Us Nervous’  “Now we have to collaborate on drugs that are new,
proprietary and not yet approved, which makes us all nervous,”
Dunsire said in an interview. “But we can’t continue throwing
out potentially good drugs because they don’t have enough
activity as a single agent.”  Merck and AstraZeneca’s trial combines Merck’s drug against
a protein called  AKT , which promotes cancer progression, with
AstraZeneca’s compound against the related  MEK  molecule. The
trial yielded safety data at the cancer  meeting .  Merck also has been holding talks with multiple other
companies about additional collaborations, Gilliland said.  “Our perspective is if we have a mechanism we think is
complementary to what another company has, let’s bring the
things together,” he said. “We hope combinations will cure
cancer, but at a minimum put cancer in abeyance for a long
period of time.”  Biological Revolution  A revolution in biology has triggered an explosion of
compounds targeting genes and mutations responsible for cancer’s
growth. Since 1998, when Roche’s Herceptin was approved for
breast tumors expressing high levels of the HER2 protein, more
than  two dozen targeted cancer treatments  have reached the
market.  About 800 targeted cancer medicines aimed at about 300
genes linked to the disease are now in development, John Mendelsohn, president of the University of Texas M.D. Anderson
Cancer Center in Houston, said in an interview.  The move to combinations is “an admission,” that single-
drug targeted therapy hasn’t been the cancer panacea that
doctors once hoped for, said Leonard Saltz, an oncologist at
 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  in  New York , in an
interview. Combining drugs is “a fallback position,” when one
medicine doesn’t do enough.  Worse Effect  Still, combinations of targeted drugs can make things
worse, he said, citing a February, 2009  study  in the  New England
Journal of Medicine  that found combining Erbitux from Eli Lilly
& Co. and Avastin from Roche, along with powerful chemotherapy
drugs, resulted in advanced  colon cancer  progressing faster.  “None of us saw that coming,” said Saltz.  Combinations of targeted therapies would not only boost the
size of the oncology market, already the biggest pharmaceutical
category with sales of $56 billion worldwide, they would also
raise costs, said  Les Funtleyder , an analyst at Miller Tabak &
Co. in New York. New cancer therapies are among the most
expensive drugs, with treatments such as Bristol-Myers’s Yervoy
costing $120,000 for a single course of four doses.  “The elephant in the room is the more drugs you combine
the more expensive it gets,” Funtleyder said in an interview.
“There could be financial pressure down the road. Patients and
payers are looking for value for money. Ultimately, these
combinations are going to have to prove their worth.”  Seamus Fernandez , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in
 Boston , describes the transformation as being only a matter of
time.  Sharing Risks  “Companies that recognize they can’t have a monopoly on
all of the best drugs and diagnostics will recognize that risk-
sharing is in the best interest of patients, the health-care
system and, ultimately, the companies that do it right,” he
said in an e-mail.  U.S. regulators are preparing for the transformation,
meeting with companies and putting a new emphasis on early
laboratory work, said  Richard Pazdur , director of the  Food and
Drug Administration’s  Office of Oncology Drug Products, in an
interview. The agency issued proposed guidelines in December
clarifying when novel drugs can be tested simultaneously before
they are proven effective alone. The agency plans to issue final
standards by year’s end.  Cancer has shown itself to be so complicated that two-drug
collaborations may not be enough, said Sledge, of the cancer
doctors’ group.  Drug companies and research hospitals may need to join
together in a giant network to test numerous possible drug
combinations. Doctors would then be able to mix drugs from
multiple companies based on gene tests indicating which
cocktails may work best for each patient, Sledge said.  “I currently don’t see any company that will be able to
carry it out by themselves,” he said. “We are talking about an
entirely different system than what we have now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  