-- 
Hershey Names Bilbrey Chief Executive to Spur Growth Abroad

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-06-16T20:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/hershey-names-john-bilbrey-as-ceo.html
Hershey Co. (HSY) , the maker of chocolate
Kisses and Reese’s candies, promoted John Bilbrey to chief
executive officer to lead its push into developing markets.  Bilbrey, 54, was also named to the board, the Hershey,
Pennsylvania-based company said yesterday. He joined the company
in 2003 and had been interim chief since last month, when former
CEO  David West  departed to lead Del Monte Foods Co.  Bilbrey, who was promoted to operations chief last year,
will oversee a drive into emerging countries such as  China  to
fuel sales growth. The company will step up competition with
rivals like Mars Inc. and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  outside the U.S.,
which makes up about 85 percent of Hershey’s sales.  “Extending Hershey’s platform further into international
markets is likely to be top of mind,” Erin Lash, an analyst at
Morningstar Inc., said in an e-mail. “However, due to the
beachheads that its competitors maintain in these markets, we
don’t expect international to contribute meaningfully to results
over the near term.” The Chicago-based analyst has a “hold”
rating on the shares.  Hershey has 7 percent of the global chocolate market, less
than half of the market share of Northfield, Illinois-based
Kraft and McLean, Virginia-based Mars, according to data tracker
Euromonitor.  Outside the U.S.  Bilbrey helped establish Hershey brands outside the U.S. in
various international roles before working on a turnaround of
the company’s North American operations starting in 2007. He
also spent 22 years at  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , according to the
statement.  Hershey also reiterated its full-year sales and profit
forecast, saying they would be at the high end of its previous
projection.  The shares rose $1.16 cents, or 2.1 percent, to $55.88 at
4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading and have
gained 19 percent this year.  “Bilbrey has been at the company for a while now and
understands the business, so he was the best candidate,” John Baumgartner, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York,
said in an interview. “Hershey has good momentum now and he’s
been a big part of it.”  Analysts including Morningstar’s Lash have said that
Bilbrey would emerge with the top job because the trust that
controls the candy maker could put off outsiders. The Hershey
trust, which has 80 percent of the voting power, clashed with
West and the board in recent years.  Hershey Performance  “Nabbing an outsider may have been more of a challenge,
given the firm’s controlled structure,” Lash said.  While Bilbrey was considered the frontrunner for the
position, former Cadbury Plc CEO Todd Stitzer also had been
considered for the role, three people with knowledge of the
matter said earlier this month.  The trust has been playing an active role since at least
2007, when it removed six directors, saying it was displeased
with the company’s performance. That year, then-CEO Richard
Lenny retired, and West was elevated from chief operating
officer to succeed him.  Leroy Zimmerman, chairman of the trust, said the choice of
Bilbrey was “positive news,” according to a statement after
Hershey’s announcement.  “I’m not surprised -- he’s an excellent choice,”
 Christopher Growe , an analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott, said
in an e-mail. “Hershey is the perfect example of how the right
ad spending and innovation create the destiny of a business.”
Bilbrey, Growe said, “has his fingerprints all over it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  