-- 
In California, Legal Pot Is Best of Bad Options: Mark A.R. Kleiman

-- B y   M a r k   A . R .   K l e i m a n
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/let-california-become-u-s-pot-bread-basket-mark-a-r-kleiman.html
Californians are ready to make
another run at the high life. Last year, the state’s voters came
close to legalizing marijuana production and sales. Next year,
with the legalization forces backed by more money, better
organization and a younger presidential-year electorate, they’ll
probably succeed. So drafting the marijuana ballot proposal is
more than a symbolic exercise: Whatever goes on the ballot may
well go into the law books.  Advocates of change in  California  confront one bedrock
fact: They can’t repeal the federal laws making it illegal to
grow, sell or even use cannabis. They can hope that change in
California will create pressure for change in  Washington , but
whatever they ask voters to approve in November 2012 will have
to work, at first, in the context of continued national
prohibition. That rules out some otherwise attractive ideas. For
example,  Proposition 19 , which came close to passage last year,
sought to tax and regulate cannabis production and sale. But no
grower or seller could have paid state taxes or filed California
regulatory paperwork without confessing to a federal crime. That
made the whole idea nonsense.  My preferred option would be legalization without
commercialization. People who want to smoke pot should be
allowed to grow their own, or to join small consumer-owned
cooperatives that would grow it for them. That would avoid the
risk of a massive increase in marijuana use -- and abuse --
fueled by the sort of mass marketing that now promotes alcohol
abuse, nicotine addiction and bad eating habits. But California
can’t establish that system while the current federal laws are
in place; the federal government would call those co-ops
criminal conspiracies.  Prohibition Repeal  That doesn’t render a new referendum pointless. The state
now has, and enforces, its own criminal laws against cannabis.
Voters could simply repeal those laws, much as  New York  repealed
alcohol prohibition in 1923. (The 1920s-era federal  Bureau of
Prohibition , with only 400 agents, was utterly inadequate for
policing alcohol sales; the fact that the federal  Drug
Enforcement Administration  has 4,000 agents is one important
difference between then and now.) That would mean abandoning the
dream that legalization can plug California’s budget hole with
more than a billion dollars in marijuana tax revenue. But that
revenue, contingent on drug dealers’ willingness to expose
themselves to federal prosecution, was always imaginary.  Lower Prices  Even the “clean repeal” that I prefer would be messy.
Prices would drop steeply. Based on a  RAND estimate  that fully
legal pot could be profitable at a tenth of today’s illicit
prices, I estimate that repeal in California, leaving federal
laws in place, would drive prices down by 50 percent to 75
percent. As with any commodity, lower prices would encourage
greater consumption, so anything less than a doubling of
cannabis use would count as a surprise.  How bad would that be? Actually, pretty bad. Most cannabis
users smoke only occasionally, without damaging themselves or
others. Increasing the number of occasional users wouldn’t be a
significant social problem. But marijuana consumption is
concentrated among a minority of heavy, habitual users; any
growth in that population is undesirable. In addition, even in
the face of an explicit ban on sales to minors, a big decrease
in the price paid by adults would surely trickle down to youth.
It’s hard to be indifferent to the risk of increased cannabis
use among middle-school and high-school students; the younger
someone starts smoking pot, the greater the risk of getting
stuck in a bad habit. More smoking would also lead to more
stoned driving. That’s not as dangerous as drunk driving, but
it’s plenty dangerous enough.  Federal Enforcement  Under repeal, California could easily supplant Mexico as
the primary source of marijuana for  North America , leading to a
price collapse and a surge in cannabis use nationwide. We
couldn’t expect Washington to just stand back and let cheap
California marijuana flood the national market. As California
police stepped back, we’d probably see a surge in federal
enforcement. With volume and sales rising, it’s likely that some
of the resulting conflicts among growers and dealers, and
between them and the law, would be violent; that’s the nature of
large-scale criminal enterprise.  So repeal is no free lunch, but it’s still better than the
status quo. We shouldn’t let familiarity blind us to the
everyday horrors of current policy:  $10 billion a year  in
revenue for criminals, including the drug-trafficking
organizations that kill thousands of people per month in  Mexico ;
 30,000 people  behind bars for pot-dealing in the U.S.; and
 750,000 marijuana possession arrests  each year. Repeal in
California couldn’t, by itself, change that. But it could help,
reducing the heavy burden of state and local law enforcement and
incarceration, and moving up the schedule for the national
debate that, sooner or later, is surely coming.  ( Mark Kleiman  is Professor of Public Policy at the UCLA
Luskin School of Public Affairs and the editor of the Journal of
Drug Policy Analysis. The opinions expressed are his own.)  For more Bloomberg View op-eds:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/view/op-eds/   To contact the writer on this story:
 markarkleiman@gmail.com .  To contact the editor on this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 