-- 
EU Dissatisfied at Russian Failure to Lift Vegetable Ban

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-06-15T10:59:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/eu-dissatisfied-at-russian-failure-to-lift-vegetable-ban-1-.html
The European Union expressed
“profound dissatisfaction” at  Russia ’s failure to lift a ban
on imports of fresh vegetables from the 27-member bloc imposed
after a deadly outbreak of E. coli in  Germany .  “There is no justification for the Russian measures or any
other restrictions to remain in place,” European Commission
spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen told reporters in Brussels
today. Russian progress on removing the ban “isn’t proceeding
sufficiently promptly and that’s why we’re reiterating our
appeal for the measures to be lifted,” she said.  Russia suspended imports of German and Spanish tomatoes,
lettuce and cucumbers on May 30, then extended the ban to all
fresh vegetables from the EU on June 2. President  Dmitry Medvedev  vowed on June 10 to allow a resumption of imports as
soon as a certification system was put in place.  German authorities are investigating whether the month-old
outbreak of E. coli that has killed at least 37 people stemmed
from infected seeds used at a sprout farm or whether a worker at
the business was infected and spread bacteria to the sprouts.  “The farm imported their seeds from different countries in
 Asia  and  Europe  and the first option we’re looking at is whether
the seeds were already contaminated,” Natascha Manski, a
spokeswoman for the German state of Lower Saxony, where the
sprout farm is located, said yesterday. “The second option is
that one of the employees took the bacteria into the farm.”  Ahrenkilde Hansen said it’s “completely clear” that the
source of the contamination has been identified and that the
Russian ban, “which was disproportionate, is entirely
unjustified.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  