-- 
EU Should Drop Some Renewable Targets, Policy Exchange Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-15T09:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/eu-should-drop-some-co2-targets-cut-costs-policy-exchange-says.html
The European Union should abandon
its renewable-energy target to cut the costs of fighting  climate
change , according to Policy Exchange.  “The target mandates an unnecessarily expensive route to
meeting carbon-reduction goals and distorts spending in favor of
rapid deployment of immature technologies,” the London-based
research group said today in an e-mailed report. “EU policy
should treat all low-carbon sources on an equal footing.”  The EU has a target of getting 20 percent of energy from
renewable sources by 2020. Policy Exchange said in May that the
plan was not the lowest-cost way for the U.K. to cut carbon by
80 percent by 2050.  EU and U.K. policy should emphasize low-carbon research,
development and demonstration “rather than the deployment of
chosen low-carbon technologies to meet short-term targets,”  European climate policy does little to persuade other
countries, especially  China  and the U.S., to sign on to carbon
reduction targets, Policy Exchange said.  Delegates from almost 200 countries are meeting in Bonn
this week to advance negotiations on a global climate treaty to
succeed the  Kyoto Protocol , which expires in 2012. Discussions
cover issues such as mandatory commitments to cut emissions by
developed countries, voluntary actions by  developing countries ,
and new market mechanisms to reduce  carbon emissions .  The Renewable Energy Association, a London-based lobby
group, said the Policy Exchange report published in May was
“seriously misguided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  