-- 
Stocks Slump on Concern Economic Recovery Slowing; Euro Weakens on Greece

-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-06-15T20:40:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/euro-falls-amid-eu-deadlock-over-greek-crisis-aussie-oil-drop.html
U.S. stocks sank the most in two
weeks, almost erasing the 2011 gain for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, and the euro slid the most in more than a month amid
rising concern that  Greece  will default and evidence that the
American economy is slowing. Treasuries rallied.  The S&P 500 fell 1.7 percent to a three-month low of
1,265.42 at 4 p.m. in New York, trimming its year-to-date gain
to 0.6 percent, and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed down 1.1
percent. The euro lost 1.9 percent to $1.4166 and the cost of
insuring Greek and Portuguese debt climbed to records. Oil sank
to the lowest price since February as the S&P GSCI Index of
commodities plunged 3.4 percent. The Dollar Index surged the
most in 10 months, 10-year Treasury yields fell below 3 percent
and two-year rates dropped the most since April.  Stocks and the euro extended losses amid concern Greek
Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will be forced out of office
amid escalating protests over budget cuts, fueling speculation
that the austerity measures needed to qualify for international
aid will be put in jeopardy. A report that Ireland’s finance
minister wants bondholders to share the burden of bailing out
the nation’s banks also weighed on markets. The S&P 500 erased a
two-day gain as economic reports spurred concern growth is
slowing as inflation picks up.  “The euro is getting killed because the risk trade is off
as people run to the dollar and Treasuries,” said  Donald Selkin , New York-based chief market strategist at National
Securities Corp., which manages $3 billion. “It’s going to be a
tough summer. We’re seeing slowing economic growth and a little
higher inflation, that’s not a good combination.”  Broad Retreat  Commodity producers, financial firms and technology
companies led declines of at least 1.2 percent in all 10 of the
main industry groups in the  S&P 500 . Alcoa Inc., Bank of America
Corp. and Home Depot Inc. lost more than 2.4 percent to lead
declines in all 30 stocks in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average ,
which sank 178.84 points, or 1.5 percent, to 11,897.27.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s manufacturing index
dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest level since November. The gauge
was forecast to read 12, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Readings less than zero signal contraction in the
so-called Empire State Index that tracks the New York region.
Separate data showed industrial production rose 0.1 percent.
Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain. Another report showed
homebuilder confidence trailed estimates.  Inflation Accelerates  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent, compared
with the 0.1 percent median forecast of economists in a survey,
figures from the Labor Department showed. The so-called core
measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy costs,
climbed 0.3 percent, the biggest increase since July 2008.    Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI) , the world’s largest maker of glass
bottles, sank 14 percent for the biggest drop in the S&P 500 and
the stock’s worst slide in more than two years after the company
lowered its forecast for second-quarter profit margin because of
higher costs and weaker demand in  Australia , where it may idle a
glass furnace.  Scotts Miracle-Gro Co. (SMG)  declined 6 percent as the
maker of lawn-care products cut its earnings forecast for 2011.  Pandora Media Inc., the online-radio company, surged 8.9
percent to $17.42 in its stock-market debut in New York after
its shares priced at $16 each, above the top of range.  ‘Still Pretty Optimistic’  The S&P 500 has tumbled 7.2 percent from an almost three-
year high at the end of April as data on manufacturing,
employment growth and housing trailed economists’ estimates and
investors prepared for the end of the Fed’s $600 billion bond-
purchase program known as quantitative easing.  The weakening economic reports triggered concern that
analysts are too optimistic as they project 20 percent earnings
growth in 2011 on a 9.7 percent increase in revenue, according
to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P 500 is trading at
12.7 times forecast 2011 earnings, the lowest multiple in almost
a year.  “Analysts who cover the major companies or the major
indices are still pretty optimistic about revenue growth and
earnings growth,” Nicholas Colas, chief market strategist at
BNY ConvergEx Group LLC, told Bloomberg Television. “They
haven’t seen and heard about the kind of slowdown the market is
worried about. So if companies can come through with solid
earnings, which they have for the last two years, and show some
positive revenue growth, then I think we have a better more
balanced recipe for an expansion in the market”  Two-year Treasury note yields dropped six basis points, or
0.06 percent, to 0.38 percent. The Dollar Index rose 1.7 percent
to 75.593, the most since August on a closing basis, after
falling for two days.  Default Swaps Climb  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. jumped. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade
Index, which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 3.3 basis
points to a mid-price of  100.04, erasing yesterday’s 2.8 basis
point decrease, according to index administrator Markit Group
Ltd.  Oil tumbled below $95 a barrel for the first time since
February on concern fuel consumption will decrease as the
economy slows. Crude for July delivery sank 4.6 percent to
$94.81.  Of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index, only
five gained --  silver, gold, lean hogs, soybeans and natural
gas. Gold futures increased 0.1 percent to $1,526.20 an ounce.  European Shares  Almost nine stocks fell for each that gained in the Stoxx
600, with banks leading losses. National Bank of Greece SA slid
6 percent and  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  sank 6.1 percent. BNP
Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA may have
their debt ratings cut because of their investments in Greece,
Moody’s Investors Service said today. Shares of each bank
slipped more than 2.4 percent.  Greece’s Papandreou will name a new government tomorrow and
call a vote of confidence in parliament as he seeks to pressure
rebel lawmakers to back the austerity plan that aims to secure a
new bailout.  Papandreou’s plan comes amid mounting opposition
and defections among allies and counters a demand by the New
Democracy opposition party that he quit and that a cross-party
coalition renegotiate the terms of the rescue.  An emergency session of European finance ministers ended
with no progress on a new aid package for Greece, German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters yesterday. EU finance
ministers meeting in Brussels yesterday agreed to convene again
on June 19, a day earlier than planned. Talks may drag on into
July, Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  Dollar Rallies  The yield on the Greek 10-year bond climbed as much as 58
basis points to a record 17.96 percent, rising for the seventh
day, as protesters in  Athens  threatened to surround Parliament,
where lawmakers began to debate budget cuts and asset sales. The
extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead of
benchmark German bunds rose to a record 1,498 basis points
during the day.  Ireland’s 10-year bond yield increased 17 basis points to
11.56 percent, the highest since at least 1991, and the nation’s
benchmark ISEQ Index of stocks sank 1.1 percent.  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said senior
unsecured, unguaranteed bondholders in Anglo Irish Bank Corp.
and Irish Nationwide Building Society should share the burden of
bailing out both lenders, according to Dublin-based broadcaster
RTE. In an interview, Noonan said he discussed the issue with
the  International Monetary Fund  and that the Washington-based
organization supported the strategy, according to RTE.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
 Lu Wang  in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  