-- 
Euro-Dollar Puts Reach Highest in Year on Greece’s Sovereign-Debt Turmoil

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-06-15T21:36:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/euro-dollar-puts-reach-highest-level-in-year-as-greece-bailout-talks-stall.html
Demand for options that protect
against a drop in the euro versus the U.S. currency is at the
highest level in more than a year as the European Union
struggles to contain the sovereign-debt crisis.  The premium for euro three-month put options granting the
right to sell the currency against the greenback reached 2.58
percentage points today over calls, which allow for purchases.
That’s the most since June 2010 on an intraday basis.  Investors are either betting the euro will decline or want
to protect their positions over the next three months, when
“liquidity will be less, but nevertheless there could be some
nasty moves,” according to  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-
fund sales at Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  “The euro will continue to run into problems,” said Jones
in a telephone interview from  London . “People express that view
through options by buying down-side strikes. It’s just to purely
express a euro-bearish view if you don’t believe that euro-land
will manage to find a clear solution.”  The 17-nation currency dropped as much as 2 percent to
$1.4156, its lowest level this month, after European Union talks
on achieving a second bailout for  Greece  to prevent the first
euro-area default stalled.  Greece’s Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he will make
changes to his Cabinet tomorrow and will then immediately seek a
vote of confidence in Parliament. He spoke in comments televised
live on state-run NET TV.  Risk-Reversal Drop  The premium for puts rose for a sixth consecutive day, in
the biggest intraday increase in more than a year. It had been
as small as a 1.16 percentage point on Jan. 14.  An increase in euro-dollar put buying may also mean
investors are hedging their holdings, according to Jones.  “At the very least there’s protection on spot positions,”
he said. “The market, to an extent, positioned long the euro
because there’s also a fairly overwhelming dollar bearishness,
and if one wants to express that, it’s through a long-euro
position, short-dollar position.” A long is a bet a security
will increase, while a short position is a bet it will drop.  Implied volatility for one-week euro-U.S. dollar options
climbed 3.18 percentage points, the biggest jump since May 2010,
to 13.87 percent. Implied volatility, which traders quote and
use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of swings in
the underlying currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  