-- 
Euro Declines to Three-Week Low on Concern Europe Debt Crisis Is Worsening

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-06-16T12:48:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/euro-trades-near-three-week-low-on-concern-over-greece-s-political-turmoil.html
The euro fell to a three-week low
against the dollar and slid versus the yen as speculation the
Greek debt crisis is deteriorating damped demand for the
region’s assets.  Europe ’s shared currency fell for a second day after Dutch
newspaper Het Financieele Dagblad cited European Central Bank
Governing Council member Nout Wellink as saying the region’s
emergency fund should be doubled. was also dragged lower on
concern a reshuffling of Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s cabinet will lead to a renegotiation of aid terms.
The yen pared gains against the dollar after reports showed U.S.
initial claims for unemployment fell more than forecast and
housing starts increased in May.  “With all this political uncertainty in Greece, it just
creates a whole new dimension,” said  Mary Nicola , a currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “The euro is going to
continue to be steered by the headlines. Euro-Swiss looks to
just keep heading lower.”  The euro fell 0.6 percent to $1.4094 at 8:46 a.m. in  New
York  and reached $1.4074, the weakest level since May 26. The
shared currency slid 0.7 percent to 113.92 yen, after touching
113.50, the least since May 16. The euro weakened 1.1 percent to
a record 1.19567 Swiss francs before trading at 1.19781. The
dollar declined 0.1 percent to 80.87 yen after falling as much
as 0.6 percent.  Dollar Gains  The Dollar Index, which measures the greenback against the
currencies of its six major trade partners, rose 0.5 percent to
75.983, the highest since May 25. Yesterday, it had its biggest
gain since August.  Papandreou will reshuffle his cabinet and seek to win a
confidence vote today after attempts to garner opposition
support for an austerity plan failed. Police fired tear gas as
thousands of demonstrators encircled the Parliament House in
 Athens  yesterday to protest wage cuts and tax increases.  “The market is still quite concerned about Greece,” said
 Matthew Brady , executive director for foreign exchange at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “It’s going to be a choppy ride
for the euro. There’s no doubt about that. I’d prefer to still
sell any rallies in euro.”  EU Meets  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  will meet tomorrow in Berlin, with pressure
increasing for the leaders to reach an accord on a rescue
package for Greece. European Union finance ministers agreed on
June 14 to convene again on June 19 after they failed to
reconcile a German-led push for bondholders to shoulder part of
the cost of a new plan for Greek aid.  Wellink said the emergency fund for euro-area countries
needs to be boosted if private investors are pressured to
contribute to additional aid for Greece, Dagblad reported,
citing the interview.  One-month implied volatility on options for the euro-dollar
rate, rose to the highest since December. The VIX Index, a
measure of market volatility, which is known as Wall Street’s
fear gauge, closed at 21.32 yesterday, the highest close since
March 18.  “If  risk aversion  continues to pervade markets and we have
these ongoing concerns about the situation in Europe, that will
continue to see the euro trade heavily,” said Mike Burrowes, a
currency strategist at Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. in Wellington.
“The dollar, the Swiss franc and the yen would be expected to
appreciate in that sort of environment.”  The MSCI World Index of equities declined for a second day,
losing as much as 1.3 percent.  Aussie, Kiwi  The Australian and New Zealand dollars dropped as stocks
fell, sapping demand for higher-yielding assets.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, weakened against
all 16 major counterparts monitored by Bloomberg after Finance
Minister  Bill English  said the currency’s strength was hurting
the economy.  “The risk-off mood is dominant in the markets because of
concerns over  Greece  and a slowdown in U.S. growth, sending
stocks and commodities lower,” said Takuya Kawabata, a
researcher in  Tokyo  at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd., a
unit of  Japan ’s largest currency margin company. “In this
environment, money wouldn’t find its way into commodity
currencies such as the Aussie and kiwi.”  Australia ’s currency fell 0.8 percent to $1.0496, and New
Zealand’s dollar declined 1 percent to 79.83 U.S. cents.  The Swiss franc appreciated 0.4 percent against the dollar
to 84.95 centimes. The central bank kept its main interest rate
at 0.25 percent, an outcome predicted by all 26 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  U.S. jobless claims declined by 16,000 to 414,000 in the
week ended June 11, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
420,000 filings, according to the median forecast. The number of
people on unemployment benefit rolls and those receiving
extended payments decreased.  Work began on 560,000 houses at an annual pace, up 3.5
percent from the prior month and exceeding the 545,000 median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, figures from
the Commerce Department showed today in Washington. Building
permits, a sign of future construction, also increased.  “Initial jobless claims, as long as they’re above 400 it
signifies that the labor market remains week, so it’s not such a
promising outlook, BNP Paribas’s Nicola said. “It’s positive
that we’ve seen an uptick in housing numbers, especially given
the previous number. The housing market remains the Achilles
heel of the  U.S. economy .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London at 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  