-- 
European Industrial Output Unexpectedly Increased in April

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-06-15T09:06:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/european-industrial-output-unexpectedly-rose-on-durable-goods.html
European industrial production
unexpectedly rose in April, led by increased output of durable
 consumer goods  such as home appliances and furniture.  Production in the 17-nation euro area advanced 0.2 percent
from March, when it held steady, the European Union’s  statistics
office  in Luxembourg said today. Economists had forecast a drop
of 0.2 percent, the median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey showed. Production increased 5.2 percent from a year
earlier after rising 5.8 percent in March.  The euro-region economy is showing some signs of slowing
down after rising investment and exports helped drive the
fastest growth in almost a year in the first quarter. European
economic confidence weakened in May, manufacturing growth cooled
and German investor sentiment fell.  Standard & Poor’s  said on
June 13 that  Greece  is “increasingly likely” to default.  “ Germany  will make a strong showing, while debt-burdened
nations will remain very weak, especially Greece,” said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “While
manufacturing output will help drive economic growth, we only
expect a modest expansion this year overall. The debt problem
can’t be solved in the short term.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4341 at 11:02 a.m. in Brussels, down 0.7% on the
day.  Luxury Cars  Output of durable consumer goods advanced 1.3 percent in
April after remaining flat in March, today’s report showed.
Production of capital goods rose 0.5 percent from March, when it
dropped 0.9 percent. Intermediate goods gained 0.1 percent and
energy production dropped 3.7 percent in the month.  A rebound in construction spending and strengthening export
growth helped the economy gather strength in the first quarter,
with gross domestic product rising 0.8 percent after increasing
0.3 percent in the previous three months. Investment rose 0.4
percent in that period after stalling in the fourth quarter.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars, said on June 8 that deliveries jumped 22 percent
last month, making it the “most successful May the company has
ever reported,” sales chief  Ian Robertson  said. The Munich-
based carmaker is “looking forward to even more momentum at the
end of the year,” he said in the statement.  Debt Crisis  In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, which has powered
European growth, industrial output slipped 0.3 percent from
March, when it rose 0.9 percent, today’s report showed. French
production dropped 0.3 percent while Italian output rose 1
percent. In Ireland, output jumped 1.3 percent in the month,
contrasting with slumps in Greece,  Spain  and  Portugal .  The region’s worsening debt crisis is clouding growth
prospects and forcing governments to step up austerity measures
to restore investor confidence. Credit-default swaps on Greece,
Ireland and Portugal, which have all received external aid,
surged to records this week.  While the  European Central Bank  on June 9 cut its 2012
growth forecast to about 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent, President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled policy makers are ready to raise
the benchmark interest rate from 1.25 percent next month to
fight inflation threats.  An emergency meeting of finance ministers in Brussels late
yesterday failed to reconcile a German-led push for bondholders
to shoulder part of the cost of a new Greek aid package.
Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden told reporters after
the emergency session that officials “have to proceed very
cautiously” and that “several options” must be assessed.  “We are still nowhere near finding an end solution to the
euro zone debt crisis,” said  Alan McQuaid , chief economist at
Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “We won’t find one either as
long as policy makers busy themselves building firewalls within
the 17-nation single currency area and devising temporary fixes
to avert immediate disaster.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  