-- 
European Stocks Slide Amid Concern Over Greek Aid, U.S. Economy

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-06-15T16:15:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/european-stock-index-futures-decline-amid-greek-aid-deadlock.html
European stocks fell for the first
time this week amid concern that divisions between European
officials may delay a second rescue plan for  Greece  and as a
gauge of manufacturing in the New York area unexpectedly sank.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE)  tumbled the most in three
months. BNP Paribas SA,  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) , France’s biggest lenders, declined after Moody’s Investors
Service placed their credit ratings on review to scrutinize
their holdings of Greek debt.  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  dropped 2.6
percent after  Europe ’s second-largest clothing retailer reported
sales figures.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 1.1 percent to 267.95 at
the 4:30 p.m. close in  London . The gauge has fallen 8 percent
from this year’s high on Feb. 17 as a slowdown in U.S. job
creation suggested the economic recovery may be faltering and
speculation grew that Greece might default on its debt.  “If history is any guide, the current sovereign debt
problems will not get resolved in a clean way anytime soon,”
said Anthony Morris, a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in
London. “It will take time for the Greek government to
implement reforms. It will take time for the reforms to have an
effect. It will take time for creditors to build up a sufficient
capital cushion so that they can write down their exposure,
which they will ultimately have to do.”  FTSE, DAX  National benchmark indexes declined in all of the 18
western European markets, except Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100
slid 1 percent,  France ’s CAC 40 dropped 1.5 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX retreated 1.3 percent.  The Stoxx 600 has posted six straight weeks of declines,
the longest losing streak in almost three years. The drop has
left the index trading at about 12.7 times the reported earnings
of its companies, the cheapest valuation since 2008, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An emergency session of finance ministers in Brussels late
yesterday failed to reconcile a German-led push for bondholders
to shoulder part of the cost of a new Greek aid package with
European Central Bank warnings backed by France that the move
might constitute the euro area’s first sovereign default.  With consensus elusive before the target date of a leaders’
summit late next week, finance ministers agreed to convene again
on June 19, a day earlier than planned. Talks may drag on into
July, Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  U.S. Economy  The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s general economic
index dropped to minus 7.8 in June, the lowest level since
November, from 11.9 in May. The median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists was 12. Readings greater than zero signal
expansion in the so-called Empire State Index.  Separate U.S. data today showed consumer prices increased
0.2 percent more than estimated, while industrial production
trailed projections.  Banks were the worst-performing industry among 19 in the
Stoxx 600, falling 2 percent. National Bank of Greece, the
nation’s biggest lender, retreated 6 percent to 4.57 euros, the
largest drop since March 8.  Greek banks will be asked to maintain a 10 percent Core
Tier I capital from 2012, Kathimerini reported, citing George Provopoulos, the head of the country’s central bank. That will
include government preference shares issued to the lenders and
has been agreed with the European Union and  International
Monetary Fund  as part of a plan to shield banks, the newspaper
said, without saying where it got the information.  French Banks  BNP Paribas (BNP)  fell 2.5 percent to 51.30 euros, Societe
Generale lost 2.6 percent to 38.78 euros and  Credit Agricole 
slid 2.5 percent to 9.90 euros.  Moody’s placed the three banks’ ratings on review that will
focus on their holdings of Greek public and private debt “and
the potential for inconsistency between the impacts of a
possible Greek default or restructuring and current rating
levels,” the ratings company said.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , Europe’s second-largest bank, fell 3
percent to 7.62 euros as the Spanish central bank called for
Spain’s 17 regions help control public finances. Italy’s Banco
Popolare dell’Emilia Romagna Scrl plunged 6.7 percent to 7.27
euros and  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  lost 6.1 percent to 41.3
euro cents.  Hennes & Mauritz slid 2.6 percent to 218 kronor. The
retailer said sales at stores open at least a year gained 2
percent in May.  Experian Falls  Experian Plc (EXPN)  dropped 1.9 percent to 785 pence as the U.S.
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was said to be likely to
place the world’s largest credit-checking company under direct
supervision by federal examiners.  The company may be ruled a “larger participant” in
consumer financial services, Corey Stone, the consumer agency’s
assistant director for credit information markets, told consumer
advocates last month, according to three people present at the
meeting.  Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  climbed 3.5 percent to 13.78 euros after
agreeing to pay Sonatrach $1.9 billion to settle a dispute and
saying the Algerian natural gas company may take a stake in its
Spanish distributor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  