-- 
Ex-Nvidia Analyst Says He Passed Inside Tips to Networker Jiau

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-06-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ex-nvidia-analyst-says-he-passed-tips-to-expert-networker-jiau.html
A former  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  financial
analyst said he passed confidential information about his
company to a former  Primary Global Research LLC  consultant after
she befriended him and suggested they form an investment club.  Sonny Nguyen, 39, the former analyst, testified yesterday
that he passed data about Nvidia’s quarterly earnings once to
Winifred Jiau, 43, in August 2008. He said the two met when Jiau
worked as a contract employee at the  Santa Clara , California-
based chipmaker in about 2007 and she was about to leave the
company.  Jiau, 43, is on trial charged with illegally passing tips
about Nvidia and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund
managers. She is the first of the expert networkers, who provide
industry information to financial company clients, to go to
trial on charges of  securities fraud  and conspiracy. She faces
as long as 25 years in prison if convicted.  “She was asking me to provide Nvidia’s inside
information,” Nguyen testified, adding that he knew that’s what
she wanted. “I had access to all the company’s financial
data,” Nguyen said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Avi Weitzman asked Nguyen what he
understood Jiau’s motive was.  “My understanding was that she was going to buy or sell
for personal gain,” Nguyen said. “It would be stock tips of
inside information from various companies.”  No Payment  Nguyen said he didn’t receive any payment for the
information, saying she gave him stock tips. He testified he
only once passed nonpublic data about Nvidia to Jiau, in August
2008, after she called him repeatedly on his mobile phone while
he was at work on the day before earnings were announced.  ”It was annoying and pestering,” he said. “I continued
to ignore them.” He didn’t answer her calls, and Jiau continued
calling during the evening, while he ate dinner at his in-laws’,
after he got home and when he was giving his son a bath, he
said.  He could see by the telephone number on his phone that it
was Jiau who called him, Nguyen testified.  “I lost my patience,” he said. “I was very annoyed,” he
said. Nguyen said when he answered the phone, “the first thing
she said to me sarcastically was ‘I’m going to get killed,’” he
said. “It was a guilt trip.”  “I gave her the earnings data and for the future
quarter,” he said.  Weitzman asked why.  Why He Told  “For several reasons,” Nguyen said. “First, she was my
friend. I trusted her, so I felt loyal. I was doing her a favor.
But the other thing that took me over the top -- I grew really
impatient. I just wanted her to go away, so I gave her what she
wanted.”  Nguyen and Jiau met regularly for lunch at Nvidia’s
cafeteria while she worked there, and he would watch her dog for
her as she got food, he said.  They met for meals outside work, and Jiau invited him and
his family, along with Stanley Ng, a Marvell employee, to lunch
at a Cheesecake Factory restaurant in 2007, Nguyen said.  Jiau also gave Nguyen other gifts, such as an  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPhone when it was introduced and at least two live lobsters
between Thanksgiving and Christmas 2007.  Noah Freeman, a former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio
manager who pleaded guilty in the case and testified last week,
said that he sent Jiau gifts and paid her at least $5,000 a
month for tips about Nvidia and Marvell.  Dead Lobsters  Freeman testified that in 2007 he sent Jiau several
iPhones, Cheesecake Factory gift certificates and at least two
dozen live lobsters from  Maine  in November and December 2007.  Jurors laughed when Nguyen described going with Jiau to a
FedEx office to pick up a shipment of live lobsters that turned
out to be dead.  Jurors have seen an e-mail to Freeman from his assistant
about the incident, which read, “Typical Winnie to let 12
lobsters die at FedEx, she has no heart.”  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 1:11-cr-00161, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 