-- 
Texas Governor Calls for Halt of ‘Economic Ruin’

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-15T12:09:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/texas-governor-calls-for-halt-of-economic-ruin-.html
Rick Perry , the longest-serving
Texas governor, said the U.S. needs to return to principles of
low taxes, reduced spending and less regulation to end
“economic misery,” in remarks to New York Republicans.  “America cannot continue on a course of economic ruin,”
Perry, 61, said yesterday in remarks to a $1,000-a-plate dinner
meeting of the New York County Republican Party in  Manhattan .
The governor criticized President  Barack Obama ’s policies while
touting his state’s record of attracting businesses and jobs.  “In Texas, you don’t have to use your imagination, saying,
‘What’ll happen if we apply this or that conservative
principle?’” Perry said. “You just need to look around,
because they’ve been in play across our state for years,
generating real results like unmatched  job creation , more
exports than any other state and a balanced budget.”  The leader of the second most-populous U.S. state made
headlines May 27 when he said he was “thinking about” a
presidential bid. Perry’s comment marked a shift from months of
dismissing questions about his interest in the race. Last week,
two previous Perry campaign aides fled  Newt Gingrich ’s camp,
freeing them to join their old boss, should he decide to run.  “People would like to have some other options in the
race,” Perry told the  Texas Tribune  website in an interview
posted yesterday. “I’m nowhere near ready to say I’m giving it
anything past just listening to what people have to say.”  Lots of Thinking  Perry hasn’t taken any specific steps toward making a run
for the nation’s highest office, spokesman Mark Miner has said.
The governor qualified his May 27 comment by adding that he
“thinks about a lot of things.”  Several hundred Republicans crowded into a ballroom at the
Grand Hyatt near Grand Central Terminal to hear Perry offer “a
Texan’s view on what it’ll take to rebuild and revive the
American Dream.”  Guiding principles including conserving funds, restraining
tax growth, keeping regulations “fair and predictable” and
reining in “frivolous lawsuits” have given  Texas  “the
strongest economy in the nation,” the governor said. “We have
stopped lawsuit abuse, we have one of the lowest tax burdens in
the nation, our per-capita debt is limited and we keep adding
jobs while other states lose them.”  Perry succeeded former President  George W. Bush  as governor
in December 2000 and has won re-election three times. Texas’s
job growth and Perry’s stances on immigration, abortion and
other social issues would help him as a candidate in Republican
primary elections, according to political consultants including
former Bush adviser Mark McKinnon.  ‘Beijing Credit Card’  Without mentioning Obama by name, Perry criticized the
president’s policies and Washington’s use of “one of those
Beijing credit cards to finance deficit spending.”  “We should all be concerned about this administration’s
interference in the private sector,” Perry said. “This
administration may parrot our talking points on job creation but
it’s clear they consider ‘profit’ a dirty word and think wealth
needs to be ‘spread around’ or, in a reference to their core
ideology, ‘redistributed.’”  The present administration “sincerely believes  Washington 
knows best, in every instance, be it EPA interference in job
creation or health care law that limits access to care,” Perry
said at the dinner to benefit the committee.  1 Million Jobs  Since December 2000, payroll jobs have risen by more than 1
million in Texas, while total U.S. employment was little
changed, said Richard Froeschle, deputy director of Labor Market
and Career Information at the Texas Workforce Commission. He
said the state has led the nation in nongovernment employment
growth in three of the past four years.  “A lot of the job growth in Texas has occurred in lower-
wage industries, which is problematic but also no different than
in other states,” Froeschle said yesterday in an interview.
Industries adding the most jobs over the decade include
temporary agencies and health-care companies, he said.  In 2010, temporary services providers added about 31,900
jobs, while employment at ambulatory health-care services
companies rose by 23,300 and mining-support firms increased by
20,800.  “Jobs flee other states because of factors like excess
taxation, punitive regulation and frivolous litigation,” Perry
said. “To preserve our job-friendly climate, our Legislature
didn’t raise taxes in balancing a budget that maintains
essential services and keeps more than $6 billion in our rainy
day fund.”  Proud ‘Conservative’  “Not only am I proud to be a Texan, I’m proud to be a
conservative,” Perry said. “Because conservatives have won the
war of ideas.” He summed up one of those ideas as “government
get the hell out of the way and let the private sector do what
the private sector does best.”  Texas doesn’t tax personal income, which Perry has credited
with helping the economy of the largest oil-producing state.  “Texas is viewed as a ‘we’re open for business’ state and
some of that is because of the governor and some of that is
because it’s the way Texas is,” said Jason Schenker, president
of Prestige Economics LLC in Austin and a former McKinsey & Co.
consultant.  With revenue still recession-strained, Texas joined states
from  New Jersey  to  California  in curbing public-school spending
to close budget deficits estimated to total $112 billion in
fiscal 2012. Texas business leaders including  Ed Whitacre , the
former AT&T Inc. chairman, have said that taking $4 billion out
of school funding in the state ranked 43rd in high-school
graduation rates may make job creation more difficult.  Prayer Day  Perry grew up on a West Texas ranch and is a 1972 graduate
of  Texas A&M University , where he was elected a “ yell leader ”
for events including football games. An Air Force veteran, Perry
leads the  Republican Governors Association  and has raised his
national profile by scheduling speeches this week in  Los
Angeles ,  New Orleans  and in  New York . He has also invited
governors to a  prayer  day Aug. 6 in Houston, about a week before
the Iowa Straw Poll, an early gauge of organizational strength.  ‘Wide-Open’ Race  “It’s still a wide-open field and Perry has almost become
the flavor of the day, so it’s the right time for him to take a
look,” said Bruce Cain, executive director of the Washington
Center at the  University of California , Berkeley. “But it’s not
like Bush’s campaign in 2000, when he had a 20 or 30 percentage
point lead with a united Republican establishment behind him.”  The governor’s appearance in New York owed much to
circumstances beyond his control.  “When  Donald Trump  said he had decided not to seek the
presidential nomination he also pulled out of our event,” said
Marcus Cederqvist, executive director of the sponsoring group.
“We were able to persuade Governor Perry to talk instead.”  Trump said he wouldn’t run on May 16.  “He’s known for saying ‘you’re fired,’” Perry said in his
speech. “Texans are known for saying, ‘you’re hired.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in New York at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  