-- 
FDIC’s Bair to Tell Congress Banks Need to Raise More Capital

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-15T23:13:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/fdic-s-bair-to-tell-congress-banks-need-to-raise-more-capital.html
U.S. banks must be willing to raise
capital to guard against a potential financial crisis that could
have severe consequences, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  will tell lawmakers at a hearing tomorrow.  “Costs of banking crises for economic growth are severe,”
Bair said in testimony prepared for the House Financial Services
Committee. “It is the FDIC’s experience that most banks can and
do raise capital when needed, even banks in extreme financial
difficulties. The most important obstacle to raising capital is
often banks’ reluctance to dilute existing shareholders.”  Bair has supported international efforts to impose tougher
capital rules on systemically important financial institutions
to avoid a repeat of the market turmoil that followed the 2008
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The combination of capital surcharges on the world’s
biggest banks with higher margin requirements for certain
trading accounts “risks doing more harm than good” in
regulation,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Risk Officer Barry Zubrow
said in his prepared remarks for the hearing.  Zubrow’s comments echo those of JPMorgan Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , who was applauded by bankers
after he pressed Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to
acknowledge that overzealous regulation may stymie recovery from
the economic crisis that followed Lehman’s collapse.  “The consensus of recent academic literature, however, is
that increases in  capital requirements , within the ranges
currently being discussed, have a net positive effect on long-
term economic growth,” Bair said in her testimony.  Capital Surcharges  The largest systemically important companies could face a 3
percent surcharge on top of a 7 percent minimum requirement
under global capital standards being debated by bank regulators.
The negotiations are aimed at reaching final proposal to be
presented to the Group of 20 finance ministers and central
bankers from the world’s largest economies.  Bair, who is stepping down as FDIC chairman next month,
pushed to include a requirement in the Dodd-Frank Act giving her
agency authority to unwind systemically important financial
firms in the event of their failure.  The FDIC rule implementing the authority will require
companies with at least $50 billion in assets to provide so-
called living wills laying out how they can be wound down.  If such firms can’t be resolved through a bankruptcy
framework, the FDIC can do so “in a manner that strictly avoids
a bailout,” Bair said in her testimony. “I believe that a
precondition for a revival of a truly strong banking and
financial system is to put an end to Too Big to Fail.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  