-- 
Tarullo Urges Global Regulators to Align Standards for Risk

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 
2011-06-15T22:31:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/fed-s-tarullo-urges-global-regulators-to-align-risk-standards.html
Federal Reserve Governor Daniel Tarullo called on global bank regulators to better align capital
standards to risks in bank portfolios worldwide.  Fed officials and supervisors from other nations are
setting up new benchmarks for bank capital in an accord known as
Basel III. Previous agreements haven’t shown “rigorous and
consistent application by supervisors and firms across
countries,” Tarullo said. Loopholes in the future could lead to
“a competitive race to the bottom.”  “Taking action to more closely align  capital requirements 
for similar risk exposures across countries will take concerted
work within the Basel Committee,” Tarullo said in remarks
prepared for a hearing tomorrow before the House Financial
Services committee. A copy of the testimony was obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Regulators are boosting capital levels for banks to avert
future taxpayer funded bailouts. Basel officials agreed last
year to raise the common equity requirement for banks to 4.5
percent from 2 percent, with an added buffer of 2.5 percent for
a total of 7 percent of assets weighted for risk.  “The recent financial crisis exposed significant
weaknesses in the regulatory capital requirements for large
banking institutions,” Tarullo said. “In some cases,
especially for holdings of asset-backed securities in the
trading books of the largest banks, it was evident that capital
requirements were set far too low.”  Industry Officials  Tarullo is scheduled to testify with  Sheila Bair , chairman
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., and  John Walsh , acting
Comptroller of the Currency. Legislators will also seat a second
panel including industry officials.  Bankers have criticized proposals for raising capital
requirements, saying they threaten to constrain lending and
economic growth. The  U.S. economy  is expanding at a 2.5 percent
annual rate in the current quarter, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That hasn’t
been fast enough to reduce unemployment, which rose to 9.1
percent last month from 9 percent in April.  “The regulatory pendulum clearly has now begun to swing to
a point that risks hobbling our financial system and our
economic growth,”  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Risk Officer Barry Zubrow said in testimony prepared for delivery tomorrow.  Tarullo indicated that U.S. banks may be at a disadvantage
if risk weightings aren’t applied evenly worldwide.  “Analysts have pointed out that large U.S. banks generally
have markedly higher average risk weights, ratios of risk-
weighted assets to total assets, and ratios of common equity to
total assets, adjusted for differences in accounting, than some
of their foreign competitors,” Tarullo said. “These large
disparities cannot be easily explained away through differences
in risk profiles, which are largely similar within the business
lines of competing banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net 
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  