-- 
Fed’s Gibson Urges ‘Consistent’ Global Rules on Derivatives

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-06-15T16:14:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/fed-s-gibson-urges-consistent-global-standards-on-derivatives.html
U.S. and global regulators should
harmonize rules on derivatives to prevent financial risks from
migrating to the least-supervised economies, said Michael Gibson, senior associate director of the  Federal Reserve .  “The goal of all of these efforts is to develop a
consistent international approach to the regulation and
supervision of derivatives products and market
infrastructures,” Gibson told lawmakers at a Senate Agriculture
Committee hearing today in  Washington . “Our aim is to promote
both financial stability and fair competitive conditions to the
fullest extent possible.”  Gibson’s comments echoed those by U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner , who told international bankers meeting in
Atlanta earlier this month that he favored having global
authorities agree on a minimum level of regulation to avoid a
“race to the bottom” among countries.  “The Board is committed to continuing to work with other
authorities, both in the  United States  and abroad, to ensure
that a largely consistent international approach is taken to
central counterparties and trade repositories and that their
risk-reducing benefits are realized,” Gibson said.  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , which is
required under the Dodd-Frank Act to write new regulations for
the $601 trillion over-the-counter swaps market, may enter
agreements with foreign officials to recognize comparable rules,
said  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman.  Mutual Understanding  “We look to enter into maybe 15 to 20 mutual understanding
arrangements with foreign regulators where we sort of defer
where we can as long as there is enough comparability,” Gensler
testified at the hearing. The agreements would provide for the
sharing of information between regulators and the coordination
of supervision of swap dealers and other market participants, he
told reporters after the hearing.  Following the 2008 credit crisis, regulators around the
world agreed that new regulations were needed to boost
transparency and reduce risk in global swaps. Differences have
emerged, however, since the heads of the G-20 nations laid out
principles to adopt by the end of 2012.  Global regulators have been moving at different speeds and
with different ideas about clearing of derivatives, trading
methods and the types of data that must be reported to new
databases, according to an April report from the Financial
Stability Board, an international panel set up in 2009 by the
heads of the G-20 nations to oversee coordination among nations.  ‘Unintended Effect’  Gibson said Dodd-Frank’s so-called push-out provision that
will force financial firms to separate swaps trading from
banking units may disadvantage overseas firms because of an
exemption that will let U.S.-based banks continue trading in
interest-rate and currency swaps.  “A possibly unintended effect of the act’s push-out
provision may be to require some foreign firms to reorganize
their existing U.S. derivatives activities to a greater extent
than U.S. firms,” Gibson said.  The CFTC voted 5-0 June 14 to propose “temporary relief”
from some requirements set to be in place on July 16, a year
from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. The delay would give
the CFTC more time to complete its rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  