-- 
Parkinson Says High Quality Capital Should Back Bank Surcharge

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-06-15T19:09:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/fed-s-parkinson-says-high-quality-capital-should-back-surcharge.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s top banking
supervisor said the largest global banks should retain an
additional buffer against potential losses in the form of “high
quality capital.”  The Fed and banking regulators around the world are
discussing the size of capital cushions for the largest
financial firms, considering whether that buffer should be in
the form of common equity or hybrid securities.  “The Federal Reserve strongly supports such efforts to
increase the level and quality of regulatory capital for our
internationally active banking organizations,”  Patrick Parkinson , director of the Division of Banking Supervision and
Regulation, said today in a speech in Washington.  “The additional requirement should be met with high
quality capital that can reliably absorb losses and allow the
institution to remain a going concern,” he said.  U.S. regulators have also concluded that big banks
domestically need to hold more capital against potential losses
in an economic downturn to safeguard the financial system and
reduce the risk that they will need taxpayer-funded bailouts.  The KBW Bank Index fell 1.6 percent at 2:35 p.m. in  New
York  compared with a 1.7 percent decline in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  The Fed said June 10 it will expand a capital-planning
program to the 35 largest U.S. banks to ensure they have
sufficient buffers to withstand an economic downturn.  Ending Bailouts  Parkinson warned that the Dodd-Frank Act is aimed at ending
bailouts of the biggest financial institutions and would force a
troubled institution into receivership.  “I worry that the marketplace doesn’t take it as seriously
as I do,” he said.  Higher  capital requirements  for larger banks could
constrain lending, Parkinson said. Some redistribution of risk
from the largest to smaller banks would not be a “bad thing,”
he said.  Capital payouts by banks as the  U.S. economy  was headed
into a financial crisis were examples of “shortsightedness”
among financial institutions, Parkinson said.  The 19 largest banks paid out more than $43 billion in
dividends in 2007, and an additional $39 billion in 2008, he
said.  Part of the Fed’s responsibility will be to “to counter
over-optimism among firms,” Parkinson said.  ‘Unique Risks’  Bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets
will be required to adopt “robust, forward-looking capital
planning processes that account for their unique risks,” the
Fed said this month. Banks would be required to submit plans to
raise dividends or repurchase stock as part of the reviews,
scheduled to begin early next year, the Fed said.  “This oversight may require us to deliver some blunt and
unwelcome communications to firms’ boards of directors and
senior management,” he said.  The reviews are part of a broader effort, which includes
the Dodd-Frank Act overhauling financial regulation, to tighten
supervision of financial firms and reduce the odds of another
crisis. In March, the 19 largest banks, such as  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , completed capital reviews that
allowed many of them to boost dividends or buy back shares.  While the capital plans aren’t required under Dodd-Frank,
“the Board believes that it is appropriate to hold large bank
holding companies to an elevated capital planning standard
because of the elevated risk posed to the financial system,”
the Fed said earlier this month.  “One of the most important lessons is that firms’
processes were not sufficiently comprehensive and forward-
looking,” Parkinson said. “We will continue to seek to enhance
the supervision of large organizations, mindful that the
financial crisis has demonstrated that when such firms encounter
financial difficulties the impact on the financial system and
the economy can be severe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net 
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  