-- 
Fed’s Foley Says Banks Face Losses on Declining Real Estate

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-15T15:53:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/fed-foley-says-banks-facing-losses-from-declining-real-estate.html
Falling property prices are a
renewed threat to banks engaged in mortgage, home-equity and
commercial real-estate lending, said Michael R. Foley, senior
associate director in the  Federal Reserve ’s bank supervision
division.  “With residential and commercial property values still
under strain, heightened reserve levels at banks remain
appropriate for these sectors, and we expect that banks will
continue to incur losses due to ongoing weakness in real estate
markets,” Foley said today in  Washington , in testimony before a
subcommittee of the Senate Banking Committee.  “Banks will need to take strong steps to ensure that
losses are recognized in a timely manner, and that reserves and
capital levels remain adequate,” he said.  Fed regulators are overhauling financial supervision after
a nationwide 33 percent drop in  home prices  contributed to the
failure of 367 banks since the start of 2008. Last year,
Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act, aimed at preventing a repeat
of the financial crisis.  Foley said that Fed supervisors are “cognizant” that
firms of all sizes say they are burdened by the Dodd-Frank Law,
even though the law’s provisions are aimed primarily at banks
with over $50 billion in assets.  Control Risk  “Smaller institutions, while still expected to adequately
measure, monitor, and control risk in their organizations, will
not necessarily need to incur additional costs, assuming
existing risk management structures are sufficiently robust,”
Foley said.  Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee , the senior Republican on
the subcommittee, disputed the view that the regulations mainly
fall on larger banks, saying “I know you mentioned that somehow
or another this is tilted toward the large institutions. The
fact is, that’s not the case.”  “What’s happened with the community banks is their back
offices now are much, much, much larger and are getting larger
just to deal with all the things that are in Dodd-Frank,”
Corker said. “So I would say that your statement is just
categorically untrue because larger institutions have the
ability to absorb regulations in a much more efficient way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washingtont ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 