-- 
Fed Officials Said to Discuss Adopting Inflation Target Backed by Bernanke

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-06-15T12:50:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/fed-officials-said-to-discuss-adopting-explicit-inflation-target.html
Federal Reserve officials are
discussing whether to adopt an explicit target for inflation, a
strategy long advocated by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
practiced by central banks from New Zealand to  Canada , according
to people familiar with the discussions.  The talks coincide with Fed efforts to spur growth and
reduce unemployment without fueling higher prices. An inflation
target could help quiet critics of record monetary stimulus and
anchor public expectations for consumer prices should the Fed in
coming months try to spur the recovery by keeping interest rates
close to zero for longer.  “My sense is that this may be a done deal, though not one
likely to be implemented soon, and perhaps not until economic
conditions return to closer to normal,” said  Laurence Meyer ,
senior managing director and co-founder of Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC and a former Fed governor. “The chairman is
obviously for it, and it is hard to find anybody on the FOMC who
now is really opposed to it.”  Calls by policy makers for an inflation target have grown
in recent months, with Fed bank presidents in Atlanta, Richmond,
St. Louis, Philadelphia and Cleveland supporting such a move.
Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said on June 7 said it’s
time “to reaffirm in explicit terms the central bank’s
commitment to delivering its piece of the package of
fundamentals needed to assure a durable and lasting recovery.”  Active, Serious  People familiar with the discussions by Fed officials
indicate they are active and serious, beyond the theoretical
debates on the topic that the Federal Open Market Committee has
had for more than a decade. Discussions could end without a
decision in favor as they have in the past. Fed spokeswoman
Michelle Smith declined to comment.  U.S. central bankers already have an implicit goal, which
they publish quarterly in the form of a range of long-run
forecasts. The goal isn’t a binding commitment, and it can
change, creating uncertainty in financial markets that can lead
to higher long-term bond yields, said  Marvin Goodfriend , a
former Richmond Fed policy adviser.  “There is nothing to be gained by leaving the world safe
for higher inflation,” said Goodfriend, now a professor at
Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, who added that
improved credibility would allow the Fed to keep  interest rates 
lower, boosting growth in the long term. “It is beneficial for
the Fed to go beyond where it is currently and announce an
explicit inflation objective.”  Inflation Accelerates  The discussion of a target coincides with an increase in
the so-called headline rate of inflation that has been stoked by
higher oil and food prices. Consumer prices rose 3.6 percent in
the 12 months ended May, the biggest year-over-year increase
since October 2008.  Fed officials, who next meet on June 21-22, measure their
near-term progress on inflation by looking at prices without
food and energy. By that measure, inflation is low, rising 1
percent for the year ending April, according to the so-called
core personal consumption expenditures price index. That
compares with a five-year average gain of 1.9 percent.  In April, board members and Fed bank presidents said their
long-term central tendency estimate for the full PCE index was
1.7 to 2 percent, up from 1.6 to 2 percent in January. The
central tendency excludes the three highest and three lowest
forecasts. The full range of forecasts was 1.5 to 2 percent.  The FOMC would probably target headline inflation if it
moved to an explicit goal, Meyer said. Two percent would be the
most likely target, and the time period over which policy makers
expect to achieve it will likely be the “medium term,” a vague
horizon that makes clear this is not a goal for a one-year
period, he said.  Damaging Credibility  James Bullard , president of the Fed Bank of  St. Louis , says
the central bank’s current focus on prices excluding food and
energy risks damaging its credibility with the public.  “One immediate benefit of dropping the emphasis on core
inflation would be to reconnect the Fed with households and
businesses who know price changes when they see them,” Bullard
said in a May 18 interview.  Investors’ expectations for inflation, as measured by the
breakeven rate between Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
and nominal bonds, have fallen over the last two months as the
price of commodities such as oil dropped and the economic
recovery slowed. The expected rate of inflation over the next 10
years fell to 2.26 percent from 2.66 percent on April 11, which
was the highest level since August 2006.  Unemployment Rises  While prices have risen, the second part of the Fed’s so-
called dual mandate, full employment, could be years away. The
 unemployment rate  has averaged 9.5 percent for two years, and
stood at 9.1 percent in May amid signs the two-year recovery is
slowing. Fed officials have argued that greater clarity on
inflation could benefit labor markets by helping the central
bank anchor price expectations even when rates are low.  “Within the dual mandate, you’ll get better results if you
have an explicit inflation target,” Bullard said. “And you’ll
get worse results if you don’t have an inflation target, and if
people are allowed to wonder out there and create uncertainty
out there about what your long-run intentions are.”  Atlanta’s Lockhart endorsed an explicit inflation target
for the first time in a June 7 speech. Adopting such a specific
goal wouldn’t change what the FOMC is doing now, he said.  “We have been pursuing policies with an eye toward 2
percent or slightly less headline inflation at least since we
began publicly reporting our longer-term inflation forecasts,”
Lockhart told the Charlotte Economics Club.  Never Dissented  Cleveland ’s  Sandra Pianalto , who has never dissented from
an FOMC decision, called for a 2 percent target in a March 31
speech. Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  and Richmond’s Jeffrey Lacker both said in recent weeks that they favor a target as
well.  “This point in the business cycle” would be a good time
“for us to clarify what we mean by price stability,” Lacker
told reporters in Roanoke, Virginia June 13.  “I have advocated 1.5 percent but if the consensus -- if
the center of gravity on the committee is 2 percent, I will
endorse that,” Lacker said. “I will support that and get on
board with doing monetary policy on that basis.”  New Zealand ’s central bank was the first to adopt a goal in
1990, according to the  International Monetary Fund . The Bank of
Canada followed in 1991, the  Bank of England  in 1992 and the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia in 1993. Over 20 central banks,
including those in Israel, Mexico, and South Africa, now use the
strategy.  As an academic and later a Fed governor, Bernanke became a
proponent of inflation targeting.  International Lessons  In 2001, while chair of the economics department at
Princeton University, Bernanke published “Inflation Targeting:
Lessons from the International Experience” with co-authors
Thomas Laubach, Frederic Mishkin and  Adam Posen , writing that
the technique had been “sufficiently positive” in the
countries that adopted targets.  In his November, 2005, nomination hearing for the
chairmanship, Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee that
stating an explicit numeric inflation goal would be a step
“toward greater transparency.”  “We should try to support the chairman and get this
done,” Bullard said in the interview. “The U.S. is a laggard.
Why? We’re going to stick with theories from the 1960s on
this?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
 Steve Matthews  at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  