-- 
First Quantum, Vedanta Mines Boost Zambian Economy, President Banda Says

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-06-16T06:35:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/first-quantum-vedanta-mines-boost-zambian-economy-president-banda-says.html
A copper-mining boom in Zambia,
Africa’s biggest producer of the metal, is helping the country
diversify its economy and repair and build infrastructure,
President Rupiah Banda said.  Glencore International Plc,  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  and
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  are expanding copper mines in the country
and China Non-Ferrous Mining Corp. is digging one to take
advantage of prices that almost doubled to $9,155 a metric ton
in  London  over the past two years.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  has bid
C$7.3 billion ($7.5 billion) for  Equinox Minerals Ltd. (EQN) , partly
to secure the Lumwana copper mine in Zambia.  “This harvest we’re getting from the mines is helping us
clean up our problems,” Banda said in an interview yesterday in
Lusaka, the capital. “The money we’re getting from the industry
is helping us to diversify the economy.”  Increased private investment in the industry helped boost
Zambia’s copper output, which may double to about 1.5 million
tons by 2020 from 713,000 tons last year, Mines Minister Maxwell Mwale told delegates at a mining conference in Lusaka. First
Quantum, planning to build the $1 billion Trident mine near
Solwezi in the northwest of the country, is the largest taxpayer
of the copper producers, contributing more than 5 trillion
kwacha ($1 billion) in taxes to the government between 2006 and
2010.  “As a result of the growth of the  mining industry , the
 agriculture sector  has also grown, because people need more
food, and varieties of food,” Banda said. Zambia harvested a
record 3 million tons of corn last year.  Tourism Boost  Mining is also boosting tourism as mining engineers from
Australia, Canada and the U.K. bring family members and friends
to visit the country, which has attractions including the
Victoria Falls, Banda said. Finance Minister  Situmbeko Musokotwane  in October identified agriculture and tourism as the
two key areas into which the economy should diversify.  Banda, 74, has ruled Zambia since 2008. He came to power
after pledging to continue with policies implemented by his
predecessor, President Levy Mwanawasa, who cut  government
spending  and sold state assets to boost private investment.  Economic growth may accelerate to 7.4 percent next year
from 6.8 percent this year, the  IMF said in April . That compares
with an average of less than 1 percent between 1990 and 1999.
Earnings from copper exports, which generate 70 percent of
 Zambia ’s foreign-exchange earnings, are forecast at more than $7
billion this year, according to Musokotwane.  ‘Continuous Dialog’  While the government isn’t considering a windfall tax on
miners, it is in “continuous dialog” with producers about the
fiscal regime, Banda said.  “Maybe we don’t get everything in taxes as such, but their
responsibilities to the societies around increase also as a
result of the amount of money they’re getting,” Banda said.  In May, Zambia started a 1 trillion-kwacha ($207 million)
road-rehabilitation program as part of a broader plan to upgrade
infrastructure across the country.  “People don’t invest in a country where they can’t move
goods easily, so we’re fixing the roads, the bridges and the
railway lines,” Banda said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Lusaka via Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 