-- 
Fitch Says Greek Bonds Wouldn’t Be Cut to Default Under Rollover

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-06-15T16:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/fitch-says-greek-bonds-wouldn-t-be-cut-to-default-under-rollover.html
Fitch Ratings  said it would probably
keep ratings of Greek  government bonds  above default level if
European Union leaders go ahead with plans for investors to
voluntarily roll over their holdings of the country’s debt.  Fitch would lower Greece’s sovereign rating to “restricted
default” under such a plan, while leaving its bonds with “a
low non-investment grade probably in the region of CCC,” the
company said in a statement today. Fitch said it would slap a
default rating on the bonds if EU leaders back plans similar to
Germany’s proposal to extend maturities of their Greek debt.  European leaders are considering a rollover as part of
their efforts to make private investors contribute to a new aid
package for Greece, which remains shut out of financial markets
a year after its 110 billion-euro ($157 billion) bailout. The
 European Central Bank  has opposed Germany’s efforts to go beyond
a voluntary rollover to force investors to accept a seven-year
extension of the maturities of their Greek bonds.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  has said he’s open to a
rollover modeled on the Vienna initiative of 2009, when a group
of banks agreed to maintain exposure to their units in eastern
 Europe  by extending new loans when their debts matured. ECB Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said today that “some sort of Vienna
initiative could be conceived” as part of a new aid package
being negotiated this month.  ‘Imminent Default’  As soon as a rollover is announced, Fitch will immediately
lower Greece’s sovereign rating five levels to C to reflect an
“imminent default event,” the company said. When “pre-
commitment formalities” for the rollover are completed, Fitch
will cut  Greece  to RD, for a creditor that has defaulted on a
bond without being completely bankrupt.  The bonds would still be rated above default, Fitch said.
That may leave the ECB some room to continue to accept the bonds
as collateral in its lending operations to Greek banks.  Should the EU follow the German approach and get investors
to swap their bonds for longer-maturity debt, Fitch would cut
Greece’s sovereign rating to restricted default, while the
underlying bonds in the exchange would be cut to D, for a full
default. ECB officials have said they would refuse to accept
Greek bonds as collateral after a maturity extension.  Fitch reiterated today that its rating decision would not
affect whether credit default insurance on Greece debt was
triggered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 