-- 
Food Prices Changing Diets, Oxfam-Backed Survey Says

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-06-15T12:39:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/food-prices-changing-global-diets-oxfam-backed-survey-says.html
Almost two-fifths of consumers
surveyed in 17 countries said high food prices have changed
their diets, with people in poorer nations hit hardest by
increased costs.  More than half said they eat different food than two years
ago, mainly for cost and health reasons, according to the survey
of more than 16,000 people by Globescan Inc., a Toronto-based
researcher, for  Oxfam International . Global food prices have
increased 37 percent in the past year, the  United Nations  says.  “Huge numbers of people, especially in the world’s poorest
countries, are cutting back on the quantity or quality of the
food they eat because of rising food prices,” Raymond Offenheiser, the president of the U.S. affiliate of Oxford, UK-
based Oxfam, said in a news release. The results of the survey
were released today.  The  world’s population  is forecast to jump to 9.3 billion
in 2050 from an estimated 6.9 billion in 2010, requiring a 70
percent increase in  food production , according to the UN. In
February, when the rise in food prices peaked, the  World Bank 
said the increased costs had pushed 44 million people into
“extreme poverty” in a little over half a year.  Costs or Health?  Corn, wheat and soybean futures on the Chicago Board of
Trade were all up at least 49 percent in the past year as of
yesterday. The U.S. is the world’s biggest exporter of all three
crops.  Oxfam’s survey, which included wealthy nations such as the
U.S. and  Germany , rising powers like  Brazil  and poorer countries
including Kenya and  Ghana , asked whether people were eating the
same food as two years ago. If there was a change, respondents
were asked whether it was prompted by costs or health reasons.  Worldwide, of people who said they’d changed their diets,
39 percent said it was because certain foods were becoming too
expensive, and 33 percent said they were trying to eat more
healthily.  In the U.S., where food prices have risen 3.1 percent in
the past year, almost half of the 56 percent who said they
changed diets cited health reasons, while 31 percent pointed to
costs. In the U.K., where 46 had adjusted their eating habits,
36 percent attributed the change to health and 41 percent
credited costs.  Tanzania,  Mexico   In Tanzania, 47 percent of respondents had changed diets.
Cost was important to 49 percent and health to 21 percent. In
Mexico, where 65 percent had adjusted eating patterns, 54
percent attributed the change to higher prices and 26 percent to
health. Kenya had the highest percentage of people changing
diets, 75 percent, and the biggest proportion citing costs, 79
percent. In  India , 59 percent cited health reasons, the highest
among all countries surveyed.  Prices for staple foods including corn will jump by 120
percent to 180 percent by 2030, with as much as half of the
increase caused by  climate change , Oxfam said last month in a
report. The world’s poorest people, who spend up to 80 percent
of their income on food, will be hardest-hit, it said.  Lower food intake and nutrition quality can lead to health
problems and less-productive populations in poorer nations,
according to the UN. In  Kenya , the higher prices are leading to
fewer fruits and vegetables on dinner tables, according to Marie
Brill, an analyst in  Washington  at ActionAid International,
which is studying changing diets in poor countries.  People “are reducing to one meal a day. Many families are
required to take children out of school and put them to work,”
she said earlier this week in a teleconference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 