-- 
Former Credit Suisse Broker Butler Gets Fraud Conviction Tossed by Court

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-06-15T19:51:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/former-credit-suisse-broker-butler-gets-fraud-conviction-tossed-by-court.html
Former  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  broker
Eric Butler had his securities-fraud conviction overturned by a
federal appeals court, which ruled that Brooklyn,  New York , was
the wrong venue for the trial on the charge.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York today upheld Butler’s
conviction on two conspiracy counts. Butler was found guilty in
2009 of fraudulently selling securities that cost investors more
than $1.1 billion in losses.  “No conduct that constituted the offense took place in the
Eastern District” of New York, which includes Brooklyn, the
court ruled.  Butler and his partner  Julian Tzolov  were accused of
intentionally misleading clients about securities purchased on
their behalf, falsely claiming they were backed by federally
guaranteed student loans. The men told clients the investments,
actually backed by riskier corporate debt and subprime
mortgages, were a safe alternative to  bank deposits  or money-
market funds, according to prosecutors in the office of U.S.
Attorney Loretta Lynch in Brooklyn.  “We will review the Second Circuit’s decision and consider
our options,”  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Lynch, said in an
e-mail.  “We’re grateful that the court reversed on the substantive
count and would have preferred an outright reversal,” Steven F. Molo, a lawyer for Butler at MoloLamken LLP in  Manhattan , said
in a phone interview.  Five Years  The appeals panel said that, because of its decision,
Butler will have to be resentenced. In January 2010, U.S.
District Judge Jack B. Weinstein sentenced Butler to five years
in prison on each count, to be served concurrently. He has been
out on bail pending his appeal.  Butler had also been fined $5 million on the securities-
fraud conviction.  The appeals court rejected the government’s argument that
Butler could be tried for  securities fraud  in the Eastern
District of New York because he and Tzolov flew out of John F.
Kennedy International Airport in Queens, which is part of the
district, to meet with the clients they defrauded.  “All the fraudulent statements that were part of the
government’s proof, whether made by Butler or Tzolov, were made
in telephone calls or e-mails from Credit Suisse’s Madison
Avenue offices located in the Southern District or in meetings
with investors,” the court wrote.  Kennedy Airport  The court agreed with prosecutors that the Eastern District
was the proper venue for the conspiracy counts because
“Butler’s use of Kennedy airport to attend meetings with the
investors were overt acts in furtherance of the conspiracies.”  He was convicted of conspiracy to commit securities fraud
and conspiracy to commit wire fraud.  The jury had ruled that  Brooklyn  was the proper venue for
all three counts.  The appeals panel rejected Butler’s other arguments,
including that Weinstein improperly allowed the jury to hear a
recording of one of Butler’s customers accusing him of violating
the anti-fraud laws under which he was eventually charged.  “We conclude that any error resulting from the
introduction was harmless, as the remaining evidence was more
than sufficient to convict,” the court wrote.  Butler and Tzolov were indicted in 2008. Tzolov, a native
of  Bulgaria , fled the U.S. before being returned from  Spain  in
July 2009 and pleading guilty. He testified against Butler.  Bail Jumping  On June 7, Tzolov was sentenced to four years in prison,
with 1 1/2 years of that for bail jumping.  Butler and Tzolov routinely falsified the names of the
securities they put their clients in by, for example, adding
“ed” or “student loan” and deleting “housing,” according
to prosecutors.  The brokers earned higher commissions from selling
securities backed by corporate debt and mortgages than from
selling those backed by student loans.  Their clients included  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and
 STMicroelectronics NV. (STM)   The case is U.S. v. Tzolov, 08-cr-370, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn). The appeal is U.S. v.
Tzolov, 10-562, Second Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 