-- 
French Bank Links to Euro Crisis Add Sovereign Worry, IMF Says

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-06-15T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/french-bank-links-to-euro-crisis-add-sovereign-worry-imf-says.html
French banks’ exposure to  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis has heightened concern about  France ’s own
top-notch AAA credit rating, according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  Moody’s Investors Service said today in a separate
statement that it may cut the credit ratings of BNP Paribas SA,
France’s biggest bank, and local rivals Societe Generale SA and
Credit Agricole SA because of their investments in  Greece .  The renewed focus on French banks shows how the failure of
European governments to stem the region’s sovereign debt crisis
is having knock-on effects across the continent. Concern about
French banks is increasing pressure on President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
to trim the government’s budget deficit after he pushed through
an increase in the  retirement age  last year.  “As an AAA rated country, France’s fiscal position remains
subject to high scrutiny, while the rating itself is an
important factor for keeping borrowing costs low,” the IMF said
today in an Article IV report on the country. “Market
participants welcomed last year’s pension reform, but French
banks’ strong exposures to some of the euro area’s crisis
countries have renewed their attention on French sovereign
debt.”  Moody’s affirmed France’s AAA rating on May 4, saying the
increase in the retirement age and plans for legal limits on
budget deficits are helpful.  Standard & Poor’s  said on June 10
that France’s rating is safe in the next few years.  ‘Speed and Sustainability’  France’s  budget deficit  amounted to about 7 percent of
gross domestic product last year and is forecast at 6 percent of
output this year and below 3 percent in 2013.  France’s fiscal plan strikes “the right balance between
speed and sustainability,” the IMF said today. “However, the
assumptions for next year’s budget on growth and other key
parameters should be realistic and not underestimate the future
adjustment needs,” it said.  The French economy will expand about 2 percent both this
year and next, the IMF said. The French Finance Ministry
predicts growth of about 2 percent this year and 2.25 percent
next year.  France should prepare a contingency plan for the 2012
budget, the IMF said. The government should also seek ways to
improve competitiveness and export performance, as well as
maintaining “vigilance” in the face of rising property prices.  The comments on the economy and competitiveness echo those
made by Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer , who yesterday
urged Sarkozy to speed up his government’s effort to slash its
budget deficit and warned politicians against missing fiscal
targets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  