-- 
Fukushima Disaster Spurs Japanese Artist Into Action in Berlin

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 
2011-06-15T19:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/fukushima-disaster-spurs-japanese-artist-into-action-in-berlin.html
Artist Leiko Ikemura’s first
instinct after the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster
struck her native Japan was to jump on the next plane home.  She decided instead to curate an exhibition in Berlin,
where she lives.  “I was devastated,” Ikemura says at the  KW Institute for
Contemporary Art , where the exhibition is being held. “I was on
the phone to Japan every day and glued to the news for a month.
The power of the images was so incredible.  “Yet when the media stops reporting, the problems don’t
end,” says Ikemura, a painter and sculptor whose own work will
be the subject of a solo show at the  National Museum of Modern
Art  in  Tokyo  this year. “I wanted to make sure the discussion
doesn’t stop at this important and dangerous moment.”  Ikemura’s small, serious exhibition was assembled in a
swift six weeks yet steps back from the shock of the March
catastrophe for calm reflection.  Called “Breaking News: Fukushima and the Consequences,”
it takes the visitor back in time to the atom bombs dropped on
Hiroshima and Nagasaki, historical horrors she says neither
 Japan  nor the West has come to terms with.  “Since the war, Japan has always been against war
generally and against nuclear war in particular,” Ikemura says.
“But the Japanese accepted nuclear power as a source of energy.
This is a problem caused by civilization, by progress. It is
important that this political discussion about nuclear power
should also take place in art.”  Atom Bombs  The failure to address the two atom bombs dropped on Japan
is eloquently depicted by Shomei Tomatsu’s photograph of a
melted wristwatch, damaged by the blast and stopped forever at
11:02 a.m. on Aug. 9, 1945. Like many of the artworks on
display, it predates this year’s earthquake -- it was taken in
1961.  “It is not just what artists have done since the disaster,
but what was done before that occupies me, because art often has
prophetic qualities,” says Ikemura, who is 59. “We see these
works differently now.”  She gestures toward a 2007 photograph by the Ukrainian
photographer Boris Mikhailov, also a Berlin resident. A Japanese
man with shoulder-length hair is shown in profile, clad in a
monk-like brown cloak, clutching a carrier bag on the edge of a
bleak sidewalk at night. It’s a lonely, sad image.  “This could be seen as prophecy, but also as a deja vu,”
she says. “Our perspective has changed. This looks like now.”  Wenders’s Ganjin  Film director Wim Wenders contributed a powerful photograph
of the holy Ganjin Statue in the Toshodaiji Temple in Nara.
Ganjin was a blind monk who brought Zen Buddhism to Japan from
 China . The sculpture, which is not on public view and only a few
people have seen, has a surface blackened with age.  Wenders lit it from beneath with a candle to photograph it.
For Ikemura, it is a reminder of the comfort of spirituality in
times of disaster -- yet the haunting, serene face from 12
centuries ago also recalls the tragic, charred victims of
nuclear disasters.  Black-and-white photographs by Donata Wenders capture
fleeting moments of beauty -- fireworks, birds fluttering in the
sky at Jodoji Temple in Onomichi, and a pointed, triangular,
lonely island on the horizon of a gray misty sea. The fragility
and transience of beauty and life is something Ikemura says is
typically present in Japanese art.  “This time, the price was too high,” she says, and
presses her lips tightly together.  Shelter Snaps  Photographs by Lieko Shiga, a young Japanese artist living
in one of the villages affected by the quake and tsunami, bring
the exhibition right up to date. Of the 400 people in her
village, 57 were killed. Many more lost their homes. Shiga moved
into a shelter and kept a diary-style photographic record.  Her photos find poetry in the banalities of life in the
shelter: Sacks of second-hand clothes arriving for survivors;
meals eaten sitting on the floor, and heaps of photographs
rescued from the rubble of people’s houses.  Some of the damaged photographs produce apocalyptic new
images -- airplanes and people streaked with orange or bleached
white, as though caught in a sudden blinding light.  “All these people who lost everything, their houses, their
relatives -- what they go back to look for is not money, not
cars, but their photographs,” Ikemura said. “I find that very
moving.”  “Breaking News: Fukushima and the Consequences” runs
through July 7 at the KW Institute for Contemporary Art. For
more information, go to  http://www.kw-berlin.de/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 