-- 
Gas Natural Climbs After $1.9 Billion Settlement With Algeria’s Sonatrach

-- B y   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-06-15T15:09:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/gas-natural-climbs-after-1-9-billion-settlement-with-algeria-s-sonatrach.html
Gas Natural SDG SA (GAS)  rose the most in
five months in  Madrid  after agreeing to pay  Algeria ’s Sonatrach
$1.9 billion to settle a dispute while saying the Algiers-based
energy company may take a stake in its Spanish distributor.  The stock climbed as much as 5.2 percent and traded at
13.75 euros, up 3.2 percent, as of 4:55 p.m. local time. Gas
Natural previously said it made provisions to cover the dispute.  “The agreement with Sonatrach removes a key uncertainty
and improves earnings visibility,” Alberto Gandolfi, an analyst
at UBS, wrote today in a note to investors. Gandolfi raised his
rating to “buy” from “neutral” and his 2011 earnings per
share estimate to 1.29 euros from 1.20 euros, matching the 1.29-
euro average forecast of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The Barcelona-based company,  Spain ’s largest natural gas
provider, needed to wind up the dispute with the supplier for
about one-third of its gas. Today’s share gain extended Gas
Natural’s year-to-date increase to 20 percent, the best
performance on the 29-member Bloomberg Gas Index, which has lost
3.1 percent in the period.  The $1.9 billion payout “will not have an impact” on Gas
Natural’s results, Spain’s largest gas supplier said late
yesterday in a regulatory  filing . The companies analyzed “the
possible acquisition by Sonatrach of a minority stake in Gas
Natural” and the “possible participation” of the the
Barcelona-based company in Sonatrach projects.  The settlement was provoked by an arbitration court ruling
in August that recognized the right of state-controlled
Sonatrach to boost the price of gas supplied to Spain since 2007
through the Maghreb Europe pipeline, which crosses  Morocco  and
extends into Spain and  Portugal .  Algeria, a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, has a production capacity of 1.4 million
barrels a day of oil and exports about 60 billion cubic meters a
year of gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd White in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  