-- 
GE Sees Record 2012 Jet-Engine Output on Efficiency Demand

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-15T12:17:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ge-sees-record-jet-engine-output-on-fuel-efficient-model-demand.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s aviation unit
expects record jet-engine production in the next 18 months as
demand rises for more fuel-efficient aircraft.  Crude oil hovering around $100 a barrel is spurring
purchases of the newest, most economical engines even as it
crimps airlines’ finances, GE Aviation Chief Executive Officer
 David Joyce  said in a telephone interview ahead of the
aerospace’s biggest trade show next week in Paris.  “In this kind of environment it’s almost Darwinian --the
best equipment will survive,” said Joyce, whose Evendale, Ohio-
based division is the world’s biggest jet-engine maker.  GE engine production for commercial planes will rise about
13 percent to 2,480 in 2012, according to the company, and
output including military models will climb 5 percent to a
record 3,370. GE Aviation’s order book is “very strong” across
all regions, Joyce said.  The aviation unit’s earnings and sales should climb in 2012
as customers increase spending on more-profitable service
contracts, Joyce said. GE Aviation had $17.6 billion in sales
and $3.3 billion in profit last year, figures that should rise
in 2011, the company said in May.  Wide-Body Option  GE’s competitors include Rolls-Royce Group Plc and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney . GE, through its CFM
International joint venture with  France ’s  Safran SA (SAF) , is vying
with Pratt to equip the new Airbus SAS A320neo in the largest
segment of the global airline market, single-aisle jets. GE
expects CFM to build about 1,300 engines a year through 2013.  Virgin America Inc., the airline partly owned by U.K.
billionaire  Richard Branson , today said it will be the first
carrier to use GE’s new Leap-X, signaling confidence in the
model after rival Pratt’s geared turbofan won the first wave of
orders on the A320neo earlier this year. Leap-X will “have a
good show,” Joyce said.  GE will begin producing its GEnx engine as  Boeing Co. (BA)  ships
the first wide-body 747-8 and 787 Dreamliner models. The engine
model is meeting certification and delivery schedules, Joyce
said.  “You only get one chance to make a first impression with a
new product,” he said. “One of the singular most important
exclamation points on a great product is to put it into service
successfully.”  Stronger Engine Unit  A stronger engine unit helps CEO  Jeffrey Immelt ’s aim to
boost the share of profit from industrial operations and shrink
the percentage contribution from the GE Capital finance
division. Earnings from that unit peaked last decade at about
half of the Fairfield, Connecticut-based parent’s total.  Engines from GE or GE-led ventures now power about two-
thirds of the world’s narrow-body jet fleet, while about 53
percent of wide-body planes use the company’s products,
according to market researcher Ascend.  By 2015, GE and its partners will have 30,000 engines
installed on planes, 62 percent more than a decade earlier, the
company estimated. Parts and service sales, which produce more
of engine-makers’ profits than the turbines themselves, will
rise as the equipment ages and requires maintenance. About 40
percent of GE Aviation engines now in use have yet to undergo
their first overhaul.  GE Aviation has a $60 billion service-contract backlog.
Development costs also fall once engines move into production.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  