-- 
GE Engine Venture’s Leap-X Model Wins A320neo Launch With Virgin America

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-06-15T11:49:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ge-venture-s-leap-x-wins-a320neo-launch-with-virgin-america.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s narrowbody-
engine venture won placement of its new Leap-X model on upgraded
Airbus SAS jets for Virgin America Inc., ending rival Pratt &
Whitney’s solo run on the more fuel-efficient plane.  Virgin America’s order from CFM International, a joint
venture of GE and Safran SA of  France , is valued at $1.4 billion
at engine list prices, the companies said today. It includes
 Leap-X engines  to power 30 A320neos and CFM56-5B models for 30
existing A320 jets. Burlingame, California-based Virgin America
said in January it would triple its fleet.  The airline, partly owned by U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson , will be the first carrier to use the Leap-X
commercially, signaling confidence in the model after  Pratt &
Whitney ’s geared  turbofan  won the first wave of orders on the
upgraded A320neo earlier this year. CFM engines already power
half of all narrow-body aircraft including Virgin’s current
fleet, according to market researcher Ascend.  “They’ve never had a failed engine program,” Virgin
American Chief Executive Officer David Cush said in a telephone
interview. “Their engines always come in on time, on price and
within the performance envelope they describe.”  The new engines will save as much as $1.9 million per
aircraft with the inclusion of  sharklets , wingtip devices that
reduce aerodynamic drag, Virgin said. That estimate assumes 18
percent less jet-fuel usage and a price of $2.98 a gallon,
Virgin said.  ‘Better Takeoff Performance’  International Lease Finance Corp., the plane-leasing unit
of American International Group Inc., is set to announce plans
to put the Leap-X on 40 A320neo aircraft, and more orders are
expected at the Paris Air Show, people familiar with the
situation said earlier this month.  Virgin, which recently began offering flights to  Chicago 
from  Los Angeles  and  San Francisco , will be able to fly longer
routes using the A320neo, Cush said. The plane is also more
practical for short take-offs.  “This allows us to fly missions that the current A320
cannot fly -- it would allow us to fly to Hawaii from the West
Coast,” Cush said. “It gives us better takeoff performance out
of short runways in places like  Reagan National  or even
LaGuardia.”  Virgin considered its engine options carefully, Cush said.
The carrier was also in discussions with Pratt & Whitney for
about a year, and the talks intensified in the past few months.  ‘Compelling Offer’  “Pratt & Whitney put a very compelling offer on the
table,” he said. “We looked at the geared turbofan. Ultimately
CFM just had a more compelling offer.”  While neither engine maker disclosed a list price, analysts
including Teal Group estimate CFM’s Leap-X and Pratt’s geared
turbofan carry a price tag of $12 million to $13 million.
Airlines rarely pay list prices for engines, instead negotiating
discounts for bulk purchases.  The Leap-X relies on improvements in the engine’s core, or
hot section, to help cut fuel consumption, while the geared
turbofan uses a gear to slow the outer fan of the engine, adding
efficiency and reducing noise. Leap-X’s technology is partly
based on GE’s GEnx engine, which is a choice on the  Boeing Co. (BA) 
787 Dreamliner.  Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE is the world’s largest
maker of  jet engines . Pratt & Whitney is a unit of Hartford,
Connecticut-based  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  