-- 
Ga. Criminals Sub for Immigrant Farm Workers

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 
2011-06-15T17:28:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/georgia-criminals-sub-for-immigrant-farm-workers.html
Georgia  Governor Nathan Deal wants
criminals to pick berries and peaches because of a farm-labor
shortage being blamed on the state’s new law cracking down on
illegal immigrants.  A state survey released yesterday reported that more than
11,000 agricultural jobs stand vacant during the height of the
state’s fruit and vegetable picking season. Some of Georgia’s
100,000 probationers, of whom 25 percent are unemployed, can
help, he said.  “The agriculture industry is the No. 1 economic engine in
Georgia,” Deal said in a prepared statement. “It is my sincere
hope to find viable and law-abiding solutions to the current
problem our farmers face.”  Georgia’s immigration law, signed by Deal on May 13, is
among five such measures enacted nationally in the past year,
against opposition from civil rights groups, farmers and other
businesses that rely on immigrant labor.  Alabama ’s Governor
Robert Bentley signed the fifth law June 9.  The laws follow one championed by  Arizona ’s Jan Brewer in
requiring local authorities to identify illegal immigrants. They
require employers to use the federal E-Verify database to check
immigration status, and set penalties for transporting or
otherwise helping illegal workers.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  sued to block Georgia’s
law, scheduled to go into effect July 1.  Empty Fields  Farming is a $5.1 billion industry in Georgia, according to
its Agriculture Department. About 28 percent of the state’s
agricultural output in 2009 came from crops that require
picking, according to a report from the University of Georgia’s
Center for Agribusiness and  Economic Development .  The law’s impact on farm labor was swift, said Bryan Tolar,
president of the Georgia Agribusiness Council in Atlanta, which
opposed the immigration law.  “We have always had some challenges trying to find enough
workers at the right times to harvest crops, but the drop-off
we’ve seen this year compared to last year is unprecedented,”
Tolar said in a telephone interview.  Migrant laborers are skipping the state out of fear, he
said.  Deal’s proposal to set unemployed probationers to
harvesting is welcome among farmers, who are currently trying to
bring in crops such as blackberries and peaches, Tolar said. The
peak picking season ends in early to mid-July, he said.  “The old phrase ‘die on the vine’ is what we’re looking at
here,” Tolar said.  ‘Stoned, Drunk or Pregnant’  Farmers ask little about workers’ background, he said. “If
you’re strong enough to do this work, you’re good, as long as
you don’t show up stoned or drunk or pregnant.”  He said the agriculture industry considered Georgia’s law
hasty, and that farmers watched in amazement when Alabama passed
its version after the impact on labor was evident.  “It was like, ‘Good Lord, you people can’t be helped. Have
you all not been paying attention?’” Tolar said. “As we say in
the South, bless their hearts.”  Georgia’s Department of Corrections Commissioner Brian
Owens, Labor Commissioner Mark Butler and Agriculture
Commissioner Gary Black will work to connect unemployed
probationers with farmers who need labor, Deal said.  Those involved with probation are less pleased with the
proposal than farmers, said Carl Wicklund, executive director of
the Lexington, Kentucky-based American  Probation and Parole
Association.  It’s a return to the days when convicts were
sentenced to cultivate the land, he said in a telephone
interview.  “In the old days, they had work farms,” he said.  The Georgia proposal will be of little help to probationers
trying to improve their lives, he said, because the work is
temporary.  “They’ll get no unemployment, no insurance and most of
them aren’t going to be farm workers long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirkin Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 