-- 
Ghana’s Inflation Slowed for Third Consecutive Month in May, Agency Says

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-06-15T12:33:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ghana-s-inflation-slowed-for-third-consecutive-month-in-may-agency-says.html
Ghana’s  inflation slowed for the
third consecutive month in May as the effects of an increase in
fuel prices at the beginning of the year eased.  The inflation rate fell to 8.9 percent from 9 percent in
April,  Grace Bediako , a statistician at the  Ghana  Statistical
Service, told reporters today in the capital, Accra. Prices rose
1.8 percent in the month, she said.  “It is possible for inflation to be contained again next
month as we enter the harvest season,” Bediako said. The food
inflation rate declined to 3.9 percent in May from 4.2 percent
in April while non-food inflation was unchanged at 12.2 percent,
according to a statement handed to reporters.  A 30 percent increase in gasoline prices on Jan. 4 by
Ghana’s National Petroleum Authority pushed the inflation rate
to 9.2 percent in February from 9.1 percent in January and 8.6
percent in December. Inflation has slowed in the previous 18
months from a five-year high of 20.7 percent in June 2009.  “It appears the stable cedi, with strengthening
tendencies, and moderating energy prices supported a modest
slowdown in May’s inflation number,” Yvonne Mhango, a
Johannesburg-based economist at  Renaissance Capital , said in an
e-mailed comment today. “Given that the cedi is projected to
appreciate during the course of the year, this implies inflation
will be contained in the single digits.”  Cedi Stabilizes  After weakening as much as 5.7 percent against the dollar
in the first five weeks of 2011, Ghana’s cedi has stabilized and
is down 2 percent this year, easing pressure on import costs.  Slowing inflation enabled the central bank to cut its key
interest rate by 4.5 percentage points in the 12 months through
July 2010. After keeping it unchanged for three consecutive
meetings, the central bank cut the rate for the first time in 10
months to 13 percent on May 13.  “Inflation over the next four months is likely to be in
the region of 8 percent to 7 percent, especially as the domestic
harvest season will set in during the period,” Sampson Akligoh,
an economist with Accra-based Databank Financial Services Ltd.,
said in an e-mailed note today. “This inflationary expectation
provides a sound basis for interest rate cut from the current 13
percent.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 