-- 
Ghana’s Inflation Slowed for Third Consecutive Month in May to 8.9%

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-06-15T10:21:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ghana-s-inflation-slowed-for-third-consecutive-month-in-may-to-8-9-.html
Ghana’s  inflation slowed for the
third consecutive month in May as the effects of an increase in
fuel prices at the beginning of the year eased.  The inflation rate fell to 8.9 percent from 9 percent in
April,  Grace Bediako , a statistician at the Ghana Statistical
Service, told reporters today in the capital, Accra.  “Following the January fuel price increase, the secondary
effect of that increase was fairly limited,”  Razia Khan ,
London-based head of Africa Research at Standard Chartered Bank
Plc, said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  A 30 percent increase in gasoline prices on Jan. 4 by
Ghana’s National Petroleum Authority pushed the inflation rate
to 9.2 percent in February from 9.1 percent in January and 8.6
percent in December. The rate had fallen in the previous 18
months from a five-year high of 20.7 percent in June 2009.  “A stable cedi, benign food inflation and moderating
energy price pressures” are all easing pressure on inflation,
Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-based economist at  Renaissance
Capital , said in an e-mailed comment yesterday.  After weakening as much as 5.7 percent against the dollar
in the first five weeks of 2011, Ghana’s cedi has stabilized and
is now down 2 percent in the year, easing pressure on import
costs.  Slowing inflation enabled the central bank to cut its key
interest rate by 4.5 percentage points in the 12 months through
July 2010. After keeping it unchanged for three consecutive
meetings, the central bank cut the rate for the first time in 10
months to 13 percent on May 13.  “The extent of improvement in the inflation figure will set
everyone thinking about whether the Bank of  Ghana  might even
ease interest rates again,” Khan said. “We obviously don’t
think they will.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 