-- 
Gifts for Natives: Financial Urban Legend?

-- B y   P a u l   K e d r o s k y
-- 
2011-06-15T10:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/gifts-for-natives-financial-urban-legend-.html
     June 15 (Bloomberg.com) -- I’m a big fan of urban legends,
financial and otherwise. You learn so much about people’s fears,
paranoias, confusions, etc.  Here are a few examples from Snopes:  * U.S. law specifies that a creditor does not have to accept  more than 100 pennies towards the payment of a debt or  obligation.
  * The letters ‘JS’ on the U.S. dime represent the initials of  Soviet leader  Josef Stalin .
  * A significantly large percentage of U.S. currency bears  traces of cocaine.  Okay, the first two are myths, but the third one turns to be
true.  Anyway, I recently ran into the story that National
Geographic expense reports included a line for “Gifts for
natives.” According to the story, decades ago that was common,
but an increasingly populated planet meant that National
Geographic journalists & explorers no longer needed to give
natives gifts, so it became disallowed as an expense,
disappearing as a line item from expense reports.  It’s a great story. It’s so good that it falls into the
category of “too good to check,” an anecdote so apt that one
doesn’t want to find out if it’s false because it would be a huge
pain in the ass to come up with a better one. Sometimes, however,
you just have to check, damn it.  So … is it true? Did the National Geographic really have an
expense line for “Gifts for natives?” I checked around, looked
for an example of such forms, and couldn’t find it. I emailed
National Geographic, getting myself into an amusing conversation
with a senior communication person there who seemed to think he
was being punked. After some back and forth, however, and after
some consulting with an archivist there, the answer seems clear:
No, there never was a line item for “Gifts for natives.” Yes, now
and then people might have actually expensed some strange things,
but it was never (I’m told) a formal line item.  Another financial urban myth bites the dust. Sorry about
that. If you have more, send ‘em my way.  Click here  to see the story as it appeared on Bloomberg.com.
 