-- 
International Demand for U.S. Assets Rises, Led by Longer-Term Securities

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-06-15T14:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/global-demand-for-u-s-assets-rose-in-april.html
Global demand for U.S. stocks, bonds
and other financial assets rose in April from a month earlier,
as  China  increased its holdings of Treasuries after five months
of declines, the Treasury Department reported.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$30.6 billion during the month compared with net buying of $24
billion in March, according to statistics issued today in
 Washington . Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners purchased a net $68.2 billion, less than net buying
of $127.1 billion the previous month.  The Treasury’s reporting on long-term securities is a gauge
of confidence in U.S. economic policy, which has been dealing
with unemployment at 9.1 percent and a fight over raising the
federal debt ceiling. China remained the biggest foreign holder
of  U.S. Treasuries , after its holdings rose by $7.6 billion to
$1.2 trillion.  “With the huge trade surplus China enjoys with the U.S.,
they can only delay purchases of Treasuries for so long,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in  New York , said by e-mail after the report was
released. “The dollars they accumulate in trade have to be
invested in U.S. assets because if they sell the dollars in the
market the yuan will appreciate and the comparative trade
advantage they hold over us will go up in smoke.”  Rupkey said “there is simply no safer place to be right
now than the USA.”  Economists in a Bloomberg News survey forecast long-term
U.S. financial assets would show net purchases of $35 billion in
April. Five economists participated in the survey and their
estimates ranged from $18.5 billion to $36 billion.  Fed’s Bernanke  Last week, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said a
“frustratingly slow” recovery warrants sustained monetary
stimulus while predicting that growth will gain speed in the
second half of the year. The Treasury Department has said in the
meanwhile it will exhaust all borrowing options in August unless
there is congressional action.  Overseas, pressure on European finance ministers to craft a
rescue plan intensified after Standard & Poor’s this week
reduced  Greece ’s credit rating.  Japan , the second-largest holder of U.S. financial assets,
reduced its holdings by $1 billion to $906.9 billion in April.
 Hong Kong , counted separately from China, increased its holdings
by $300 million to $122.4 billion in April.  Total Purchases  Total foreign purchases of Treasury notes and bonds were
$23.3 billion in April compared with purchases of $26.8 billion
in March. Foreign demand for U.S. agency debt registered net
buying of $7.5 billion in April after buying of $9.5 billion in
March.  Net foreign purchases of equities were $17.8 billion in
April after net purchases of $14.7 billion in March. Investors
sold a net $3.8 billion in U.S. corporate debt in April after
buying $3.8 billion in March.  “Foreign investors have been active out the curve and
purchasing securities during the period of time covered in this
data, and I would expect to see a follow-through in subsequent
months’ data,”  Chris Ahrens , head interest-rate strategist in
Greenwich, Connecticut at UBS AG, a primary dealer trading with
the  Federal Reserve , said by e-mail after the report was
released. “The data is consistent with what we’ve observed in
terms of flows.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in Washington at 
Or  vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  