-- 
Goettig Says Polish Inflation Rate ‘Stunning,’ Sees Core at 2.4%

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-06-15T13:34:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/goettig-says-polish-inflation-rate-stunning-sees-core-at-2-4-.html
Maja Goettig, chief economist at
Bank BPH in Warsaw, comments on accelerating inflation in  Poland 
and chances for further interest-rate increases.  The annual inflation rate rose to 5 percent last month,
double the central bank’s target of 2.5 percent and the highest
since August 2001, the  Central Statistical Office  in Warsaw said
today. The median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for consumer price-growth of 4.6 percent.  Goettig commented by phone.  “We were just stunned by the figure. It exceeded the
highest predictions on the market. It probably also surprised
members of the Monetary Policy Council since in their comments
they predicted the inflation peak at around 4.6 or 4.7 percent
this year.  “The base effect was already included in our forecast, so
we cannot blame the effect exclusively for such a rebound. In
the second half of the year the base effect will have the
opposite impact, meaning it will help inflation slow. But now we
see that the inflation rate will decline much less than
expected.  “It is possible that, at the end of the year, inflation
will stay way above 3.5 percent, the upper end of the central
bank’s target range, which seems to be the level acceptable for
the council in current circumstances.”  On  core inflation :  “While food prices take the main blame for the May
headline figure, there is a chance vegetable prices will help
trim the rate in coming months. On the other hand, today’s data
support expectations for a significant increase in core
inflation. According to our forecast, the May core-inflation
rate could go up to 2.4 percent, which would be the highest
since January 2010.”  On potential rate increases by the central bank’s Monetary
Policy Council:  “We expect the Monetary Policy Council will take a pause
in raising rates at its meeting in July. That would be
consistent with the statement released by the council after the
June meeting, as well as with comments” of central bank
Governor Marek Belka, Goettig said. “Our base scenario is
another rate increase around September.  “On the other hand, bad news like we have seen today may
increase the probability of a rate increase in July. It cannot
be ruled out that after seeing inflation at its highest since
August 2001, the council may need to reconsider its wait-and-see
plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  