-- 
Gold to Extend Gains as Buyers Seek ‘Safety’ Against Inflation, Fund Says

-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-15T07:28:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/gold-to-extend-gains-as-buyers-seek-safety-against-inflation-fund-says.html
Gold prices , rallying for an
eleventh year, will extend gains as investors add bullion
seeking a haven against currency debasement and inflation,
according to  India ’s Quantum Asset Management Co.  “There will be more people moving towards the safety of
gold which will take gold prices much higher,” Chirag Mehta, a
commodity fund manager at  Quantum , which manages about $1.5
billion in assets, said in an interview in Mumbai. “The gradual
increase in gold price will continue.”  Gold for immediate delivery rallied to a record $1,577.57
on May 2 spurred by concern about faster inflation,  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a weakening dollar. Prices have advanced 7.1
percent this year, after climbing the past 10 years, the longest
run of gains in at least nine decades in  London .  “The diversification to gold will continue, gold is still
under-owned,” Mehta said yesterday. “Even if a small fraction
of financial assets move to gold, I think the price will go much
higher than what it is currently.”  Spot gold lost 0.1 percent to $1,521.70 an ounce at 12:20
p.m. in Mumbai. Gold for August-delivery declined 0.2 percent to
$1,521.60 an ounce on Comex in  New York .  Assets held in exchange-traded products backed by gold
stood at 2,052.62 metric tons yesterday, compared with record
holdings of 2,114.6 tons reached in December, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Gold holdings in the SPDR Gold Trust, the
biggest exchange-traded fund backed by bullion, were unchanged
at 1,200.05 tons as of yesterday, according to figures on the
company’s website.  ‘Tidal Wave of Demand’  “There’s a tidal wave of gold demand coming,” Jason Toussaint, the World Gold Council’s managing director of U.S.
and Investment, said yesterday at the Bloomberg Link Money
Managers Conference in  Boston . “A key is the long-term
fundamental change in emerging markets. The biggest markets of
growth are  China  and India.”  Gold demand in India may increase to more than 1,200 tons
by 2020 as economic growth boosts incomes and household savings,
the council said on March 31.  India and China, the world’s largest and second-largest
gold consumers respectively, both reported faster inflation last
month. India’s wholesale inflation accelerated 9.06 percent in
May from a year earlier, after an 8.66 percent jump in April,
the commerce ministry said yesterday. In China, consumer prices
jumped 5.5 percent last month, the fastest pace in almost three
years, the statistics bureau said in Beijing.  “Inflation has been persistently on the higher side,”
Mehta said. “There has been a lot of discomfort amongst the
retail public in terms of inflation.”  ‘Nowhere Near Potential’  Investments in gold-backed funds in India will continue to
increase, he said. Quantum runs one of India’s 11 bullion-backed
funds, or ETFs. Assets in gold ETFs in the nation rose to a
record 54.6 billion rupees ($1.2 billion) in May, according to
data from the  Association of Mutual Funds in India .  “The market will increase, it’s nowhere near the
potential,” Mehta said.  Commodity assets worldwide climbed $5.8 billion in April,
bringing total assets under management to a record $451 billion,
according to  Barclays Capital , which monitors  index funds ,
exchange-traded products and other commodity-related investments.  Exchange-traded funds allow investors to trade bullion
without taking physical delivery. Such funds have become popular
worldwide since their creation in 1993 as they widened
investors’ access to different types of assets. India introduced
gold-backed funds in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Mumbai at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  