-- 
Google’s Chromebook Evokes Warmth for Windows: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-06-15T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/google-chromebook-makes-users-yearn-for-windows-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
It isn’t often you come across a
computer that makes you wish it ran Microsoft Windows. The new
Chromebook Series 5 laptop manages that impressive feat.  The Chromebook, born of a partnership between Samsung
Electronics Co. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , is the first commercially
available computer to run Google’s Chrome Operating System. The
idea is that you use “the cloud” -- that is, the Internet --
to replace many of the functions traditionally handled by the
 computer hardware .  It’s a seductive notion, sort of like canceling your cable
TV subscription and relying on the Net for all your video
entertainment. But much like cable-cutting, it proves to be more
attractive in theory than in fact.  The Series 5, which went on sale this week from  Amazon.com
Inc. (AMZN)  and Best Buy Co. at $500 for a 3G-enabled model and $430
with Wi-Fi only, is less than an inch thick and weighs 3.3
pounds. It has a 12.1-inch screen, two USB ports and a card
reader. The keyboard is comfortable, and there’s a track pad for
navigation that is generously sized but that had problems
registering some clicks accurately.  Outside of the operating system, software doesn’t reside on
the computer itself; instead, you use online alternatives like
Gmail and Google Docs to create your word-processing,
spreadsheet and other documents. And you don’t store those
documents locally on a hard drive; they live in the cloud too,
where they’re accessible to you through any Web-connected
computer anywhere.  Under the Hood  Under the hood, not that it matters all that much, are an
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  microprocessor, two gigabytes of memory and 16
gigabytes of solid-state storage, which is less than you’ll find
on many smart phones.  Anyone who’s ever suffered through the wait for a Windows
computer to boot up -- which is to say, everyone who’s ever used
a Windows computer -- will be grateful for the Series 5
experience.  Thanks to the lightweight nature of the operating system
and the solid-state storage, I clocked the time from startup to
login screen at a mere eight seconds. And battery life is good
enough that you’re more likely to just close the lid rather than
turn the computer off, in which case you’re back in business in
three seconds.  Samsung claims the battery will last 8 1/2 hours in normal
use; I got more than six hours in my torture test, which
included cranking up the screen brightness and streaming a
continuous series of “Simpsons” episodes.  Ease of Use  As for ease of use, if you know how to work a Web browser,
you know how to work Chrome. All functions -- even accessing
files, playing games or watching movies -- run through the
browser. You can acquire new apps customized for the operating
system, including the New York Times and “Angry Birds,” from
the online  Chrome Web Store . And upgrades to the operating
system can come in the form of incremental, over-the-air
improvements.  But the Series 5’s speed and ease of use were offset by a
series of problems I encountered that should fairly be laid at
Google’s feet rather than Samsung’s.  I ran into the first one within moments of pulling the
computer out of the box. Even though it had embedded 3G service
from  Verizon Wireless , it required a Wi-Fi connection to
activate, and it wouldn’t log on to Bloomberg’s Wi-Fi network.  It isn’t like there’s anything exotic about our setup; I’ve
used it for legions of tablets, e-readers and even phones
running Google’s own Android operating system. But it turns out
that Google didn’t include support for the authentication
standard we use -- a strange oversight in a device that, without
an Internet signal, might be more accurately labeled a
Chromebrick.  3G Service  I finally activated the Chromebook by pulling out a spare
wireless phone, calling the carrier to activate its mobile-
hotspot function and using it to connect. Once I got over that
hurdle, I was able to use the built-in Verizon service when I
was in the office or otherwise didn’t have a usable Wi-Fi
signal.  The price of the 3G model includes 100 megabytes of data
per month; beyond that, Verizon offers prepaid month-to-month
data plans starting at $20, and a $9.99 unlimited day pass.  An even bigger problem is the lack of an offline mode for
Google Docs, Gmail and Google Calendar. So if you’re on an
airplane or someplace where you can’t get an Internet signal,
you can for now forget about being able to do anything
productive. (Google says it expects to introduce offline
functionality sometime this summer.)  At least you can lean back and watch a movie -- as long as
you’ve remembered to download it first to an SD card or USB
thumb drive.  Cloud Print  As for printing: It’s complicated. In most cases, you’ll
first have to enroll the printer you want to use with Google’s
Cloud Print service, then send it your document via the
Internet. Hooking the Series 5 directly to the printer with a
USB cable won’t work. It’s all enough to make you yearn for the
simple pleasures of installing a Windows printer driver.  You might put up with the hassles if the Series 5 were
really, really cheap. It isn’t: For the same cost, you can have
a choice of highly capable  Windows machines . (PC maker  Acer Inc. (2353) 
is coming out with a couple of slightly lower-priced
Chromebooks, but I haven’t tested them yet.)  Someday, when the Internet is even more ubiquitous than it
is now and connectivity is as available as oxygen, the
Chromebook may make sense. For now, though, it dwells in a
netherworld, neither as convenient as a tablet nor as potent as
a PC.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 