-- 
Greece Debt Crisis Is Main Stability Threat to Euro Region Banks, ECB Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-06-15T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/greece-debt-crisis-is-main-stability-threat-to-euro-region-banks-ecb-says.html
The  European Central Bank  said the
threat of the Greek debt crisis spilling over into the banking
sector is the biggest risk to the region’s financial stability.  “ Greece  could have a contagion effect,” ECB Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said at a briefing in  Frankfurt 
today, when presenting the bank’s semi-annual  Financial
Stability Review . “That’s the reason why we are against any
sort of default with haircuts and any form of private-sector
event that could lead to a  credit event  or a rating event.”  The euro area’s sovereign-debt woes have worsened as
investors increased bets that Greece will not be able to pay its
debts, sparking the region’s first sovereign default. The risk
that euro-area banks holding Greek government bonds will be
saddled with losses has jumped, after  Standard & Poor’s  slapped
Greece with the world’s lowest credit rating on June 13.  "The euro area faces a very challenging situation that
comes mostly from the interconnection of the sovereign debt
crisis and the situation of the banking sector,’’ the ECB said
in the review. “In light of the potentially very dangerous
implications of sovereign-debt restructuring for the debtor
country, including its banking system, a determined and
unwavering focus on improving fundamentals” is required.  Vienna Initiative  The ECB and the German government have clashed over how
much investors should contribute to alleviating Greece’s debt
load, which reached 143 percent of gross domestic product in
2010. While the German government has argued for an extension of
the maturities of Greek bonds, the ECB has said it’s against
anything that could be interpreted as a default.  Constancio reiterated that the ECB is in favor of a plan
for bondholders to agree to roll over their debt voluntarily.
The approach is modeled on the Vienna initiative, where banks
agreed to roll over loans to units in Eastern Europe at the
height of the financial crisis in 2009.  “We are not against all forms of private-sector
involvement,” he said. “Some sort of Vienna style initiative
could be conceived. It’s not for us to provide solutions.”  While Ireland and  Portugal  were also forced to ask for
external help over the past year, the ECB said there are
“encouraging” signs the crisis has been contained.  Adjustment ‘Burden’  The crisis needs to be tackled by “adjustment in countries
that are more vulnerable in respect of their public finances
situation,” Constancio said. “The burden of the adjustment is
on the countries themselves by complying fully with the
agreements that the three countries have made.”  Banks’ reliance on wholesale funding decreased in 2010 and
early this year, according to the report, suggesting the
region’s lender are becoming more resilient overall. Constancio
said that financial conditions “are improving.”  “A continued normalization of the unsecured  interbank
market  in the euro area has been accompanied by a significant
pickup in debt issuance, in particular in covered-bond
markets,” the ECB said in the review. Still, in countries
facing “acute fiscal challenges,” a lack of access to bank
funding continues to be “an Achilles heel.”  The collapse of property markets in some euro nations also
poses a risk to the financial sector, the ECB said.  “Concerns derive from potential losses resulting from a
need to adjust the book value of depressed property valuations
to prevailing market conditions, with a continued potential for
further declines and the associated deterioration of the related
 credit quality  in some euro area countries,” it said.  The ECB’s non-standard measures, or the purchase of
 government bonds  and the provision of unlimited liquidity to
lenders, proved to be “pivotal not only to maintain  price
stability  but also to foster financial stability,” the report
said. The central bank has called emergency measures
“temporary,” when calling on governments to find ways to
restore investor confidence and contain the fiscal crisis.  “Such efforts are crucial for the effective containment
and mitigation of risks relating to sovereign debt in the euro
area,” the ECB said in the report.  -- Editors: Simone Meier, Craig Stirling  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Black  in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  