-- 
Greek Police Clash With Protesters Opposing Austerity Plans

-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-15T18:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/greek-unions-stage-24-hour-strike-to-oppose-papandreou-s-cuts-asset-sales.html
Greek police used teargas to
disperse protesters encircling the Parliament House in  Athens  as
20,000 people rallied against Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s
additional wage cuts and tax increases.  Police fired the teargas at demonstrators who threw fire
bombs and rocks at the  Finance Ministry  and banged on hotel
shutters. Earlier, protesters rushed police guarding the
parliament as union supporters joined up with demonstrators who
have been camped out in front of the building for almost three
weeks. Ports, banks, hospitals and state-run companies ground to
a halt today as the two biggest unions went on strike.  The situation is “calmer now” after a small group caused
violence in the city center, Athanasios Kokkalakis, a police
spokesman, said in live comments on state-run NET TV. Fifteen
people were arrested and 66 were reported injured, including 36
police officers, according to  text messages  from the Health
Ministry and the Athens police. Some people fainted in the
square’s metro station after teargas was fired into it,  NET TV 
said, without citing anyone. Damage was reported in two stores,
two banks and a hotel, according to the police.  ADEDY, the largest public-sector union, and the General
Confederation of Labor, or GSEE, the biggest private-sector
union, called the third general strike of the year to protest
the government’s five-year fiscal plan and state asset sales, a
78 billion-euro ($111 billion) package required to continue
receiving funding under a European Union-led bailout plan to
avert default.  Unity Government  Papandreou offered to step aside to permit the formation of
a unity government, as long as all opposition parties agreed to
the cuts, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter.
That countered a demand by the New Democracy opposition party
that he quit and allow a so-called technical government to
renegotiate the terms of the rescue.  “Each must assume their responsibilities to the people and
the country,” Papandreou told Greek President Karolos Papoulias
today. “We will proceed with imperative decisions.” Papandreou
said he is in touch with the leaders of parliamentary parties
and seeks national agreement.  The prime minister is facing growing dissent within his
Socialist Pasok party over the measures, which will face a
parliament vote this month. One Pasok lawmaker said yesterday he
won’t vote for the bill and a second withdrew from the party,
the To Vima newspaper reported in separate articles. Papandreou
now has a five-seat majority in the 300-member assembly.  Avoiding Default  “This government has the responsibility to save the
country from default,”  George Petalotis , a spokesman, told
reporters in Athens yesterday when asked about the strikes.  A group called the People’s Assembly of Syntagma that is
urging people to encircle parliament held a banner that read:
“Their parliament will be their prison, we are decided.”
Lawmakers today begin to debate the bill, submitted on June 9.  Demonstrators have assembled in the square in front of
parliament for 21 days, setting up tents and calling on others
to join them. Police said the largest rally was on June 5, when
50,000 people gathered.  Separately, protesters in  Barcelona ,  Spain , tried to stop
regional lawmakers from entering the state assembly building
today to pass a budget bill that aims to slash spending 10
percent this year. An official at the Catalan police force
declined to give details on the number of people arrested after
demonstrators clashed with police.  Deadlock Remains  Papandreou’s budget measures, which include higher taxes
and lower public-sector wages, aim to get more aid after a 110
billion-euro bailout approved last year failed to secure  market
access  for Greek bonds in 2012.  An emergency session of euro-region finance chiefs in
Brussels yesterday failed to break a deadlock on how to enroll
investors in a second bailout without triggering a default,
casting doubt on funds due from the  International Monetary Fund 
next month.  The Athens stock exchange fell today, with the benchmark
ASE Index dropping 1.9 percent to 1,243.05 at 5:19 p.m.  National
Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the biggest lender, lost 6 percent to 4.57
euros.  Public-sector workers, hospital employees, bank workers,
and police officers are participating in the 24-hour strike.
Ferry operations are disrupted and public transport interrupted.
Journalists lifted a planned media blackout.  Unions oppose Pasok’s plans to sell stakes in state-owned
companies such as  Public Power Corp SA. (PPC)  The GENOP union, which
represents workers at the company, said it will hold 48-hour
rolling strikes from June 20 until the government backs down and
today occupied  Public Power ’s headquarters, according to the
state-run Athens News Agency.  “We demand withdrawal of the harsh and unjust measures
being imposed by the government as it has been commanded to do
by our lenders,” GSEE said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  