-- 
Greek Unions Stage 24-Hour Strike to Oppose Papandreou’s Cuts, Asset Sales

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 
2011-06-15T08:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/greek-unions-stage-strike-against-austerity.html
Greece ’s ports, banks, hospitals and
state-run companies ground to a halt today as the two biggest
labor unions went on strike to oppose Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s additional budget cuts and asset sales.  ADEDY , the largest public-sector union, and the  General
Confederation of Labor , or GSEE, the biggest private-sector
union, called the third general strike of the year to protest
the government’s five-year fiscal plan and program of state
asset sales, according to e-mailed statements. The two unions
were due to march to parliament at 11 a.m. in Athens.  Papandreou aims to get the 78 billion-euro ($113 billion)
package passed in parliament this month. He faces growing
dissent within his Socialist Pasok party and among Greeks. One
Pasok lawmaker said yesterday he won’t vote for the bill and a
second withdrew from the party, the To Vima newspaper reported
in separate articles. Papandreou now has a five-seat majority in
the 300-member assembly.  “This government has the responsibility to save the
country from default,”  George Petalotis , a spokesman, told
reporters in Athens yesterday when asked about the strikes.  About 1,000 people have gathered in front of parliament in
the capital’s main Syntagma square, shouting chants and carrying
signs as lawmakers begin to debate the bill, submitted on June
9. A group called the People’s Assembly of Syntagma that is
urging people to encircle parliament held a banner that read:
“Their parliament will be their prison, we are decided.”  Bid for Aid  Demonstrators have gathered in the square in front of
parliament for 21 days, setting up tents and calling on others
to join them. Police said the largest rally was on June 5, when
50,000 people gathered in front of the chamber.  Papandreou’s budget measures, which include higher taxes
and lower public-sector wages, aim to get more aid after a 110
billion-euro European Union-led bailout agreed last year failed
to secure  market access  for Greek bonds in 2012. Papandreou
meets President Karolos Papoulias at 1 p.m. today.  Public-sector workers, hospital employees, bank workers,
police officers and journalists are participating in the 24-hour
strike. Ferry operations are disrupted and public transport will
be interrupted.  Unions opposed Pasok’s plans to sell stakes in state-owned
companies such as  Public Power Corp SA. (PPC)  The GENOP union, which
represents workers at the company, said it will hold 48-hour
rolling strikes from June 20 until the government backs down.  “We demand withdrawal of the harsh and unjust measures
being imposed by the government as it has been commanded to do
by our lenders,” GSEE said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  