-- 
Greece, Ireland Can’t Copy Iceland Default Model, Sigfusson Says

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-06-15T13:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/greece-ireland-can-t-default-like-iceland.html
Iceland is warning  Greece  and
Ireland not to copy its recovery model even though the Atlantic
island managed a return to international debt markets less than
three years after letting its banks default on $85 billion.  “People should be careful when it comes to drawing
comparisons between Iceland on the one hand, and Greece,
 Portugal ,  Spain  and Ireland on the other,” Finance Minister
Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said in an interview in Reykjavik.
“Iceland didn’t have the ability to save the banks. Trying to
rewrite the events that led to that eventuality as some sort of
an export product is irresponsible.”  Iceland’s success in rebuilding its economy has been
contrasted with the plight of euro member Ireland by economists
including Nobel laureate  Paul Krugman . Ireland, where most bank
debt has been protected by a state guarantee since 2008, would
have been better off using Iceland’s “bankrupting yourself to
recovery” model, Krugman argued in a Nov. 24 New York Times
column. Sigfusson says the advice could be dangerous, as
European leaders try to agree on how investors share the cost of
a second Greek rescue.  “Iceland should be humble and avoid advising other
countries, especially when it comes to banking,” Sigfusson
said. “What happened was an emergency situation which couldn’t
be avoided.”  Double Russian Default  Though the island never reneged on any sovereign debt, its
 bank failures  left creditors trying to recoup more than double
the $40 billion Russia defaulted on in 1998. Iceland’s
resurrection 2 1/2 years after becoming a pariah in
international capital markets may yet embolden leaders elsewhere
in  Europe  to contemplate the prospect of life after burden
sharing.  Iceland survived by taking over the domestic units of its
banks and leaving the foreign creditors to bear losses. An 80
percent slump in the krona against the euro offshore in 2008
sent the trade deficit into surplus within months, while
 government spending  cuts helped rein in the budget. Iceland will
post a shortfall of 1.4 percent of gross domestic product next
year after 2011’s 2.7 percent deficit, the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development said on May 25.  “Iceland has come through this surprisingly well,” said
 Lars Christensen , chief analyst at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen. “2009 was a defining year for how the crisis
developed. The euro-zone countries took a step in the wrong
direction by loosening their fiscal policies. Iceland didn’t do
that because its only option was to tighten fiscal policies. Two
years later, Iceland has moved quite a way away from its
troubles while Greece is trying to unwind what it did.”  Twice Oversubscribed  Iceland’s first foreign-currency bond auction since 2006, a
$1 billion debt sale, was twice oversubscribed as the island
enjoys a return of “trust and respect and a certain degree of
goodwill,” Sigfusson said in the June 10 interview. The economy
of Iceland, which has carried a junk grade at  Fitch Ratings 
since January 2010, will grow 2.2 percent this year and 2.9
percent in 2012, the OECD estimates.  “The option is available to us” to sell more foreign-
currency debt, Sigfusson said. “We’ll monitor the developments
in the aftermarket. We’ll issue again, as and if required.”  The yield on the five-year bond has risen eight basis
points since it started trading on June 13, gaining to 5.03
percent, from 4.95 percent on its first day, according to prices
available on Bloomberg.  Sigfusson says Iceland’s transformation came at a cost,
adding the government had no option but to allow a banking
default, after the financial industry grew to 10 times the size
of the economy.  “This wasn’t our free choice,” Sigfusson said. “If we
hadn’t passed that legislation, the Icelandic economy would have
melted down completely.”  Painful Adjustment  Icelanders suffered an 18 percent slump in their disposable
incomes in 2009, adjusting for inflation, as the krona’s decline
sent consumer price growth close to 20 percent and unemployment
approached 10 percent, compared with 1 percent before the
crisis.  Still, after the adjustment, Sigfusson says he senses a
“dramatic change in how the international community and
investors perceive Iceland.”  European leaders were due to conclude a financing plan for
Greece at a June 23-24 summit.  Standard & Poor’s  gave the
country the world’s worst credit grade of CCC this week, arguing
Greece is “increasingly likely” to face a debt restructuring.  While  Germany  has lobbied in favor of extending Greek debt,
the  European Central Bank , which owns Greek bonds, has said it
would only agree to a plan in which creditors voluntarily agree
to roll over their debt holdings.  “It’s 100 percent certain that Greece will default,”
Harvard University History Professor  Niall Ferguson  said in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Erik Schatzker and  Deirdre Bolton  yesterday. “The only question is what euphemism will be
dreamt up to cloak the fact that it’s a default.”  The cost of insuring against a Greek default is the highest
in the world, with credit default swaps on five-year debt
trading at a record 1,603 basis points this week. Iceland’s CDS
have eased to 280 from a high of 1,473 basis points in October
2008, when its three biggest banks failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  