-- 
Greece Bailout Prospects Darken as European Bickering Weakens Papandreou

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-15T13:55:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/greece-bailout-prospects-darken-as-european-bickering-weakens-papandreou.html
Greek economic prospects darkened as
European bickering risked delaying the next rescue payment and
defections weakened Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s majority.  An emergency session of euro finance chiefs in Brussels
yesterday failed to break a deadlock on how to enroll investors
in a second bailout without triggering a default, casting doubt
on funds due from the  International Monetary Fund  next month.  In Athens, Greek police used tear gas to disperse
demonstrators around the Parliament as 20,000 people rallied
against wage reductions and tax increases as lawmakers debated
the budget cuts and asset sales that are conditions of the aid.
Ports, banks, hospitals and state-run companies were paralyzed
by strikes, while a Papandreou ally said he won’t support the
austerity measures and another bolted his Socialist Party.  Debt restructuring “seems to be increasingly probable,”
 Raghuram Rajan , a professor at the University of Chicago and a
former chief economist at the IMF, said today in  Singapore .
“The political will required to do what would be necessary to
service the level of debt that is building up is reaching the
limits of what Greece can do.”  The euro weakened 1 percent to $1.4290 at 2:50 p.m. in
London. The cost to insure Greek debt climbed to a record,
indicating an about 75 percent chance of default within five
years.  Yields on 10-year Greek bonds jumped to 17.9 percent, the
highest in the 17-nation euro area’s history. The slump pushed
the extra yield that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds instead of similar maturity German bunds to a record 1,491
basis points.  Merkel-Sarkozy Meeting  Papandreou briefed President Karolos Papoulias in Athens
today, telling him, “we will proceed with imperative
decisions.” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French
President Nicolas Sarkozy meet in two days in Berlin to resolve
their differences.  Pressure to craft a rescue plan and avoid the first euro-
area default intensified after  Standard & Poor’s  slapped Greece
with the world’s lowest credit rating on June 13 and the
 European Central Bank  and  Germany  clashed over easing Greece’s
debt load. At 143 percent of gross domestic product, it’s the
highest in  Europe .  Shares of BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit
Agricole SA, France’s three biggest banks, dropped more than 2
percent after Moody’s Investors Service placed their credit
ratings on review to scrutinize their holdings of Greek debt.  More Talks  With consensus elusive before the target date of a European
Union leaders’ summit late next week, finance ministers agreed
to convene again on June 19, adding a round to a gathering
scheduled for June 20. Talks may drag on into July, Luxembourg’s
Finance Minister Luc Frieden said yesterday.  “There’s no plan B, we have to come up with a solution,”
said  Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank
AG. “They’ll find a way to make it safe, which is what the ECB
and the French want, and make it irrevocable and grant more
time, which is what Germany wants.”  Europe’s financial leaders must hammer out a revised Greek
package to persuade the IMF to pay its share of the 12 billion-
euro ($17.3 billion) tranche originally due in June. The IMF had
indicated that it would withhold its 3.3 billion-euro piece
unless the EU comes up with a plan to close  Greece ’s funding gap
for 2012. A June 3 statement said the full payment would be made
in early July, presuming a deal is reached.  “We have to proceed very cautiously,” Frieden told
reporters after yesterday’s emergency session. “Very clearly we
have to go in the direction” of a delay until next month.
“Several options -- from the IMF, as well as from the European
Central Bank and from the European Commission -- still have to
be studied.”  Bailout Divisions  Thirteen months after Greece was granted a 110 billion-euro
bailout that failed to halt the spread of the debt crisis to
Ireland and Portugal, politicians are at odds over fulfilling a
pledge to make creditors pick up some of the cost of a second
rescue.  ECB policy makers have warned against German proposals that
maturities on Greek debt be extended for seven years, an outcome
rating companies have said would be considered a default. ECB
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , who attended yesterday’s meeting
in Brussels, said on June 9 that governments were flirting with
what could be a “enormous mistake.”  “It’s easy to understand everybody’s position but that
doesn’t mean the positions are compatible,”  Laurence Mutkin , head 
of European fixed-income strategy at Morgan Stanley in  London , 
told Bloomberg Television today. Still, “there’s enough room for 
a meeting of the minds,” he said.  Opposing Views  Germany and France, Europe’s two biggest economies, are on
opposite sides of the dispute, with France indicating backing
for the ECB’s view. While French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  has ruled out any action that constitutes a “credit
event,” her German counterpart,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , said June 10 
that Europe’s biggest economy “has to insist on the participation 
of the private sector” in Greece.  Schaeuble said yesterday’s meeting produced “no result.”  Germany is likely to back down, said  Andrew Bosomworth , a
 fund manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co., who sees
“little leeway for a middle-ground solution.”  “Germany probably is going to come down, to back off,”
Bosomworth said in an interview on Bloomberg Television today.
“I think it’s going to be a resolution in the form of a very
forceful Vienna II agreement, whereby the private sector will
voluntarily commit to roll their debt with a lot of
encouragement from their government.”  Greek Strike  In Greece, the third general strike this year underscored
the pressure on Papandreou, who aims to get 78 billion euros of
cuts and asset sales passed by the end of the month. His
Socialist Pasok party held a six-seat edge in the 300-member
legislature before the latest defections.  “This government has the responsibility to save the
country from default,” spokesman  George Petalotis  told
reporters in  Athens  yesterday in response to questions on the
strikes.  Demonstrators have gathered in the central square of Athens
in front of parliament for 21 days, setting up tents and calling
on others to join them. Police said the largest rally was on
June 5, when 50,000 people gathered in front of the chamber.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  