-- 
Greek Debt Default Is Increasingly Likely, Raghuram Rajan Says

-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 
2011-06-15T08:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/greek-debt-default-is-increasingly-likely-raghuram-rajan-says.html
Raghuram Rajan , a professor at the
University of Chicago and a former chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund , said a potential restructuring of
Greek debt seems increasingly probable. He spoke at a conference
in Singapore today.  On Greece:  “Potential restructuring of its debt seems to be
increasingly probable. It’s one of those things where the
political will required to do what would be necessary to service
the level of debt that is building up, is reaching the limits of
what Greece can do. In other words, I won’t say it’s inevitable
but it looks increasingly likely.  “If it happens without having prepared the banks and the
markets for it and it happens because of a breakdown in European
dialogue, there could be potential contagion effects for other
European countries.  “If it happens in a way that is prepared for, even if not
publicly at least privately prepared for, it is very well
containable.  “One of the advantages of this long, drawn-out crisis
resolution process is that many private sector entities that
were exposed to  Greece  have reduced their exposure. So the
extent to which banks in  Europe  are exposed to Greece is much
more limited now than even six months or a year ago. So the cost
of a Greek default and restructuring could be absorbed by the
banking sector.”  On  China :  “Clearly, the Chinese authorities understand the longer-
term focus has to be an increase in consumption growth and
making consumption a bigger part of the economy.”  On India:  “The fiscal side has to come into consistency with the
monetary side for both to work in the same direction and to have
the proverbial soft landing. Otherwise you might find that
monetary policy has to work much harder, which would have a
substantial slowdown effect on things like investment, which is
critical in  India .”  On inflation in China, India:  “We must remember with both countries, monetary policy
works with longer lags and less effect than it might work in
industrial countries. So it’s not that the central banks raise
 interest rates  or increase reserve requirements and
automatically there’s an effect. It takes time to play out.  “Certainly in India, you’re seeing the first signs of
slowing in consumption demand. So long as fiscal policy
cooperates, you should see some slowing into the rest of this
year and hopefully a softer landing. China, again, at least
there is some hope that toward the end of the year inflation
pressures will have tamed. The jury is still out on both
countries.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore  at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  