-- 
Libyan Rebels Seek $3.5 Billion in Financial Aid as Oil Production Stops

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-15T12:14:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/libya-s-rebel-government-seeks-3-5-billion-in-aid-as-oil-production-stops.html
Libya’s rebel government is seeking
$3.5 billion to cover its budget for six months as sales of
crude stopped after  oil fields  were destroyed, said Mahmoud
Badi, the president of foreign investments and sovereign assets.  “Oil sales have been stopped because there has been an
aggression on the oil fields and the producing fields were
destroyed,” Badi said in an interview in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday.
“We were only able to sell one cargo for $90 million to $100
million and after that we were not able to.”  Libya was producing as much as 1.4 million barrels a day of
crude before opposition to Muammar Qaddafi’s four-decade rule in
mid-February led to an armed rebellion that halted oil exports.
In April, a tanker loaded about 1 million barrels from rebel-
controlled territory that was marketed by Qatar’s national oil
company.  Rebel officials are visiting friendly Arab and European
nations for credit lines and loans. The National Transitional
Council received pledges for a total of $1.2 billion from
countries including France, Italy and Qatar, said Ahmed Jehani,
the official in charge of reconstruction at the rebel council.  The cost of importing fuel for rebel-held cities is $300
million a month, according to Badi. This has been covered by
countries that used to be customers of Libyan oil and companies
that produce or sell crude for the nation such as  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Total
SA (FP)  and Vitol Group, he said.  Resume Production  The rebels need armored cars, helicopters and weapons in
order to secure oilfields so they can resume crude production
and processing operations, Badi said. Four out of five of the
nation’s refineries are shut and the Qaddafi-controlled Zawiyah
facility is operating only partially, he said.  The 20,000 barrel-a-day Tobruk refinery and 10,000 barrel-
a-day plant at Sarir “might start within weeks, or one to two
months if we provide security,” Badi said. Peace would also
enable crude output of about 100,000 barrels a day, he said.  The  United Arab Emirates , of which Abu Dhabi is the
capital, hosted the 22-nation  Libya  Contact Group last week.
Italy pledged at the conference to provide the Libyan rebel
council with 300 million to 400 million euros, with 150 million
euros in fuel and the rest in cash in the coming weeks.  Libyan investments outside the country of as much as $200
billion are not all frozen because some are under personal names
rather than a domestic institution or bank, Badi said. Such
investments are “for sure in the African nations” and may also
be in  Europe , the U.S.,  Japan  and the  Middle East , Badi said.  Some oilfields may take as long as a year to return to
production because of the damage done by the fighting, he said.  Total has “no visibility” on when output from Libya will
resume, head of strategy Jean-Jacques Mosconi said today.
Production of about 55,000 barrels a day was halted in March.
Eni could lose about 200,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in
Libya this year if the unrest continues, Chief Executive Officer
 Paolo Scaroni  said last month. The company’s Libya production
reached 280,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  