-- 
Michigan Attorney General Subpoenas Three Mortgage Processors in Probe

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-06-15T16:09:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/michigan-attorney-general-subpoenas-three-mortgage-processors-in-probe.html
The  Michigan  attorney general’s
office subpoenaed three mortgage processors including Lender
Processing Services as part of a state probe of robo-signing.  Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette said his office
served Lender Processing,  Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF)  and
CT Corporation System with investigative subpoenas as affiliates
of DocX, a mortgage service support provider. The attorney
general said he is seeking information about documents signed by
DocX employees as “Linda Green.”  The subpoenas are part of a criminal investigation into
questionable mortgage documentation filed with Michigan’s
Register of Deeds offices, Schuette’s said in a statement today.
The subpoenas were approved by the state court in Lansing June
13 and require responses by June 30, Schuette said.  “Allegations of forged mortgage documents are very serious
and require a thorough investigation,” Schuette said. “I will
continue to work closely with federal and local authorities to
find answers on behalf of Michigan homeowners.”  Schuette said he started the investigation in April after
county officials across Michigan said they suspected assignment
of mortgage documents filed in their offices may have been
forged.  County officials in Michigan reviewed files after a “60
Minutes” broadcast by  CBS Corp. (CBS)  showed that “Linda Green” was
used to sign thousands of mortgage-related documents nationwide,
with multiple variations in handwriting, Schuette’s office said
in a statement.  The officials found similarly signed documents and Schuette
is investigating whether certain mortgage processing companies
permitted robo-signing of legal documents filed in connection
with Michigan foreclosures.  Michelle Kersch, a Lender Processing Services spokeswoman,
didn’t immediately return a call for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  