-- 
Microsoft Office 2010 Adopted 5 Times Faster Than Last Version

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-06-15T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/microsoft-office-2010-adopted-5-times-faster-than-last-version.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest
software maker, said corporate customers adopted the Office 2010
product five times faster than the previous version.  Sales to businesses outpaced those of Office 2007 through
the first nine months of product availability, Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft said today. The 2010  software suite 
is the fastest selling update among regular consumers, and
almost 50 million of them are using the Web-based versions of
Office programs Microsoft released to combat  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Apps.  The company is announcing the numbers in a blog on the one-
year anniversary of the product’s release, Takeshi Numoto, an
Office vice president, said in an interview.  Microsoft’s Business Division unit, mostly sales from
Office, has been exceeding analysts’ estimates, helping revenue
growth as the Windows operating-system business loses some
consumers to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Mountain View , California-based
Google has been trying to steal corporate and government
customers from Office with online word-processing and
spreadsheet software.  “The Office business is the one business people feel
pretty good about,” said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at
Pacific Crest Securities Inc. in Portland,  Oregon , who rates the
shares “sector perform.” “It’s not really coming under the
same kind of attacks” as Windows and mobile software.  Google Apps has been out for several years and there hasn’t
been mass defections, he said in an interview.  Cloud Computing  Deployments of Office 2010 are also beating those of Office
2003 “by a pretty significant margin,” Numoto said. Nine of 10
customers in a Microsoft satisfaction survey said 2010 was the
best Office release ever, he said.  Sales in the business division, the company’s biggest, rose
to $5.27 billion last quarter, exceeding the $4.9 billion
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The Office business is being challenged by the growing
popularity of so-called cloud software delivered over the
Internet, which is allowing companies to choose from more
options, Barnicle said. Delivering software as a service over
the Internet may squeeze Microsoft’s profit margins, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in  Seattle  at   dbass2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 