-- 
Del Posto’s $1,269 Meal Tops NYC’s Priciest List: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/hidden-price-of-prix-fixe-dining-includes-1-269-at-del-posto-ryan-sutton.html
Only a naif would figure the cost of
a meal at one of New York’s top restaurants based on the menu
price. That’s just a tease.  What follows is a real-world guide to prix-fixe dining
around town for two. The restaurants will be familiar. The
prices won’t.  Because if you’re plunging into a four-hour meal, you’re
probably not dining alone. And if you’re taking out a client (or
wooing a date), you’re not likely to be splitting the bill.  So: Flush with cash?  Mario Batali ’s  Del Posto  serves
 Manhattan ’s most expensive meal, the 12-course “Collection”
with mandatory wine pairings: $1,269 for two. Masa’s $1,142
before-sake price gives teetotaling couples a break.  For the city’s priciest three-course dinner, try  Gordon
Ramsay ’s $343 bash.  You won’t see those faint-inducing figures on your menu.  You’ll find them on your check.  Take  David Chang ’s Momofuku Ko. The East Village spot
offers a $125 menu -- which is fine if you don’t tip, don’t
drink, don’t bring company and have a diplomatic exemption from
paying  sales tax . For the rest of us, dinner at Ko will cost
$317 for two after tax and 18 percent gratuity. If both of you
do the $95 wine pairing, the price grows to $558.  Hidden Numbers  Checks are tough to estimate. L’Atelier de  Joel Robuchon  in
Midtown doesn’t publish an online menu with prices.
Opentable.com, which takes reservations for L’Atelier, says
you’ll spend “over” $50, a useless figure for a venue where a
beverage-paired tasting for two will cost north of $700.  Fine restaurants do a fine job of e-mailing guests when
black truffles are available, a lousy job communicating
champagne prices and a downright miserable job at letting you
know how much a meal will actually cost.  Our charts show what your check will really look like. A
couple enjoying a wine-paired menu at these restaurants will
easily spend over $500 after tax and tip; a table for four might
spend over $1,000.  Transparency is the issue, especially in the era of food
inflation. Good restaurants like Blue Hill at Stone Barns inform
diners of new tasting menu prices during the booking process.  Not so at Bouley, where reservationists don’t tell you that
the set menu has grown by $50 in recent months, so through no
fault of your own, you’ll show up and pay $100 more per couple
than expected.  The Index  Everyone’s a human calculator in the age of the smart
phone; we just shouldn’t have to rely on one.  Really, would you walk into Eleven Madison Park and order
the $145 beverage supplement without the $195 degustation menu?
Maybe if you’re a very rich alcoholic. So the more useful
statement is that the $340 paired-menu will cost $863 for two
with tax and tip.  The first chart below includes wine pairings in every
price; think of it as the maximum you might spend after tax and
tip. The remaining lists of longer and shorter menus exclude
wine prices; think of that as the minimum you’ll spend.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 