-- 
Miller Buckfire Chairman Henry Miller Resigns; Ronen Bojmel Said to Depart

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-15T22:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/miller-buckfire-chairman-henry-miller-resigns-ronen-bojmel-said-to-depart.html
Henry Miller is resigning as
chairman of Miller Buckfire & Co., the financial adviser that
received a $40 million investment from  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF) 
last week. Managing director Ronen Bojmel is leaving the firm, a
person familiar with the situation said.  The loss of Bojmel, who led the restructuring of mall
operator  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , follows the defection
of managing director Sam Greene, who is joining Centerview
Partners LLP to help start a restructuring practice, another
person said. The people asked not to be named because the moves
aren’t public. Miller, who stepped down as chief executive
officer of the New York-based company in 2009, will be a senior
adviser at both Stifel and Miller Buckfire.  “This is part of my transition and retirement planning
that was built into the company’s formation in 2002,” Miller,
65, said today in an interview. “We’re very confident that what
we have in place is a solid business, a great brand and talented
people.”  Miller Buckfire advised Calpine Corp. on its $17.3 billion
restructuring in 2008 and Kmart Corp. on its $8.5 billion
restructuring in 2003. The firm faces increasing competition as
boutique and mid-sized investment banks expand.  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  and Peter J. Solomon Co. have each hired former
Miller Buckfire managing directors since last year.  ‘Restructuring Greats’  “Henry Miller is up there with the restructuring greats,”
said James Shein, a professor at Northwestern University  Kellogg
School  of Management who teaches management turnarounds. “It’s
very surprising to see such a significant resignation right
after a major investment, especially in a service industry like
restructuring.”  CEO Kenneth Buckfire said in an interview that Miller’s
move has been “long-planned” and that bankers’ departures are
a normal practice on  Wall Street .  “The level of traditional restructuring assignments has
really receded over the past year as functioning capital markets
and low rates gave many companies other options,” said Devin Ryan, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. “A number of
independent investment advisers significantly expanded their
restructuring platforms in preparation for the upcoming cycle.”  Capital-Markets Focus  Miller Buckfire recognized that it needed to tap new
expertise, Buckfire said.  “We are aggressively going to be recruiting senior bankers
to help reposition for the strategy we’ve now embarked on, which
is far more focused in capital markets,” he said. “Bringing
capital markets solutions to companies to repair their balance
sheets is an extremely important skill.”  Stifel, which invested in Miller Buckfire to gain access to
its restructuring capabilities, may look to acquire the whole
firm, Stifel CEO Ronald Kruszewski said last week. Sarah
Anderson, a spokeswoman for Stifel, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Miller “helped us agree to a strategic alliance with
Stifel Financial that enhances our capital base and enables us
to recruit and retain the best restructuring bankers,” Chuck Dohrenwend, a spokesman for Miller Buckfire, said in an e-mail.
“We look forward to his ongoing contributions to the continued
success of our firm” in his role as an adviser, Dohrenwend
said. He declined to comment on other employees’ plans.  Bojmel, 43, who may announce his departure next week, is
weighing a move to a distressed-investments firm or another
restructuring advisory, the person familiar with his plans said.
His departure follows Evercore’s hiring of Lloyd Sprung in
April, who will advise on debt capital markets and corporate
restructurings, and Durc Savini’s move to Peter J. Solomon last
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  