-- 
In Boeing Case, Machinists Are Picking the Wrong Fight: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/in-boeing-case-machinists-are-picking-the-wrong-fight-view.html
Yesterday in  Seattle , an obscure
administrative court heard a case that unions are hoping will
help them stem the painful decline in labor’s bargaining power.
In this instance, the unions have picked the wrong battle.  The issue at hand: Whether  Boeing Co. (BA)  illegally punished
the local machinists’ union when it decided in 2009 to locate a
new plant to build its  787 Dreamliner  in North Charleston, South
Carolina, instead of the Puget Sound region of  Washington , where
Boeing has built planes since 1936. In April, the  National Labor
Relations Board  determined that Boeing’s decision violated
federal labor law, because it amounted to retaliation for
strikes.  The details of the case, though, aren’t quite so cut and
dried. Boeing initially offered to build the 787 plant in Puget
Sound, on the condition that the union agree not to strike for
at least 10 years. After talks broke down, Boeing accepted $170
million in grants and tens of millions more in tax breaks to
build the plant in  South Carolina . By locating its new plant in
one of the 22 right-to-work states that have adopted laws
supporting non-union employment, the company followed the well-
worn path of textile manufacturers, automakers and others that
have moved south to reduce labor costs.  In defining the move as illegal retaliation, the labor
board  cited  company executives’ public statements about their
desire to avoid strikes. That, the board concluded, demonstrated
the executives’ intention to punish the workers, who had staged
strikes at Boeing factories four times since 1989.  Right to Strike  Just to be clear: Workers have the right to strike. But
companies are equally entitled to make strategic plans to avoid
work stoppages. Boeing, which has more than 50,000 union workers
in a global labor force of 157,000, didn’t break a strike, crush
a union or intimidate union employees. In fact, employment at
Boeing’s unionized Puget Sound plants is up by 2,000 since the
South Carolina plant was announced.  Employers’ quest for low-cost labor has been devastating to
American workers. Textile and apparel manufacturing has moved
largely offshore, at a loss of more than 1 million American
jobs. Automakers who once paid high wages are offering new
employees $14 per hour. Boeing’s machinists understandably worry
that the company’s move to South Carolina signals a future of
declining wages.  However, the pain inflicted on individual workers by
companies’ efforts to boost their competitiveness doesn’t
necessarily make those efforts illegal. Before the labor board
files a complaint, it should be clear that the target of the
complaint has crossed a legal line. No such transgression exists
in this case. Rather than the company punishing the union for
striking, it appears that the board is seeking to punish the
company for opening a plant in a  right-to-work  state.  Pyrrhic Victory  A victory for the union wouldn’t do much good for
manufacturing workers. Having hired 1,000 workers and invested
$2 billion in the South Carolina plant, Boeing expects its first
787 to be completed in July. If federal courts, the next likely
venue if the administrative case isn’t settled, endorse the
labor board’s ruling, work at the plant would stop.  With unemployment about 9 percent and conservative
governors in  Wisconsin ,  Ohio  and elsewhere seeking to neuter
public-employee unions, the U.S. labor movement has its back to
the wall. The labor board was reflexively anti-union under the
 Bush administration . Under the board’s new Democratic majority,
unions are no doubt eager to receive a better shake.
Unfortunately, the complaint against Boeing is merely shaky.  Read more Bloomberg View  editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 