-- 
India’s Rupee Gains a Second Day as Central Bank May Raise Rate

-- B y   A n i l   V a r m a
-- 
2011-06-15T04:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/india-s-rupee-gains-a-second-day-as-central-bank-may-raise-rate.html

(Corrects survey results in paragraph two.)  India ’s rupee strengthened a second
day on speculation the central bank will boost  interest rates 
tomorrow to cool inflation, increasing the nation’s yield
advantage over the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan .  The  Reserve Bank  of India will increase its repurchase rate
by a quarter of a percentage point to 7.5 percent, according to
18 of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with two predicting
no change. Global funds boosted holdings of rupee debt by $227
million on June 13, the most in a month, according to exchange
data. Prices may continue “facing upward pressure,” the
central bank said in a report yesterday.  The rupee “may rise further ahead of tomorrow’s RBI rate
decision,” strategists at Credit Agricole SA led by Hong Kong-
based Mitul Kotecha wrote in a research note released today.
“Following hawkish comments from the central bank that
inflation is likely to continue facing upward pressure, markets
may begin to speculate that the RBI could hike by 50 basis
points tomorrow.”  The rupee appreciated 0.1 percent to 44.71 per dollar as of
9:28 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That pared its loss this quarter to 0.3 percent, the worst
performance after the  Thai baht  among Asia’s 10 most-traded
currencies.  The nation’s 10-year government bonds due April 2021
yielded 8.37 percent, the most among Asia’s investment-grade
debt and more than twice the 3.08 percent on similar-dated U.S.
Treasuries, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate
rose three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, from
yesterday.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.35 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.40
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anil Varma in Mumbai at 
 avarma3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 