-- 
Inditex First-Quarter Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Store Openings

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-06-15T09:54:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/inditex-first-quarter-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-on-store-openings.html
Inditex SA (ITX) , the world’s largest
clothing retailer, reported first-quarter profit growth that
beat analysts’ estimates as it opened stores from the
Netherlands to Australia and expanded online sales.  Net income in the three months ended April 30 rose to 332
million euros ($479 million) from 301 million euros a year
earlier, the Arteixo, Spain-based company said today in a
statement. The average estimate of 10 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg was 316 million euros.  Inditex, whose dresses are worn by Prince William’s wife
Kate Middleton, is adding outlets in emerging countries such as
China to compensate for weaker consumer spending in its domestic
market. The Spanish retailer reported a 7 percent rise in first-
quarter earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization amid “tight” control of operating expenses. That
compares with the 27 percent decline reported by Swedish rival
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  in March after its costs increased.  “It’s fairly self-evident which business model is working
best at present,” said  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum
Capital. He doesn’t plan to change his “buy” rating on
Inditex.  Inditex shares rose 12 cents, or 0.2 percent, to 61.87
euros as of 11:28 a.m. in Madrid. H&M, which today reported May
sales that missed estimates, fell as much as 3.4 percent and
traded 3.1 percent lower at 11:28 a.m. in Stockholm.  Operating Expenses  Inditex’s gross margin narrowed to 58.8 percent of sales in
the quarter, from 59.9 percent a year earlier. The retailer’s
“best estimate” for 2011 is that it will retain a minimum of
50 percent of the gross margin gains achieved in 2010, Marcos Lopez, capital markets director, said on a conference call,
reiterating comments made in March.  Clothing retailers face higher expenses as cotton prices
increase and manufacturing wages rise in  Asia . Gap Inc. last
month cut its full-year profit forecast by 22 percent as costs
to make clothing rose faster than expected.  Inditex’s first-quarter revenue rose 11 percent to 2.96
billion euros, matching the average estimate. Store sales in
local currencies gained 11 percent between Feb. 1 and June 12.  Sales growth was “respectable, but not impressive, bearing
in mind the strength of April for clothing retailers across
 Europe  and the boost that Inditex should be seeing” after
introducing online sales,  Anne Critchlow , an analyst at  Societe
Generale  in  London , said by e-mail. She calculated that same-
store sales growth was 3 percent in the period.  Bikini Tops  H&M, which sells bikini tops for less than 7 euros, today
said sales in stores open at least a year rose 2 percent in May,
missing estimates of some analysts including Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Richard Chamberlain.  Inditex, which has 5,154 stores in 78 countries, said it
would introduce Zara in  South Africa , Taiwan and Peru in coming
months and start online sales of the brand in the U.S. Sept. 7.  In  China , the company is likely in coming years to open
more than the 120 stores it has planned for this year, Inditex
Chief Executive Officer Pablo Isla said on the call.  Inditex’s performance in  Spain  is “stable” and it doesn’t
plan to raise prices, Lopez said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  