-- 
Infigen Plans to Cut Debt 20% After German Wind-Asset Sale

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-06-15T04:19:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/infigen-plans-to-reduce-debt-by-20-percent-after-german-wind-asset-sale.html
Infigen Energy (IFN) , the Australian
developer of renewable-energy projects, expects to cut debt by
about 20 percent in the year ending in June 2012 after selling
its German wind-power assets.  The wind-power company aims to reduce debt by more than
A$250 million ($267 million) from A$1.27 billion as of the end
of December, Managing Director Miles George said in a phone
interview today. Sydney-based Infigen previously planned to
lower its debt by A$100 million, he said.  “Clearly we are highly geared, but 20 percent is a
significant reduction in debt,” George said. “Our objective is
to keep amortizing that down to get it to a level where we could
refinance and we’re also more comfortable.”  Infigen, formerly known as Babcock & Brown Wind Partners,
is focusing on developing Australian wind-power projects as the
government moves toward a target of generating one fifth of the
country’s power from renewable energy sources by 2020. Infigen
this week agreed to sell the German assets for 154.6 million
euros ($223 million) to a European fund it didn’t identify.  The company in April 2010 scrapped a plan to dispose of the
German assets and later that month abandoned an effort to sell
its U.S. wind-energy business after failing to attract high
enough bids.  “We did achieve a material premium above the best price we
were offered around this time last year, so it was well worth
holding off until market conditions were better,” George said.  Germany ’s decision to close nuclear power plants after the
disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi station has made
renewable energy more attractive, according to George.  Separating U.S. Business  While a sale of the U.S. wind business is still under
consideration,  Infigen  doesn’t expect a transaction in the
“short term,” George said. The company, as one alternative, is
weighing a sale of shares in the U.S. business in a public
offering during the next two years, he said.  “Our experience has been that being a publicly-listed
company in  Australia  holding a large portfolio of U.S. assets is
probably not an effective  capital structure ,” George said. “It
would be better to be in a position to raise capital in the
local market in the U.S. We think that makes a lot of sense.”  Infigen, whose shares have declined 57 percent in the past
year, rose as much as 7 percent to 38 Australian cents today in
Sydney trading. The stock gained 5.6 percent at 1:01 p.m. local
time, compared with a 0.3 percent drop in the S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Infigen’s Cash  The wind-power developer’s decision announced yesterday to
scrap dividends through June 2013 is a “prudent measure,”  John Hirjee , an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in  Melbourne , wrote in a
report dated yesterday. “Infigen’s cash is better retained.”  Infigen, Suntech Power Holdings Co.’s partner in a proposed
solar project in Australia, is among companies competing for
federal government funding. Australia has accepted applications
from ventures shortlisted in the government’s A$1.5 billion
Solar Flagships program and has said it expects to make a
decision on winning ventures in the middle of this year.  The Australian company would be able to move quickly to
convert financing and supply arrangements into binding accords
if it is successful in obtaining the solar funds, George said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 