-- 
Inflation in U.S. Probably Rose at Slowest Pace in Six Months

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-06-15T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/inflation-in-u-s-probably-rose-at-slowest-pace-in-six-months.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose in May at the slowest pace in six months as fuel
costs waned, economists said before a report today.  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent after a 0.4
percent gain in April, according to the median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The so-called core
measure, which excludes more volatile food and energy costs, may
have increased 0.2 percent for the fourth time in five months.  The data support Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
expectation that the jump in commodity expenses will prove to be
temporary. Companies like  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  and  Abercrombie &
Fitch Co. (ANF)  are among those that haven’t been able to fully pass
cost increases along to customers as higher energy prices and
unemployment caused  consumer spending  to cool.  “The moderation in fuel costs is welcome news,” said
Gregory Daco, a senior economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “The risk of spiraling inflation in
the U.S. currently seems far-fetched given the substantial
labor-market slack and muted wage growth.”  The Labor Department’s price data are due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Estimates of the economists surveyed ranged from
declines of 0.2 percent to gains of 0.4 percent.  Another report today is projected to show the worst of the
slowdown in manufacturing as a result of the disaster in  Japan 
has already passed. Fed figures at 9:15 a.m. will show
industrial production grew 0.2 percent in May after stalling in
April, according to the Bloomberg survey median. A regional
report from the New York Fed, released at 8:30 a.m., may show
factories expanded at a faster rate in June.  12-Month Gain  May’s projected increase would mean consumer prices climbed
3.4 percent over the past 12 months, the biggest year-to-year
gain since October 2008.  The advance in core prices since May 2010 would accelerate
to 1.4 percent, the most since January 2010.  Fed Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said the  U.S. economy , which
slowed in the first quarter, will likely pick up as fuel costs
fall and as factories in Japan recover from the March earthquake
and tsunami, which disrupted auto-parts supplies. There isn’t
“much evidence that inflation is becoming broad-based or
ingrained,” Bernanke also said at a June 7 speech in Atlanta.  The central bank’s preferred price gauge, which excludes
food and fuel, rose 1 percent in April from a year earlier. Fed
policy makers aim for long-run overall inflation of 1.7 percent
to 2 percent, according to their April forecast.  Commodities Retreat  Commodity prices have retreated since the end of April on
concern rising  interest rates  in countries from  China  to  India 
will slow the global economy. Crude oil futures on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  reached $113.93 a barrel on April 29, the
highest level since September 2008, before closing at $102.7 a
barrel on May 31.  Investors’ expectations for inflation, as measured by the
breakeven rate between Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
and nominal bonds, have fallen over the last two months as the
price of commodities such as oil dropped and the economic
recovery slowed. The expected rate of inflation over the next 10
years fell to 2.26 percent from 2.66 percent on April 11, which
was the highest level since August 2006.  McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, said last
week that U.S. sales at stores open at least 13 months advanced
2.4 percent, the smallest monthly gain since February 2010. The
 Oak Brook , Illinois-based company has raised prices over the
past year to help offset surging meat costs, which analysts said
prompted customers to buy cheaper items on the menu.  Smaller Margins  Abercrombie & Fitch’s Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Ramsden said on June 8 that rising costs would narrow the teen
retailer’s second-quarter profit margins. The company is facing
rising costs along with the rest of the apparel industry as the
price of cotton, oil and labor in Asia increase. Abercrombie
plans to raise prices in the U.S. in early September, Ramsden
said.  The CPI is the broadest of three monthly price measures
from the Labor Department because it includes goods and
services. About 60 percent of the CPI covers prices consumers
pay for services ranging from medical visits to airline fares
and movie tickets.  A Labor Department report yesterday showed the producer-
 price index  in May increased 0.2 percent after increasing 0.8
percent the prior month. Import prices in the U.S., reported
last week, unexpectedly rose 0.2 percent from the prior month as
more expensive autos and clothing overshadowed the first drop in
fuel costs in eight months.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  