-- 
Invensys Pension Deal Could Ease Takeover, BofA Merrill Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-06-15T13:10:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/invensys-pension-deal-could-ease-takeover-bofa-merrill-says.html
Invensys Plc (ISYS) , the maker of controls
for Whirlpool washing machines, could remove a “perceived
poison pill” blocking potential takeovers if it disposes of a
4.1 billion-pound ($6.7 billion)  pension-plan  deficit in the
U.K., according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  While buying out the pension plan might cost between 400
million pounds and 1 billion pounds, Invensys would then be able
to sell assets without contributing some of the proceeds to the
plan and would eliminate pension-servicing charges, analysts
including Alex Toms wrote in a note today.  Invensys held talks with pension providers and sees
opportunities to remove the liability, acting Chief Financial
Officer  David Thomas  said last month. Company directors are
evaluating offers from three companies to take over the
 retirement plan  and will select one within months, the  Sunday
Times  reported June 12.  “Resolution of the U.K. pension scheme would clearly be
taken well by investors,” the BofA Merrill Lynch analysts said
in the note.  Shares of Invensys, which has dropped out of the FTSE 100
benchmark index, have declined 14 percent in London trading this
year, valuing the business at 2.5 billion pounds.  U.K. engineering companies have recently attracted takeover
bids from overseas investors. Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board and Onex Corp., the nation’s biggest buyout fund, last
year bought Tomkins Plc for $4.8 billion, while Emerson Electric
Co. bought Chloride Group Ltd. for $1.6 billion after outbidding
ABB Ltd.  A bid for London-based Invensys is “possible, but not
certain,” RBC Capital analyst Andrew Carter wrote in a March 29
note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  