-- 
Is Mr. Romney Now Mr. Right for Republicans?: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/is-mr-romney-now-mr-right-for-republicans-margaret-carlson.html
Mitt Romney  has had the kind of
smooth life that makes people want to trip him as he bounds up
stairs two at a time. But he has become a steadying presence in
a field of Republican presidential candidates who raise the
 blood pressure  -- and not in a good way.  At this week’s debate in  New Hampshire , Romney was a mighty
oak planted at center stage, with little saplings arrayed around
him. In every Republican primary poll, Romney holds a sizable
lead. And in a June 7  ABC News/Washington Post poll , the former
Massachusetts governor made everyone sit up and notice: Romney
led President Barack Obama 49 percent to 46 percent among
registered voters. Tea Party heartthrobs Sarah Palin and
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who announced her
candidacy June 13, don’t come close.  While other candidates are losing their heads --  Newt Gingrich  even managed to lose his whole staff last week --
Romney has kept his down. He is pursuing a carefully calculated
stealth campaign made possible largely by the foibles of
competitors. The news media are easily diverted, chronicling
Palin’s rewrite of Paul Revere’s ride and Gingrich’s vacation
cruise to the Greek Isles.  Romney quietly visits voters in coffee shops, diners and
living rooms far from the madding crowd. In such small settings
he can be charming, like the president of the local Rotary
handing out scholarships to A students. In fundraising, he’s the
champ, recently collecting pledges of more than $10 million on
an especially good day. His message is becoming clearer and more
direct: His campaign just produced a boffo ad quoting an Obama
speech in which the president cites “bumps in the road” to
economic recovery; in the Romney ad, the unemployed are cast as
the resentful “bumps.”  Languishing in Polls  By keeping the media occupied, fringe candidates are
consuming much of the oxygen that Romney’s more serious
competitors need to thrive. Former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , for example, can’t get enough press coverage to get
out of single digits in the polls -- though he should be
grateful that reporters were largely distracted last week when
he unveiled his economic plan. With bracing simplicity, Pawlenty
announced that by boosting economic growth to 5 percent a year
for 10 years, instead of the current 1.8 percent, he would
generate millions of new jobs and balance the federal budget.
Even  Douglas Holtz-Eakin , a former economic adviser to Senator
 John McCain ’s 2008 presidential campaign,  told Talking Points
Memo  that Pawlenty’s plan is the stuff of fantasy. “The market
just doesn’t support that,” he said. “It just doesn’t.”  Pawlenty Versus Bachmann  In  Iowa , Pawlenty risks looking ever more flaky as he
battles Bachmann, who was born there and born to appeal to its
activist base. He can’t out-God, out-gay-bash or out-gun her
without straying dangerously far from his origins as governor of
a blue state. If the debate, where he declined even to repeat
his zinger labeling Romney’s Massachusetts health reform
“ ObamneyCare ,” was the first contest between them, the zesty
Bachmann won it in a rout.  Romney, by contrast, has decided to skip Iowa’s straw poll
in August, a sign of sanity if ever there was one. The straw
poll is a huge money and time suck invented in 1979 to raise
funds for the Iowa Republican Party. Its attendees have chosen
the eventual Republican nominee only twice in five tries.  Social Issues  Hard-right conservatives will grind their molars and pull
the lever for a moderate businessman like Romney -- or even the
former Utah governor and ambassador to  China ,  Jon Huntsman  --
provided he has renounced abortion, gay rights and, this year,
an individual mandate for health care. Independents and moderate
Republicans will vote for him in the general election, provided
he winked at them in the process.  Likewise  Wall Street , which abandoned Democrats for
Republicans in 2010, will support a guy who rails against
raising the debt ceiling so long as they know he doesn’t mean
it. In the United States of Amnesia, the distinction between the
positions Romney holds and the positions he claims will be lost
in the mists of time, like his suit-and-tie uniform that morphed
somewhere along the way into Friday casual.  Romney still has work to do getting right with the right.
Yet in the end, even his trouble with “ObamneyCare” may not be
fatal.  Tea Partiers don’t hate government nearly as much as they
say they do; 70 percent of them support Medicare. And while
Romney’s dog whistle to the right is a thin echo of Palin and
Bachmann’s primal screams, if polls continue showing Romney
alone beating the president, he’ll be poised to rally the Obama-
loathing Republican base. In politics, as in marriage, at some
point you stop looking for a mythical Mr. Right and decide he’s
the one in front of you.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  For more Bloomberg View columns:
 http://www.bloomberg.com/view/columns/   To contact the writer on this story:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor on this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 