-- 
Israel to Start Investing Reserves in Equities Abroad This Year

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-06-15T21:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/israel-to-start-investing-reserves-in-equities-abroad-this-year.html
The  Bank of Israel  plans to start
investing some of its reserves in equities abroad by the end of
the year, the central bank’s director of market operations said.  The pilot investment will be through index trackers rather
than specific stocks, Barry Topf said in an interview at the
bank’s offices in  Jerusalem . The bank plans to invest in the
largest, most liquid and sophisticated markets through outside
asset managers who haven’t yet been chosen, he said.  “We can achieve a higher return on the reserves without
incurring higher risks,” Topf said. “It’s been an extremely
difficult environment for investors in general, and especially
central banks because their natural environment has been
 government bonds  and fixed-income investments and we know that
yields are at historic lows.”  While the investment by central banks of part of their
reserves in equities isn’t widespread, a small and growing
number has begun to do so, Topf said. About 11 percent of the
foreign-exchange reserves of  Switzerland’s central bank  were
invested in shares at the end of the first quarter, the Swiss
bank said on its website.  “This is something which would have been virtually
unthought of 10 years ago for a central bank,” said Topf, who
has been at the central bank for 30 years. “It has become more
accepted because central banks have grown in sophistication.”  Helping Exporters  Israel ’s central bank has been buying foreign currency in
most months since March 2008, more than doubling reserves, in an
effort to moderate shekel gains and help exporters compete.
Reserves declined for the first time in six months in May and
stood at $76.8 billion at the end of the month.  “They’ve increased a lot, we think that’s a good thing,”
said Topf, a 57-year-old with a degree in history. “The level
of reserves is broadly consistent with what we need. That also
allows us to be flexible in terms of intervention policy. We
don’t have a need to go out and buy reserves but we also don’t
have a need to go out and sell.”  The  Bank of Israel ’s goal is to return to a situation in
which it doesn’t intervene in the market, Topf said. That
doesn’t mean that the bank won’t intervene if the  exchange rate 
diverges markedly from underlying fundamentals, he said. Central
banks intervene when they buy or sell currencies to influence
exchange rates.  “Intervention has trended down,” Topf said, adding that
there are “obviously fluctuations from month to month.”  Inflows to Shekel  Koon Chow, an emerging-market strategist at  Barclays
Capital , said the fact that Topf talked about scaling back
intervention is “interesting.”  “While he may be indicating a desire to intervene less,
the reality is that with the interest rate going higher and
investors bullish on Israeli fundamentals, inflows to the shekel
will continue,” Chow said in an e-mail. “The Bank of Israel
will lean against these inflows to prevent export
competitiveness from being eroded too much.”  In the past 12 months, the shekel has gained about 11
percent against the dollar. The currency was trading at 3.4368
shekels against the dollar at 6:58 p.m. Israeli time yesterday.  The government’s plan, announced in January, to cancel the
 tax exemption  for foreigners on profit from short-term Makam
bills and short-term bonds will go into effect on July 1. While
some of the effects on the shekel have already been “priced
in,” not all of them have, Topf said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 