-- 
Israeli Consumer Prices Rose in May on Higher Housing Costs

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-06-15T17:34:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/israeli-consumer-prices-rose-in-may-on-higher-housing-costs-2-.html
Israeli consumer prices rose in May
as housing costs increased and fuel and food prices climbed.  The consumer-price index advanced 0.5 percent from the
previous month, the Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics 
said today. The median forecast of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for a 0.5 percent increase. Annual inflation rose
to 4.1 percent from 4 percent.  Israeli consumer prices have surged as the economy recovers
from the global recession faster than most advanced countries.
Unemployment dropped to 6 percent in the first quarter, its
lowest since 2008. Inflation has exceeded the government’s 1
percent to 3 percent target since the beginning of the year.  “Gasoline prices rose due to high  oil prices  and food
prices increased because of high agricultural commodity costs,”
Ori Greenfeld, an economist at Tel Aviv-based Psagot Investment
House Ltd. said in an e-mail. “If the low unemployment leads to
an increase in real wages, additional inflationary pressures
will be created, which may cause the Bank of  Israel  to
accelerate rate hikes.”  Inflation is likely to remain above the upper limit of the
target until the first quarter of 2012, Greenfeld said.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  raised the interest
rate for a fourth time this year at the end of May, bringing the
benchmark to 3.25 percent. Fifteen of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg at the end of May expect Fischer to leave the
benchmark unchanged this month, while two predict a quarter
percentage point increase.  Housing Figure ‘Worrying’  “The most worrying figure is housing prices,” Yossi Shvimer, chief economist at Migdal Capital Markets Ltd. said by
telephone. “ Home prices  are continuing to rise, and this will
certainly be a consideration in the next rate decision.”  Rental prices rose 1.1 percent in May, the bureau said.
Home purchase prices, which are not included in the index but
are published together with it, rose by a preliminary 1.5
percent for the month, bringing the increase for the past 12
months to 15.3 percent, compared with 13.9 percent a month
earlier.  Growth is expected to accelerate to 5.2 percent this year,
from 4.7 percent last year, the  Bank of Israel  said in a June 1
forecast. The economy expanded by 4.7 percent in the first
quarter, led by fixed investment and exports.  Israeli bonds fell today in anticipation of a pickup in
inflation, pushing yields on 10-year government debt up 3 basis
points to 5.19 percent at 5 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . The yield has
risen more than half a percentage point this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  