-- 
Penney Nabbing Johnson From Apple Sets ‘Huge Expectation’

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-15T20:14:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/j-c-penney-nabbing-johnson-from-apple-sets-huge-expectation-.html
Ron Johnson , who helped turn  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  into a retail star with flashy big-city stores, now faces
the challenge of conjuring up similar buzz around 109-year-old
retailer J.C. Penney Co.  Johnson will take over as chief executive officer on Nov.
1, replacing Myron Ullman in the midst of a sales turnaround.
The third-biggest U.S. department-store chain aims to hold onto
growth amid the slowing economic recovery and surging costs for
materials such as cotton.  “It’s our job to rethink everything,” Johnson, 52, said
in a telephone interview yesterday after the announcement.
“Retailing’s always been about creativity, it’s about creating
exciting new ways for people to shop, new products for people to
purchase, new ways to do things.”  Johnson can make Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney stand out,
especially in an industry where many consumers can’t tell the
difference between competitors, by improving  customer service 
and adding exclusive brands, said New York retail consultant
Robin Lewis.  “It’s injecting rocket fuel into Mike Ullman’s growth
strategies of turning J.C. Penney into a more exciting brand,”
said Lewis, also chief executive officer of the Robin Report.
“It’s placing a huge expectation on him.”  Investors put their faith in Johnson yesterday by pushing
the stock up the most since 2000. While he may not open Genius
Bars next to dressing rooms to move merchandise, his track
record may foreshadow success: Apple’s sales per square foot
last year were almost 30 times those of J.C. Penney and two-
thirds higher than luxury jeweler  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)   Central Casting  “He’s kind of the CEO from central casting,” said Howard
Gross, head of the retail and fashion practice at executive
search firm Boyden. “He really does understand how to
differentiate one business from another.”  Johnson led  Target Corp. (TGT) ’s foray into home design before
joining CEO  Steve Jobs  at Cupertino, California-based Apple in
2000. At Target, Johnson added cachet to the Midwestern discount
chain by focusing on originality -- bringing in architect
Michael Graves to create a home collection and adding brands
such as Calphalon. Designers like Isaac Mizrahi followed, luring
fashion- and budget-conscious shoppers and helping the merchant
stand apart from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   At Apple, he and Jobs placed stores in heavily trafficked,
premium-rent areas like New York’s Fifth Avenue or Regent Street
in  London . They loaded the stores with employees to help
demonstrate the products to customers and organized splashy
product launches that had hundreds lining up for a taste of
Apple.  Apple’s Success  At J.C. Penney, which sells thousands of items, Johnson
says he plans to help the chain stay on the right path, just run
faster. In taking over the retailer, he’ll oversee more than
1,100 stores, more than triple the amount Apple has.  Among his supporters is J.C. Penney’s largest investor,
 William Ackman , who called Johnson’s hire “a credit to the
company.” He joined J.C. Penney’s board this year after his
firm, Pershing Square Capital Management LP, disclosed a 16.5
percent stake in October and pushed the chain to improve
performance.  J.C. Penney fell $1.25, or 3.5 percent, to $34.12 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares jumped
17 percent yesterday.  Sales Performance  Sales had dropped for three straight years before gaining
1.2 percent to $17.8 billion in 2010. Under Ullman, the chain
had sped up cost-cutting to improve profitability, looking to
shield itself from the faltering U.S. economy.  Ullman, 64, took over at J.C. Penney in 2004, in the midst
of a sales revival. He opened stores outside of malls, added
Sephora make-up boutiques to stores and introduced designer
brands by Liz Claiborne, Mango and Jones  New York . He and J.C.
Penney approached Johnson several years ago about a  succession
plan , said Ullman, who will become executive chairman.  “I felt from the beginning that he was one of the one or
two people who could really transform this company from the
level we envisioned, and he just wasn’t ready at that time,”
Ullman said.  Now that he is, he’s receiving a grant of 1.66 million
restricted shares valued at $50 million, based on J.C. Penney’s
closing price June 13. The award is intended to help compensate
for intended equity awards from Apple. He also invested $50
million of his own money to buy warrants that can’t be sold for
six years.  Still, Johnson faces a different environment. Increasing
unemployment and gas prices have forced some customers to curb
shopping trips. That means J.C. Penney has to offer something
extra to distinguish itself from competitors, said Boyden’s
Gross.  “This is no slam dunk,” Gross said. “You can take the
best and the brightest, and it’s not going to be an easy job.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  