-- 
J&J Stops Making Drug-Coated Heart Stents Amid Falling Sales

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-06-15T20:22:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/j-j-to-cut-900-1-000-jobs-take-500-mln-600-mln-charge.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  plans to leave the
market for the drug-coated heart stents it pioneered, in a
restructuring that will close two factories and cut as many as
1,000 jobs.  The manufacture of Cypher and Cypher Select Plus stents and
development of a new model will end this year, the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based company said in a statement today.
 Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX) , the current stent market leader, rose
2.8 percent in New York trading.  J&J, once the world’s leading maker of the artery-clearing
devices, has lost ground to Boston Scientific and  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  in a $4 billion-a-year global stent market where
competition has dragged down prices, said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst
in Rye,  New York , with Gabelli & Co. Inc., which owns J&J
shares. J&J suspended a clinical trial last year for its
proposed next-generation model, Nevo, after difficulties with a
catheter used to insert the device in patients.  “The market’s just so unattractive for drug-eluting stents
right now and expectations for Nevo weren’t very high,” Jonas
said in a telephone interview. “This is just them finally
throwing in the towel.”  Stents are tiny mesh tubes used to prop open arteries after
they’ve been cleared of fat clogging the flow of blood. J&J
introduced Cypher in 2003 as the first stent with a drug coating
designed to prevent new blockages from forming. The company’s
Cordis unit sold $627 million in drug stents last year, down
from $2.62 billion in 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Better Prospects  The move will let J&J focus on other cardiovascular devices
with better prospects for growth, Jonas said.  Not including drug stents or the impact of foreign-exchange
rates, Cordis’s other products generated $1.9 billion in sales
in 2010, up 8 percent over the previous year, J&J said.  The restructuring will lead to a charge of $500 million to
$600 million in this year’s second quarter, J&J said in a second
statement. Cordis said it will close plants in Cashel, Ireland,
and San German,  Puerto Rico , and consolidate research and
development teams in Fremont,  California .  J&J gained Nevo in its 2007 purchase of Conor Medsystems
Inc. for $1.33 billion. The charge to earnings probably includes
a writedown of goodwill and intangible assets from that deal,
Gabelli’s Jonas said.  Shares Decline  Johnson & Johnson fell 94 cents to $66.16 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  SurModics Inc. (SRDX) , the
supplier of the coating for J&J’s stents, declined $2.29, or 17
percent, to $11.01 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, its
biggest drop since November.  SurModics, based in  Eden Prairie ,  Minnesota , reaffirmed its
financial outlook and said in a statement that declining revenue
from the Cypher stents had long been anticipated.  Boston Scientific, based in Natick,  Massachusetts , rose 19
cents to $6.93 in New York trading.  “One less drug-eluting stent player means pricing could
become more stable,” said Tao Levy, a Collins Stewart LLC
analyst in New York, in a note to clients today. Boston
Scientific may gain $175 million in sales from J&J’s pullout in
2012 and 2013, he said.  J&J is the world’s second-largest seller of medical
products, trailing only New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)   Cardiac Mapping  Cordis will continue making cardiac mapping and navigation
systems and devices that treat the irregular heartbeat known as
atrial fibrillation through its Biosense Webster unit. While
leaving the heart-stent business, Cordis said it will stay in
the market for devices to keep open diseased arteries elsewhere
in the body.  “Due to evolving market dynamics in the drug-eluting
stent business, we see greater opportunities to benefit patients
and grow our business in other areas of the cardiovascular
device market” said Seth Fischer, Cordis’ worldwide chairman,
in the statement. “We will continue to bring innovative
cardiovascular solutions to patients in the future.”  The decision to stop developing Nevo was due to concerns
about the stent market and had nothing to do with the device’s
potential, said Sandy Pound, a Cordis spokeswoman, in a
telephone interview.  J&J has solved Nevo’s catheter difficulties and is
“considering all options” for the stent, including selling or
licensing its rights, she said. She declined to comment further.  Cypher Market  Cypher, once the market leader, held 12 percent of
worldwide sales in this year’s first quarter, down from 20
percent a year earlier, Louise Mehrotra, J&J’s vice president
for  investor relations , said on an  April 19 conference call.  J&J’s statement said its market share has been hurt by
“unlicensed competition from products that infringe Cordis
patents.” The company has spent years in court battling Boston
Scientific, Abbott and Minneapolis-based  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  over
intellectual property in the field. Abbott, based in  Abbott
Park ,  Illinois , makes the world’s best-selling stent, Xience.  Pound, the Cordis spokeswoman, said J&J would continue to
press the lawsuits.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  sent a  warning letter 
to J&J on Feb. 16 saying the Puerto Rico plant had released
devices to the market that didn’t meet design specifications.
The agency said violations at the site could lead to fines,
product seizures or delayed approval of other devices.  J&J is working to resolve issues at the plant, where Cypher
stents will be made until year’s end, Pound said. The warning
letter had nothing to do with the decision to exit the market
and close the factory, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  