-- 
Japanese Stock Futures Fall on Greek Debt Threat, U.S. Economy

-- B y   A k i k o   I k e d a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 
2011-06-15T23:27:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/japanese-australian-stock-futures-fall-on-greek-debt-threat-u-s-economy.html
Japanese and Australian stock
futures fell on concern debt-ridden Greece will default and
after reports showed the U.S. economy is cooling.  American depositary receipts of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the
world’s largest carmaker, lost 1.1 percent from the closing
share price in Tokyo. Those of  Advantest Corp. (6857) , the No. 1 maker
of chip-testing equipment, declined 1.7 percent. ADRs of  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest global mining company and Australia’s
No. 1 oil producer, dropped 1.7 percent after crude and metal
prices fell.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 9,475 in Chicago yesterday, compared with
9,580 in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,500
in Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index declined 1.2 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX
50 Index sank 0.7 percent in Wellington.  “The Greek issues are dragging on and we cannot be
optimistic,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about $600
million in  Tokyo  at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “We’ve
started to see a soft patch in the U.S. more clearly and
investors are getting defensive.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2
percent today. In New York, the index slumped 1.7 percent to
1,265.42 yesterday on concern Greece will default and signs the
American economy is cooling.  Greek Debt  European officials failed to agree on a rescue plan for
debt-ridden Greece. Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will name a
new Greek government tomorrow and call a vote of confidence in
parliament as he seeks to pressure opposition lawmakers to back
an austerity plan that aims to secure a new bailout.  The  European Central Bank  said the threat of the Greek debt
crisis spilling over into the banking sector is the biggest risk
to the region’s financial stability.  “Greece could have a contagion effect,” ECB Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  said at a briefing in Frankfurt
yesterday, when presenting the bank’s semi-annual Financial
Stability Review. “That’s the reason why we are against any
sort of default with haircuts and any form of private-sector
event that could lead to a  credit event  or a rating event.”  The yen appreciated to 114.56 against the euro, compared
with 116.04 at the close of  stock trading  in Tokyo yesterday, a
level not seen since May 26. A stronger yen reduces income at
Japanese companies when overseas revenue is converted into their
home currency.  U.S. Economy   In the U.S., a report showed manufacturing in the New York
region unexpectedly shrank in June, a sign the industry still
faces parts shortages following the March earthquake and tsunami
in Japan. Another report showed confidence among U.S.
homebuilders slumped in June to the lowest level in nine months
as executives turned more pessimistic on the outlook for sales,
a sign that any pickup will take time to develop.  Separately, Federal Reserve figures showed industrial
production in the U.S. rose less than forecast in May. The cost
of living in the world’s biggest economy increased more than
forecast last month, reflecting higher prices for everything
from autos to hotel rooms, another report showed.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 3.7 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 0.6 percent by the
 S&P 500  and a drop of 2.9 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.4 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.8 times for the S&P 500
and 10.8 times for the Stoxx 600.  Crude oil for July delivery tumbled 4.6 percent to $94.81 a
barrel in  New York  yesterday, the lowest settlement since Feb.
22. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six industrial
metals including copper and aluminum dropped 0.8 percent
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Akiko Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 iakiko@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 