-- 
Food Safety Fears Grow in Japan on Skepticism at Radiation Testing Regime

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-06-16T08:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/japan-s-piecemeal-radiation-testing-heightens-concerns-over-safety-of-food.html
Kimie Nozaki, a mother of three
children living 60 kilometers from the crippled Fukushima
nuclear reactors, said she doesn’t trust the government’s
testing program for radiation-contaminated food.  “Information from the government lacks detail, which makes
me even more nervous,” said Nozaki, 43, who lives in Fukushima
city about 35 miles from the plant that’s been emitting
radiation since March 11 in the world’s worst nuclear disaster
since Chernobyl.  Three months after an earthquake and tsunami crippled the
plant,  Japan  doesn’t appear to have a comprehensive food-testing
regime, said  Peter Burns , the former chairman of the  United
Nations  Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation.
Prolonged exposure to radiation in the air, ground and food can
cause leukemia and other cancers, according to the London-based
 World Nuclear Association .  “My impression is the monitoring has been a bit
piecemeal,” Burns said by phone from his home in  Melbourne  on
June 14. “The Japanese are usually highly motivated and
organized to implement such systems, so I would think they will
get there, but certainly what I’ve seen to date hasn’t been awe-
inspiring.”  Products including spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea,
milk, plums and fish have been found to be contaminated with
cesium and iodine as far as 360 kilometers from the station.
 Contamination  was detected in 347 food samples from eight
prefectures by June 9, according to the Ministry of Health,
Labour and Welfare.  Hot Spots  The government said today it will support evacuating
residents in areas showing high levels of radiation that are out
of a 20-kilometer evacuation zone from the crippled station.
Some areas of the cities of Minami Soma and Date, both in
Fukushima prefecture, are radiation hot spots, Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan ’s office said in a statement. The government is still
identifying areas that might be recommended for evacuation, the
statement said.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the operator of the Fukushima
plant, said on June 14 it found cesium in milk tested near
another nuclear plant about 210 kilometers from the damaged
station. The samples were taken on May 12.  The concern this year will be radiation that landed on
crops, which will be absorbed directly, Burns said. Next year
it’ll be radiation in the soil.  Voluntary Testing  “Once you get past this year you’ll be measuring what’s in
the soil and then what’s taken up by vegetables. A decade is
probably about the sort of time you’re going to need it,” he
said in reference to the tests.  “The main thing here is restoring confidence in the  food
supply . If people don’t have confidence in the food supply, that
can cause as many problems as the reality.”  In the past three months, more than 4,850 samples from 22
prefectures were tested for radiation.  The voluntary tests are conducted by prefectural
governments in cooperation with local farmers, said Taku Ohara,
an official in the ministry’s inspection and safety division.
There’s no centralized checking system and many small farms
aren’t tested, he said.  “It’s difficult to take test samples from all farms
because there are too many,” he said. “We have asked local
governments to cover each of the farming regions and monitor
them evenly.” As of Feb. 1, 2010, there were 1.68 million farms
in Japan, according to the agriculture ministry.  Resuming Sales  Restrictions have been imposed on food shipments from
Fukushima, Shizuoka, Tochigi, Gunma, Ibaraki, Chiba and Kanagawa,
the last three of which are adjacent to Tokyo.  Shipments of some green tea, a beverage at the heart of
Japanese culture, have been halted in four prefectures.  Ito En Ltd. (2593) , Japan’s biggest producer of green tea drinks,
hasn’t seen a decline in sales since the discovery of tainted
leaves, spokesman Ikuo Sato said by phone.  Sales of products were allowed to resume after the results
of three consecutive tests showed radiation levels were below
the government standard, Ohara said.  Rice may be the next produce to show signs of contamination,
because the government allowed most farmers in Fukushima
prefecture to plant the grain after testing a limited number of
soil samples, said Junichi Sato, an executive at Greenpeace in
Japan.  Questionable Limits  The government tested about 150 samples from farmland near
the nuclear plant before deciding on areas where rice sowing is
now banned. The affected areas cover about 8,000 hectares
(19,800 acres) causing a 40,000 metric ton loss in rice
production this year, according to the agriculture ministry.  Fukushima, Japan’s fourth-biggest rice grower, produced
439,100 tons of paddy rice last year, accounting for 5.3 percent
of the nation’s total output. Agriculture, fisheries and
forestry accounted for about 2 percent of Japan’s 520 trillion
yen economy in 2009.  For vegetables, Japan sets a limit at 2,000 becquerels of
iodine per kilogram, and 500 becquerels of cesium a kilogram.  The validity of the limits is questionable, according to
Professor Tomoya Yamauchi, who specializes in radiation physics
at Kobe University.  “I don’t see an effort to properly monitor things,” he
said in a phone interview.  Thyroid Monitoring  On June 6, Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency
said the plant released about 770,000 tera becquerels of
radioactive material into the air between March 11 and March 16,
doubling an earlier estimate.  That’s about 14 percent of the radiation emitted in the
Chernobyl disaster in modern-day Ukraine.  Tokyo  Electric has
pledged to give an updated figure of the accumulated radiation
discharge from Fukushima.  About 2 million people in Ukraine are under permanent
medical monitoring, 25 years after the accident, according to
the nation’s embassy in Tokyo.  While 203 people were hospitalized and 31 died after the
explosion at Chernobyl, about 400,000 children are considered to
have received significant doses of radiation to their thyroid
that merit monitoring, the embassy said.  Local Products  Cases of thyroid cancer in  Belarus , which neighbors Ukraine,
increased for at least 10 years after 1986 in children younger
than 14 and for almost 20 years among 20-24 year olds, according
to research by Shunichi Yamashita of Nagasaki University, who
was appointed as an adviser to Fukushima prefecture on  radiation
exposure .  Japan needs to improve its testing regime and use the more
sophisticated becquerel monitors that were used by European
governments after Chernobyl, Sato said.  “I don’t want to give my son local farm products,
especially daily necessities such as milk and rice,” Hiromi
Murakami, the mother of a 10-year-old boy in Fukushima city,
said in an interview.  Japan’s exports of agricultural products fell 19 percent to
21.4 billion yen in April from a year earlier, while exports of
marine products dropped 12 percent to 15 billion yen, according
to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Powdered
milk exports dropped by 87 percent.  Reduce Risk  At the same time, food imports have risen. Agricultural
products from overseas increased by 19 percent to 519 billion
yen in April, according to the ministry.  It’s not just what’s in the ground that’s a concern.
Atmospheric radiation levels in Fukushima prefecture remain high,
according to Greenpeace, which says residents of the prefecture
are getting an annual exposure of 10-20 millisieverts, not
including food. The government has set a radiation exposure
limit for the general public of 20 millisieverts a year.  “We receive lots of radiation every day through the air,
so we want to reduce the risk from food as much as possible,”
Murakami said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  