-- 
Johnson Exit Leaves Apple Without Retail Head Amid Expansion

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-06-15T20:22:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/johnson-s-exit-leaves-apple-without-retail-chief-amid-expansion.html
Ron Johnson ’s departure from  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  leaves the company searching for a top retail executive as
it focuses on expanding internationally to fuel growth and hold
on to its edge in consumer electronics.  Johnson, who helped design the first Apple stores that
opened in 2001, leaves after more than a decade to take over at
department store J.C. Penney Co. on Nov. 1. His exit comes at a
time when Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs , on medical leave
since January, also isn’t involved full-time.  Jobs and Johnson set up a model store in a warehouse in
Cupertino,  California , before opening the division that helped
fuel Apple’s consumer sales of the iPod, iPhone and iPad tablet.
Johnson leaves as the company embarks on an expansion in  China ,
where it plans to open as many as 25 new stores through 2012.
His departure also may raise concerns about future defections
from Apple, said  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  “The bad news is this raises the sensitivity investors
will have toward another high-priority executive departure,”
Munster said in a note to clients.  Executive departures are especially sensitive for Apple,
whose shareholders have raised questions about the company’s
succession plan if Jobs were to step aside. In February,
shareholders tried unsuccessfully to get a measure passed that
would have asked Apple to disclose more about who would replace
Jobs. Johnson wasn’t a likely successor, Munster said.  Genius Bar  Apple fell $5.69 to $326.75 at 4 p.m.  New York  time on the
Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have gained 1.3 percent this
year, their worst performance for the same period since 2008.
Still, that tops the less than 1 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and a decline of less than 1 percent for the
Nasdaq Composite Index.  During the past decade, Johnson led Apple’s expansion to
more than 300 stores that generated more than $7 billion in
sales from September through March. Among his contributions was
the Genius Bar, where Apple customers can get assistance fixing
their iPod, iPhone, iPad or Mac computer. The service is among
the reasons Apple is consistently among the top-rated in
consumer-satisfaction surveys, said Bill Kreher, an analyst with
 Edward Jones  & Co.  Using salespeople to demonstrate how various products work
together has helped make Apple the third-largest retailer of
consumer electronics, said Gregory Melich, an analyst at
International Strategy and Investment. Companies such as Home
Depot Inc. are copying that hands-on approach, Melich said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television.  According to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., Apple’s sales per
square foot of retail space were $4,355 in 2010. That’s almost
30 times those of J.C. Penney, and two-thirds higher than luxury
jeweler Tiffany & Co.  ‘China Is Key’  The next head of retail will lead a large international
expansion. The company, based in Cupertino, plans to open 40 new
stores this fiscal year, with almost three-quarters of them
outside the U.S., Apple said in April.  Apple is using its stores to focus on growth in  Asia . From
September of last year through March, Apple generated almost $5
billion in sales in China, four times more than the same period
a year earlier.  “China is key,” Edward Jones’s Kreher said.  Now that the retail operation is established and the
company focuses on opening more stores around the world, it may
be less necessary to have a visionary like Johnson at the helm,
said  Andy Hargreaves , an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities.  Strategy in Place  “It’s never good to lose talent, especially at the highest
level of your executive ranks,” said Hargreaves, who is based
in  Portland ,  Oregon . “But it’s better than had it happened a
couple of years ago. At this point, the retail strategy is
defined and it’s more about execution, which is easier to
replace.”  Johnson’s exit follows that of Mac software chief Bertrand Serlet, who left Apple in March to focus on other research.  “What would concern me is if this led to an exodus of
talent, if this was the beginning of a trend,” Kreher said.  Apple wouldn’t say who will succeed Johnson at the head of
the retail division.  “We’ve got a great retail team in place and are actively
recruiting for his replacement,” said Amy Bessette, a company
spokeswoman.  In addition to its existing team, Apple has connections to
the retail industry. Mickey Drexler, the chairman and chief
executive officer of J. Crew Group Inc., is on Apple’s board.  “While it’s very difficult to leave Apple, perhaps the
greatest company in the world, I just wanted a chance to lead a
company in an industry that’s kind of tied to my roots in
retailing,” Johnson said in an interview yesterday.  Direct to Consumers  Jobs, who is still involved in Apple decision-making while
on leave, said earlier this year that the company’s success
wouldn’t be possible without its ability to sell directly to
consumers at its stores, making it less dependent on other
channels such as Best Buy Co.  Part of Apple’s strategy as it expands outside the U.S.
will be to keep putting stores in heavily trafficked areas, even
if they are also the most expensive real estate. Stores on Fifth
Avenue in New York, near the Louvre in Paris or Regent Street in
 London  attract hundreds of people who line up for introductions
of new iPads or iPhones.  “If we located stores in high-traffic locations, locations
where people buy books and eat dinner, they’d say, ‘Let me check
that out,’” Johnson said in a 2003 interview with Businessweek.
“When it came time to buy, they’d give us a chance to prove
ourselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  