-- 
JPMorgan Pays $27 Million to OCC, Clients Over Car-Loan Tactics

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-15T21:20:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/jpmorgan-pays-27-million-to-occ-clients-over-car-loan-tactics.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  will pay a $2
million fine to the Comptroller of the Currency and $25 million
to reimburse customers after using “high pressure” tactics to
sell credit insurance on  car loans .  The bank’s customer-service representatives deceived
borrowers about costs and terms of credit protection offered to
cover missed payments in 2008 and 2009, the OCC said in a
settlement document released today.  “Chase Auto used written scripts together with oral high-
pressure sales tactics that included statements which were
materially false, deceptive or otherwise misleading in violation
of the Federal Trade Commission Act,” the regulator said in a
statement.  JPMorgan didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing. In consultation
with the OCC, the firm developed a plan to reimburse customers
and fix deficiencies in credit protection linked to Chase auto,
home and credit-card loans, the OCC said. Chase advertised the
car-loan product, known as the Chase Payment Assurance plan, as
a way to cancel some or all monthly payments in case of
accidental death, disability, involuntary unemployment or a
leave of absence.  “We have reimbursed affected customers and have revised
our sales scripts and marketing materials for our payment
protection products,” Patrick Linehan, a JPMorgan spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement. “We’ve implemented enhanced and
more extensive controls to ensure that we are treating our
customers fairly.”  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon  reassigned retail bank
CEO Charles Scharf’s duties and removed Scharf from the firm’s
15-person operating committee in a shakeup of top management
yesterday. Scharf’s responsibilities for overseeing auto and
student lending were given to card services CEO  Gordon Smith .  The bank will take “appropriate remedial actions to fully
address and correct the violations of the law,” according to
the OCC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  