-- 
JPMorgan’s Zubrow Will Tell Congress Bank Rules Risk ‘Hobbling’ Recovery

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-06-15T18:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/jpmorgan-s-zubrow-will-tell-congress-bank-rules-risk-hobbling-recovery.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Risk
Officer Barry Zubrow will tell Congress that regulators risk
impeding the economic recovery by going too far in tightening
bank rules and raising  capital requirements .  “The regulatory pendulum clearly has now begun to swing to
a point that risks hobbling our financial system and our
economic growth,” Zubrow said in testimony prepared for
delivery tomorrow to the House Financial Services Committee.  A capital surcharge on the largest global banks combined
with higher U.S. margin requirements for certain trading
accounts “currently risks doing more harm than good,” Zubrow
said. It also puts U.S. firms at a “distinct and unnecessary
competitive disadvantage,” he said.  The remarks echo concerns expressed by JPMorgan Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Dimon earlier this month, when he asked
 Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  whether he’s concerned
that overzealous regulation will stymie an economic rebound.  Zubrow is scheduled to testify along with Stephen O’Connor,
a managing director at New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , and
regulators including Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman
Sheila Bair and Fed board member Daniel Tarullo.  Zubrow also said he opposes proposed rules that require
companies to post extra margin against certain derivatives
contracts, which are used to hedge interest-rate, currency and
other risks. The rules restrict the types of collateral that may
be posted to U.S. cash, Treasuries or agency securities. They
also would require U.S. banks to demand collateral from foreign
clients while European competitors don’t, he said.  ‘Too Late’  “In addition, we are not permitted to accept margin in the
form of, for example, Euro Cash and G7 Sovereign Debt,” Zubrow
said. “This effect will be to kill our overseas swaps
activities; even if  Europe  and other regulators were to
subsequently adopt similar rules, it would be too late.”  O’Connor, chairman of the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association, also will tell Congress tomorrow that policy and
timing disparities between U.S. and international derivatives
rules will disadvantage the nation’s financial markets.  The differences will hurt the U.S. “by driving up costs
and reducing liquidity,” O’Connor said in prepared remarks.
“They do so without demonstrating any clear benefit to equal or
outweigh the considerable costs.”  ‘Race to the Bottom’  Michael Gibson, senior associate director of the Federal
Reserve, told the Senate Agriculture Committee today that global
regulators should harmonize rules on derivatives to prevent
financial risks from migrating to the least-supervised
economies. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said earlier
this month that he favored having global authorities agree on a
minimum level of regulation to avoid a “race to the bottom”
among countries.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, required by
the Dodd-Frank Act to write new regulations for the $601
trillion over-the-counter swaps market, may enter agreements
with foreign officials to recognize comparable rules,  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, told the Agriculture Committee today.  Dimon, who’s also chairman of New York-based JPMorgan,
questioned Bernanke at a June 7 conference of bankers in Atlanta
on whether regulators have gone too far in reining in the
banking system and are slowing economic growth. The U.S.
unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent in May as the S&P/Case-
Shiller index of property values in 20 cities showed that  home
prices  slumped in March to their lowest since 2003.  “I have a great fear someone’s going to try to write a
book in 20 years, and the book is going to talk about all the
things that we did in the middle of the crisis to actually slow
down recovery,” Dimon, 55, told the Fed chairman.  Proposed global capital standards would impose a 3 percent
surcharge on top of a 7 percent minimum requirement on the
largest systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs.
The rules are being drafted by a group of bank regulators who
are scheduled to decide on a preliminary plan this month and
present a final proposal to the G-20 group of nations in July.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  