-- 
Judge Delays Hontex Refund Decision, Considers Hong Kong Watchdog’s Reach

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-06-15T05:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/judge-delays-hontex-refund-decision-considers-hong-kong-watchdog-s-reach.html
A  Hong Kong  judge delayed hearing
the Securities and Futures Commission’s application to refund
investors in Hontex International Holdings Co., citing a related
case where he is considering the regulator’s reach.  Judge Jonathan Harris of the Court of First Instance
adjourned the case today until July 22 after saying he may block
the regulator’s attempt to unwind alleged insider dealing
transactions made by New York-based hedge fund Tiger  Asia 
Management LLC in the absence of a civil or criminal trial.  The judge’s decision on Tiger, which he said might be
handed down in the “next few days,” would put in doubt the
SFC’s authority to restore Hontex’s IPO funds,  part of which
have been frozen , to the company’s current shareholders without
bringing civil or criminal proceedings.  Hontex shares were suspended 14 months ago after the SFC
alleged the company disclosed materially false or misleading
information in its prospectus. The company’s audit committee
admitted last year its prospectus was unreliable and said it
would look to compensate investors.  Simon Westbrook, a lawyer for the SFC, said the people
involved in the Hontex case are in  Taiwan  or mainland  China .  “Unless they have much less sense than we realize, I don’t
think they’re planning any shopping trips to Hong Kong anytime
soon,” Westbrook said.  The SFC alleged Tiger Asia engaged in  insider trading , and
is seeking a court order to freeze assets valued at HK$38.5
million ($4.9 million) held by Tiger Asia, Hwang and officers
Raymond Park and William Tomita. The regulator has asked for an
order to ban the fund from trading in Hong Kong securities.  All of Tiger Asia’s employees are based in  New York ,
according to the SFC.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  