-- 
Kenya’s Six-Month Treasury Yields Fall for First Time This Year at Auction

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-06-16T10:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/kenya-s-six-month-treasury-yields-fall-for-first-time-this-year-at-auction.html
Kenya ’s six-month borrowing costs
retreated for the first time December at a central-bank sale
where demand was almost four times the amount on offer. The
yield is within four basis points of a nine-year high.  The yield on the 182-day Treasury bills fell to 9.906
percent at yesterday’s auction, the Nairobi-based Central Bank
of Kenya said in an e-mailed statement. That’s the first time
costs have dropped since a sale on Dec. 10, and compares with a
yield of 9.949 percent at the previous sale, the highest since
May 2002. The bank, which had offered 2.5 billion shillings ($28
million) of the debt, accepted 2.2 billion shillings of bids,
having received 9.97 billion shillings of demand.  Inflation in East Africa’s biggest economy jumped to a 25-
month high of 13 percent in May. Price growth is expected to
advance further this year as dry weather curbs agricultural
output, central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said on June 6.  “The central bank’s decision to reject a substantial amount
of the bids it received is a clear pointer to its desire to
maintain the yield rate below 10 percent,” Ronald Olembo, a
fixed-income trader at Nairobi-based CfC Stanbic Bank Ltd., said
in a phone interview.  Three-month debt yields surged to a more-than nine-year
high of 9.016 percent at a June 10 sale where demand exceeded
the amount offered by almost nine-fold.  Domestic Borrowing  One-year yields advanced to the highest in at least five
years last week. Kenya’s government plans to borrow 119 billion
shillings ($1.3 billion) on the domestic market in the fiscal
year through June 2012, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said in
his annual budget speech on June 8.  Kenya’s currency, the world’s third-worst performer so far
this year after recording a decline of 11 percent, was trading
at a 17-year low of 90.43 against the dollar at 1:15 p.m. in
Nairobi, the capital.  Kenya’s monetary policy committee raised the benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 6.25 percent and
the  cash reserve ratio  by a quarter to 4.75 percent, the central
bank said on May 31.  The MPC may raise its benchmark rate as much as 1.25
percentage points by the end of the year to curb inflation and
support the shilling, which hit the weakest in 17 years on June
13, Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-based economist with
 Renaissance Capital , wrote in an e-mailed note to clients
yesterday.  The central bank typically meets every two months to review
monetary policy. Its next meeting is scheduled for July.  “The rhetoric of the Central Bank of Kenya has become more
aggressive in the face of accelerating inflation and a weakening
shilling,” Mhango said. “This follows the reluctant tightening
of monetary policy in the first half of 2011.  The central bank has sold 23.8 billion shillings of
 repurchase agreements  since May 11 as it seeks to curb supply of
the local currency in the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 