-- 
Khodorkovsky Says Corruption Means Russia Needs $200 Oil

-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v ,   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 
2011-06-16T13:12:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/khodorkovsky-says-corruption-means-russia-economy-needs-200-oil.html
Russia’s failure to stop corruption
and diversify the economy means it needs $200 a barrel oil to
match the economic growth of China and  India , said  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , the former billionaire jailed since 2003.  Khodorkovsky, who says the charges are politically
motivated, said his case should remind global business leaders
gathering for the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum,
which starts today, that no one is safe from extortion. Graft
threatens the foreign investment President  Dmitry Medvedev  seeks
to help boost growth to as much as 10 percent, he said.  “Economic reforms require 100 percent guarantees for
private property and an effective, lawful state,” Khodorkovsky,
47, said in written answers to questions relayed through his
lawyers. “Under the current political and economic model, to
get a 10 percent growth rate for the Russian economy the oil
price would have to remain solidly above $200 per barrel.”  Khodorkovsky,  Russia ’s richest man when he was arrested on
the tarmac of a Siberian airport in October 2003, says he’s been
persecuted by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  because he financed
opposition parties. The former chief executive officer of Yukos
Oil Co. was convicted of fraud and  tax evasion  in 2005 and oil
embezzlement in December 2010, pushing his sentence to 13 years.  He responded to questions from Bloomberg News while being
held at a detention center in Moscow. The answers were delivered
June 10, the day he was sent to an undisclosed penal colony.  ‘Peripheral and Cosmetic’  Medvedev said in a January interview at the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , that Russia sought to boost growth
to 8 percent to 10 percent within five years. Chinese President
 Hu Jintao  and business chiefs including Deutsche Bank AG Chief
Executive Officer Josef Ackerman and Citigroup Inc. CEO Vikram Pandit are among those attending the St. Petersburg forum.  Medvedev, a corporate lawyer and Putin protege, has made
reducing the state’s role in the economy, fighting corruption
and improving the rule of law key goals since succeeding his
mentor as president in 2008.  “So far he says the right words, but many changes he’s
initiated in important spheres of public life are peripheral and
cosmetic,” Khodorkovsky said. Medvedev and Putin “have a
common goal: to stabilize the existing political and economic
system in Russia, not destroy it,” he said.  Presidential Election  Putin, 58, who served in the KGB and has been criticized
for rolling back democratic freedoms, hasn’t ruled out running
for president again next year.  That would eliminate any possibility of change under
Medvedev, Khodorkovsky said. Medvedev’s attempts to strengthen
the legal system have failed because of his obligations to Putin
and “excessive caution,” he said.  “Perhaps after being elected for a second term Medvedev
will manage to overcome those limits,” Khodorkovsky said.
Medvedev is a “new type” of leader who sees government “as a
system of checks and balances, norms and institutions rather
than an instrument of personal control,” he said.  Yukos, then Russia’s biggest oil company, was declared
bankrupt and sold in pieces after facing $30 billion of tax
claims during Putin’s presidency. State-owned OAO Rosneft
controls most of Yukos’ former assets.  Out of Touch  Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said Khodorkovsky is out
of touch after his years in prison.  “The president numerous times pointed out that we do
really have problems with the investment climate, but we cannot
ignore completely all the success stories of western companies
in this country,” Peskov said.  Putin and his supporters favor the status quo over
modernization, and this makes it impossible to accelerate
economic growth,  Igor Yurgens , a Medvedev adviser who heads a
research institute set up by the president, said today in an
interview at the St. Petersburg forum.  “That’s the stability party for you, those who say take it
easy, don’t go out of your way because we are OK with our 4
percent growth in GDP,” Yurgens told Bloomberg Television. “We
have to do some bold steps forward in privatization.”  There is no way fight corruption without first relaxing
political controls to allow a “sizeable” opposition, he said.  Russia’s economy expanded 4.1 percent from a year earlier
in the first quarter, compared with 9.7 percent growth in  China 
and 7.8 percent in India.  ‘Exit Strategy’  Putin and Medvedev say they want to attract foreign
investment to help wean Russia off its dependence on energy
exports. Energy and metals make up 84 percent of exports from
the world’s largest oil producer. Urals-grade crude, Russia’s
export blend, fell 0.5 percent to $116.92 a barrel yesterday
after reaching a record high $122.88 on April 8.  Khodorkovsky said his case, illustrates the danger
investors face in Russia.  “The exit strategy is the key  investment risk  in Russia,”
Khodorkovsky said. “As long as your business isn’t profitable
it won’t be taken away, but later various things can happen,
even if you are prepared to pay bribes.”  Russia is the world’s most corrupt major economy, according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2010 Corruption
Perceptions Index released in October. The country was ranked
154th among 178 countries, alongside Tajikistan.  “It would be naive to think that the corrupt bureaucracy
will not use these opportunities” for “extortion,”
Khodorkovsky said.  Underwear, Books, Spoon  Khodorkovsky, whose fortune was once estimated at $15
billion by Forbes magazine, declined to reveal his net worth.  “What I definitely own is underwear and books that were
brought from home to jail,” he said. “I can use a bunk in the
cell and a spoon for food.”  Khodorkovsky praised shareholder rights activist Alexei Navalny, who is facing the threat of prosecution after
campaigning against corruption at state companies, and said he’s
more hopeful of a resurgent opposition movement because “apathy
is disappearing.”  When asked where Russia would be in five years, he was
optimistic.  “I see it as a lawful and democratic country,”
Khodorkovsky said. “Russia can’t choose whether to develop or
not. If it doesn’t, it won’t survive as a civilized state.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  