-- 
N.Y. Gasoline Premium Increases After Irving Refinery Outage

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-06-15T20:57:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/n-y-gasoline-premium-increases-after-irving-refinery-outage.html
New York  gasoline strengthened a
second day after a power failure yesterday at the Saint John
refinery in New Brunswick, which exports fuel to the Northeast.  The outage affected several units at the plant, Jennifer
Graham, a spokeswoman for the New Brunswick Department of the
Environment, said in an e-mail yesterday. The interruption had
no “significant production implications,” Lesley MacLeod, an
Irving spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today.  PBF Energy Partners LP also reported a unit shutdown at its
 Delaware  City refinery in Delaware, according to a  filing 
yesterday with state regulators.  The premium for reformulated, 87-octane gasoline in New
York Harbor increased 3.63 cents to 11.36 cents versus futures
traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 3:49 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the largest
premium since May 10. Prompt delivery slipped 10.48 cents to
$3.0398 a gallon.  The Delaware City refinery, which has a capacity of 182,200
barrels a day, is in the process of starting up after being shut
in November 2009.  “This is not what I would characterize as a major issue,”
Michael Gayda, president of Parsippany, New Jersey-based PBF
Energy, said of the unit shutdown in a telephone interview.  The same fuel on the Gulf Coast narrowed its discount 0.5
cent to 1.5 cents a gallon.  The discount for California-reformulated gasoline, or
Carbob, in  Los Angeles  widened 0.3 cent to 6.55 cents a gallon
versus futures at 4:22 p.m. in New York. The fuel has been
trading at a discount since May 9.  “Demand out on the West Coast is very poor,” said Chris Mennis, who owns oil broker New Wave Energy LLC in Aptos,
 California . “California is probably in worse shape than the
rest.”  The discount for the same fuel in  San Francisco  widened
0.83 cent to 5.08 cents a gallon versus futures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 