-- 
Natural Gas Futures Drop for Third Day on Mild Weather Outlook

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-06-15T13:56:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/natural-gas-futures-drop-for-third-day-on-mild-weather-outlook.html
Natural gas futures declined for a
third day in  New York  on forecasts of moderating temperatures in
the eastern U.S. that may limit demand for the power-plant fuel.  Gas slipped as much as 1.3 percent after forecasters
including Commodity Weather Group predicted mostly normal
temperatures in the Northeast and upper Midwest through June 19
after a hot start next week. Mild weather is also likely in
parts of the Midwest through June 24, according to the Bethesda,
Maryland-based company.  “Temperatures in the Midwest are ridiculously cool for
June,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest
in Chicago. “We’re going to have a whole week of air
conditioners sitting idle.”  Natural gas for July delivery fell 1.7 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $4.564 per million British thermal units at 9:42
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures have
declined 12 percent from a year ago.  The high temperature in Chicago on June 24 may be 74
degrees Fahrenheit (23 Celsius), 9 below normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in New
York may be 81, matching the normal temperature.  Power plants  use about 30 percent of the nation’s gas
supplies, according to the Energy Department.  U.S. nuclear-power production rose as  Xcel Energy Inc. (XEL) 
boosted the Prairie Island 1 reactor in Minnesota, the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission reported.  Power generation increased 50 megawatts from yesterday to
92,013 megawatts, or 91 percent of capacity, according to the
NRC report today and data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s 2.1
percent below the total a year ago. Ten of the 104 U.S. reactors
were offline.  Some reactors are closed for maintenance and refueling
during the spring and fall in the U.S., when demand for heating
and cooling is lower. The outages can increase consumption of
natural gas and coal to generate electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  