-- 
Netanyahu Says He Won’t Change Stance on Mideast After Meeting Obama Envoy

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-06-15T18:12:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/netanyahu-says-he-won-t-change-stance-on-mideast-after-meeting-obama-envoy.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu met with President Barack Obama’s new Middle East
envoy and told lawmakers afterward he won’t back down from
positions that divide  Israel  and the Palestinians.  David Hale, who replaced George Mitchell last month as
Obama’s point man for Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts, met
Netanyahu in  Jerusalem  today with White House adviser Dennis Ross, said Kurt Hoyer, the U.S. Embassy spokesman in  Tel Aviv .  “The whole region is burning,” Netanyahu said later in a
speech to the Knesset, Israel’s parliament. “We have to unite
around common values shared by an overwhelming majority of the
nation.”  Among the six principles Netanyahu said would govern any
future talks are that Palestinians must recognize Israel as a
“Jewish state,” Palestinian refugees cannot return to Israel,
Jerusalem will remain Israel’s “undivided” capital and any
future Palestinian state must be demilitarized, allowing an
Israeli military presence along the Jordanian border.  Middle East peace talks have been frozen since last
September.  Palestinian Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas has
said he won’t resume talks with Israel until Netanyahu again
freezes settlement building in the  West Bank  and east Jerusalem,
which he did for 10 months in 2009 and 2010. Netanyahu says he
won’t negotiate with Abbas if the Palestinian Authority goes
ahead with its agreement to establish a new government with
Hamas, which is considered a terrorist group by Israel, the U.S.
and the European Union.  Saeb Erakat, Abbas’s chief negotiator, said in Cairo that
the Israeli leader’s positions make it impossible to resume
negotiations.  “Netanyahu is not a partner in the peace process,” Erakat
said after meeting in Cairo with Arab League Secretary General
Amre Moussa, according to  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News
Agency.  Mitchell resigned May 13 after failing to persuade
Netanyahu and Abbas to put aside their conditions and return to
the negotiating table.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  