-- 
NFL, Players Continue Labor Talks With Goodell, Smith Meeting With Judge

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/nfl-players-continue-labor-talks-with-goodell-smith-meeting-with-judge.html
The  National Football League  and its
players will continue talks that have renewed optimism that the
sides can end a three-month-old shutdown of the U.S.’s most-
popular sport before the scheduled start of the season.  The NFL and its Players Association said in a joint
statement yesterday that talks took place again this week under
the supervision of U.S. Magistrate Judge Arthur Boylan and will
continue. The sides have agreed to maintain confidentiality on
the substance of the talks at the request of Boylan. NFL
Commissioner  Roger Goodell  and  DeMaurice Smith , executive
director of the NFL Players Association, attended the sessions.  Owners of the league’s 32 teams are scheduled to meet in
Chicago on June 21, with clubs being told to prepare to stay
late or overnight, according to NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello .  That follows three weeks of labor talks that may prevent a
delay of the regular season, according to two people with
knowledge of the situation who asked not to be identified
because of the sensitivity of negotiations and the media
blackout imposed by the judge.  The approach of the season -- training camps typically
start in late July -- probably is speeding efforts to reach a
deal on how to divide about $9 billion in revenue, said Bob
Bruno, who teaches labor and employment relations at the
 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign .  The NFL in March locked out players, who sued the league
for antitrust violations and wage-fixing in federal court, led
by Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks Tom Brady,  Peyton Manning  and
 Drew Brees .  In addition to Goodell, the NFL’s representatives at this
week’s meetings include Carolina Panthers owner Jerry Richardson,
Kansas City Chiefs owner Clark Hunt, New England Patriots owner
Robert Kraft, New York Giants owner John Mara and Dean Spanos,
who owns the San Diego Chargers, according to the statement.  Player representatives included, along with Smith,  Kevin Mawae , Domonique Foxworth, Tony Richardson, Jeff Saturday and
Brian Waters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 