-- 
LNG Imports by Japan, South Korea Climb as Oil Costs Surge

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-06-15T09:13:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/lng-imports-by-japan-south-korea-increase-as-oil-costs-surge.html
Japanese power utilities and South
Korean users bought a combined 6 million metric tons of
liquefied natural gas in May, adequate to supply  India  for eight
months, as oil cost almost twice as much as gas to burn.  South Korea  paid an average $631 a ton delivered,
equivalent to about $12 per million British thermal units, for
imports in May, according to official data. Fuel oil cost about
$16 while diesel was $22 on an energy equivalent basis,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on today’s prices.  “South Korea’s gas consumption is driven by strong
industrial demand,” said Tony Regan, a consultant with Tri-Zen
International Ltd. in  Singapore , in an e-mail today. “High
demand will continue from the industry because of the growing
price differential with diesel. It’s much cheaper to run gas.”  Power plants  in  Japan  boosted purchases of the fuel by 28
percent from a year earlier to 3.7 million tons in May,
according to data from the Federation of Electric Power
Companies of Japan. South Korea increased total LNG imports by
22 percent to 2.4 million tons, according to the Korea Customs
Service’s  website .  India imported 12.15 billion cubic meters of the fuel last
year, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of World Energy.
That’s equivalent to about 8.9 million tons of LNG.  U.K. gas for July traded at 58.75 pence a therm yesterday,
equivalent to about $9.50 per million Btu. The U.K. gas
benchmark is typically used to price spot LNG cargoes to  Asia .  An earthquake and tsunami damaged Japan’s nuclear and coal-
fired facilities in March, forcing the nation to increase its
reliance on natural gas. South Korea is using more gas because
diesel and fuel oil, substitutes for LNG, are more expensive.
Japan and South Korea are the world’s two biggest buyers of LNG,
and accounted for a combined 46 percent of world consumption,
according to calculations based on data by BP Plc’s Annual
Energy Review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  