-- 
Nomura Sees Europe Unit Swinging Into Profit by End of 2012, Bhattal Says

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-06-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/nomura-s-europe-unit-may-post-profit-by-end-2012-bhattal-says.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s European unit
will return to profit by the end of 2012 after four consecutive
quarterly losses, the head of the lender’s investment banking
and global markets unit said.  “Over the next 18 months, we will start to see a
noticeable improvement in our performance in regards to
profitability,” Jesse Bhattal, chief executive officer of
Nomura’s wholesale division, said in an interview in London.  The bank’s bid to expand globally by buying Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s operations in Europe and  Asia  in 2008 has so far
failed to boost profit. The Tokyo-based brokerage said in April
net income fell 35 percent in the three months through March as
its European unit posted a loss. Nomura has slumped about 74
percent in Tokyo trading since the $250 million acquisition.  Bhattal, 54, is seeking to return the division to profit by
reducing costs and reallocating capital from unprofitable units
such as commodities to areas such as equity derivatives and
 interest rates  that produce higher returns. The lender is also
trying to muscle in on the largest mergers and acquisitions.
Bhattal cited Nomura’s role in advising  International Power Plc (IPR) 
during the reverse takeover by  France ’s GDF Suez SA last year.  “When we start to see the benefit of the very aggressive
cost discipline that we’ve started to institute over the last 12
months, that will bolster earnings,” Bhattal said in the
interview at Nomura’s London office last week.  Profitability Increase  Nomura expects to boost the whole bank’s return on equity,
a measure of profitability, to between 7 percent and 9 percent
within the next 18 months, Bhattal said. Nomura’s ROE was 1.4
percent last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The Lehman businesses here took almost two decades to
build and they had reached critical mass,” Bhattal said. “What
history has taught us is that the ability to build businesses
and platforms purely organically is reasonably difficult.” The
purchase “was almost too good an opportunity to pass up.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman’s U.S. operations, had a
group ROE of about 7.2 percent in 2010, and plans to almost
double it to 13 percent by 2013. Britain’s second-biggest lender
by assets has dropped about 29 percent in London trading since
the acquisition.  “Nomura’s got a lot of headwinds,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA, who
covers securities firms. “Markets are very difficult at the
moment, and the competition for market share is going to be
fierce.”  Nomura said in April net income fell last quarter to 11.9
billion yen ($150 million) after a 10.1 billion yen loss in
Europe. Its operations in Japan, where it gets most of its
revenue, and the U.S. were both profitable in the period.  ‘Invisible Sphere’  Nomura is the 17th-ranked adviser on European mergers this
year, down one spot from 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The firm is the 10th-placed manager of stock
offerings in  Europe , up 11 spots from last year, the data show.
In Japan, the bank has been the top-ranked adviser on mergers
for the past five years.  Nomura earned about $182 million in investment banking fees
in western Europe last year, according to New York-based
research firm  Freeman & Co . Lehman and Nomura earned a combined
total of about $569 million in the region in 2007, Freeman said.  About half of Nomura’s revenue in the region comes from
structured products such as equity derivatives that aren’t
included in league tables, according to Bhattal.  “The classic fee pool isn’t going to change very much in
the next five years,” Bhattal said. Revenue “is actually going
to migrate towards the invisible sphere until such time as
there’s greater regulatory clarity.”  Cost Control  Nomura has kept the proportion of revenue it pays out as
compensation “steady” at about 46 percent, Bhattal said.  Cost discipline “coupled with the core embedded
profitability that exists within both the wholesale business in
 Japan , as well as the asset management and retail businesses,
should bolster earnings quite significantly from a three to
five-year perspective,” Bhattal said.  Bhattal, a former Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University,
joined Lehman in 1993 and was most recently chairman of its
Asian business. He took over as president of a new wholesale
division in March last year, becoming the first non-Japanese
member of the bank’s 14-member executive management committee.  Bhattal’s post was created in part to help stem a flow of
departures of former Lehman bankers. Christian Meissner, deputy
global investment banking head, quit in April last year, less
than two years after he helped arrange the sale to the Japanese
company. Other dealmakers to have quit include London-based
mergers banker Adrian Mee and joint head of global equities
Rachid Bouzouba.  ‘Stable Team’  Since starting the wholesale division, departures have been
“fairly few” Bhattal said. “We are very happy and it’s a
stable team. Our attrition statistics are vastly better than
last year and, in fact, better than the industry average.”  The bank has now nearly completed its hiring in the region,
Bhattal said. The firm appointed 800 bankers in Europe last
year, including 55 managing directors. It has also built a U.S.
division over the past 18 months that employs about 2,000
people, Bhattal said.  “There are certain of our core countries in which we need
to add some muscle, namely China, Australia and  India ,” Bhattal
said. “In Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa , it’s very
selective, because there our investment for the first two years
was quite front-loaded.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  