-- 
Anglo Irish Senior Bonds Should Share Losses, Noonan Says

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-06-16T09:04:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/noonan-says-anglo-irish-senior-bondholders-should-share-losses.html
Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said senior bondholders should share in the losses of
two Irish lenders, placing the government on course for a
confrontation with the European Central Bank.  Noonan discussed sharing the cost of rescuing both lenders
with senior bondholders in Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and Irish
Nationwide Building Society at a meeting with the  International
Monetary Fund , he said in an interview with Dublin-based
broadcaster  RTE  yesterday.  “We don’t think the Irish taxpayer should redeem what has
become speculative investment -- we don’t believe it should be
redeemed at par,” Noonan said. He said the IMF “understood our
position fully.”  Ireland, which has injected a combined 34.7 billion euros
($49.1 billion) into Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide over the
past two years, is winding down the lenders over a 10-year
period. The  European Central Bank  has opposed any moves to force
losses onto senior bank bondholders and Ireland won’t act
unilaterally, Deputy Prime Minister Eamon Gilmore said today.  “There is risk that the market will read too much into”
Noonan’s comments, said  Jim Ryan , a director at Glas Securities,
a Dublin-based fixed-income firm. “We don’t think the ECB’s
position on burden-sharing of bank bonds is likely to change.”  ECB  The ECB rebuffed efforts to raise the issue of burden
sharing during last year’s talks on Ireland’s bailout,  Micheal Martin , foreign minister in the government which negotiated last
year’s international bailout.  The weight of bank debt help propel into an 85 billion
euro- bailout last year, as investors shunned Irish securities.
The difference in yield between Irish and German 10-year
bonds was unchanged at 860 basis points today.  “It remains to be seen if the ECB will go along with
this,” Martin, now leader of the country’s biggest opposition
party, said in an interview with RTE radio today. “The IMF had a
different perspective than the ECB.”  The ECB had no comment, a spokesman said today. Noonan’s
interview referred to senior unsecured, unguaranteed investors,
a Finance Ministry spokesman confirmed today.  His plan represents a shift away from the government’s
earlier policy of making senior bank bondholders whole. The
government had previously said it wouldn’t seek to impose losses
on senior bondholders unless the two lenders need additional
capital. The central bank said last month neither would need
further cash injection.  Law  “The current law does not allow for coercive action on
senior bonds,” said Cathal O’Leary, head of fixed-income sales
at NCB Stockbrokers in Dublin, in a note today. “The only way
coercive action can happen is if there is an accelerated wind-up
of the bank.  This is unlikely given the imminent maturity
profile of Anglo’s senior unsecured debt.  Anglo Irish  has 3.2 billion euros of senior unguaranteed,
unsecured bonds and Irish Nationwide has 601 million euros of
the securities, the country’s central bank said April 1.
Anglo Irish has a further 2.96 billion euros of additional
senior guaranteed securities.  The bonds are trading at “quite a large discount” in the
market, Noonan told RTE. “The secondary market is usually the
market deciding what the appropriate price is, and that is a
guideline for any negotiations.”  Voluntary  Irish Nationwide’s 598 million euros of senior unsecured
floating-rate notes plunged 12 cents in the euro to 63 cents,
according to Jefferies International Ltd. prices on Bloomberg.  Anglo Irish’s 1.25 billion euros of senior unsecured
floating-rate notes due January next year dived 13 cents on the
euro to 70 cents, according to Jefferies. The note is the
biggest senior unsecured bond the bank still has outstanding.  Anglo Irish Chief Executive Officer  Mike Aynsley  said in an
interview on March 31 that voluntary buy-backs of senior debt
shouldn’t be ruled out.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said again yesterday Ireland
won’t impose losses on senior bondholders of the country’s so-
called pillar banks, Bank of Ireland Plc and  Allied Irish Banks
Plc. (ALBK)   Kenny will hold a press conference today to mark the
government’s first 100 days in office, amid opposition claims it
is not delivering promised progress. The program for government
said the administration may need to amend legislation “to
extend the scope of bank liability restructuring to include
unsecured, unguaranteed senior bonds.”  His deputy Gilmore said today Anglo Irish and Irish
Nationwide are in a “different” position to those lenders.  Ireland is “not a supplicant state,” he said, adding the
government is in a “stronger” position than it was in November
when the bailout was negotiated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  