-- 
Northrop’s $12.4 Billion Global Hawk Still Vital, Pentagon Says

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-06-15T19:09:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/northrop-s-12-4-billion-drone-still-vital-pentagon.html
The U.S. Defense Department has
found no suitable alternative to  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) ’s Global
Hawk drone and must continue the $12.4 billion program, the
Pentagon’s chief weapons buyer Ashton Carter told Congress.  Carter, in a letter sent to U.S. congressional defense
committees on June 14, said that the Global Hawk program, which
is over budget and has fallen short in performance tests, “is
essential to national security.”  “The U.S. government considers the Global Hawk as a high
priority aviation program,” Carter said.  The Pentagon’s support of the Global Hawk, Northrop’s
largest drone program, follows a report by Pentagon weapons
tester which found that a newer version of the drone was “not
operationally effective for conducting near-continuous,
persistent” intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR)
missions that it was designed to conduct.  The RQ-4B Global Hawk Block 30 was capable of providing
only about 40 percent of requested coverage when flying two or
three sorties a week, using three aircraft, during a test period
from October through December, according to the May 27 report
signed by J. Michael Gilmore, the Defense Department’s director
of operational test and evaluation.  The Global Hawk program in April triggered a provision of
the Nunn-McCurdy law, which requires the Pentagon to explain to
Congress why a program should continue after cost overruns of
more than 25 percent.  The program in 2001 was expected to cost $5.3 billion for
63 aircraft, according to the Government Accountability Office.  Restructured Program  The restructured Air Force program will now consist of a
total of 55 aircraft, Carter said. The program includes 13 older
Block 10/20 drones, 31 Block 30 drones and 11 Block 40 drones,
which are the newest version. A separate effort would develop an
advanced ground control and communications system, according to
documents Carter submitted to Congress.  The cost of the restructured Global Hawk program is $12.4
billion, which is $1.6 billion less than the cost estimate the
Pentagon reported on Dec. 31, 2010. The independent cost
estimate was developed by the Pentagon’s director of cost
assessment and program evaluation. Carter said the independent
cost estimate has a confidence level of 50 percent.  “ This is the best program for cost to provide the needed
capability,” Ed Walby, Northrop Grumman’s director of business
and development for the Global Hawk program, said in a telephone
interview. “The reduction in numbers reflects the increased
reliability of the system which allows for a reduction in
replacement aircraft for the aircraft that wear out. In recent
months the use of the aircraft in operations has shown that it
is much more reliable than it was in testing.”  Cost Increases  Causes of program’s cost increases have included deferred
development and new requirements, Carter said in a letter to the
leaders of the House Armed Service Committee. The letter was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Pentagon “incentives failed to motivate” Northrop Grumman
to deliver aircraft on time and “with acceptable quality,”
Carter said. The government’s negotiating power was “eroded”
by “extreme delays” in issuing a final contract, he said.  “Oversight was not consistent and persistent,” Carter
said. Also, even though a reliability program was directed, it
was not pursued. Engineering and risk management practices were
“not conducive to the management and control of costs,” Carter
said.  No Alternatives  Carter said the Pentagon has looked at alternatives to the
Global Hawk Block 30 version, such as  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s U-
2 “Dragon Lady” spy plane,  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s RC-135 Rivet Joint
reconnaissance plane and the broad area maritime unmanned system
(BAMS), also a Northrop Grumman program. These alternatives have
not been found to provide “acceptable capability” to meet the
military requirements at “less cost,” Carter said.  The U-2 would cost $220 million per year more than the
Global Hawk for conducting similar operations and can’t carry
all the sensors that the Global Hawk carries.  The combined cost of operating the BAMS, which is a
modified version of the Global Hawk, and RC-135 was $470 million
per year more than the Global Hawk. The RC-135 fleet is “not
large enough to perform the Global Hawk Block 30 mission,”
Carter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  