-- 
Norway $570 Billion Oil Fund May Target Private Equity as Adviser Switched

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-06-16T12:07:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/norway-570-billion-oil-fund-may-target-private-equity-as-adviser-switched.html
Norway ’s $570 billion oil fund may
get more leeway to expand into new asset classes such as roads,
gas pipelines and unlisted shares as the government switches its
top adviser for setting the investor’s guidelines.  Former central bank Governor Svein Gjedrem, 61, this week
started as secretary general at the Finance Ministry and chief
adviser on investment rules for the oil fund, succeeding 64-
year-old Tore Eriksen. The switch allows Gjedrem to revive
proposals blocked by the ministry in April to expand the fund’s
investments, according to Knut Anton Mork, chief economist at
Svenska Handelsbanken AB in Oslo.  “Gjedrem is a person of very powerful ability of
persuasion,” Mork said by phone. “The ministry will do what he
wants. I see no reason why Gjedrem should have changed his view
on this matter and against that background I expect the ministry
to change course and allow for these new asset classes.”  Gjedrem, who declined to comment on how he will advise the
ministry when contacted by e-mail, started his new job on June
11. He argued last year that the oil fund is “well-suited to
harvest liquidity premiums from infrastructure and  private
equity  investments,” in a report co-written with the fund’s
Chief Executive Officer  Yngve Slyngstad .  Eriksen, by contrast, said in an interview last week that
the fund needs to adopt a “conservative” approach and avoid
“experiments” after it lost a record $116 billion at the
height of the global crisis in 2008. The fund cut its Greek debt
holdings in the first quarter, after last year raising its
positions in bonds sold by Europe’s most indebted nations.  Bigger Returns  On Jan. 1, the range by which the fund can deviate from the
benchmark it tracks was cut to 1 percentage point from 1.5
percentage points. The fund returned 9.6 percent last year as
stock markets rallied, adding to a 26 percent gain in 2009. It
grew 2.1 percent in the first quarter, the smallest return since
the second quarter of 2010, as European bonds slumped.  The fund probably overtook  Abu Dhabi ’s Investment Authority
to be ranked the world’s biggest this year, Massachusetts-based
 Monitor  estimates. According to June rankings from the Sovereign
Wealth Fund Institute in  California , Norway’s wealth fund is the
world’s second largest.  Since 1998, the oil fund has had an annualized, real return
of 3.03 percent. The investor should take on more risk to help
achieve its long-term target of a 4 percent return, the
government-appointed Strategy Council, led by London Business
School Professor Emeritus Elroy Dimson, said in November.  Abu Dhabi, Temasek  Other wealth funds such as  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte
and Abu Dhabi are already investing in infrastructure and
private equity to spread risk and boost returns. The Abu Dhabi
fund, together with a group including Canada Pension Plan
Investment, this month agreed to pay $3.2 billion for a 24
percent stake in Norway’s natural gas pipeline network.  The choice of adviser is likely to shape the oil fund’s
investment decisions because “the permanent staff of the
 finance ministry  is traditionally quite influential in setting
operational rules,” Mork said.  While Gjedrem will be the ministry’s chief adviser for the
fund, final decisions will be made at the political level by
Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen.  The ministry “is open to” the option of letting the oil
fund expand into more asset classes, though “such new
investments won’t be done now,” according to a transcript of
comments by Johnsen to parliament, received by e-mail today.  ‘Too Complicated’  Eriksen wants his successor to avoid “rapidly increasing
the investment universe further,” he said in the June 8
interview. The fund should eschew “too complicated asset
classes and not experiment too much,” he said.  Eriksen, who will become Norway’s ambassador to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris
in September, warned that “with a big fund there are a lot of
management challenges and the more complicated we make the fund
the more complicated the management will be.”  Europe ’s biggest equity investor, which got its first
capital infusion in 1996, is mandated to hold 60 percent in
stocks, 35 percent in bonds and 5 percent in real estate. The
fund first moved into stocks in 1998, added emerging markets in
2000 and this year bought real estate to lift returns and
safeguard the wealth of the world’s seventh-largest oil
exporter. The fund invests outside Norway to avoid stoking
inflation. It completed its first real-estate investment this
year when it bought 25 percent in the U.K. Crown Estate’s Regent
Street properties.  Strategy Criticized  “It’s much more complicated to invest in properties, in
infrastructure than in equity and bonds, which you can buy every
day on every market,” Eriksen said.  While the investor mostly buys securities by following
global indexes, it has some leeway to stray from those
benchmarks to boost returns. The strategy was criticized after
active management of its bond holdings contributed to its record
633 billion-krone ($116 billion) loss three years ago, prompting
the ministry to tighten guidelines.  Norway, a nation of 4.9 million people, generates money for
the fund from taxes on oil and gas, ownership of petroleum
fields and dividends from its 67 percent stake in Statoil ASA,
the country’s biggest energy company. Norway is also the world’s
second-largest gas exporter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  