-- 
Norway Fisheries Mergers to Accelerate

-- B y   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-06-15T11:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/norway-fisheries-mergers-to-accelerate.html
Norway ’s fisheries will consolidate
more quickly as smaller companies struggle to meet proposed
changes to industry regulations, executives and analysts said.  Norway, the world’s largest salmon supplier, is studying
stricter rules on fish farming along its 13,000-mile mainland
coast to cut the risk of viruses while allowing industry growth,
following a review this year by Peter Gullestad, former director
of the country’s Fisheries Directorate. The review recommends a
so-called area-management system that splits the sea into zones.  “If the new area-management regime is introduced in
Norway, we think that will increase consolidation,” Tore Valderhaug, chief financial officer of fish-farm operator  Cermaq
ASA (CEQ) , said last week in an interview in Oslo. The company is
seeking acquisitions at “acceptable prices,” Valderhaug said.  Rising global demand for salmon and a slump in Chilean fish
stocks following a virus outbreak fueled gains in prices last
year, driving consolidation in the industry. While prices have
since fallen back, mergers and acquisitions will be boosted by
tougher regulations as smaller fisheries won’t have the means to
comply, according to Nordea Markets.  “It has gradually become more and more demanding to be a
small producer, having to cope with all kind of regulations and
new rules,” said Kolbjoern Giskeoedegaard, an analyst at Nordea
in Oslo. “We expect the M&A process would speed up with the
implementation of parts of the Gullestad report.”  Gullestad Proposals  The report’s recommendations include the division of
production areas into zones to coordinate fallowing and
restocking of fish, a measure aimed at combating parasites and
viruses. A consultation period on the plans, drafted by a panel
appointed by the Fisheries Ministry in 2009, ends Aug. 12.  The proposals are “sensible, but there are details that
should be modified to adapt it to a practical world,”
Giskeoedegaard said.  Deals this year have included  Salmar ASA (SALM) ’s purchase of
Bringsvor Laks AS for $26 million and Bakkafrost P/F’s
acquisition of P/F Havsbrun for $213 million.  Morpol ASA (MORPOL) , the
largest salmon processor, made six purchases in the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It expects to
grow in Norway and the U.K., CFO Steven Rafferty said last week.  “We are very active in M&A, so we’ll continue to be so if
there is a good opportunity,” Rafferty said.  Chilean Rules  Chile tightened fisheries regulations, including rules
governing fallow periods and distances between farms, after a
2007 outbreak of salmon anemia slashed production.  The prospect of a recovery in fish stocks in the South
American country has helped push down salmon prices this year.
Export prices for fresh fish fell 5.5 percent to 34.11 kroner
($6.24) a kilogram in the week to June 12, extending a seven-
week decline.  A price of about 35 kroner would ensure sustainable growth
in the industry, Morpol’s Rafferty said June 9.  “It’s fully possible for a small farmer, who cooperates
with other small farmers or bigger ones, to fulfill these
obligations,” Gullestad said by telephone. “The time for the
small farmer who wants to sit in isolation and do business as
before on its own, and doesn’t want to cooperate, is over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  