-- 
Nuclear Bomb Refurbishment May Alarm Russia, Imperil Obama Plan

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/nuclear-bomb-overhaul-may-counter-obama-pledge-anger-russia.html
A U.S. Air Force plan to refurbish
aging nuclear bombs deployed in five European countries would
increase the weapon’s power and accuracy and risks re-igniting
tensions with  Russia , an arms control group says.  The $4 billion program to extend the life of the B61 bomb
is part of a larger atomic weapons maintenance plan approved by
President  Barack Obama . The work is designed to ensure the
reliability of the U.S. nuclear deterrent force without building
new weapons or adding capabilities that might prompt Russia to
do the same.  The aim is “to modernize them, not in the sense of
capability, but in terms of security and reliability,” Defense
Secretary  Robert Gates  said in budget testimony yesterday before
the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on defense. “The risks
are to our own program in terms of being able to extend the life
of our weapons systems.”  Hans Kristensen, a nuclear weapons specialist at the
 Federation of American Scientists  in Washington, said the B61
refurbishment plan may make the bombs more capable, in violation
of that stated policy.  The  Air Force  plans to add a new tail section that will
effectively replace the four different current versions of the
B61 with one that would achieve the same effect as the version
with the highest explosive force, the Government Accountability
Office, the investigative arm of Congress, said in a May  report .  “There’s no way this can happen without increasing the
military capability,” Kristensen, a former adviser to Denmark’s
Ministry of Defense, said in a telephone interview.  U.S. Stockpile  The B61 is among seven types of nuclear weapons remaining
in the U.S. stockpile of more than 5,000 bombs. The version of
the B61 that currently has the higher explosive force, or yield,
isn’t deployed in  Europe , so the refurbished weapon with that
level of effect would amount to a new capability, he said.  The result may undermine Obama’s stated goal of easing
tensions with Russia and working toward eliminating nuclear
weapons worldwide. Obama last year reached a new agreement with
Russia to further cut each side’s nuclear weapons and has
offered cooperation on a Europe-based missile defense system
that officials in Moscow oppose.  Obama has budgeted a record $80 billion over 10 years to
maintain and modernize the existing nuclear stockpile, while
pledging not to add capabilities that might spark a new arms
race.  Gates told the Senate panel yesterday that the
modernization project is “really important.”  Weapons in Europe  While the U.S. won’t discuss the locations of its Cold War-
era nuclear arms in Europe, Kristensen said research has shown
they are in  Belgium ,  Germany ,  Italy , the Netherlands and  Turkey .  Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the White House National
Security Council, declined to comment and referred questions to
the Department of Energy’s  National Nuclear Security
Administration , which oversees design and production of U.S.
nuclear warheads in its laboratories and other sites.  The facilities are managed by subsidiaries or consortia of
companies including Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  and  Babcock & Wilcox Co. (BWC)  of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina .  “The president made clear in his Nuclear Posture Review
that this administration will not develop new nuclear warheads
with new military capabilities,” said Damien LaVera, a
spokesman for the nuclear agency. “The NNSA is in the beginning
stages of a life-extension program that is not intended to give
the B61 weapon system new military capabilities, but simply to
ensure the safety, security and effectiveness of an aging system
for decades to come.”  More Efficient  The Air Force said its plan for a single version for the
overhaul is more efficient and reduces the total cost of the
life-extension project.  The program “maintains the current military capability of
four variants of the B61 with a single bomb type,” Air Force
spokeswoman Vicki Stein said in an e-mail.  The GAO cited the increased capability in a May report that
largely focused on concerns the overhaul would be delayed
because of planning complications. Delays risk leaving the U.S.
unable to ensure the European nuclear deterrence it has pledged
to provide as part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
the GAO said.  The NNSA estimated the cost of the B61 life-extension
project at about $4 billion through its projected completion in
2022, the GAO reported.  “The new bomb tail section is estimated to cost $800
million and is designed to increase accuracy, enabling the
military to achieve the same effects as the older bomb, but with
lower nuclear yield,” the GAO said in the report. “The
addition of the new tail section also allows NNSA to consolidate
the different versions of the B61 bomb into a single version.”  Letter to Biden  In a May 24 letter to Vice President  Joe Biden  to alert him
to the issue, Kristensen warned that the increased accuracy may
mean “war planners and adversaries might see such nuclear
weapons as more usable, allowing some targets that previously
would not have been attacked because of too much collateral
damage to be attacked anyway.”  Kristensen, who with other experts accurately estimated the
size of the U.S. nuclear stockpile before the Pentagon revealed
the figure of 5,113 warheads last year, said he doesn’t think
the White House is deliberately circumventing its own public
pronouncements.  “But they’re not giving specific enough guidance to the
NNSA and the military services,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 