-- 
Obama Aide Says Donors in Administration Jobs Are Qualified

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-06-15T19:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/obama-aide-says-donors-in-administration-jobs-are-qualified-1-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman
said the campaign donors who got administration jobs all were
highly qualified for their positions.  “The president appoints people based on their
qualifications,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
today at a White House briefing. Contributing to the president’s
campaign didn’t automatically qualify donors for jobs, nor was
it disqualifying, he said.  “People were appointed on merits,” Carney said. “We
stand by those appointments.”  Carney was responding to a report by the independent Center
for Public Integrity’s  IWatch News , which said that 184 of
Obama’s 556 biggest campaign donors or their spouses have been
appointed to government positions. Almost 80 percent of those
who raised at least $500,000 each for the president’s 2008
election got what the White House defined as “key”
administration posts, the report said.  At least 19 of those who collected cash for Obama’s
campaign have ties to businesses that may profit from federal
spending on administration priorities such as clean energy and
telecommunications, the report said.  Donors as Ambassadors  During the campaign, Obama vowed to limit the influence of
money in politics. After his inauguration, Obama continued a
longstanding practice by U.S. presidents of naming campaign
donors ambassadors to countries such as the U.K.,  Japan  and
 France .  Among those nominated by Obama and confirmed as
ambassadors:  -- Louis Susman, a retired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  senior investment
banker, to the U.K. He raised between $200,000 and $500,000 for
Obama’s presidential campaign  -- John Roos, chief executive officer of the  Palo Alto ,
California-based law firm Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, to
Japan. He raised more than $500,000 for Obama.  -- Charles Rivkin, chief executive officer of  Wildbrain
Inc. , to France. Rivkin collected more than $500,000 for Obama’s
campaign and $300,000 for his inauguration.  --  Laurie Fulton , a partner with Williams & Connolly LLP,
to Denmark. Fulton raised $100,000 to $200,000.  Both Democratic and Republican presidents have given
assignments to donors with no particular expertise in their
designated country. Historically, about a third of ambassadorial
postings have gone to political appointees.  Political Appointments  Of 187 ambassadorial positions, 64 percent currently are
filled by career foreign service officers and 31 percent are
political appointees, according to the  American Foreign Service
Association , the professional association for members of the
U.S. Foreign Service. That includes appointments made by Obama
and holdovers from his predecessor,  George W. Bush .  Of Obama’s nominations, 36 percent were considered
political appointments, according to the association. Not all of
those necessarily went to large-scale donors. Among those
regarded by the association as political appointments are Ryan Crocker, who retired from the foreign service in 2009 following
senior diplomatic roles in the Bush and Obama administrations,
to serve as ambassador to  Pakistan , and Gary Locke, the commerce
secretary and former governor of Washington state, whom Obama
has nominated as ambassador to  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  