-- 
Lockheed’s Anti-Missile System Targeted for Cuts in U.S. Senate

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-06-15T14:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/lockheed-s-anti-missile-system-targeted-for-cuts-in-u-s-senate.html
U.S. senators are aiming to
eliminate funding for a missile defense program being developed
by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  in collaboration with  Italy  and
 Germany .  Senator Mark Begich, Democrat of Alaska, and at least six
other Democratic and Republican members of the  U.S. Senate  Armed
Services Committee, will try to strike the Pentagon’s funding
request for the Medium Extended Air Defense System, or Meads.  “We proposed to eliminate Meads funding,” as part of the
internal panel negotiations for the 2012 defense authorization
bill, which sets military policy and spending targets for the
fiscal year that starts Oct. 1, Begich said in a short
interview. The full Senate Armed Services Committee will
consider his provision during deliberations this week, he said.  The committee chairman, Michigan Democrat  Carl Levin , said
that the panel’s subcommittee’s will “scrub and review” all
Pentagon programs to find savings. Cuts will be “case-by-case”
rather than trimming the entire  defense budget  by a certain
percentage, Levin told reporters yesterday.  Levin also said that he asked the Obama administration to
detail how much of its proposed $400 billion in national
security cuts over 12 years would come out of the Pentagon and
how much must be trimmed for 2012. The administration has not
yet made recommendations, according to Levin.  The Senate Armed Services panel on readiness led by
Missouri Democrat Claire McCaskill, the only subcommittee to
deliberate in open forum, has proposed about $3.5 billion in
savings by freezing Defense Department spending on service
contracts at 2010 levels, eliminating military construction
projects, and reducing operations and maintenance funding for
the  Air Force .  Multinational Defense  The Pentagon in February said it would terminate Meads when
the current contract ends in 2013. The Pentagon requested $406.6
million for Meads in 2012.  The $4.2 billion development program is managed from
Orlando, Florida, by Meads International LLC, a joint venture of
Lockheed, Lfk-Lenkflugkorpersysteme Gmbh of Germany and MBDA of
Italy. MBDA, the world’s second-largest missile maker, is
jointly owned by  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) , European Aeronautic, Defence
and Space Co. and  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   The House Appropriations Committee yesterday approved a
2012 defense-spending bill that cuts $149.5 million from the
Pentagon’s proposed budget for Meads. The House in May approved
a 2012 defense authorization bill with the same cuts.  Continuing with the program would have required as much as
$1.16 billion additionally for the five-year period ending 2017,
according to a Pentagon fact sheet.  Growing Costs  The Meads system has grown in cost by about $1 billion and
its overall schedule has been delayed an additional 18 months,
according to the Senate Armed Services Committee in its version
of the fiscal 2011 defense authorization bill.  The U.S. contributes 58 percent of the funding for the
seven-year-old Meads program, in partnership with Germany and
Italy. It’s an anti-missile system designed to work within
NATO’s command structure that uses the latest version of the
Patriot missile developed by Lockheed Martin and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   “This is an extremely needed capability,” Marty Coyne,
director of business development for Meads International said in
a telephone interview. “It is essential for Congress to fund
the request” to finish the development of the system and
conduct three flight tests, Coyne said.  Congress also should ask the GAO to conduct a study to
compare the costs of operating and maintaining Meads to the
costs of the older Patriot missile system developed by Raytheon
Co., he said.  Waltham, Massachusetts-based Raytheon’s missile programs
vice president, Tim Glaeser, says Patriot is “an affordable,
low risk and effective cornerstone to air and missile defense
for the foreseeable future.”  -- Editors: Steven Komarow, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 