-- 
Oil Declines as Concerns Over European Debt Counter U.S. Inventory Drop

-- B y   A n n   K o h   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-06-15T12:19:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/oil-drops-0-3-in-new-york-trading-u-s-crude-stockpiles-fall-api-says.html
Oil fell from a three-day high in
 New York  amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will threaten
the region’s economic recovery and curb demand.  Futures slid as much as 1.2 percent, after posting their
biggest gain in almost a month yesterday, as European Union
finance ministers struggled to break a deadlock on a second
rescue plan for the  Greek economy . U.S. crude stockpiles fell by
3.01 million barrels last week, the industry-funded American
Petroleum Institute said yesterday. A Bloomberg survey indicated
government data today may show a decline of 1.8 million barrels.  “The debt situation in Greece is coming into focus again
so people are hesitant to buy,” said Gerrit Zambo, a trader at
 Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “The supply situation
everywhere is quite relaxed, especially in the U.S.”  Crude for July delivery declined as much as $1.17 to $98.20
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $98.71 at 1:15 p.m. London time. The
contract gained 2.1 percent yesterday, the biggest increase
since May 18. Prices are 28 percent higher in the past year.  The discount for New York futures to Brent traded in London
was $19.90 a barrel, after reaching a record of $22.79
yesterday. Brent oil for July delivery slid $1.61, or 1.3
percent, to $118.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract expires today. The more actively
traded August future fell $1.62 to $117.73.  European Meetings  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy will meet on June 17 in Berlin to try to resolve
their differences on a rescue for  Greece , which was downgraded
this week to the world’s lowest credit rating by  Standard &
Poor’s . EU finance ministers agreed to convene again on June 19.  Shares of BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit
Agricole SA, France’s three biggest banks, dropped more than 1
percent after Moody’s Investors Service placed their credit
ratings on review to scrutinize their holdings of Greek debt.  The global economy has “hit a bit of a short-term patch of
weakness but we still see the second half of the year as being
pretty strong,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Melbourne, who
predicted crude will average $113 a barrel in the third quarter.
“Higher  oil prices  might be having a marginal impact on growth
in the advanced economies.”  The Energy Department report today may say U.S. crude
inventories fell from 368.9 million last week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 13 analysts. Gasoline supplies probably
rose 1.05 million barrels, the survey shows.  API Report  Crude stockpiles dropped to 363 million barrels, the lowest
in seven weeks, according to the  American Petroleum Institute 
report yesterday. Gasoline inventories climbed 1.13 million
barrels to 213.5 million barrels, the API said. Oil-supply
totals from the API and the Energy Department have moved in the
same direction 72 percent of the time over the past year.  The institute collects stockpile information on a voluntary
basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and
pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed with
the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  The cancellation of some supplies of U.K. Forties crude for
June loading and ongoing turmoil in Libya boosted Brent’s value
relative to WTI, said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity derivative sales
manager at Newedge in  Tokyo .  Libya Supplies  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization dropped leaflets
across Libyan government lines around the besieged rebel-held
city of Misrata, threatening attacks by Apache helicopters if
the daily bombardment of the enclave continues.  “Some Forties crude for June loading were rolled over to
July and in Libya supplies are still suspended,” Hasegawa said.
“I would want to watch if Brent goes up to $123 a barrel
because it will try to reach $127 if that happens.”  The gap is widening because of increased production in
Canada and shale oil in the U.S., according to Francisco Blanch,
a Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst. Middle East disruptions
are supporting Brent, he said today in  London .  While the gap was determined in the past by excessive
stockpiles at the U.S. storage hub in Cushing, Oklahoma, the
current divergence is more closely linked to shortages of blends
similar to  Brent crude , BNP Paribas SA said yesterday in a
separate report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at   akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya at   adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  