-- 
Oil Rules Turn Drillers Into Shipwreck Hunters

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 
2011-06-15T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/oil-rules-turn-drillers-into-shipwreck-hunters.html
A German submarine from World War II
and a two-masted schooner that sank in the early 1800s are among
finds made by C&C Technologies Inc. in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Now the company that specializes in hunting for shipwrecks
says it’s getting more orders from  oil companies  pressed by U.S.
regulators to find out whether a sunken tanker or a French
 colonial vessel  rests in the deep waters where they want to
drill.  “We’ve already seen an uptick in the business,” Jay
Northcutt, geophysical manager for Lafayette, Louisiana-based
C&C, said in an interview. “A shipwreck can be found
anywhere.”  Oil companies say the surveys add to the burden of costs
and bureaucracy under expanded regulation that followed the
blowout last year of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well in the Gulf.  “It could slow down planned approval and permitting,”
Erik Milito, upstream and industry operations director at the
 American Petroleum Institute , a Washington-based trade group,
said in an interview. “Some of these surveys could be a million
dollars to run, and there might be no need to do that based upon
the unlikelihood of a shipwreck being there.”  A shipwreck search can cost $300,000 to $1.5 million,
according to closely held C&C.  The  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and
Enforcement, the government’s drilling regulator, informed oil
companies of a “new requirement through an e-mail, as opposed
to using the public notice and comment process,” Milito said.  That’s not true, according to the bureau, which said in a
statement yesterday that the e-mail to the industry in March was
a reminder of a longstanding historic preservation requirement
that’s being enforced once again.  ‘Categorical Exclusions’  The archeological surveys are being demanded as part of
full environmental assessments,  Michael Bromwich , the chief
drilling regulator, said when asked about the policy at a June 2
hearing of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
The bureau is no longer granting oil and gas companies
“categorical exclusions” from the environmental studies, as it
had done before the BP spill, he said.  An operator that finds “any archaeological resource”
should halt operations and notify the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management, according to the bureau’s  website . Companies have
made changes in their plans to protect historic vessels.  C&C was hired by BP and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to check the
route for a subsea natural-gas pipeline, according to the
company. In 2001, its remote-controlled underwater vehicle found
the U-166, a German submarine that sank the S.S. Robert E. Lee,
a U.S. passenger ship, in 1942, killing 25 people.  BP, based in  London , and Shell of The Hague diverted the
pipeline to avoid the wreck and sponsored initial research on
it.  Still on Sea Floor  The vessel, equipped with 20- and 37-millimeter anti-
aircraft guns and a cannon, remains on the sea floor, about 45
miles from the mouth of the  Mississippi River , Rob Church,
senior marine archaeologist for C&C, said in an interview.  Also in 2001,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving,  Texas , the
world’s largest oil company, found a 200-year-old wreck in 2,600
feet (792 meters) of water when building a pipeline 30 miles off
the mouth of the Mississippi River, the Bureau of Ocean Energy
Management  said  in a statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  