-- 
Oil Climbs From Four-Month Low on Speculation Slump Exaggerated

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-06-16T07:27:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/oil-rises-after-slumping-to-four-month-low-u-s-distillate-demand-drops.html
Oil rose from the lowest in almost
four months in  New York  amid speculation yesterday’s 4.6 percent
slump was exaggerated and on signs Chinese demand will increase.  Futures climbed as much as 0.8 percent after plunging the
most since May 11 yesterday. The contract traded below the lower
Bollinger Band, a technical indicator which may signal prices
have fallen too far.  Brent crude  may stay “well above” $100 a
barrel in the second half of the year on Chinese demand growth,
 Mirae Asset  Securities Ltd. said.  Oil is at “the lowest end of the range,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in
Sydney, who predicted the New York contract will average $100 a
barrel this year. “We have been down here a couple of times and
on each occasion we have bounced off this level.”  Crude for July delivery gained as much as 73 cents to
$95.54 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $95.12 at 3:23 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday fell $4.56 to $94.81, the lowest since Feb.
22. Prices are 22 percent higher the past year.  New York futures have traded in a range of $93.57 to
$113.93 since Feb. 22, when Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  said
in a televised address he would fight an uprising until his
“last drop of blood.” The unrest has cut the nation’s oil
production almost 90 percent since January, according to
Bloomberg estimates.  China Demand  Brent oil for August delivery rose $1.14, or 1 percent, to
$114.15 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. It fell $6.34, or 5.3 percent, yesterday to $113.01.  China ’s demand growth may keep Brent crude “well above’”
$100 a barrel in the second half of the year,  Gordon Kwan , head
of regional energy research at Mirae Asset in  Hong Kong , said in
an e-mailed note today.  China may need an extra 1 million metric tons of diesel a
month in the third quarter as factories burn the fuel in
electricity generators amid a power shortage, said an official
with the nation’s largest oil company, PetroChina Co.  The country may face a diesel shortfall as seven major
refineries, with a combined capacity of 35.25 million tons a
year, will undergo maintenance, Gong Manying, a market research
director at PetroChina, said in Beijing today. China’s summer
electricity deficit may exceed its most severe in 2004,
according to State Grid Corp. of China.  U.S. Economy  Oil tumbled yesterday as manufacturing in the New York
region unexpectedly shrank in June and the Energy Department
said U.S. fuel demand fell for the first time in five weeks.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest level since November,
from 11.9 in May. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the so-called Empire State Index, which covers New York,
northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut .  Nationwide industrial production rose less than forecast in
May, restrained by a slump in utility output and shortages of
auto parts from  Japan  after the March 11 earthquake disrupted
production. Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.1
percent, Federal Reserve figures showed. Economists projected a
0.2 percent gain, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  U.S. consumption of distillate fuel, a category that
includes diesel and heating oil, tumbled 5.2 percent last week
to 3.6 million barrels a day, the lowest level since January,
according to the Energy Department.  Crude Inventories  Crude stockpiles fell 3.41 million barrels to 365.6
million, the department said. A 1.8 million-barrel decline was
projected, according to the median of 13 analyst responses in a
Bloomberg News survey. Gasoline inventories climbed 573,000
barrels, the department said. They were projected to increase
1.05 million barrels, the survey shows.  Stockpiles of oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point
for the New York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, slipped
1.14 million barrels to 37.76 million in the week ended June 10,
the lowest level since February. Cushing is the terminus of the
Keystone pipeline, which carries Canadian oil to the central
U.S. and was closed from May 29 to June 5.  TransCanada Corp. has curtailed June and July shipments on
its Keystone pipeline by 12 percent, Terry Cunha, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. It will transport between 400,000
and 450,000 barrels a day, he said in an e-mail. The line was
shut twice last month after leaks at pump stations in  North
Dakota  and  Kansas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  