-- 
Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Slides to Nine-Month Low on Sales Outlook

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-06-15T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-slides-to-nine-month-low-on-sales-outlook.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
slumped in June to the lowest level in nine months as executives
turned more pessimistic on the outlook for sales, a sign that
any pickup will take time to develop.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index unexpectedly fell to 13 from 16 in May, the
biggest drop in a year, data from the Washington-based group
showed today. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected it would hold at 16.  Further declines in real-estate values and more
foreclosures in the pipeline mean builders will be hesitant to
break ground on projects. Unemployment at 9.1 percent suggests
demand for new homes may take years to rebound.  “There is still an abundance of existing homes for sale,”
 David Semmens , a U.S. economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
 New York , said before the report. “Homebuilding is not going to
make a meaningful addition to the  U.S. economy  any time soon.”  Other reports today showed factory production rebounded in
May and consumer prices rose more than forecast. Figures from
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  showed manufacturing in its
region unexpectedly shrank in June.  Readings lower than 50 in today’s homebuilder measure mean
more respondents said conditions were poor. Projections among
the 42 economists surveyed ranged from 15 to 18.  The gauge, which was first published in January 1985,
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009, and averaged 54 in
the five years before the recession began in December 2007.  Components Drop  The builders group’s index of sales expectations for the
next six months decreased to 15, matching the lowest level on
record, from 19. A gauge of current single-family home sales
declined to 13, the lowest since September, from 15.  The index of buyer traffic fell to 12 from 14 in May, the
biggest one-month drop since July.  “Builder confidence has waned even further as economic
growth has stalled, foreclosures have continued to hit the
market and the cost of building a home has risen,” NAHB Chief
Economist  David Crowe  said today in a statement. “Economic
growth must pick up in order for housing to gain the momentum it
needs to get back on track.”  A report from the Labor Department today showed that the
cost of living in the U.S. rose more than forecast in May,
reflecting higher prices for everything from autos to hotel
rooms and signaling raw-material expenses are filtering through
to other goods and services.  Consumer Prices  The consumer-price index increased 0.2 percent, compared
with the 0.1 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The so-called core measure, which excludes more
volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.3 percent, the biggest
increase since July 2008.  The NAHB confidence survey asks builders to characterize
current sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge
prospective buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge
the outlook for the next six months.  Builders in three of the four regions saw a decrease in
confidence this month. The biggest drop was among those in the
West, where sentiment fell to the lowest level since December.
Confidence in the Midwest declined to the lowest since March
2010, and sentiment in the South fell to a nine-month low.  Confidence rose in the Northeast.  The Commerce Department may report tomorrow that housing
starts rose 4.2 percent in May to 545,000 units at an annual
rate, according to economists’ forecasts. Starts have moved up
from a 518,000 level in February, which was the lowest since a
478,000 pace in April 2009, the weakest on record.  Home Sales  Sales of existing homes, which make up more than 90 percent
of the market, fell 4 percent to a 4.85 million annual pace in
May, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the National
Association of Realtors may report on June 21. Existing home
sales have been gaining market share from new homes due to
growing demand for lower-priced distressed homes.  Firms like  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  are still struggling
to turn a profit in the U.S. housing market. The largest
homebuilder in  New Jersey  reported a net loss for the three
months ended April 30 that was wider than analysts estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 