-- 
Montreal Bourse Not at Risk in London Purchase, Kloet Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-15T16:38:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/montreal-bourse-not-at-risk-in-london-purchase-kloet-says.html
TMX Group Inc. (X)  Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Kloet said critics are wrong to think the
exchange operator’s purchase by  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
puts the company’s  Montreal  derivatives bourse in jeopardy.  “Our critics have said that as a result of this merger,
Montreal Exchange is at risk,” Kloet said in remarks prepared
for an event today at the Board of Trade of Metropolitan
Montreal. “In the agreement we have structured with  London ,
Montreal Exchange is protected, and its current structure and
role in this city guaranteed. Forever.”  LSE is buying Toronto-based TMX in a C$3.38 billion ($3.45
billion) deal announced in February. Kloet’s comments come a day
after Quebec Premier Jean Charest told Bloomberg News that he
preferred a rival bid by Maple Group Acquisition Corp., an all-
Canadian group led by banks and pension funds.  Kloet said the Montreal Exchange and its derivatives
clearinghouse will be based in Montreal and managed by a
Montreal-based president. Kloet also said  Quebec ’s regulator
will retain all existing powers to oversee the Montreal bourse
and derivatives clearinghouse.  TMX backs LSE’s all-stock takeover that is valued at about
C$45.46 a share. The Toronto-based exchange owner rejected a
C$3.58 billion cash-and-stock bid from Maple Group, whose 13
members include Toronto-Dominion Bank, National Bank of  Canada 
and Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec.  The competing bids are part of more than $30 billion in
takeover offers for exchanges worldwide since October as bourses
try to cut costs and generate more revenue from trading in
stocks, options and futures. TMX and LSE shareholders vote on
the transaction on June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 