-- 
Goldman Sachs Sees No Panic in Options as VIX Takes Six Weeks to Exceed 20

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-16T20:19:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/options-panic-is-absent-amid-six-week-s-p-500-selloff-without-volatility.html
It took six weeks of equity losses,
a series of lower-than-estimated economic reports and political
turmoil in  Greece  to finally drive the options gauge known as
the VIX above its long-term average.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index rose 17
percent to 21.32 yesterday, topping its 21-year mean of 20.34
for the first time since March 21, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The VIX averaged 17.44 since the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, the benchmark measure of U.S. stocks, began falling
after reaching an almost three-year high on April 29.  The options measure failed to surge even after the
Citigroup Economic Surprise Index sank to minus 117.20 this
month, meaning data missed projections in Bloomberg surveys by
the most since January 2009. The response shows there’s no panic
among investors buying and selling equity derivatives after the
S&P 500 fell 7.2 percent in the past month and a half, according
to traders and strategists at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , BNP
Paribas SA and Sterne Agee & Leach Inc.  “The move down was gradual, and there was no panic,” said
Alex Panagiotidis, managing director for equity derivatives at
Sterne Agee in New York. “When the move is gradual, there’s no
panic, so the VIX doesn’t go up as much.”  Vote on Papandreou  U.S. stocks sank the most in two weeks yesterday, almost
erasing the S&P 500’s 2011 gain, and the euro slid the most in
more than a month amid rising concern that Greece will default
and evidence that the American economy is slowing. Greek Prime
Minister  George Papandreou  said he will reshuffle his Cabinet
and seek a confidence vote today, battling to control a
shrinking majority and push through austerity measures demanded
by international lenders.  The VIX increased 6.6 percent to 22.73 as of 4:15 p.m. in
New York as the  S&P 500  climbed 0.2 percent. July VIX futures
gained 4.8 percent to 21.95.  The CBOE index has risen 43 percent since the S&P 500’s
peak at the end of April. The slump should have lifted the VIX
to 23, according to strategists at Goldman Sachs. S&P 500 skew,
which measures how much investors are paying for puts to sell in
relation to calls to buy, has fallen to an almost three-month
low.  Stability in the VIX signals that the S&P 500’s six-week
slide, the longest in three years, isn’t convincing investors
that stocks are headed for a  bear market . The index lost an
average of 6.5 percent in the past year’s four biggest slumps,
which averaged 17 calendar days in length, then rebounded by an
average of 12 percent through the next peak.  ‘Pretty Comfortable’  “There wasn’t a panic trade because funds had already
lowered their exposure,” said Layla Peruzzi, vice president for
equity derivatives at Jefferies Group Inc. in  New York . “When
the market went lower, we had people selling options they
already owned. They weren’t scrambling for protection. They were
being very calm about it. Investors are pretty comfortable.”  Since April 29, the VIX has posted a 6.5 percent median
increase on days when the S&P 500 fell by 1 percent or more,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s less than the
9.1 percent increase this year before the peak, the data show.  The VIX, which tracks S&P 500 options with a 30-day
maturity, typically moves up about 1.2 points for every 1
percent decline in the S&P 500, Krag “Buzz” Gregory, a New
York-based derivatives strategist at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a
report sent to clients on June 14. That relationship implies
that the VIX should be at 23, he said.  Japan ’s Earthquake  The volatility gauge is down 27 percent since this year’s
peak of 29.40 on March 16, when it surged to an eight-month high
after Japan’s earthquake and nuclear disaster.  “You’re still not seeing a lot of demand for downside S&P
puts,” said Dan Deming, a VIX options trader at Stutland
Equities LLC on the CBOE floor. “It’s almost like the market’s
in denial and it’s very strange and causing a little bit of
apprehension. There’s a lot of confusion and people aren’t sure
how they want to position themselves.”  The VIX remains below its 2011 peak even after data on jobs
and manufacturing reinforced concern that the global economy is
slowing. Yesterday, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s
manufacturing index dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest level since
November, while U.S. industrial production increased 0.1
percent, missing the 0.2 percent median growth estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists.  Investors so far this year appear comfortable with the VIX
in the range of 16 to the low 20s, said Bouhari Arouna, an
equity derivatives strategist at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA in New York.
When the index falls to the lower end of that range, traders
often buy calls to bet on a rebound, and when it rises into the
20s they usually buy puts to profit from a retreat, he said.  ‘Sign of Complacency’  “We don’t see any put buying, and instead we’ve been
seeing people buying calls, even at current levels,” he said.
“That’s not good for stocks. It can be more neutral. If you
look at the actual options hedging activity in the indexes,
there’s not much going on. We believe that’s a sign of
complacency, although it can also mean that investors have
enough hedges on.”  U.S. stocks have retreated for six straight weeks, giving
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  its longest slump since 2002.
July VIX futures, which expire in a month, rose 9.1 percent to
20.95 yesterday, while August’s increased 6.5 percent to 21.25.  “The market isn’t completely buying into a prolonged
decline,” said Max Breier, equity derivatives strategist at BMO
Capital Markets Corp. in New York.  “It’s been a very orderly selloff and people haven’t
really felt any panic,” said Dominic Salvino, a specialist at
Chicago-based Group One Trading, the primary market maker for
VIX options. “The overall news is just more of the same: Weak
job creation, intractable housing problems, uncertain regulatory
environment, etc. -- nothing that represents a shock to the
system.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  