-- 
Qantas, Air N.Z. to Resume Most Flights Today as Volcanic Ash Plume Clears

-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 
2011-06-16T21:58:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/more-australia-new-zealand-flights-canceled.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and  Air New
Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  expect to operate most flights across the Tasman
Sea today as a cloud of volcanic ash that has disrupted services
for five days disperses.  Qantas will operate most flights to  New Zealand  although
there may be delays, according to a statement late yesterday on
its website. Budget arm Jetstar will resume some New Zealand
routes.  Air New Zealand  plans to fly a full timetable after
resuming flights to and from Queenstown at midday, according to
an e-mailed statement today.  The airlines have started clearing a backlog of passengers
caused by flight cancellations following the June 4 eruption in
the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex in southern  Chile ,
which disrupted travel around the Southern Hemisphere. The ash
also endangered crops and livestock in  Argentina , prompting the
government yesterday to declare an agricultural emergency.  Air New Zealand will ensure domestic and international
flight paths continue to avoid areas of ash, the Auckland-based
carrier said in an e-mailed statement. Virgin  Australia  will
resume flights from Auckland to Australia and the South Pacific
while other services are under review, it said in a statement.  Jetstar domestic and international services through
Christchurch on New Zealand’s South Island are canceled until at
least midday, it said in an e-mailed statement. Other flights
will operate, it said.  Remains Active  The Chile volcanic complex remains active as authorities
observed an average of four temblors an hour and an  ash cloud  as
wide as three miles blowing in an east-southeasterly direction,
the nation’s geological and mining authority, known as
Sernageomin, said in a  statement  on its website yesterday.  In Argentina, Buenos Aires flights likely will operate as
normal today following shutdowns earlier this week, an
 Aeropuertos Argentina 2000  official said.  Ash in the country is destroying fodder, which will cut
sheep numbers and reduce wool quality, Edgar Contin, vice
president of the Rural Federation Society of Rio Negro, said by
phone yesterday. Ash accumulated on sheep’s coats is also
weighing them down, causing them to fall over when they run, he
said. Farmers then have to help them get up again, he said.  It’s too early to calculate losses among the 300,000 sheep
and 30,000 head of cattle in  Rio Negro , Contin said. Parts of
the province are covered by 20 centimeters (8 inches) of ash, he
said.  Argentina declared an agriculture emergency in the southern
provinces of Rio Negro, Chubut and Neuquen, entitling farmers to
financial aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at   ndenslow@bloomberg.net  