-- 
Mortgage-Bond Payment Doubt Sparks ‘Uncertain’ Moody’s Review

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-06-15T15:00:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/mortgage-bond-payment-doubt-sparks-uncertain-moody-s-review.html
Almost $1.7 billion of mortgage
securities are being reviewed by Moody’s Investors Service as
the trustee seeks to determine how they should be paid.  Two sets of documents for each of the three mortgage-bond
deals, which are backed by so-called Alt A loans and were
created by Irvine, California-based  Impac Mortgage Holdings
Inc. (IMH) , offer different sets of instructions on how principal
should be paid to their various classes once credit losses
accumulate, the New York-based ratings firm said in a statement.  A total of 11 classes from the transactions, all of which
were rated Aaa when issued in 2006 and 2007 and now carry non-
investment grades, “have been placed on watch, direction
uncertain,” Moody’s said yesterday in the statement.  The review shows how Wall Street’s failures in the
mortgage-bond market before they sparked the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression extended into the documents
governing the deals’ mechanics. The Impac deals are currently
subject to so-called trust instruction proceedings, which began
in September and have prompted the trustee to escrow payments
owed to investors, Moody’s said.  Deutsche Bank AG serves as trustee on the deals, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  John Gallagher , a spokesman for
the bank in New York, declined to immediately comment.  While the so-called prospectus supplements for the deals
say that principal collected on the underlying loans should be
distributed equally to various senior classes once their credit
support is depleted, the pooling and servicing agreements do
“not carry this corresponding language,” according to Moody’s.  The firm’s current ratings reflect its understanding that
senior classes would be paid off based on their seniority, it
said.  Alt-A loans fall between prime and subprime in terms of
expected defaults, often because borrowers failed to document
their incomes or were buying homes for investments.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  