-- 
Osborne Said to Publish Central Bank’s Financial-Stability Powers Tomorrow

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-15T10:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/osborne-said-to-publish-boe-financial-stability-powers-tomorrow.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will publish draft legislation tomorrow that hands
powers to the  Bank of England  to police Britain’s banks in the
biggest regulatory overhaul since 1997.  The  Financial Regulation Bill  will be published for so-
called pre-legislative scrutiny, according to a person with
knowledge of the bill’s contents. It will give lawmakers the
chance to pick through legislation that will abolish the U.K.’s
Financial Services Authority and transfer most of its powers to
the central bank, said the person, who declined to be named
because the plans aren’t public. Treasury minister Mark Hoban
intends to spell out the plans in detail to Parliament tomorrow.  The bill is scheduled to be put to Parliament formally
later this year and approved by legislators in late 2012. It
will pave the way for the central bank’s Financial Policy
Committee to begin its work of monitoring risk. The committee --
chaired by Governor  Mervyn King  -- will meet informally for the
first time tomorrow and will get full legal powers just as
King’s second five-year term as governor expires.  King and Osborne began work last June, a month after Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government took office, on
the regulatory overhaul, which will give the Bank of England
more power than it has ever had in its 317-year history.  The bill will take more than twice as long to obtain
approval from Parliament as the legislation that gave the Bank
of England its independence more than a decade ago. That will
deprive King of the mantle of being the only major central
banker to have control of both monetary policy and financial
regulation.  Differing Views  The timetable reflects differing views between King and the
government on issues that include the amount of capital banks
should hold, three people familiar with the matter said earlier
this year.  When the previous Labour government came to power in 1997,
 Gordon Brown , the chancellor at the time, handed the bank powers
to set  interest rates , while stripping it of supervisory and
some financial stability powers that it is now set to regain.  The Treasury Committee of the House of Commons, the cross-
party panel that scrutinizes economic policy, said in a report
in February that the government should publish “as soon as
possible” the “nature of the powers” to be given to the FPC
and the tools as its disposal. It also called for non-bank
members to be involved in its decisions.  The legislation will also establish the Prudential
Regulation Authority, the body that will be responsible for
overseeing all deposit-taking institutions, insurers and
investment banks and effectively replaces the FSA. The FPC may
be granted powers to require the new regulator to conduct stress
tests on banks to monitor risks as part of an overhaul of
financial supervision.  The proposals will also map out the creation of the
Financial Conduct Authority, a body that will seek to protect
consumers and police the integrity of markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  