-- 
Osborne Says It’s Time to Plan Government Exit From Banks as U.K. Recovers

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-15T23:01:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/osborne-says-it-s-time-to-plan-exit-from-banking-support-as-u-k-recovers.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said it’s time to begin unwinding support for Britain’s
financial sector and selling government stakes in banks amid
early signs of economic recovery.  Osborne fired the first shot with an announcement that
Northern Rock Plc, nationalized in 2008 after suffering the
first run on a British bank in more than a century, will be put
up for sale. Liquidity programs and credit-support plans that
saddled taxpayers with more than 1 trillion pounds ($1.6
trillion) of liabilities at the height of the financial crisis
are also being unwound.  “It’s time we started to plan our exit,” Osborne said in
a speech to the annual gathering of bankers at London’s  Mansion
House  last night. “Taxpayers today own a large part of the
banking system and underwrite guarantees to parts of the rest.”  The comments are the most upbeat assessment by the
chancellor since he came to office a year ago and mark a shift
away from previous warnings that Britain faces the same fate as
 Greece  if it abandons his fiscal-austerity plans. Osborne’s
political opponents say growth remains too weak and the jobs
market too mixed to call an end to the crisis.  “I believe that sentiment of cautious optimism has been
borne out by events” Osborne said. “The British economy is
recovering. Output is growing.”  ‘First Step’  Osborne said he has opened the Credit Guarantee Scheme to
“early redemption,” allowing banks to exit the government
support program that was introduced to increase confidence for
inter-bank loans. Unwinding the Bank of  England ’s Special
Liquidity Scheme was another such measure that indicated
recovery in the sector, he said.  Going further, the sale of Northern Rock “would be a very
important first step in getting the British taxpayer out of the
business of owning banks -- and a sign of confidence in the
industry,” Osborne said.  It may yet be “several years” before stakes in larger
banks such as  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Lloyds
Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  will be sold, the chancellor said. The banks
required a 65.8 billion-pound government rescue after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled financial
markets worldwide.  The bidding process for Northern Rock, based in Newcastle,
northeast England, will be open to anyone including mutual
lenders, and the government wants the sale to spur competition
in the banking industry, Osborne said.  Darling’s Move  Savers queued outside branches of Northern Rock in
September 2007 after it approached the Bank of England for
emergency funding. Osborne’s predecessor,  Alistair Darling , took
the bank into public ownership in February 2008 after failing to
find a buyer.  The government separated Northern Rock Plc, the consumer
bank, from Northern Rock (Asset Management) Plc, which is closed
to new customers, in January 2010. Northern Rock Plc and  U.K.
Financial Investments , which manages the government’s bank
stakes, hired Deutsche Bank AG in March to advise on options
including a possible sale.  Northern Rock posted an underlying pretax loss of 232.4
million pounds in 2010.  In order to increase resilience in the banking system,
Osborne said he will back proposals to erect firebreaks around
the consumer-banking units of lenders, a plan put forward in
April by the Independent Commission on Banking. It’s the first
time the chancellor has expressed public support for the idea.  ‘Stay Competitive’  The Lord Mayor of London, Michael Bear, warned in his
speech at the Mansion House dinner that the costs of banking had
to be kept down to prevent damage to Britain’s economy.  “It is in all our interests to help our banks stay
competitive and to allow them to operate in a globally
equivalent regulatory environment,” Bear said.  The Treasury will also publish draft legislation today that
hands powers to the  Bank of England  to police Britain’s banks in
the biggest regulatory overhaul since 1997.  The Financial Regulation Bill will be published for so-
called pre-legislative scrutiny, giving lawmakers the chance to
pick through legislation that will abolish the Financial
Services Authority and transfer most of its powers to the
central bank.  Osborne said the broader economic backdrop is showing signs
of improving, with a shrinking budget deficit and the “second
highest rate of  job creation ” among Group of 7 nations -- half
a million jobs in the last year.  ‘On the Mend’  “Britain is on the mend,” Osborne said. “But it’s taking
time.”  Osborne “should take some comfort” from employment
figures that showed an improvement in hiring in the three months
through April, said Danny Gabay, director of Fathom Financial
Consulting in  London . About 520,000 private-sector jobs have
been created in the last year while 143,000 have been lost.
Wages have failed to keep up with living costs, Gabay said in a
telephone interview.  Osborne said the recovery in Britain has been hurt by a 60
percent increase in the price of oil over the last year, the
earthquake in Japan, the fiscal crisis in some European
countries and the sluggish recovery in the U.S.  The U.K. economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
canceling out a similar decline in the final three months of
2010.  Osborne’s counterpart in the opposition  Labour Party ,  Ed Balls , said that the chancellor has made matters worse with
plans to squeeze the  budget deficit  more than at any time since
World War II.  By weighing on growth, Osborne’s package “is creating a
vicious circle” of low business investment, low income and low
employment, Balls will say at a speech at the  London School  of
Economics today, according to remarks released by his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  