-- 
Academy Plans to Nominate 5-10 Films for Best Picture Oscar

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-06-15T21:34:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/oscars-group-pulls-back-on-two-year-expansion-of-best-picture-to-10-films.html
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts
and Sciences will nominate five to 10 movies for best picture,
pulling back from a two-year expansion of the Oscars category to
10 movies.  The final number will be revealed when nominations are
announced, the academy said yesterday on its  website . At least 5
percent of the first-place votes will be required for each
finalist.  The change is designed to inject more suspense in the
annual race for Hollywood’s most prestigious award, academy
President Tom Sherak said in an interview. The academy, based in
 Beverly Hills ,  California , expanded the category to 10 from five
to showcase blockbusters and drive ratings for the televised
Oscars awards show early each year.  “We said right from the beginning we would keep
revisiting,” Sherak said. “We’re willing to give this a try.
If it doesn’t work, we’ll go back to the board and we’ll change
it.”  Ratings for the 2011 awards show fell 9.8 percent to 37.6
million viewers from 41.7 million in 2010, according to Nielsen
Co. data. The independent film “The King’s Speech” won the
best-picture award, prevailing over nominees that included the
animated “Toy Story 3” and “The  Social Network ,” about the
founding of Facebook Inc.  The board decided on 10 nominees two years ago because the
number conformed to “10-best” lists published by many critics,
Sherak said. The new format frees academy voters from an
arbitrary number of nominees, he said.  The best-picture nominations are based on a voting formula
in which the academy’s members rank films beginning with their
first choice for the award. If the 5 percent rule had been in
place over the past 10 years, the number of nominees would have
varied from five to nine nominees, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  