-- 
Emerging Stocks Fall as European Officials Fail to Agree on Greece Rescue

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 
2011-06-15T22:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/most-emerging-market-stocks-fall-on-inflation-concern-philippines-gains.html
Emerging-market stocks fell and
currencies weakened as European officials failed to agree on a
rescue plan for  Greece  and concern deepened that government
efforts to curb credit growth will erode bank earnings.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.6 percent to
1,127.80 at 4:30 p.m. in  New York , its fifth retreat in six
days.  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.9 percent and the
 ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  in Turkey fell 2 percent.  Brazil ’s
Bovespa index dropped to the lowest since July 5 on concern a
slowing U.S. economy will damp demand for the country’s
commodities. The Polish Zloty tumbled 2.3 percent against the
dollar, the biggest fall among emerging-market currencies.  Energy companies led declines in the MSCI index after oil
tumbled below $95 for the first time since February. Hungary’s
BUX Index lost 1.4 percent, while shares in  Poland  fell after an
emergency session of European finance chiefs in Brussels
yesterday failed to break a deadlock on how to enroll investors
in a second Greek bailout without triggering a default. China
announced an increase in the reserve requirement ratio for banks
yesterday and  Turkey  said it may boost lenders’ deposit-
insurance premiums, pushing down financial stocks.  In China, policy makers are “still tightening the fiscal
and monetary measures to try to lower the liquidity in the
markets,” Ronald Wan, managing director at China Merchants
Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “I don’t think the government will loosen before
the end of the third quarter.”  2011 Decline  Mexico ’s peso dropped 1.1 percent to the weakest level in
10 weeks against the dollar on concern over Greece’s debt
crisis. Turkey’s lira slid 1.4 percent and  South Africa ’s rand
depreciated 1.2 percent.  U.S. reports showed manufacturing in the New York region
unexpectedly shrank in June to the lowest since November, while
inflation in May topped the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The MSCI emerging-market gauge has
dropped 2 percent this year, compared with a 0.3 percent gain
for the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of advanced-country shares.  “Money has flooded into these areas, thereby making stocks
in emerging markets relatively less attractive than those of
developed markets,” said David Herro, chief investment officer
of international equities at Harris Associates, in an interview
with Bloomberg Television today. “The growth story isn’t over,
but the stock story has taken a pause because of valuation.”  Oil Companies, Banks  The Bovespa index was dragged down by declines in mining
and oil companies. Vale SA fell 0.6 percent. Petroleo Brasileiro
SA slid 1.3 percent and OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes lost
2.8 percent. Chile’s benchmark IPSA index slid the most in two
months and  Colombia ’s IGBC index fell to a one-month low.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries surged 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 315 today, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Industrial Bank Co. fell 2.1 percent, pacing declines among
Chinese lenders. The central bank announced a half-percentage
point increase in the reserve ratio after the market closed
yesterday, adding to the nation’s 11 reserve-requirement
increases and four interest-rate jumps since early 2010 to cool
inflation. The latest move came after data showing the inflation
rate climbed to 5.5 percent in May, the fastest pace since July
2008.  Akbank TAS, the Turkish bank part-owned by Citigroup Inc.,
retreated 2.5 percent. The country is considering a boost in
bank deposit insurance premiums, Savings Deposit and Insurance
Fund Chairman Sakir Ercan Gul told Bloomberg HT television,
without saying by how much. The move would hurt bank profits,
Oyak Securities said in an e-mailed note to clients.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index lost 1 percent
before an interest-rate decision tomorrow. The central bank will
raise borrowing costs for the 10th time since March 2010 to cool
inflation, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Ian C. Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Darren Boey at
   dboey@bloomberg.net  