-- 
Tougher U.S. Nuclear-Power Rules May Be Needed After Fukushima, NRC Says

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-06-15T20:41:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/tougher-nuclear-rules-may-be-needed-post-fukushima-nrc-says-1-.html
Tougher U.S. nuclear-power
regulations may be needed because government inspectors and
companies underestimated the dangers of natural disasters, said
 Gregory Jaczko , chairman of the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission .  Before a March 11 earthquake and tsunami crippled a
Japanese plant, regulators and industry officials thought they
would “never see an event like this,” Jaczko said today during
a meeting at NRC headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland .  U.S. regulators believed existing disaster plans “had done
everything to basically take this type of event completely off
the table,” Jaczko said. “Obviously we haven’t.”  Commercial U.S. reactors are under scrutiny after a
magnitude-9 temblor and subsequent tsunami knocked out power and
backup generators at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-
Ichi plant, about 135 miles (217 kilometers) north of Tokyo.
Without electricity, cooling systems failed and fuel rods
overheated, causing fires, explosions and radiation leaks in the
worst nuclear incident since the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  U.S. reactors are safe and plant owners have boosted their
“readiness capability and training” for disasters,
“regardless of their cause,” Steve Kerekes, a spokesman for
the  Nuclear Energy Institute , said in an e-mail today. The
industry created a post-Fukushima safety panel to weigh
additional changes, Kerekes said.  “We fully recognize there are years of work ahead to learn
lessons from the events in  Japan  and to apply them as
warranted,” he said.  Safety Review  The NRC has released inspection reports from a 90-day
reactor safety review that began March 23. Inspectors determined
whether U.S. plants are ready to keep radioactive fuel rods from
overheating and melting after “extreme events,” such as
natural disasters and terrorist attacks. The  task force  leading
the review is to issue a report next month.  The NRC also examined the industry’s voluntary “severe
accident” plans for bringing reactors under control if a
meltdown can’t be prevented.  The NRC inspectors have so far concluded that U.S. nuclear
plants are meeting safety regulations, with some flaws in their
disaster-response preparations.  Almost one in five plants needed to improve plans for
preventing meltdowns after large fires, explosions, electricity
blackouts or extreme floods, the NRC said on May 13. While all
nuclear plants have severe-accident guidelines, almost two in
five don’t carry out drills on bringing a meltdown under
control, according to an NRC statement on June 6.  Blackout Rules  At today’s meeting, Jaczko criticized the scope of
regulations focused on the ability of nuclear plants to cope
without electricity from the  power grid  or emergency generators.
Current rules require most operators to plan for a “station
blackout” of four to eight hours’ duration, Jaczko said.  Even before the Japan disaster, there was “pretty clear
and obvious evidence that that’s not sufficient,” he said.  Charlie Miller, the NRC official leading the safety review,
said agency officials are examining station-blackout rules and
said “it might take days to restore” electricity to a plant
after some disasters.  Miller also said reactor-owners’ plans for bringing a
meltdown under control after a severe accident didn’t get
“rigorous oversight” from the NRC before the crisis in Japan
because they were voluntarily developed by nuclear plants in the
1990s.  “There isn’t a specific inspection requirement,” he said.  Agency officials “still have high confidence that the
plants are safe to operate” amid the flaws found during
inspections, said Bill Borchardt, the NRC executive director for
operations and Miller’s boss.  The NRC should halt “all new nuclear reactor and design
licenses and license extensions for existing reactors” until
tougher rules are imposed for “catastrophic events or even
simple power outages,” U.S. Representative Edward Markey, a
Massachusetts Democrat, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  