-- 
Owens-Illinois Tumbles After Cutting Profit-Margin Forecast

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-06-15T13:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/owens-illinois-lowers-forecast-for-second-quarter-profit-margins.html
Owens-Illinois Inc. (OI) , the world’s
biggest maker of glass bottles, fell the most in almost 11
months after lowering its second-quarter profit margin forecast
because of higher costs and weaker demand in Australia.  Operating profit margins in the quarter ending June 30 will
be 3 to 6 percentage points less than a year earlier, Chief
Financial Officer Ed White said in an interview. The Perrysburg,
Ohio-based company had predicted operating margins would match
last year’s quarter. The shares dropped in early trading.  Sales of glass bottles have slumped in Australia and  New
Zealand  because strong currencies have made wine exports less
competitive and rising interest rates have damped consumer
demand, hurting domestic beer consumption, White said.  “Wine exports out of  Australia  are exceeding their
historic price points,” he said. “We sort of go up or down
based on our customers’ success. They’re struggling and we’re
struggling.”  Owens-Illinois is keeping its annual forecast of 5 percent
to 10 percent growth in shipments and free cash flow of $300
million as growth in  South America  and the U.S. makes up for the
slump in the Asia Pacific region, White said. The operating
profit margin in the second quarter last year was about 16
percent, the company said.  Still, the cash forecast may have to be adjusted as the
company contemplates idling a glass furnace in Australia to make
up for lower demand, White said.  “If we’re going to do some capacity realignment, there
could be some pressure on that,” he said, referring to the free
cash flow forecast.  Restarting U.S. Plants  Owens-Illinois declined $2.57, or 8.7 percent, to $26.97 at
9:48 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after
earlier falling as much as 10 percent for the biggest intraday
drop since July 29. The shares had fallen 3.8 percent this year
before today.  Higher demand in the U.S. is contributing to the lower
profit margin, White said. Costs increased as Owens-Illinois
restarted production at two idle glass furnaces, in Atlanta and
Oakland,  California , he said. Expenses also rose because the
company had to ship products across regions to meet customers’
needs, he said.  “We’ve been hit with operating issues that are truly
short-term but have suppressed our outlook in the quarter,” he
said. “We saw the volume coming, but it was the ramp-up on the
factory floor across our network that added extra cost.”  Restarting the two U.S. furnaces will add about 4 percent
to the company’s domestic glass capacity, White said.  Owens-Illinois may decide to build a $70 million glass
factory in  Brazil  that could begin operations by the end of next
year to meet higher demand, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  