-- 
Lloyds Resistance to U.K. Bank Branch Sale Is Said to Risk Antitrust Probe

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-06-15T09:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/lloyds-banking-s-branch-sale-opposition-is-said-to-risk-competition-probe.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  should
recognize it risks a protracted and costly competition
investigation if it ignores pressure to sell more assets,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation.  While the bank last week offered 632 branches for sale to
comply with a  European Union  ruling on taxpayer aid, the British
government-appointed Independent Commission on Banking in April
recommended Lloyds should sell “substantially” more assets.  Should Lloyds decide not to comply, the ICB may recommend a
U.K.  Competition Commission  review of the checking account
market said the person, who declined to be identified because
the matter is private. Competition Commission inquiries
typically last for two years, according to Siobhan Allen, a
spokeswoman.  That could block government plans to begin selling its
holdings in the bank next year. The privatization of U.K. banks
is not a matter for the ICB, commission member Martin Taylor
told a House of Commons committee last month.  “Lloyds are going to fight this one to the line, but they
will lose,” said  Simon Maughan , head of sales and distribution
at MF Global in London. “Lloyds doesn’t have a leg to stand
on.”  Lloyds, 41 percent taxpayer-owned, won’t sell “even one
branch more” than the 600 it agreed with the EU and previous
Labour administration following its 20 billion pound ($32.7
billion) taxpayer-funded bailout, Chairman Win Bischoff said
last month.  Asset Sales  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio may meet ICB
Chairman  John Vickers  as early as next month for a more detailed
discussion on asset sales before the commission’s final report,
the person said. That’s due to be published on Sept. 12.  London-based Lloyds last week sent out a so-called
information memorandum to potential bidders for more than 600
named branches, more than a fifth of its 2,900 outlets. The
sales document contained a clause that said Lloyds could amend
the structure or terms of the agreement prior to signing.  “Nothing should be read into it that would suggest we
would need to increase the number of branches we need to put up
for sale,” Charlotte Sjoberg, Lloyds spokeswoman said
yesterday.  Lloyds became the U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender and
provider of checking accounts as a result of its 2008
acquisition of HBOS Plc. The deal, brokered by the former Labour
government, was cleared at the time by Business Secretary  Peter Mandelson , who said it was in the public interest. Vickers last
month called the outcome “regrettable.”  Shares Tumble  Lloyds shares have tumbled 23 percent since the ICB
published its interim report on April 11. Lloyds was down 1.1
percent to 48 pence at 10:11 a.m. in London.  A significant increase in branch sales “could have the
effect of unwinding the Lloyds TSB/HBOS merger,” the bank said
in a  submission  to the House of Commons Treasury Committee last
week.  The ICB said in its April interim report that a market
investigation “would be in line with the commitment” made by
the government in 2008 that competition authorities should
continue to monitor the Lloyds-HBOS merger. The  Competition
Commission  has the power to order the breakup of companies. In
2009, it told BAA Ltd., the owner of Heathrow airport, to sell
terminals.  The Treasury said last week it wouldn’t pre-empt the final
report of the commission by giving a commentary on any measures
it might suggest. Officials at the ICB declined to comment on a
possible competition inquiry, while a Lloyds spokesman said the
bank was “engaging” with the ICB.  The bank may kill off brands if it’s forced to sell
additional branches, Lloyds said in its House of Commons
submission, describing such a requirement as “inappropriate”
and “extreme.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  