-- 
HP Sues Oracle Over Broken Contract Claims

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-06-16T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/hp-sues-oracle-in-california-over-breach-of-contract-claims.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  sued Oracle
Corp. over claims that in a period of eight months Oracle went
from partner to “bitter antagonist” and has breached its
contract.  The lawsuit, filed yesterday in state court in  San Jose ,
California, cites Oracle’s hiring of Hewlett-Packard’s former
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  last year and Oracle’s March
announcement that it would no longer support its  database
software  on Hewlett-Packard computer servers that use the
Itanium chip. Oracle also has used “strong-arm tactics” in
forcing customers to “shift from HP’s Itanium server hardware
to Oracle’s own server hardware,” the suit said.  The suit, which also cites libel claims, follows Hewlett-
Packard’s June 8 letter to Oracle demanding that the software
maker keep supporting a server chip made by  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
reiterating its concern that the move will hurt customers and
trammel competition.  On March 22, Oracle said that it would stop developing
software for Intel’s Itanium chip that powers Hewlett-Packard’s
line of Integrity servers, which can cost hundreds of thousands
of dollars.  Mislead Customers  Oracle, in an e-mailed statement, said Hewlett-Packard knew
of Intel’s plans to terminate its Itanium processor, and said
the company attempted to mislead customers and shareholders into
believing such plans don’t exist. Hewlett-Packard’s claim that
Oracle breached an agreement to support Hewlett-Packard’s
Itanium processor is false, Oracle said.  “HP explicitly asked Oracle to guarantee continued support
for Itanium, but Oracle refused, and HP’s Itanium support-
guarantee wording was deleted from the final signed agreement,”
Oracle said in the statement.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City ,  California , previously had
said it would no longer develop software for Itanium-based
servers because the processor is “nearing the end of its
life.” Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto , California, has
said the move would jeopardize customers and cost hundreds of
millions of dollars in lost productivity.  Hewlett-Packard spokesman  Bill Wohl  said in an interview
that its lawsuit is an attempt to address harm to its customers.  The company demands Oracle reverse its decision on Itanium
support and change its licensing scheme for the Itanium
processor, Wohl said.  The suit seeks unspecified damages and an order prohibiting
Oracle from making false statements about Itanium processors and
servers.  Profitable Line  Josh Greenbaum, a software industry analyst at Enterprise
Applications Consulting in Berkeley, California, said Hewlett-
Packard filed the suit to protect a profitable line of computer
servers using the Itanium chip.  Oracle’s decision to discontinue support of its software
running on Itanium could be costly to customers, since Oracle
databases underpin long-running systems at companies, who are
loathe to replace them.  “Databases are some of the most long-lived pieces of
software in existence,” said Greenbaum. If customers were
forced to move programs off Itanium servers, they would have to
buy new database licenses from Oracle, he said.  Kari Aakre, spokeswoman for  Santa Clara , California-based
Intel, said the company has reaffirmed its commitment to
manufacturing the Itanium chips, and “that still stands.”  “Our work on Itanium continues both on the processors and
the platforms that support it,” Aakre said. “We’ve got
multiple generations of chips in development and on schedule.”  Hewlett-Packard is the main user of Itanium chips in
servers sold to run large corporate databases and other
demanding computing tasks, after jointly developing the chip
with Intel. Oracle is the largest maker of database software and
became a competitor to Hewlett-Packard in servers through its
acquisition of Sun Microsystems and its Sparc range of chips.  The case is Hewlett-Packard Co. v.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
111CV203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 