-- 
Pakistan Arrests 30 Civilians in Probe of U.S. Raid That Killed Bin Laden

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-06-15T17:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/pakistan-arrests-30-civilians-in-probe-of-u-s-raid-that-killed-bin-laden.html
Pakistan  has arrested about 30 to 40
civilians since it began investigating the killing of  Osama bin Laden  last month, a military spokesman said, denying a report
that an army major was among those detained.  Some of those arrested have already been released,
Brigadier Azmat Ali, director of public relations at the army’s
media unit in Rawalpindi, said by phone today. Ali declined to
give further details of the detentions.  A report in the New York Times today that an army officer
is being held for aiding the CIA search for the al-Qaeda leader
is “totally wrong,” Ali said. “I can say with authority that
all arrests were non-military.”  Within 24 hours of the U.S. commando raid that killed  bin
Laden , Pakistani security officials began arresting people from
the neighborhood where the al-Qaeda leader had sheltered,
residents there said in interviews May 3. Pakistani Prime
Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said May 9 that the government would
investigate how officials had failed to detect both bin Laden’s
presence and the U.S. commando raid that killed him.  The Times report said Pakistan’s top military spy agency
had detained five Pakistani informants who fed information to
the Central Intelligence Agency in the months leading up to the
raid that killed bin Laden on May 2.  Pakistan Aid  Those arrested include a Pakistani army major who officials
said copied the license plates of cars visiting bin Laden’s
compound in Abbottabad, the report said, citing American
officials it didn’t name.  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman declined to comment
directly on the arrests. White House press secretary  Jay Carney 
said the U.S. regards cooperation with Pakistan in the war
against terrorism as “extremely important” to national
security, while also describing the two nations as having a
“complicated relationship.”  “We continue to work with the Pakistanis,” Carney said at
a briefing at the White House in  Washington .  Tensions between the U.S. and Pakistan have risen since the
raid on bin Laden’s compound in Abbottabad, a town about 30
miles (50 kilometers) north of Islamabad and that is home to the
nation’s most prestigious military academy and many retired
military officers.  U.S. lawmakers have questioned Pakistan’s commitment to
fighting militants and have said that further aid should be tied
to actions against al-Qaeda and the Taliban. Pakistan’s army
chief Ashfaq Parvez Kayani on June 10 said he won’t allow the
U.S. to conduct independent espionage operations on the
country’s soil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  