-- 
Papandreou Reshuffle Fuels Dissent Among Allies as Financial Markets Slump

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-16T11:32:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/papandreou-calls-confidence-vote-on-new-government-in-bid-for-more-eu-aid.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou ’s decision to reshuffle his Cabinet and demand his
allies vote confidence in his government fueled dissent within
his Socialist ranks and roiled financial markets.  The yield on Greece’s 2-year bond topped 30 percent for the
first time on concerns Papandreou’s grip on power was slipping,
threatening passage of a new austerity plan aimed at securing a
second aid package and avoiding the euro-region’s first default.
The resignation today of two members of Papandreou’s
parliamentary group prompted Socialists lawmakers to demand an
emergency meeting with the premier.  The political turmoil came as European Union talks on
forging a new bailout to prevent the first euro-area default
stalled. The impasse over the aid formula and speculation that a
government shakeup would disrupt passage of budget cuts and
asset sales sent Greek bonds and the euro plunging. EU
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said in an
interview that Greece would receive its next bailout payment.  Papandreou sought to reassert his authority in a televised
address last night hours after police used tear gas to break up
protests in central Athens and media reported he was in talks to
step down in favor of a unity government. He said he would
reshuffle his Cabinet and then call a confidence vote in
parliament. He has yet to announce the details of the government
shakeup.  ‘Armageddon Scenario’  “If the no confidence motion fails, the market reaction
is just the beginning,”  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy
at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in  London , wrote in a note.
“Then Armageddon scenarios come into play, which include
default and potentially the whole contagion scenario plays
out.”  Greek confidence debates typically take three days with the
ballot at midnight, meaning the vote isn’t likely before the
evening of June 19.  Greece ’s 10-year bonds declined for a ninth day, with the
yield rising 22 basis points to 17.9 percent. The cost of
protecting Greece against default climbed 129 basis points to a
record 1,899 in London, indicating an 81 percent chance that
Greece will default, according to prices compiled by CMA.  The euro fell to a three week low of $1.4122 after it slid
the most in more than a month yesterday. The benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index fell 0.9 percent today to 265.59 as of 12:10
p.m. in London.  Papaconstantinou, Papademos  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou , who shepherded
Greece’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) bailout last year, is
under attack for the new round of budget cuts and may be
replaced, Greek media has reported.  Lucas Papademos , the former
European Central Bank vice president and now an adviser to
Papandreou, is touted as a substitute.  Defense Minister Evangelos Venizelos may be moved from his
post, Kathimerini newspaper said today, without citing anyone.
Papandreou may add as many as three ministers that aren’t
members of parliament to his Cabinet, including Papademos, the
Athens-based daily said. The new Cabinet will have 15 ministers
and the same number of deputy ministers, the newspaper said.  “Our duty is to the nation, not to political parties,”
Papandreou said in comments televised live on state-run NET TV.
“I will form a new government and immediately afterwards seek a
vote of confidence in Parliament. It is a time for
responsibility.”  Options Narrowing  Papandreou’s options are narrowing after attempts to gain
opposition support for the austerity plan failed, party allies
turned against him and public anger grew. The premier needs to
clinch a vote on a 78 billion-euro five-year package of budget
cuts and state-asset sales by the end of the month to ensure the
country gets a new aid package needed to prevent a default.  Rehn said Greece faces “a very serious moment.”  “It is certainly regrettable that the efforts to build a
national unity government failed yesterday,” Rehn said in an
interview in Brussels. “We supported those. And as it was
possible in Ireland and in  Portugal , it is difficult to see why
this cannot be possible in Greece, which is in much deeper
difficulties than Ireland or Portugal.”  More than 20,000 people rallied yesterday in Athens against
wage reductions and tax increases as lawmakers debated the
budget cuts and asset sales that are conditions of the new aid.
Ports, banks, hospitals and state-run companies were paralyzed
by strikes, while a Papandreou ally said he won’t support the
austerity measures and another bolted his Socialist Party.
Papandreou held a six-seat edge in the 300-member legislature
before the defections. The resignations today shouldn’t affect h
is majority as he will be able to replace them with new
Socialist deputies.  Unity Government  Greek opposition leader Antonis Samaras last night accused
Papandreou of backtracking on an offer to form a national unity
government and called on the premier to demonstrate he can
govern, or call early elections.  The political shakeup comes a week before a meeting in
Brussels of EU leaders, who had pledged to sign off on a new aid
plan for Greece to plug a funding shortfall of about 30 billion
euros next year. Under the original bailout, Greece was due to
return to markets in 2012. With its 10-year bond yielding almost
18 percent, more than twice the level at the time of last year’s
rescue, Greece has abandoned that plan and was seeking
additional aid from its European partners.  Aid Package  EU leaders are under further pressure to reach an agreement
on a new three-year aid plan after the IMF threatened to
withhold its share of a 12 billion-euro bailout payment due this
month until the EU figures out how to close Greece’s funding
gap, which may reach 90 billion euros over the next three years.  Rehn said he is “confident” Greece will receive the next
tranche of aid in early July, and that he received assurances
from the IMF about its participation.  “We have been in very close contact with the IMF,” Rehn
said. “I’m confident we can conclude the review in the coming
days, by Sunday, and we can thus take the decisions on the
disbursement respectively in the two organizations, so this next
disbursement can take place in early July.”  Euro area finance ministers remain divided over a German-
led push for bondholders to shoulder part of the cost of the new
aid with European Central Bank officials warning that such a
move might constitute a default. Finance chiefs failed to reach
an agreement at a meeting in Brussels on June 14 and announced
they would convene again on June 19 in Luxembourg, a day earlier
than planned, in an effort to wrap up a package before the
summit on June 23-24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in  Athens  at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  