-- 
Papandreou to Name New Greek Government

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-06-15T19:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/papandreou-to-name-new-government-seek-confidence-vote-amid-greek-crisis.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will name a new government tomorrow and call a vote
of confidence in parliament as he seeks to pressure rebel
lawmakers to back the austerity plan that aims to secure a new
bailout.  “Our duty is to the nation, not to political parties,”
Papandreou said in comments televised live on state-run NET TV.
“Tomorrow I will form a new government and immediately
afterwards seek a vote of confidence in Parliament. It is a time
for responsibility.”  Papandreou’s options narrowed his bid to garner support
from the biggest opposition bloc failed, party allies turned
against him and police deployed tear gas to break up anti-
government protests in central  Athens  today. The premier needs
to clinch a parliamentary vote on a 78 billion-euro ($110
billion) five-year package of budget cuts and asset sales by the
end of the month to ensure the country receives a new European
Union aid package to avoid the euro-area’s first default.  “The prime minister’s attempts to regain the political
initiative are far from assured of success,” said Martin Blum,
co-head of asset management at Ithuba Capital in Vienna. “He
has seemingly weakened further himself politically, whilst he
risks further defections post reshuffle. The question of whether
he can get the fiscal package through parliament remains open.”  Bailout Impasse  The political turmoil comes as the EU talks on forging a
new bailout stalled. The impasse over the aid formula and
speculation of an impending government shakeup sent Greek bond
yields to euro-era records and weakened the euro today.  The yield on two-year Greek notes exceeded 28 percent for
the first time and rates on 10-year Greek bonds gained 35
basis points to 17.73 percent. The cost of protecting  Greece 
against default climbed 149 basis points to an all-time high of
1,754 in  London , according to prices compiled by CMA.  More than 20,000 people rallied against wage reductions and
tax increases as lawmakers debated the budget cuts and asset
sales that are conditions of the aid. Ports, banks, hospitals
and state-run companies were paralyzed by strikes. Thousands of
people remained in central Syntagma Square outside the
Parliament house late into the evening. Police estimated the
crowd at as many as 8,000 people at 10:20 p.m.  The third general strike this year underscored the pressure
on Papandreou. His Socialist Pasok party held a six-seat edge in
the 300-member legislature before the defections by two
erstwhile allies this week.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou , who shepherded
the first 110 billion-euro bailout of the country last year, is
under attack by party lawmakers for the new round of austerity
cuts and may be first to be replaced, Greek media has reported.
A possible replacement may be  Lucas Papademos , the former
European Central Bank vice-president who is now an adviser to
Papandreou.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  