-- 
Papandreou Offers to Quit for Unity Cabinet

-- B y   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-06-15T16:59:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/papandreou-offers-to-quit-for-unity-cabinet.html
Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  offered to step aside to permit the formation of a
unity government, as long as all opposition parties agreed to
cuts required by an international bailout, said a person with
direct knowledge of the matter.  Papandreou’s bid, coming amid mounting popular protests and
defections among his allies, countered a demand by the New
Democracy opposition party that he quit and allow a so-called
technical government renegotiate the terms of the rescue.  The political turmoil came as European Union talks on
forging a new bailout to prevent the first euro-area default
stalled. The impasse over the aid formula and speculation of an
impending government shakeup sent Greek bond yields surging to a
record high and the euro weakening today.  “When a government has so profoundly misjudged the anger,
frustration and disillusionment in the population it is a matter
of time until changes have to set in,” Jens Bastian, a visiting
economist at St. Antony’s College, Oxford University in  England ,
said in an interview.  Yields on 10-year Greek bonds neared 18 percent, the
highest in the 17-nation euro area’s history. The slump pushed
the extra yield that investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
bonds instead of similar maturity German bunds to a record 1,491
basis points. The euro weakened 1.7 percent to $1.42 at 5:50
p.m. in  London . The cost to insure Greek debt climbed to a
record, indicating an about 75 percent chance of default within
five years.  European Infighting  Greek economic prospects darkened amid infighting by euro
finance officials over how to enroll investors in a bailout
without triggering a default. More than 20,000 people rallied
against wage reductions and tax increases as lawmakers debated
the budget cuts and asset sales that are conditions of the aid.  Ports, banks, hospitals and state-run companies were
paralyzed by strikes, while a Papandreou ally said he won’t
support the austerity measures and another bolted his Socialist
Party.  The third general strike this year underscored the pressure
on Papandreou, who aims to get 78 billion euros of cuts and
asset sales passed by the end of the month. His Socialist Pasok
party held a six-seat edge in the 300-member legislature before
defections by two erstwhile allies.  Demonstrators have gathered in the central square of  Athens 
in front of parliament for 21 days, setting up tents and calling
on others to join them. Police said the largest rally was on
June 5, when 50,000 people gathered in front of the chamber.  Debt restructuring “seems to be increasingly probable,”
 Raghuram Rajan , a professor at the  University of Chicago  and a
former chief economist at the IMF, said today in  Singapore .
“The political will required to do what would be necessary to
service the level of debt that is building up is reaching the
limits of what  Greece  can do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net 
10  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  