-- 
Paris Shale-Oil Ban Makes Toreador Casualty of Public Outcry

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-06-16T11:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/paris-shale-oil-ban-makes-toreador-casualty-of-popular-outcry.html
Toreador Resources Corp. (TRGL)  Chief
Executive Officer Craig McKenzie’s optimism about oil from the
shale rock around Paris -- some even under the Eiffel Tower --
boosted the company’s shares to a record in January.  Six months on, France is set to become the first country in
the world to outlaw the drilling technique that’s vital to
Toreador’s success. The company has tumbled as much as 79
percent from its high to $3.77 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading,
wiping out $374 million in market value.  Toreador sold its assets in  Turkey , Hungary and  Romania ,
moved its headquarters to Paris from  Dallas  in 2009, accumulated
the most acreage of any explorer around the French capital and
readied with partner  Hess Corp. (HES)  to start drilling. With a
proposed French law banning oil-exploration technology called
fracking, Toreador won’t be able to complete its projects.  “It doesn’t look good for Toreador,” said Joel Musante,
an analyst at C.K. Cooper & Company. “There is no alternative
to fracking to get oil out of shale. At this point it looks like
the only thing they could do is participate in a study and that
could go on for years.”  McKenzie declined to comment on what Toreador’s strategy
will be for the Paris Basin once the ban becomes law.  Fracking, a technology used widely in the U.S., is being
rejected in France because of a “huge popular outcry,”
according to a parliamentary study released last week. The
report relied on findings in the U.S. of land and water
contamination and risks of earthquakes rather than on any
evidence in  France . Fracking uses water, sand and chemicals to
break dense rock to release oil and gas trapped within.  Common Text  A parliamentary committee yesterday agreed on a ban that
removed the possibility of fracking even for “scientific
experiments.” Both houses of the French parliament are slated
to vote on the bill this month and it could become law in July.  Companies that were planning to use the technique will have
their permits canceled under the proposal, which also includes
jail time and fines for fracking and the creation of a
commission to oversee research and evaluation of unconventional
oil and gas exploration.  “There may be other ways to do this type of exploration
without hydraulic fracking,” French Senator Michel Houel said
in an interview yesterday. “I know we will have to reexamine
this law one day. I understand the legitimate worries of the
French people, but I also think they weren’t sufficiently
informed from the start.”  ‘Best Potential’  Toreador had said the Paris Basin could contain 100 billion
barrels of oil and has comparable geology with the Bakken Shale
in  North Dakota , where explorers have used hydraulic fracturing
to release oil from underground rock and nearly quadruple
production over the past decade.  The French government awarded permits, most of them last
year, for unconventional oil and natural gas exploration. More
than half a dozen companies won permits including Toreador and
 Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET)  in the Paris Basin and Schuepbach Energy
LLC and Total SA in southern France.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA was in talks
with Schuepbach on taking stakes in two permits.  “France apparently has one of the best potentials for
shale gas along with  Poland ,” in  Europe , Total Head of Strategy
Jean-Jacques Mosconi said in Paris yesterday. “The technique
requires a lot of savoir faire” that Total didn’t have until it
entered into a partnership with Chesapeake Energy Corp. in the
Barnett Shale field in Texas last year, he said.  ‘Devastated Countryside’  Vermilion, based in Calgary, used hydraulic fracturing in
two existing vertical wells in the Paris Basin. Both produce
“nominal amounts of oil from the shale,” according to the
company. Vermilion, which holds 176,000 acres of permits in the
basin, has now delayed plans for further drilling through the
rock, it said in March.  Under pressure from lawmakers within the ruling party who
were facing local elections in March, the French government
first imposed a moratorium and then came out in favor of a ban.
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  faces national elections in 2012.  “I’m against hydraulic fracturing,” French Environment
Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet has said. “We have seen the
results in the U.S.,”, with its “devastated countryside” and
“sullied water tables.”  Toreador billed itself as the “most aggressive” explorer
going after unconventional oil in the Paris Basin by bidding for
the most permits and spending the most money readying for a
drilling campaign. New-York-based Hess had planned to spend as
much as $120 million on searching and producing shale oil with
Toreador, which spent $2 million last year on exploration.  Eiffel Tower  “Is there oil under the Eiffel Tower? The answer is yes,”
a beaming McKenzie said at a Dec. 15 presentation to investors
near the Champs-Elysees. “If this was West  Texas  we would
probably have hundreds of fields on tap.”  West Texas it is not. Toreador, which has 35 full-time
employees, and partner Hess may be left holding about 700,000
acres of permits granted since last year. Under their
partnership reached in May, 2010, six exploration wells were to
have been drilled in a first phase over 30 months. Toreador and
Hess have since extended the deadline by 18 months.  “We’ll consider all our options,” McKenzie said on a
conference call last month. “We’ll continue to work with Hess
in assessing the resource potential of the Paris Basin. We
remain rig ready.”  ‘Less Hysteria’  The company is pumping just 880 barrels a day from two
conventional  oil wells . That compares with about 11,000 barrels
a day for all of the Paris Basin last year and Total’s 2.37
million barrels of oil equivalent a day worldwide in the first
quarter.  French UMP lawmaker Isabelle Vasseur said she was stunned
last February when she found out that Toreador had permits and
was on the verge of drilling for shale oil in her district
around Chateau-Thierry, east of Paris.  “I felt like my back was up against a wall,” said
Vasseur, who at the time was heading into local elections.  Vasseur is backing the ban on hydraulic fracturing as well
as an overhaul of France’s mining code that allowed permits to
be handed out for unconventional energy exploration without
studying hydraulic fracturing and its consequences.  “France could have phenomenal energy reserves so we must
not close the door forever,” she said. “The way the permits
were given out was unacceptable. The public wasn’t properly
informed. Now, there is a need for less hysteria on the issue.”  If a large reserve were discovered in the Paris Basin “the
French maybe would reconsider the ban,” said the analyst
Musante, who has a ‘hold’ call on Toreador shares. “That’s a
very big if, though.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Tara Patel} in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  