-- 
Peru GDP Rises at Slowest Pace 14 Months on Humala Concern

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-06-15T16:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/peru-s-gdp-rose-7-4-in-april-from-year-ago-government-says.html
Peru ’s economy expanded at the
slowest pace in 14 months in April as companies delayed spending
on concern President-elect Ollanta Humala’s policies may deter
foreign investment.  Gross domestic product rose 7.4 percent in April from the
same month a year earlier, the government’s statistics agency
said today in a report issued in  Lima . Economists predicted
growth of 7 percent, according to the median estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Domestic demand for goods and services is decelerating as
companies watch to see how Humala honors pledges to strengthen
the government’s role in the economy and boost mining royalties
without discouraging foreign investment. Humala shifted his
stance before the June 5 election by abandoning a platform that
called for a new constitution and greater state control of
Peru’s ports and pension system.  “Companies’ may put new investment on hold while they wait
for clarity on economic policy,” said Pablo Nano, an economist
at Scotiabank Peru. “This wait-and-see approach may have a more
substantial impact on the pace of investment in the third
quarter.”  Finance Minister Ismael Benavides said in a interview June
7 that investors are awaiting “clear signals” from Humala on
how he’ll manage  South America ’s sixth-biggest economy.  Growth was led by a rebound in fishing, while retail
activity held steady and manufacturing slowed. From the same
month a year earlier, fishing expanded 94 percent, retailing
rose 9.2 percent and manufacturing gained 9.2 percent.  Seasonally adjusted gross domestic product rose 0.59
percent in April from March, the agency said.  Humala, a former army rebel and one-time ally of Venezuelan
President  Hugo Chavez , said June 9 he’ll seek to replicate
 Brazil ’s “successful” socio-economic policies to sustain
region-beating growth and cut poverty.  The central bank left its benchmark lending rate unchanged
for the first time in six months last week citing falling
consumer prices and signs of slower economic activity.  The Peruvian sol was little changed at 2.7600 per  U.S.
dollar  at 12:10 p.m. New York time, compared with 2.7595
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  