-- 
Peru to Export Energy ‘Without Discrimination,’ Humala Says

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-06-15T19:52:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/peru-to-export-energy-without-discrimination-humala-says-1-.html
Peru  will export gas and electricity
without prejudice against neighboring countries, President-elect
Ollanta Humala said today in a speech from Santiago, Chile.  Peru will sell energy to other countries once its own
“supply problem” is resolved, Humala said from the
presidential palace after a meeting with Chilean President
Sebastian Pinera.  Humala, who will take office July 28, said he and Pinera
discussed energy and mining collaboration as well as ways to
encourage capital flows between the two countries. Pinera said
Jan. 6 that Chile is holding talks with Peru about gas supply
from the latter’s Camisea fields.  “After resolving the internal market problem, we will
export electricity, value-added gas resources or gas as well, to
the international market without discriminating against any
country or people, particularly our brothers and neighbors,”
Humala said in today’s speech.  Chile has a free trade agreement with Peru while Chilean
retailers Ripley Corp. SA, SACI Falabella SA and Cencosud SA and
carrier  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  dominate the Peruvian retail and
aviation industries.  The two countries have a history of animosity going back to
before the five-year War of the Pacific, which ended in 1884
after Chile invaded  Lima  and stripped Peru and its ally  Bolivia ,
of mineral-rich territories that helped make Chile the world’s
biggest copper producer.  Recruited Spy  Peru has a case against Chile at the  International Court of
Justice  in The Hague over their disputed maritime border in the
 Pacific Ocean . In 2009, President  Alan Garcia  asked Interpol to
help investigate his country’s claim that Chile recruited one of
its air force officers as a spy.  In today’s speech, Humala called for unity with  Chile  and
highlighted the need for greater transparency of military
spending.  “We discussed economic issues in the sense of giving
greater access and promotion to capital that comes and goes from
one country to another,” Humala said. “There are a series of
agreements that have been signed. We must give life to these
projects, so they don’t just stay on paper.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  