-- 
Moody’s Raises Philippine Credit Rating on Fiscal Progress; Outlook Stable

-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   M a x   E s t a y o
-- 
2011-06-15T05:31:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/philippine-credit-rating-raised-one-level-to-ba2-on-growth-moody-s-says.html
The  Philippines ’ debt rating was
raised to the highest level since the start of 2005 by Moody’s
Investors Service, after the government took steps to reduce its
 budget deficit . Stocks and the peso rose.  The country’s foreign and local currency long-term bond
ratings were increased to Ba2 from Ba3, Moody’s said in a
statement today. The outlook is stable. The move brings the
country to two levels below investment grade, placing it above
 Vietnam  and lower than Malaysia and  Indonesia .  “The government has done a good job during the last year
with a better-than-expected control on its budget deficit,” said
Jetro Siekkinen, a  fund manager  in Helsinki at Aktia Asset
Management, which owns both peso and dollar bonds sold by the
Philippines among $10 billion of assets under management.
“The economy is not highly dependent on  China . The central bank
is doing a good job keeping inflation in check. Things are
definitely going in the right direction.”  President  Benigno Aquino  has gone after tax evaders and
smugglers to convince investors he can boost revenue to narrow a
record budget shortfall. Higher debt ratings reduce the cost of
borrowing, making it cheaper for the Philippines to sell debt to
fund spending on roads, bridges and schools.  The decision was driven by “the progress made in fiscal
consolidation by the new Aquino administration; and the
sustained nature of macroeconomic stability, coupled with
continued strength in the external payments position, against a
background of a significant pick-up in the momentum for economic
growth,” Moody’s said.  Stocks Climb  The country’s benchmark stock index rose 1.5 percent today,
ending four days of declines. The peso advanced after the
Moody’s decision before trading little changed at 43.35 a dollar
as of 12:30 p.m.  The cost of protecting the nation’s debt from default fell
3.5 basis points, or 0.035 percentage point, to 130.50,
according to 11:50 a.m. prices at Royal Bank of  Scotland . That’s
the lowest since May 6. The yield on the 8.125 percent peso debt
due December 2035 fell five basis points to 7.95 percent.  “This is a confirmation that the Philippines has cleared
the path for growth and what it needs now is a vehicle to race
through that road,” said Rico Gomez, who helps manage about $1.5
billion at Manila-based Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. “This
could help, but the market needs to see a growth driver for the
index to reach a record.”  Standard & Poor’s   Standard & Poor’s in November raised its rating on
Philippine debt for the first time since 1997, boosting it to BB,
the second-highest non-investment grade. Fitch Ratings rates
Philippine debt BB, two levels below investment grade.  The Philippines reported a budget surplus of 26.3 billion
pesos ($607 million) in April as revenue rose and spending fell.
The surplus was 61 million pesos in the first four months,
compared with a deficit of 131.80 billion pesos in the same
period in 2010.  The government had a record budget shortfall of 314 billion
pesos in 2010. The $161 billion economy expanded 7.6 percent
last year.  “The improvement in revenue collection has satisfied the
ratings agency,” said Banco de Oro Unibank Inc. market
strategist,  Jonathan Ravelas . “The government should not,
however, rest on its laurels since the fiscal data also
highlights the under-spending of the government which is needed
to boost growth.”  Policy Credibility  The rating upgrade shows the Philippines “can improve
fiscal space without resorting to new revenue measures,” said
President Aquino’s spokesman, Ricky Carandang. It will allow the
government to borrow at a lower rate, he said.  “While we expect expenditures to increase significantly in
the second half of 2011 as the government commences its
cornerstone infrastructure investment program, the rise will not
likely derail the trend towards fiscal consolidation,” Moody’s
said. “By demonstrating firm fiscal restraint, the government
has bolstered its policy credibility.”  Still, the government’s “budgetary interest burden and its
debt overhang” remain high compared with its peers, the rating
company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Evans at   revans6@bloomberg.net  