-- 
Phil Mickelson Eyes First U.S. Open Win Without Tiger Woods to Spur Him On

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-06-15T04:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/phil-mickelson-eyes-first-u-s-open-win-without-tiger-woods-to-spur-him-on.html
Phil Mickelson  has failed in
his first 20 attempts to win the U.S. Open.  If he’s to end the streak at Congressional Country
Club in Bethesda, Maryland, this weekend, the most
difficult part may be staying motivated without  Tiger Woods 
in the field.  “I’ve always felt as though Tiger helped bring out
some of my best golf over the years,” Mickelson said in a
news conference yesterday. “The challenge now, without him
competing this week, is pushing myself to achieve a level
of play that is in there without him forcing me to do so.
In that sense, it might be a little bit more difficult.”  Woods will miss the tournament for the first time
since 1994 as he recovers from knee and ankle injuries,  Mickelson, who turns 41 tomorrow, finished second at
the  U.S. Open  in 1999, 2002, 2004, 2006 and 2009. Each loss
came in its own dramatic way.  The left-hander fell to the late Payne Stewart on the
final hole at Pinehurst in 1999 as Amy Mickelson was set to
give birth to the couple’s first child.  Three years later, Mickelson lost to Woods at  New
York ’s Bethpage State Park as boisterous New York crowds
tried to cheer him to victory.  In 2004, two months after capturing his first major
title in 47 attempts at the  Masters Tournament , Mickelson
lost to Retief Goosen following a bogey on the 17th hole at
Shinnecock Hills.  2006 Meltdown  Mickelson’s most noteworthy collapse came in 2006 at
Winged Foot Golf Club, where he held a two-shot lead with
three holes to play. A bogey on the 16th hole and a double-
bogey on the 18th, where he hit his tee shot into a
concession area and then knocked his second shot off a
tree, allowed Australian  Geoff Ogilvy  to take the title.  Two years ago, again at Bethpage, Mickelson played in
the tournament while his wife was battling  breast cancer .
He held a share of the lead with five holes to play until
making bogeys on the 15th and 17th holes. Lucas Glover went
on to win.  The key to success, he said, is to not focus on
winning.  “When I finally did break through and won my first
major, my thought process was not to worry about winning,
not to worry about the result, but to enjoy the entire
tournament, enjoy the process, enjoy the challenge of
trying to win,” he said. “So I’m going to enjoy this
week.”  ‘I Can Win’  That doesn’t mean Mickelson will be happy to smile,
sign autographs, tip his cap and leave the course without
the winner’s trophy.  “Being in contention so many times through the years,
I really believe that I can win,” he said.  Englishmen Luke Donald and  Lee Westwood  are co-
favorites for the tournament. Donald and Westwood, the top
two players in the Official World Golf Ranking, are listed
at 10-1 odds, according to the Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and
Sports Book. Mickelson is next at 12-1.  Mickelson also won the Masters in 2006 and 2009 and
the 2005 PGA Championship at  New Jersey ’s Baltusrol Club.
His four major titles compare with 14 for Woods.  As an American, Mickelson has said the U.S. Open,
which Woods has won three times, is the major he wants to
win the most.  “I love this tournament,” he said. “Deep down I
have the belief that I can come out on top.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Bethesda,  Maryland , at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  