-- 
Pirates May Target Hormuz Tankers in Monsoons, Risk Adviser AKE Group Says

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 
2011-06-15T13:03:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/pirates-may-target-hormuz-tankers-in-monsoons-risk-adviser-ake-group-says.html
Somali pirates, driven north by
monsoon rains, will probably attack more tankers navigating the
 Strait of Hormuz , which handles 17 percent of the global trade
in oil, according to AKE Group, an adviser to insurers.  Pirates from the East African country tried to hijack an
oil tanker and a container ship as close as 60 miles to the
waterway in the past month, according to John Drake, a senior
risk consultant at Hereford, England-based AKE. The tankers will
be targeted because they generate the most ransom, he said. A
secondhand supertanker is worth about $82 million and a cargo of
2 million barrels of oil about $200 million.  Ransom payments have risen 36-fold in five years, averaging
$5.4 million a ship, and hijackings reached a record last year,
according to One Earth Future Foundation, a non-profit group
based in Louisville,  Colorado . The raids are adding at least
$2.4 billion to transport costs because vessels are being
diverted onto longer routes to avoid attacks off east  Africa .  “Pirates are making a lot of money from captured oil
tankers,” Drake said. “They are the ships that are yielding
the most ransoms.”  The strait, connecting the Persian Gulf and the  Gulf of
Oman , is deemed by the U.S. to be the most important chokepoint
for oil supply. Shipments through Hormuz  accounted for  17
percent of oil traded in 2009, according to the U.S. Energy
Department. The  Middle East  is the world’s largest region for
loading crude oil.  Hormuz Attacks  The attacks over the past month were the closest ever by
pirates to Hormuz of any reported, according to Cyrus Mody, the
London-based manger of the International Maritime Bureau. The
London- and Kuala Lumpur-based organization has been collating
data on attacks since 1992.  “These attacks could be a one-off, or maybe they are
testing the waters,” said Mody. “There’s no doubt they have
the ability to move around quite significantly.”  As well as monsoon weather conditions, the pirates may be
moving nearer to the  Persian Gulf  to evade  naval patrols  closer
to their own coastline and in the  Gulf of Aden , Drake said.  About 30 anti-piracy ships are deployed daily in the region
by groups including the European Union and NATO. The European
Naval Force patrols about 2 million square nautical miles, or an
area 10 times the size of  Germany .  Somali pirates have widened the zone in which they operate
over the last three years to find easier targets and avoid the
warships. They ranged as far south as Madagascar last year and
to within about 100 miles north of the Maldives in the east,
reports from the IMB show.  Strikes by Somali pirates surged to a record this year,
with 154 vessels attacked and 21 hijacked, according to the IMB
Piracy Reporting Centre.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor on this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  