-- 
Polish Inflation Quickens in May to Fastest in Decade, Rate Increase Eyed

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-15T14:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/polish-inflation-accelerated-in-may-probably-reached-its-peak.html
Polish inflation accelerated in May
to its fastest in almost a decade, suggesting the central bank
may need to raise  interest rates  again in coming months.  Consumer prices rose 5 percent from a year earlier, after a
4.5 percent increase in April, the  Central Statistical Office  in
Warsaw said today. The rate is the highest since August 2001 and
exceeded the median estimate of 4.6 percent from 28 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Prices advanced 0.6 percent on the month.  “This is bad news for the Monetary Policy Council,”
 Raffaella Tenconi , an economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch
in  London , said by e-mail. “It adds to our call for a 25 basis-
point hike in July, despite their desire to enter a pause.”  Policy makers around the world are battling to contain
inflation spurred by rising food, commodity and energy costs.
The  European Central Bank , as well as central banks in  Norway ,
 Russia  and  Denmark , increased borrowing costs in the past two
months in response to price pressures.  Polish rate setters “won’t panic” after the consumer
price data, central bank Governor Marek Belka said on the
Onet.pl website, according to the Polish newswire PAP. “More
precise analysis will allow us to say whether the increase was
definitely of a temporary or more lasting nature.”  Bond Yields Rise  Polish bond yields rose and the zloty pared declines after
the inflation report.  The yield on two-year bonds advanced six basis points to
4.90 percent as of 3:18 p.m. in Warsaw. Two-year swaps that
investors use to fix borrowing costs in the future gained 5
basis points to 5.16 percent. The zloty strengthened to 3.938
per euro after falling as low as 3.947 prior to the report.  The  Narodowy Bank Polski  raised its benchmark seven-day
rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent on June 8, the
fourth increase this year, to curb inflation that has remained
above the central bank’s 2.5 percent target since October.
Policy makers are concerned Poles will demand higher wages in
the face of strong price growth.  Belka said last week the Monetary Policy Council would wait
to see if this year’s rate increases will be sufficient to slow
inflation to its medium-term target.  Radoslaw Bodys, a London-based strategist at  UBS Investment
Bank , said Polish interest rates “are simply too low.” The
“optimal” rate is “close to 6 percent,” Bodys said in a note
to clients after the data release.  Investors on the derivative market expect the central bank
to raise interest rates two more times this year. Six-month
forward rate agreements are trading 54 basis points above the
three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate, down from 80 before
the June rate decision, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Core Inflation  The breakdown of last month’s inflation figures shows price
increases are due to items that can be influenced domestically
and not only global factors, Bodys said.  “Importantly, while commodity prices remain an important
driver of the headline, core inflation keeps accelerating,” he
said. “In this environment it’s difficult to see inflation
falling below 4.5 percent this year.”  Core inflation, which strips out volatile fuel and food
prices, accelerated to 2.1 percent in April, the highest since
February 2010. The rate may rise to 2.4 percent in May, Maja Goettig, chief economist at Bank BPH in Warsaw, said today.  “We were just stunned” by the May inflation figure,
Goettig said by phone. While BPH’s “base scenario” calls for
the next rate increase in September, “it cannot be ruled out
that after seeing inflation at its highest since August 2001,
the council may need to reconsider its wait-and-see plan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  