-- 
Polish Price Shock Will Test Central Bank’s Credibility on Interest Rates

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-06-16T13:56:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/polish-price-shock-to-test-central-bank-s-credibility-on-interest-rates.html
Polish central bankers, who signaled
a pause in interest-rate increases this month, will have their
credibility tested as they consider a surprise surge in
inflation to the fastest pace in almost a decade.  May consumer prices jumped 5 percent from a year earlier,
the most since August 2001, a report showed yesterday. Policy
makers on June 8 raised rates for the fourth time this year and
signaled they would keep borrowing costs at 4.5 percent to weigh
the effects of 100 basis points of tightening. The central bank
“won’t panic,” Governor  Marek Belka  said yesterday.  Accelerating price growth “puts the Monetary Policy
Council in an uncomfortable position,”  Grzegorz Maliszewski ,
chief economist at  Bank Millennium SA (MIL)  in Warsaw, said yesterday
by phone. Rate setters may “decide more hikes are needed.
However, we doubt it is likely to happen in July as it would
lower the credibility of the last message.”  Council members and Prime Minister  Donald Tusk  rushed to
reassure markets that the figures haven’t changed their
expectation that inflation will slow this year. Traders haven’t
increased bets on the extent of tightening this year.  Investors on the derivative market expect the central bank
to raise interest rates one more time this year, the same as
after the rate increase earlier this month.  One More Increase  Six-month forward rate agreements are trading 38 basis
points above the three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate, down
from 60 before the last rate decision, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Three-month agreements were 20 basis
points higher. A basis point is the equivalent of 0.01
percentage point.  “We believe that the Monetary Policy Council hasn’t ended
its tightening cycle yet and will raise rates by 25 basis points
one more time this year,” Jaroslaw Karpinski, a  fund manager  at
ING Investment Management Polska SA, said by e-mail. “It isn’t
going to happen in July but rather in few months.”  The  central bank  will embark on “a more precise analysis”
to decide “whether the increase was definitely of a temporary
or a more lasting nature,” Belka said yesterday on the Onet.pl
website, according to the Polish newswire PAP.  Belka said last week the Monetary Policy Council would wait
to see if this year’s rate increases were sufficient to slow
inflation to its medium-term target of 2.5 percent. Last month
he said prices would fall to that goal toward the end of 2012.  ‘Falling Behind’  Policy makers raised rates by a full percentage point from
a record low because they were concerned rising prices would
prompt higher wages demands. At 4.5 percent, the Polish
benchmark is still below the inflation rate.  The central bank “is very clearly falling behind the curve
on monetary policy,” said  Lars Christensen , chief analyst at
Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen. “The sharp rise in inflation is
a serious blow to the credibility of monetary policy, and there
is a serious risk that inflation expectations could accelerate
further.”  Price increases are due in part to items that can be
influenced domestically, Radoslaw Bodys, a London-based
strategist at  UBS Investment Bank , wrote yesterday in an e-
mailed note, adding that the “optimal” interest rate is
“close to 6 percent.”  The inflation rate may fall to 4.8 percent this month, the
 Economy Ministry  estimated yesterday, PAP reported.  “All forecasts indicate inflation should start weakening
at the end of the summer, and I would like to rely on these
forecasts,” Tusk said at a news conference yesterday in Warsaw.  Wage Pressures ‘Absent’  Growth in corporate wages slowed to 4.1 percent in May from
5.9 percent in April, the  Central Statistical Office  reported
today. The figure was below the median forecast of 5.4 percent
from 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Corporate employment
rose 3.6 percent, below the 3.8 percent estimate.  “Wage pressure remains absent” and “jobs aren’t being
created fast enough to generate wage pressure,” said Jakub Borowski, chief economist at Invest-Bank SA in Warsaw.  Some policy makers are concerned about slowing economic
growth. There is no room to raise interest rates because doing
so may hurt investment, Elzbieta Chojna-Duch, a member of the
Monetary Policy Council, said yesterday, according to PAP.  “If we keep on raising rates as long as inflation exceeds
the target, we would overshoot,” said  Andrzej Bratkowski ,
another panel member.  Slowing Growth  The central bank in February cut its forecast for this
year’s economic growth to between 3.3 percent and 5.1 percent
from a range of 3.3 percent to 5.5 percent. The expansion may be
between 2.3 percent and 4.8 percent next year, compared with an
earlier forecast of 2.8 percent to 5.5 percent, it said.  Chojna-Duch and  Jerzy Hausner  are among the policy makers
who said growth probably won’t exceed 4 percent this year as
output is set to slow in the second half. Gross domestic product
increased 4.4 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  “I don’t think that” the May inflation figure “is a
shock in the sense that central bankers really have to consider
a rate hike immediately,” Piotr Chwiejczak, an emerging-market
strategist at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said yesterday. “For
secondary inflation effects, you would have to have the labor
market kicking in, but it’s not yet very strong.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net ;
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  