-- 
Pound Slides Versus Dollar as Jobless Claims Surge and Wage Growth Slows

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-06-15T16:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/pound-advances-versus-euro-as-report-shows-u-k-consumer-confidence-surges.html
The pound slumped versus the dollar
after a report showed U.K. jobless claims surged more than
economists estimated in May and wage growth slowed, damaging the
case for the  Bank of England  to raise interest rates.  U.K. government bonds fell as the  Office for National
Statistics  said jobless-benefit claims jumped 19,600 from April,
when they rose a revised 16,900. The median estimate of 22
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of
6,500. Sterling held gains against the euro as  Europe ’s finance
ministers struggled to break a deadlock on aid for  Greece .  “The employment data does emphasize that austerity is here
and now,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge-fund sales at
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “Sterling is being sold
on the back of it on anticipation that the BOE will need to
revisit any plans for raising  interest rates . The Monetary
Policy Committee would not want a situation where they’re
increasing interest rates in an economy where unemployment is
rising.”  Sterling slid 1 percent to $1.6216 as of 5:02 p.m. in
London. It strengthened 0.6 percent to 87.70 pence per euro.  Wage growth excluding bonuses slowed to 2 percent in the
three months through April, the weakest since the quarter
through August.  Euro-Area Woes  The pound had earlier been supported by a separate report
that showed U.K. consumer confidence jumped the most in 5 1/2
years in May. An index of sentiment compiled by the  Nationwide
Building Society  gained 11 points from April to 55, the highest
in five months.  Investors last week pushed back bets on the month that the
central bank will next increase rates to May of next year,
forward contracts on the sterling overnight interbank average
show. As recently as February, traders were betting on an
increase as soon as May of this year, data from Tullett Prebon
Plc showed.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  will speak at his
annual Mansion House speech to bankers in London tonight.  An emergency session of European finance ministers in
Brussels yesterday failed to reconcile a German-led push for
bondholders to shoulder part of the cost of a new Greek aid
package, with European Central Bank warnings backed by  France 
that the move might constitute a sovereign default.  U.K. government bonds advanced after a sale of 2.25 billion
pounds of debt maturing in 2027. The bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount offered,
was 1.85, compared with 2.15 at a sale in October.  The yield on the 10-year gilt slipped six basis points to
3.24 percent. The two-year note yield also dropped six basis
points, to 0.78 percent, the lowest since November 10.  Gilts have returned 2.3 percent this year, compared with a
2.6 gain on U.S. Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 