-- 
Providence Equity Partners Is Said to Be Leading Bidder to Buy Blackboard

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-06-15T20:10:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/providence-equity-is-said-to-be-in-lead-to-acquire-blackboard.html
Providence Equity Partners Inc. is
in the lead to buy  Blackboard Inc. (BBBB) , a maker of online
educational courseware, a person with knowledge of the situation
said. The shares surged as much as 5.5 percent.  Blackboard has also been considering a bid from Hellman &
Friedman LLC, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. The company has a market value of
almost $1.5 billion.  Blackboard said in April it’s working with  Barclays Capital 
to review unsolicited buyout offers. Founded in 1997, Blackboard
makes software that lets teachers post course materials, conduct
discussions and make assignments online. The company may lure
bids from private equity firms as high as $55 a share, analysts
at Stifel Nicolaus said in a report earlier this year.  The discussions could unravel and may not result in an
agreement, according to the person familiar with the matter.  “Our board is committed to fulfilling its fiduciary duties
to act in the best interests of shareholders,” Blackboard Chief
Executive Officer Michael Chasen said in a statement announcing
the unsolicited offers in April. “We remain focused on our
company’s strategic plan and are committed to delivering the
highest quality products and sustained client satisfaction.”  Providence last year acquired educational services provider
Study Group Pty Ltd. The private equity company also joined with
Goldman Sachs Capital Partners and Leeds Equity Partners to
acquire for-profit college operator Education Management Corp.,
which sold shares to the public in 2009.  Blackboard shares jumped as high as $44.40 today, before
closing at $42.17, up 9 cents, on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
stock has climbed 2.1 percent this year.  Michael Stanton, spokesman for Washington-based Blackboard,
declined to comment on talks with potential acquirers. A
spokesman for Providence declined to comment. Mary Beth Grover, 
a spokeswoman for Hellman & Friedman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 Calesci2@bloomberg.net .
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 