-- 
Quebec’s Premier Supports Maple’s All-Canadian Bid for TMX

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-15T16:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/quebec-premier-s-backing-of-maple-adds-support-to-canadian-bid.html
Quebec  is backing an all-Canadian
takeover bid of  TMX Group Inc. (X)  as the Toronto Stock Exchange
owner seeks to build investor support for its C$3.42 billion
($3.53 billion) deal with the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)   Quebec Premier Jean Charest said he supports the bid by
Maple Group Acquisition Corp., led by Canadian banks and pension
funds, because the Canadian offer gives greater guarantees on
preserving derivatives jobs in  Montreal .  “We would much prefer to see ownership in the hands of the
Maple Group, if only because we would much rather see Canadian
ownership of our stock exchange,” Charest said yesterday in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New York . “What we are
first of all interested in is making sure that Montreal is able
to preserve that niche or expertise.”  Maple Group, whose 13 members include Quebec’s biggest
financial institutions, seeks to gain support for its C$3.58
billion takeover bid for the Canadian exchange owner, while TMX
and LSE executives are trying to convince shareholders that
their C$46.05-a-share all-stock transaction is a better deal.
TMX and LSE shareholders vote on the bid June 30.  Charest’s View  Charest’s view is important because regulators in Quebec
and Ontario must approve the sale of TMX. Maple Group’s members
include some of Quebec’s largest financial institutions
including  National Bank of Canada (NA) , Caisse de Depot et Placement
du Quebec, Desjardins Financial Group and Fonds de Solidarite
FTQ. Both provincial governments can provide input on their
concerns during regulatory hearings scheduled next month in
Quebec and Ontario.  The Ontario Securities Commission today scheduled hearings
on the LSE bid for July 21 and July 22 in Toronto.  TMX Chief Executive Officer Thomas Kloet and LSE CEO Xavier Rolet are scheduled to appear at a luncheon event today in
Montreal hosted by the Board of Trade, while TMX executive Kevan Cowan faces off against Maple Group CEO Luc Bertrand at an event
in Calgary. Bertrand, the former head of the Montreal Exchange
derivatives bourse who became deputy CEO at TMX before leaving
in 2009, is a vice chairman at National Bank.  Investors such as money manager Mathieu Roy have already
made up their mind to support the Maple Group.  “I like the Maple bid,” said Roy, who manages about C$1.5
billion including TMX shares for Louisbourg Investments Inc. in
Moncton,  New Brunswick . “As a shareholder, you’re getting cash
right up front.”  Quebec Approval  Ontario’s Finance Minister said last month he “welcomed”
the Canadian counterbid to the LSE takeover.  TMX, formerly known as TSX Group Inc., agreed to give
Quebec’s financial markets regulator, Autorité des Marchés
Financiers, veto power over any sale when it bought Montreal
Exchange Inc. in 2008.  Charest said yesterday he met with LSE’s Rolet after the
London-based company announced its proposed deal with TMX. He
said while he felt at the time LSE was sincere about maintaining
jobs in Montreal, he is concerned that the company may need to
change plans in the future.  “They’ve been fairly positive, as firm as they could be in
regards to the derivatives operations in Montreal,” Charest
said. “We didn’t sense that there was a hesitation about it.
But things change.”  Safeguard Jobs  TMX spokeswoman Carolyn Quick declined to comment.  Canadian ownership of TMX would also likely safeguard jobs
for lawyers and accountants in Montreal and Toronto, Charest
said.  “It has a lot of repercussions in regards to the economy
in  Canada  in terms of everything that’s around the stock
exchange,” he said. “It’s a pretty key component of our
economy.”  Canada should evaluate the bid by London Stock Exchange
Group on the deal’s “commercial merits,” not any desire to
create a “purely national” exchange, British Business
Secretary Vince Cable said.  “We would like to see a level playing field for foreign
investors and the usual principles,” Cable said yesterday in an
interview in Ottawa. “I haven’t come here to evangelize for
that bid. We just hope it will be treated on its commercial
merits.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in New York at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Montreal at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  