-- 
Quebec’s Charest Says Environment to Guide Shale-Gas Decision

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-06-15T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/quebec-s-charest-says-environment-to-guide-shale-gas-decision.html
Quebec  won’t allow shale gas
drilling until government regulators are satisfied that
production of the  fossil fuel  doesn’t harm residents’ health or
their fresh-water resources, Premier Jean Charest said.  Quebec’s environmental assessment bureau in February
 recommended  halting natural-gas exploration and production in
shale fields until further studies have been conducted, a
process that Charest said yesterday will require 18 months to
two years. Shale gas projects have faced opposition in Quebec
amid concern over possible water pollution.  “We believe that it is possible for us to develop the
shale gas we have, but we will only do it if we can protect the
health, the safety and the environment of Quebeckers,” Charest,
52, said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg headquarters in
New York. “We have to establish those conditions.”  Developing its own gas industry would allow Quebec to cut
reliance on imports from western Canada that now amount to about
C$2 billion ($2.06 billion) a year, Charest said. Canadian
companies including  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  and  Junex Inc. (JNX)  say they
may invest elsewhere partly because of exploration costs that
are more than double those in other North American regions.  Quebec is a latecomer to drilling using a process called
hydraulic fracturing that injects water, sand and chemicals to
shatter dense underground shale rock and release gas. Concern
that drinking water would become contaminated because of the
technique has led to a ban on horizontal drilling in New York
state while potential hazards are studied.  Environmental Assessment  A 336-page report by Quebec’s environmental assessment
bureau recommended a moratorium on the practice until further
investigation determines the impact. Developers also face
profitability “obstacles” because of exploration costs, a lack
of expertise and equipment availability in the province, and low
prices for gas, the report said.  “A majority of Quebeckers are skeptical about the
development of shale gas,” Charest said. “We have taken the
position that we are going to take our time, examine what the
consequences are and then make our decisions.”  Quebeckers aren’t as familiar with natural gas as they are
with hydro-electric power.  Canada ’s second most populous
province is home to  Hydro-Quebec , the state-owned utility that
generates about one-third of the electricity produced in the
country. As of Dec. 31, Hydro-Quebec operated 60 hydroelectric
plants with a combined capacity of 34,490 megawatts.  Oil and Gas  “Oil and gas are not part of our culture,” Charest said.
“We don’t have the intuitive knowledge that we have in the case
of hydro, so we’re careful on how we proceed. We could always
take the regulatory regimes of  Alberta  or British Columbia, plop
them down in Quebec, but that doesn’t give us the kind of
intelligence or operating ability that we would have if we had
been in the industry for 30 years.”  Charest also said he’s not concerned that the environment
assessment will lead natural gas producers to shy away from
investing in Quebec, assuming the province does one day decide
to allow commercial production.  “These companies operate all over the world, in all sorts
of environments and all sorts of conditions,” Charest said of
natural-gas producers. “The fact of the matter is, Quebec is a
heck of a good place to invest in.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  New York  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  