-- 
RBA’s Stevens Says Australia Rate Rise Needed

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-06-15T05:09:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/rba-s-stevens-says-australia-rate-rise-needed.html
Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor
Glenn Stevens reiterated that policy makers will need to raise
interest rates at some stage and signaled inflation data next
month may be key for such a decision. The local currency rose.  “New information will, as always, be important in our
monthly assessments of what monetary policy needs to do,”
Stevens said in prepared remarks today in Brisbane, the capital
of Queensland state. “As far as prices are concerned, we will
get another comprehensive round of data in late July.”  Stevens has held the cash-rate target at 4.75 percent for
the past six meetings, the longest pause since 2007, to help
Queensland state recover from torrential rains and a cyclone. A
report this month showed gross domestic product shrank in the
first quarter by the most in 20 years as the natural disasters
slashed exports.  The RBA has expressed concern that higher consumption will
clash with capacity constraints such as skill shortages caused
by mining investment that the government estimates will reach
A$76 billion ($81 billion) next fiscal year. The bank also has
said that the caution shown by households has mitigated the
pressure on policy makers to raise rates.  “The governor indicated that the economy is all but fully
employed, there is a huge boost to national income coming down
the pipe, inflation is likely to rise from here, and that
official interest rates probably have to rise,”  Stephen Walters ,
chief economist for Australia at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney,
wrote in a note.  Australian Dollar  The Australian dollar climbed as high as $1.0715 before
trading at $1.0698 as of 2:54 p.m. in Sydney, from $1.0674
before Stevens started the speech. Traders increased bets on a
rate increase in September to a 28 percent chance, from a 16
percent one before the RBA governor’s comments, according to
cash-rate contracts on the  Sydney Futures Exchange .  Recent increases in Australian households’ willingness to
save reflect a return to historical norms, Stevens said today in
Brisbane, responding to questions after the speech.  “The previous 15 years weren’t normal,” Stevens said,
when the savings rate dropped as people borrowed to make
investments, including in residential properties.  The household savings rate climbed to 11.5 percent of net
disposable income in the first quarter, compared with a low of
minus 2.5 percent in the three months ended June 30, 2002.  Inflation May Rise  “Our most recent analysis, as published in early May,
concluded that the underlying rate of inflation is more likely
to rise than fall over the next couple of years,” Stevens told
the Economic Society of  Australia  today.  “This central expectation -- subject to all the usual
uncertainties inherent in forecasting -- suggests, as we said at
the time, that ‘further tightening of monetary policy is likely
to be required at some point for inflation to remain consistent
with the 2-3 percent medium-term target’.”  In the May 6 review, the RBA forecast growth of 4.25
percent this year. Consumer prices will rise 3.25 percent over
the period and core inflation will reach 3 percent, it said.  “It remains, though, a matter for judgment by the board as
to whether that point has been reached,” Stevens said today.
“At its most recent meeting, the board’s view was that it had
not been.”  Australia’s currency has climbed 23 percent in the past
year as surging commodity shipments to China and  India  underpin
investors’ expectations that the RBA will raise rates. The so-
called Aussie reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest since
exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  Currency’s Strength  “The foreign exchange market being what it is -- namely an
asset market -- it has looked a long way forward into the
resources boom and pushed up the currency quite quickly,”
Stevens said. “This is having significant effects.”  Australia’s factories are lagging behind a  mining industry 
that is helping push the job market near a level the government
views as full employment.  Stevens said today that fiscal policy is playing a
“significant role” in helping restrain the economy.  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s administration is trying to
reduce the need for higher borrowing costs for consumers and
businesses. The government said last month it will end 23 years
of spending growth to help ease inflation pressure and support
the return to a  budget surplus .  “The ‘fiscal impact’, calculated as the shift in the
federal budget position from one year to the next, is forecast
to be minus 2 percent of GDP in the 2011/12 fiscal year,”
Stevens said today. “A further, though slightly smaller, effect
is forecast by the Treasury in the following year.”  The central bank has sought to restrain consumption with
175 basis points of rate increases from October 2009 to November
last year, letting investment in mining drive growth.  Asian Demand  Demand for Australian resources is being driven by the
expanding middle class in  Asia .  “Hundreds of millions of people in the emerging world have
seen growth in their incomes and associated changes in their
 living standards ,” Stevens said. “This means they are moving
towards a more energy- and steel-intensive way of life and a
more protein-rich diet. That fact is fundamentally changing the
shape of the world economy. Even if  China ’s growth rate
moderates this year, as it seems to be doing, these structural
forces almost certainly will continue.”  China’s share of world economic output last year rose to
more than 13 percent, from less than 4 percent two decades ago,
Stevens said earlier this year. In contrast, the U.S. and
European Union each accounted for about 20 percent in 2010, down
from about 25 percent each in 1990, he said.  Asian economies last year led a global rebound that’s been
restrained by  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a U.S. job
market where unemployment has stayed above 8.5 percent for two
years. Policy makers in China, India,  Indonesia ,  South Korea ,
 Thailand  and  Vietnam  all increased  interest rates  this year,
widening the gap with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s near-zero
benchmark rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  