-- 
Treasuries Rally as European Discord Threatens Greece Rescue; Swaps Surge

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-06-15T21:10:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/treasuries-advance-on-speculation-second-bailout-for-greece-to-be-delayed.html
Treasuries gained, pushing two-year
note yields down the most since April, after European Union
talks on achieving a second bailout for  Greece  to prevent the
first euro-area default stalled.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes dropped below 3 percent
as investors sought a refuge in  U.S. government debt . The cost
of insuring against default on Greek, Irish and Portuguese
government debt surged to records as the opposition in Greece
told Prime Minister George Papandreou to resign, allies turned
against him and police deployed tear gas to break up anti-
government protests in  Athens .  “In the near term, bonds are likely to rally,” said  Ajay Rajadhyaksha , head of U.S. fixed-income strategy in New York at
Barclays Plc, one of the 20 primary dealers that trade directly
with the  Federal Reserve . “Political risk in the euro zone
cannot be underestimated, and that will have significant impact
on the debt situation there. You cannot ignore the possibility
of contagion.”  Yields on two-year notes dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 0.38 percent at 5:00 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.5 percent
security due in May 2013 rose 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 7/32.  The decrease in the two-year note yields was the biggest
since April 15. Ten-year note yields fell 13 basis points to
2.97 percent, erasing yesterday’s gain, which was the most on a
closing basis since Jan. 5. The yields rose yesterday above 3.10
percent for the first time this month.  ‘Reversing Course’  “Treasuries are responding to Greece news,” said Russ Certo, a managing director and head of rates trading at Gleacher
& Co. in New York. “We’ve sustained new highs and are sort of
reversing course on the market. People have considered a variety
of outcomes for the euro.”  The euro declined as much as 2 percent, the most since May
5, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.7 percent and
crude oil tumbled as much as 5.4 percent to $94.01 a barrel in
New York.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said he will make
changes to his Cabinet tomorrow and will then immediately seek a
vote of confidence in Parliament. Papandreou spoke in comments
televised live on state-run NET TV. Police used teargas to
disperse protesters encircling the Parliament House as 20,000
people rallied against Papandreou’s additional wage cuts and tax
increases.  EU Talks  An emergency session of finance ministers in Brussels
failed yesterday to reconcile a German-led push for bondholders
to shoulder part of the cost of a new Greek aid package with
European Central Bank warnings backed by  France  that the move
might constitute the euro area’s first sovereign default.  Greece credit-default swaps soared 118 basis points to
1,723,  Portugal  climbed 22 to 776 and Ireland rose 22 to 750,
according to CMA prices in  London . The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of swaps on 15 governments rose 10 basis
points to 218.5.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. An increase signals
deteriorating perceptions of  credit quality .  Treasuries rose earlier as manufacturing in the New York
region shrank in June, with the New York Fed’s general economic
index falling to negative 7.8 from 11.9. Readings greater than
zero signal expansion in the Empire State Index, which covers
New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern Connecticut.  ‘Weakened faster’  “Economic conditions have weakened faster than
expectations,” said  Thomas Tucci , head of U.S. government bond
trading at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. “It’s another
factor restricting global growth and putting stress on the
financial system.” The unit of Royal Bank of Canada is a
primary dealer.  Output at U.S. factories, mines and utilities rose 0.1
percent in May after no change in the prior month, figures from
the Fed showed. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey was for an increase of 0.2 percent.  The Fed purchased $4.7 billion of Treasuries maturing from
January 2017 to May 2018 today as part of its $600 billion
second round of quantitative easing expiring this month.  Consumer Prices  Bonds briefly pared gains after the U.S. Labor Department
reported that the consumer-price index increased more than
forecast, rising 0.2 percent in May after a 0.4 percent advance
in the previous month. The median forecast of 79 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.1 percent increase.  Treasuries tumbled yesterday on evidence of resilience in
retail sales and an increase in wholesale prices that was bigger
than projected.  Foreign holdings of Treasuries rose in April for a 24th
month, increasing by $9.9 billion, or 0.2 percent, to $4.49
trillion, the U.S. Treasury Department reported today. Overseas
investors held 49 percent of the $9.14 trillion in outstanding
public Treasury debt.  “Foreign investors have been active out the curve and
purchasing securities during the period of time covered in this
data, and I would expect to see a follow-through,” said Chris Ahrens, head interest-rate strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut ,
at UBS AG, a primary dealer.  China ’s holdings of  U.S. debt  increased in April for the
first time in six months, rising 0.7 percent to $1.15 trillion.
Holdings of Treasury bills fell to $3.9 billion, its smallest
position in short-term debt since April 2004. China is the
biggest foreign investor in America’s debt.  Japan ’s holdings
fell for the first time since May 2010, decreasing $1 billion to
$907 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  