-- 
Red Sox Rely on Liverpool and LeBron James’s Asian Appeal for Growth

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-06-15T13:07:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/red-sox-rely-on-liverpool-and-james-s-asian-appeal-for-growth.html
Premier League soccer team Liverpool
and National Basketball Association All-Star  LeBron James  are at
the center of a push by Boston  Red Sox  owner Fenway Sports Group
to increase its commercial revenue around the world.  Fenway Sports Management, the marketing arm of the Major
League Baseball team, is adding to its presence in  Asia  by using
the popularity of Liverpool, the 18-time English soccer champion
it acquired in October, and James, a two-time NBA Most Valuable
Player whose endorsement rights the group manages.  “It’s unique that you can sit in a meeting and be able to
discuss one of the most powerful athletes in the world and one
of the most popular and powerful football clubs at the same
time,” Managing Director Billy Hogan said in a telephone
interview. Fenway also owns Roush Fenway Racing and the New
England Sports Network.  Fenway today said Olly Dale was appointed as its U.K.-based
senior vice president for international sales. The 36-year-old,
poached from soccer team Fulham, has been hired to help expand
the group’s revenue “as quickly as possible.”  Both James, whose  Miami Heat  lost in last week’s NBA finals
to the  Dallas Mavericks , and Liverpool are heading to Asia on
promotional tours in the coming weeks.  Liverpool will play exhibitions in Malaysia and  China  in
July before James’s four-city trip across China, where
basketball’s popularity outstrips soccer’s.  Latest Acquisition  “You point out the popularity of basketball in China and
the reception we’ve had from companies and corporations has been
extraordinary over the last couple of months of our partnership
with LeBron,” Hogan said. Fenway signed an exclusive contract
to represent James in April, which gives the 26-year-old a small
stake in Liverpool.  Liverpool  is Fenway’s latest acquisition and the one that’s
needed the most attention. The team hasn’t won the English title
since 1990, when coach  Kenny Dalglish  was coming toward the end
of his first period in charge. Its dominance of English soccer
has been surpassed by rival  Manchester United  both on and off
the field. United won a record 19th league title last season and
its 300 million pounds ($488 million) in annual revenue is about
50 percent more than Liverpool can generate.  On the field efforts are being made to revamp the team’s
playing squad. Last week 20-year-old midfielder Jordan Henderson, at a reported transfer fee of 20 million pounds,
became the latest recruit after the club spent 55 million pounds
in January for strikers  Luis Suarez  and Andy Carroll.  International Bank  The front office has also been refashioned with former
commercial director  Ian Ayre  being promoted to managing
director. The focus is on getting sponsorships such as the
team’s four-year, 81 million-pound partnership with
international bank  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , said Hogan.  United has been successful in getting sponsors after
expanding its sales office in London. Commercial sales, not
including revenue from its Nike Inc.-manufactured jersey, have
increased to 40 million pounds from 4 million since June 2008 as
the Red Devils have signed country and sector-specific deals
around the globe.  Liverpool is trying to mimic that success.  “We’ve just done a deal with Honda in the  Far East  for
Liverpool and you can expect to see more of that type of deal in
the near future,” Dale said. He said there are no plans to add
staff to work alongside him in London, where United has 70 sales
people, led by former J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. banker Edward
Woodward.  2012 U.S. Tour  Fenway is also trying to increase American fans’ awareness
of Liverpool. A 2012 offseason tour in the U.S. is being
discussed although details can’t be completed until next
season’s baseball schedule is known, Hogan said.  The team may consider selling naming rights to its proposed
new stadium, Hogan said. The club is in talks with brands even
though it may yet remain at Anfield, a stadium the team has
played in since 1892.  “We see Liverpool as a truly global proposition from a
marketing standpoint and a naming rights partnership with
Liverpool Football Club is really unlike any other thing there
is out there,” Hogan said. “It’s something we’ve seen some
interest in and we’ll continue to have those conversations.”  The final decision will “rest on which opportunity allows
us to keep generating revenue to compete with the rest of our
competition in the Premier League.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  