-- 
Regeneron Eye Drug to Rival Lucentis Works in U.S. Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-06-15T20:18:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/regeneron-eye-drug-to-rival-lucentis-works-in-u-s-review-1-.html
Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ’s
experimental treatment for a common cause of blindness prevents
vision loss, U.S. regulators said, suggesting they may soon
approve the competitor to  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Lucentis.  The new medicine, known as VEGF Trap-Eye or aflibercept,
worked as well as Lucentis when injected into the eye every
month or other month in patients with wet age-related macular
degeneration, or AMD, Food and Drug Administration staff said in
a report released today. Lucentis, a $1.4 billion-a-year product
for  Basel , Switzerland-based Roche, is given monthly.  Less frequent dosing may help Tarrytown, New York-based
Regeneron capture at least 15 percent of the U.S. market from
Lucentis if it’s approved, said Robyn Karnauskas, a Deutsche
Bank analyst in  New York . Most patients will still be treated
with Avastin, a Roche cancer drug that’s cheaper than Lucentis
though not FDA approved for treating the eye disease, she said.  “VEGF Trap-Eye doesn’t need to take a lot of the market
for it to mean something to Regeneron,” Karnauskas said in a
telephone interview. She estimates the medicine will generate
global sales of $2 billion in 2018.  Outside advisers to the FDA will  meet  June 17 in Adelphi,
Maryland, to consider the data on Regeneron’s drug and recommend
whether it should be approved. The agency is scheduled to take
action by Aug. 20 under a six-month  priority review  program for
medicines that represent a major advance in treatment.  ‘Very Favorable’  The FDA  asked  its advisers to consider whether patients on
the new medicine should be monitored every month even if
recommended dosing of the drug is every two months. The advisory
panel will also consider draft labeling for the product, which
was “very favorable for Regeneron,” Karnauskas said.  “We think the FDA is likely to approve Trap-Eye with a
dosing regimen that would make it competitive to both Lucentis &
Avastin,” Karnauskas said today in a note to clients.  Regeneron rose $2.79, or 5.1 percent, to $57.82 in Nasdaq
Stock Market composite trading at 4 p.m. New York time, the
biggest percentage gain since May 6. The shares have increased
76 percent this year, outperforming the 9 percent average gain
among 20 stocks in the AMEX Biotechnology Index. Paris-based
 Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  is the company’s biggest investor with an 18
percent stake as of Oct. 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  AMD is a leading cause of blindness in Americans age 60 and
older, according to the  National Eye Institute . About 15 percent
of patients have the more advanced “wet” form of the disease
tied to abnormal blood vessels that grow under the macula, the
part of the retina responsible for seeing in fine detail. Blood
and fluid leaked from the vessels can result in vision loss.  1.5 Million Patients  Regeneron estimates that about 1.5 million people have wet
AMD with 200,000 new cases diagnosed each year.  Regeneron proposed the brand name Eylea to the FDA.  Bayer
AG (BAYN) , of Leverkusen,  Germany , has rights to market VEGF Trap-Eye
outside the U.S. and this month submitted an application in
 Europe  for use in wet AMD.  Lucentis is sold outside the U.S. by  Novartis AG (NOVN) , also
based in Basel, Switzerland. The drugmaker reported Lucentis
sales of $1.5 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Larkin in  Washington  at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 