-- 
Republican Governors Seek Medicaid Flexibility

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-06-15T15:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/republican-governors-seek-medicaid-flexibility.html
Republican governors are renewing a
push for more flexibility in running Medicaid health programs
for the poor, urging Congress to roll changes into a debt-
cutting deal federal lawmakers are negotiating.  Twenty-nine Republican governors asked for more
independence from the U.S. in designing and running programs in
a June 13  letter  to Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top
Republican on the Senate Finance Committee. Medicaid is being
expanded as part of the 2010 U.S. health-care overhaul.  “As federal funding has expanded, so has federal
control,” the letter said. “States should not have to seek
waivers to manage their unique programs.”  States and the federal government run Medicaid, with the
U.S. approving changes in eligibility standards by granting
waivers from national law. Without more flexibility, Medicaid --
among the biggest expenses for states -- is draining budgets and
“crowding out other essential services” including education,
public safety and public health, the governors said.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has issued several
directives it said were aimed at giving states more options to
design their own programs. A February letter from the U.S. to
states raised the prospect of dropping some adults with incomes
exceeding 133 percent of the federal poverty level from the
program to close budget shortages.  Federal Spending  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is
“committed to giving states the flexibility they need to
administer their Medicaid programs while ensuring protections
for patients,” said Brian Cook, a spokesman for the agency.  Hatch, in prepared remarks for delivery at the  Heritage
Foundation  in Washington  today , said Medicaid had expanded too
far past its original role as a safety net program for the poor.  “It has turned into substitute health insurance for nearly
one-quarter of the population,” he said in a copy of his
remarks provided to Bloomberg. “Not only can the states and the
federal government not afford such a massive program, but as
currently structured it provides nowhere near the level of care
that it should. Medicaid is like every other government program.
There is fat to be cut.”  Republicans are pushing for the Medicaid changes as part of
negotiations to lower federal spending and raise the U.S.
statutory borrowing limit, known as the debt ceiling. Medicaid
covers about 60 million low-income people, about half of whom
are children, according to the nonprofit  Kaiser Family
Foundation  in  Menlo Park ,  California . Medicaid cost $339 billion
in 2009.  A House Republican budget plan by Representative  Paul Ryan 
of  Wisconsin , chairman of the chamber’s Budget Committee, would
cut $771 billion across a decade by converting the program into
a series of grants the U.S. awards to states to run Medicaid as
they see fit.  Democrats have criticized that approach, saying it would
leave poor people vulnerable by cutting benefits and
eligibility. Senate John Rockefeller, a West Virginia Democrat,
has said he knows of 41 senators who will oppose any effort to
significantly cut the program.  Hatch is not part of the group negotiating the debt deal.
The Finance Committee does have jurisdiction over Medicaid in
the Senate. In the speech, he also criticized a regulation
issued in April that would limit states’ ability to set payment
rates to doctors and hospitals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  Washington  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 