-- 
Roach Sees ‘Years’ of Growth Scares

-- B y   J o h n   D a w s o n   a n d   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-06-15T03:31:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/roach-sees-years-of-growth-scares-during-recovery.html
The world faces years of “growth
scares” as a weak recovery grinds on with little to cushion
against periodic shocks, Morgan Stanley’s  Stephen Roach  said.  “We had a growth scare last year about this time, we’re
having another growth scare this year, and I think we will have
growth scares for several years to come,” said Roach, non-
executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd. He spoke in an
interview in  Shanghai  today with Bloomberg Television.  Stocks have tumbled since April on concern that the global
recovery is faltering as unemployment rises and housing prices
fall in the U.S.,  Greece  teeters on the edge of a default and
 Japan  deals with the aftermath of a record earthquake. Higher-
than-forecast Chinese industrial output and American retail
sales reported yesterday may have eased investors’ concerns.  “When you have a weak recovery, you don’t have a cushion
that enables you to withstand those periodic shocks that always
seem to come out and hit specific economies or the world,”
Roach said. “With  oil prices  up, the euro zone in trouble, the
U.S. housing market having another leg down, and the problems in
Japan, you’ve certainly had more than your normal fair share of
shocks.”  Euro-area leaders are wrestling with the terms of
another rescue of Greece. An emergency session of finance 
ministers in Brussels yesterday failed to reconcile a 
German-led push for bondholders to shoulder part of the cost 
of a new aid package with European Central Bank warnings that 
the move might constitute the area’s first sovereign default.  ‘Critical Threshold’  “Greece has a solvency issue given its current debt
overhang and the euro zone officials are treating this as a
liquidity issue in providing a never-ending stream of bailouts
and that’s not the answer,” Roach, 65, said in an interview. 
“Greece is reaching a critical threshold of pressure on the 
sustainability of its sovereign debt obligations.”  Separately, former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Robert Rubin 
said that while the possibility of a double-dip American
recession is “very low,” the world’s largest economy faces
“tremendously powerful headwinds” in the short term.  Those include falling housing prices, rising oil costs and
an unstable fiscal position, Rubin said at a conference in  Seoul 
today. “There were some fairly strong positive signs if you go
back to the early part of this year, but those signs have now
abated,” said Rubin, who is now a counselor at Centerview
Partners LLP, a New York-based private equity company.  Roach, meanwhile, said he disagreed with the view of his 
friend  Nouriel Roubini , chairman of Roubini Global Economics, 
that China faces a slump after 2013 because of bad loans and 
investment leading to excessive capacity.  The Chinese economy is “doing just fine,” Roach said,
adding that officials have a “clear strategy” to shift to a
consumer-driven growth model and are alert to the threat posed
by inflation.  The People’s Bank of  China  yesterday raised banks’ reserve
requirements after inflation accelerated to an almost three-year
high of 5.5 percent in May.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  