-- 
Rothstein ‘Friend’ Stephen Caputi Pleads Guilty in $1.2 Billion Fraud Case

-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 
2011-06-15T15:15:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/rothstein-friend-stephen-caputi-pleads-guilty-in-1-2-billion-fraud-case.html
A second associate of convicted
fraudster Scott Rothstein admitted to his role in a $1.2 billion
investment scheme involving fake lawsuit settlements.  Stephen Caputi, a 53-year-old nightclub manager, pleaded
guilty today to one count of conspiracy to commit  wire fraud 
before U.S. District Judge William Zloch in  Fort Lauderdale ,
 Florida . Howard Kusnick, formerly of Rothstein’s law firm,
entered a guilty plea to the same charge yesterday in West Palm
Beach, Florida.  Rothstein pleaded guilty last year to five counts of
racketeering,  money laundering  and wire fraud, admitting he sold
investors interests in bogus settlements in sexual-harassment
and whistleblower suits. He was sentenced to 50 years in prison.  Caputi attended meetings with potential investors in the
scheme, posing as a banker or a plaintiff in the phony suits,
federal prosecutors said.  “Mr. Rothstein had asked me to do those things, and I had
been a friend of his for 17 years, and I had various business
interests with Mr. Rothstein,” Caputi told Zloch. “I did not
want to compromise my relationship with him.”  The U.S. said Kusnick wrote a letter claiming to have
settled a pending case in a client’s favor when the case had
never been filed and no settlement existed. Both Kusnick and
Caputi initially entered not guilty pleas before changing their
pleas this week.  ‘Remorse and Regret’  “I have a lot of remorse and regret for what I’ve done,”
Caputi told the judge. “I want to get this behind me and get on
with my new life.”  Caputi faces a maximum term of five years in  prison  at his
sentencing, which is set for Aug. 24. Prosecutors agreed to take
his cooperation in their investigation into account when making
a sentencing recommendation, Zloch said.  Hy Shapiro, Caputi’s attorney, declined to comment after
today’s hearing. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeffrey Kaplan also had
no comment.  Curtis Renie and William Corte, information technology
employees of Rothstein’s firm, both pleaded not guilty to
conspiracy to commit wire fraud in May. They have change-of-plea
hearings set for later this month.  Renie and Corte created a Web page designed to look like it
belonged to a bank so investors would think Rothstein’s law firm
held as much as $1.1 billion in trust accounts, prosecutors
allege.  The cases are U.S. v. Kusnick, 11-60125, U.S. v. Caputi,
11-60124, U.S. v. Renie, 11-60123, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in  West Palm Beach , Florida, at   susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  