-- 
Russia, China May Sign Gas Deal Later in Year Amid Wrangling

-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 
2011-06-16T18:43:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/russian-chinese-natural-gas-pact-may-be-clouded-by-price-quarrel.html
Russia and  China  may delay a
natural-gas accord until later this year as they wrangle over
how much China needs to pay the world’s largest energy exporter
for the fuel.  Chinese President  Hu Jintao  is in Russia for a four-day
visit and had been expected to sign a gas-supply agreement with
his Russian counterpart  Dmitry Medvedev , Assistant Foreign
Minister Cheng Guoping said yesterday.  “Even if the final agreement is not reached during Hu’s
visit, I am rather sure that during this year the arrangement
will be reached,” OAO Gazprom’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Medvedev told Bloomberg TV today at the St. Petersburg
International Economic Forum. “Often when you are very close it
is not easy to make the last step.”  Russia  is targeting gas sales beyond its existing European
markets and China is looking to diversify its providers. During
price negotiations, Russia may be counting on Japan’s nuclear
disaster boosting demand for fossil fuels, while China may use
supply options across central  Asia  as leverage.  The supply deal envisages construction of pipelines and
long-term delivery contracts. It would give China “stability
and the opportunity to plan,” while providing Russia with
access to a growing market and stable prices, President Medvedev
said after meeting with Hu today in Moscow.  Energy Cooperation  Natural gas “is an important component of Russia-China
cooperation,” said the Chinese leader, who will join executives
including Deutsche Bank AG Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackerman, Citigroup Inc. CEO Vikram Pandit and BP Plc CEO  Robert Dudley  at the St. Petersburg forum.  Hu and Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  met this
evening at Gazprom’s headquarters in Moscow.  Russia is pursuing energy sales to Asian countries,
including Japan. The government in Moscow pledged to supply
China with all the natural gas it needs, Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Sechin  said during Dmitry Medvedev’s visit to Beijing in
September.  China, Russia’s biggest trading partner with total volume
jumping 50 percent to $59 billion last year, wants to triple its
gas consumption by 2020 to keep pace with its economy, which
expanded an annual 9.7 percent in the first quarter.  Russia and China are seeking to boost bilateral trade to
$200 billion a year by 2020, the countries’ presidents said
today. Differences over pricing between Gazprom and China
National Petroleum Corp., the parent of PetroChina Co., have
delayed plans to build the gas pipelines for more than a decade.  Price Hold-Ups  As countries such as  Germany  cool toward nuclear power
after the Fukushima plant disaster, Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller
has sought prices equivalent to those his company receives in
 Europe , where it accounts for a quarter of supplies. China
should pay market prices for Russian gas, Gazprom’s Medvedev
said today.  China has pushed for lower rates similar to those charged
on its domestic energy market after obtaining piped supplies
from  Turkmenistan  and imports of liquefied natural gas, or LNG,
from countries including Yemen and  Australia . The Asian nation,
which today agreed to boost gas transit through  Kazakhstan , is
also planning to develop its own shale gas.  “Gazprom is looking at potentially higher demand from
Germany and  Japan ,” Alex Brideau, an analyst at political
consultants Eurasia Group, said in an e-mailed note June 15.
“From the Chinese viewpoint, increased domestic production,
piped gas from Central Asian producers and more LNG availability
give CNPC more options and less incentive to agree.”  Siberian Pipelines  Gazprom plans to provide Siberian gas through two pipelines
from as early as 2015, with total annual deliveries to reach 68
billion cubic meters. That’s more than 60 percent of China’s
2010 consumption, according to BP Plc’s Statistical Review of
World Energy.  The gas deal would follow Russia’s 2009 agreement to supply
China with crude oil for 20 years in return for $25 billion of
loans to state energy companies.  In addition to energy cooperation, Chinese companies from
the construction, machine-building and railway industries will
join Hu in  St. Petersburg  after an April visit by Medvedev to
China yielded “dozens” of cross-border deals, said Sergei Sanakoyev, head of the Russian-Chinese Center of Trade and
Economic Cooperation in Moscow.  Boosting Growth  Russia is seeking to use the St. Petersburg forum to
attract foreign investment and boost growth closer to the pace
of India and China. Foreign direct investment totaled $3.9
billion in the first quarter, compared with $60 billion-$70
billion before the global economic crisis, while gross domestic
product expanded 4.1 percent.  Russia, which remains hopeful of joining the  World Trade
Organization  this year, wants to lure foreign capital with a $10
billion fund to co-finance international investment and has
targeted innovative industries to wean the economy off its
dependence on energy exports.  Medvedev and Hu will discuss joint investment and
cooperation in industries including aerospace and defense, the
Russian president’s chief foreign policy aide  Sergei Prikhodko 
told reporters in Moscow last week.  Russia is also keen to lure Chinese partners to Skolkovo,
the Moscow suburb Medvedev has championed as the country’s
“Silicon Valley” for developing new technologies.  Hu’s speech tomorrow will probably be the highlight in St.
Petersburg, underlining the growing influence of the BRIC
nations at an event that features the heads of international
energy companies including BP, Total SA and Statoil ASA.  “Interest toward China is on the rise and the forum is
becoming a more authoritative platform,” Prikhodko said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Moscow at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 