-- 
Chinese Developers’ Outlook Cut at S&P as Government Curbs Housing Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-15T08:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/s-p-cuts-china-property-developers-to-negative-.html
Chinese developers’ outlook was cut
to “negative” from “stable” by  Standard & Poor’s , which said
tighter credit and further government curbs may lead to rating
downgrades in the next year.  Property sales may start to slow as the government’s policy
“starts to bite,” leading to price cuts that may drive home
prices 10 percent lower in the next 12 months, the credit rating
company said. Hong Kong’s real estate market faces the risk of a
“sharp correction,” S&P also said in the statement today.  “We haven’t seen any encouraging news so far,” Bei Fu, an
analyst at S&P, said on a conference call today. “Inventory and
sales pressure increased, government’s policy is gradually
showing effect, transactions have been curbed. Many companies
issued bonds that will improve their liquidity but put pressure
on gearing.”  The People’s Bank of  China  yesterday raised banks’ reserve
ratio requirements for the ninth time since October. The
government said last month it will maintain curbs after
intensifying measures this year with higher minimum down
payments for second-home purchases and the introduction of
residential property taxes in  Shanghai  and Chongqing.  Price cuts among developers may hurt their liquidity,
raising the likelihood for a broader “price war,” Fu said on
the call. S&P will monitor the performance of Chinese developers
and further downgrade their outlook if they fall below its
expectations in the next two to three months, she said.  Greentown, China Resources Land  Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900)  is among developers with the
lowest ratings, Fu said. The company’s contracted home sales to
June 13 were 17 billion yuan ($2.6 billion), less than expected,
RTHK said on that date, citing Chief Executive Officer Shou Bainian. The Hangzhou-based developer is “unsure” about
achieving the sales target for 2011, RTHK said, citing Shou.  China Resources Land Ltd. (1109) ,  China Overseas Land & Investment
Ltd. (688)  and  Franshion Properties China Ltd. (817) , all state-controlled,
have the highest ratings, Fu said.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook for China’s
property sector to “negative” from “stable” on April 14 on
concern residential sales could decline by as much as 30 percent
as local governments enforce housing curbs. The ratings firm
said 10 property companies, including  Shimao Property Holdings
Ltd. (813)  and Greentown, will be “more vulnerable” in terms of
their liquidity positions if contracted sales decline by 25
percent from the previous year.  Higher Sales Transactions  The government this week said May’s home sales transaction
value rose 17 percent from April as developers marketed more
residential projects during the Labor Day long weekend. The
value of homes sold increased to 380.9 billion yuan from 324.9
billion yuan in April, based on the difference between the
statistics bureau’s data for the first five and four months.  April new home prices increased in all but three of the 70
Chinese cities monitored by the government. The national
statistics bureau is scheduled to report May’s home price data
on June 18. Nationwide prices rose 0.5 percent in May, the ninth
consecutive month of gains, as smaller cities withstood
government curbs,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest
real estate website, said on June 1.  “I can’t say a bubble will never happen, there’s always a
risk of asset bubbles in any economy including China,”  Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd., said
in an interview in Shanghai today. “The important signal
Chinese authorities have sent is, unlike their counterparts in
the West, they are focused on relieving or deflating bubbles
before they become a major problem for the economy.”  Shares Rise  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index lost 0.3 percent at the 3 p.m. close in Shanghai,
compared with the 0.9 percent drop in the benchmark gauge. China
Vanke Co., the country’s biggest publicly traded developer, lost
1.2 percent to 8.07 yuan in Shenzhen, while Poly Real Estate
Group Co., the second largest, rose 0.4 percent to 10.22 yuan.  “The tightening policies may have bottomed out because
some  home prices  have started falling in larger cities including
Beijing and Shanghai,” Zhu Jixiang, a Shanghai-based analyst at
Capital Securities Corp., said by phone, adding that today’s
downgrade “may have a limited impact on larger developers.”  S&P said Hong Kong’s real estate industry faces the risk of
a correction because of the city’s “soaring market.” Home
prices have climbed more than 70 percent since the beginning of
2009, according to an index compiled by Centaline Property
Agency Ltd.  Hong Kong Sales  Sales at 10 of Hong Kong’s biggest private residential
developments fell 58 percent over the weekend from a week
earlier after the city’s government last week raised minimum
down payments and deposits for foreign buyers, according to
Centaline, the city’s biggest privately held realtor.  The  Hong Kong  Monetary Authority on June 10  said  buyers of
homes costing more than HK$6 million ($770,000) will have to
increase up-front payments. Foreign buyers must deposit an
additional 10 percent. The curbs will depress speculation,
though the effect on buyers from China will be limited because
the number of them taking out mortgages is low, S&P’s Fu said on
the conference call.  It was Hong Kong’s fourth attempt since October 2009 to
curb inflating residential values, rated by Savills Plc as the
world’s most expensive. Banks also have accelerated mortgage
interest rate increases this year.  --Bonnie Cao, Huiwen Yang. With assistance from Jiang Jianguo in
Shanghai. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  