-- 
Sade Purrs as Soul Seduction Brings Hip Suits, Sexy Sax to U.S.

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-06-15T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/sade-purrs-as-soulful-seduction-brings-hip-suits-sexy-sax-to-u-s-review.html
Sade’s music has soundtracked
millions of romances. She’s back in the U.S. for a tour that is
likely to entice many more lovers.  Sade starts her North America concerts in Baltimore today
after European dates that demonstrated her music’s allure. Based
on these shows, expect the seduction to start with the sleek,
prowling “Soldier of Love.” The title track of the 2010 album
has the graceful menace of a panther. It’s followed by live
versions of tracks from the greatest-hits CD set “The Ultimate
Collection,” released this year.  In a three-decade career, Sade -- the name refers to the
group as well as the singer, Helen Folasade Adu, 52 -- has sold
more than 50 million records, about half of them in the U.S.  In the band’s U.K. home, its smooth soul is often dismissed
as music for wine bars. It’s a dig at the supposed glamorous
sophistication of Sade’s image in the 1980s, the yuppie era in
which both qualities were lacking. Sade’s extensive use of the
saxophone didn’t help: Its sound has spent most of the years
since banished in pop purgatory. Sade went 18 years between
 London  shows.  “I think we are good enough for you now,” Adu purred at
the  O2 Arena  in London last month.  In “Your Love Is King,” the song that started Sade’s
career in 1984, Stuart Matthewman’s sax makes a strong case for
the instrument’s immediate redemption.  Heartfelt Zest  U.S. audiences can expect the funk of “The Sweetest
Taboo” to come spiced with zest. “Pearls” is delivered with
simplicity, its lyrics about women in Somalia heartfelt.  “Jezebel” starts with just an acoustic guitar and Adu
confiding the spellbinding story while sitting on the stage’s
edge. Her voice grows in intensity as the rest of the band
gradually joins.  The staging is discreet and classy, reliant on careful
lighting and video. “Nothing Can Come Between Us” uses shots
of the band larking about on an early tour. “Kiss Of Life” is
accompanied by footage of Adu rolling in a springtime orchard.  The band starts in tailored black, changing into sharply
cut suits for the slick sound of “Smooth Operator.” Ade starts
in ponytail, chic shirt and business waistcoat, then lets her
hair free over a full-length white dress, dancing barefoot as
much as possible.  The nine musicians of Sade’s live band play with precision,
so that the quiet storms and sparky bedroom grooves easily fill
the largest venues. Best of all is her voice, by turns sultry
and strident, intimate and powerful.  Rating: ****.  Information:  http://www.sade.com ,  http://www.sadetour.com .  Sade is joined by  John Legend  for most U.S. and Canada
shows. Her tour of about 50 concerts includes the Nassau
Coliseum on June 21.  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 