-- 
Sainsbury Customers Switching to Own-Brands as Austerity Bites

-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 
2011-06-15T09:36:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/sainsbury-reports-growth-misses-estimates.html
J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) , the U.K.’s third-
largest supermarket chain, said more customers are switching to
its own brands to save money as household incomes shrink.  Sales of the retailer’s three own-label food ranges --
Basics, By Sainsbury’s and Taste the Difference -- all increased
in the 12 weeks ended June 11, contributing to a 26th successive
quarter of growth in same-store revenue, Chief Executive Officer
Justin King said today on a conference call.  “Customers are using the opportunity that own-label
provides to save money, but with no compromise to quality,”
King said. Increased household bills and record fuel prices mean
shoppers are managing their spending “carefully,” he said.  U.K. food retailers are struggling to increase sales as
consumers become more uncertain about their jobs and incomes.
London-based Sainsbury, whose Basics range has 22 percent of the
market for foods sold at entry-price levels, said it expects the
grocery market to remain “very competitive” this year.  To lure consumers, Sainsbury in May introduced a campaign
promoting items to feed a family of four for 50 pounds ($81.60)
a week. More than 1 million shoppers have visited the  website 
for the plan, which provides menus and ingredients, King said.
Products featured in the campaign are typically seeing sales
advance by about 20 percent, the CEO said.  Sainsbury today reported 1.9 percent growth in first-
quarter sales at stores open at least a year, excluding fuel.
That missed the 2.1 percent median estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Royal Wedding  Growth accelerated from 1 percent in the previous quarter.
Business was boosted by two successive holiday weekends that
included April’s royal wedding. Sainsbury sold 300 miles (480
kilometers) of bunting, 159,000 flags and 49,000 mugs as
customers celebrated the marriage of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton .  Sales of non-food items grew faster than food revenue, the
company said.  Sainsbury fell 0.8 pence, or 0.2 percent, to 326 pence at
10:33 a.m. in London trading. The stock has fallen 13 percent
this year, while larger rival  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  has declined 4.5
percent.  Tesco yesterday also reported revenue growth that missed
analysts’ estimates as sales of general merchandise slipped.  Sainsbury said its online grocery business increased
revenue by more than 20 percent in the quarter. The retailer
added two supermarkets and 13  convenience stores  in the period,
while extending three outlets and replacing another.  Sainsbury would be interested in buying some Iceland Foods
Group Ltd. stores should they become available, Chief Financial
Officer John Rogers said on the call. Iceland’s majority owner,
Landsbanki Islands Hf., has started a process to sell its
controlling stake in the Deeside, Wales-based retailer.  “The sale of Iceland would be of interest to us,” Rogers
said. “It’s probably a handful of stores rather than the entire
business. Essentially, there are some assets within their
portfolio that we would want to look at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis in  London  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  