-- 
Prada Lowers IPO Ceiling as Samsonite Slumps on Hong Kong Debut

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-06-16T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/samsonite-s-hong-kong-trading-debut-comes-before-prada-china-everbright.html
Prada SpA cut the maximum amount it
may raise in an initial public offering as Samsonite
International SA slumped in its trading debut and  Hong Kong 
stocks slid amid concern  China’s economy  may cool.  The Milan-based luxury-goods retailer narrowed its IPO
price guidance, bringing the maximum it would raise to $2.3
billion, down from $2.6 billion, according to two people
familiar with the matter. It also raised the low end, said the
people, who declined to be identified.  Prada’s scale-back came as individual investors in Hong
Kong failed to take up the full amount of the IPO that is set
aside for them, and followed a drop of as much as 11 percent in
shares of Samsonite, the world’s largest branded-luggage maker,
from its initial public offering price of HK$14.50. The
Mansfield,  Massachusetts  based company raised $1.25 billion in
the sale last week, less than initially planned.  “There are fears around the monetary tightening position
that’s going on at the moment and what sort of impact that’s
going to have on  consumer spending ” in China, said John Guy, an
analyst at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in  London .  Since Samsonite priced its offering last week, the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  has added to a decline that has
brought it down 10 percent from its April 8 close. China raised
bank reserve requirements on June 14 for the ninth time since
October, fueling concern economic growth will slow.  Debut Declines  Samsonite is the fourth Hong Kong IPO exceeding $1 billion
this year to begin trading. All four have dropped from their
initial sale price, by an average of 8 percent, according to
Bloomberg data. The luggage maker fell 7.7 percent to end at
HK$13.38 at the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong, compared with a 1.8
percent drop on the Hang Seng.  “The timing of Samsonite’s listing isn’t that great,”
said Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees $41 billion. “The global economy
might be weaker than expected, so people are just very cautious
about buying into equities. It might be the same for  Prada .”  The declines by new listings will weigh on Prada as it
tries to price its offering, said Philippe Espinasse, former co-
head of Asian equity capital markets at Nomura International
Hong Kong Ltd. Prada’s final offering price is expected to be
determined by tomorrow, according to the prospectus.  Individual investors in Hong Kong have placed orders for
only about half of the 42.3 million Prada shares offered to
them, two people with knowledge of the matter said. The stock
offered to retail investors accounts for 10 percent of Prada’s
total offering, according to the IPO prospectus. Had demand been
high enough, the company would have allocated as much as 25
percent of the offering to retail investors.  ‘Lot of Pressure’  The banks managing Prada’s IPO have the authority to
reallocate any shares left unsubscribed by individual investors,
to institutions, according to the offering prospectus.  “There’s going to be quite a lot of pressure on Prada,”
said Espinasse, the author of IPO: A Global Guide. “The fact
that retail investors haven’t gone for it is going to be an
issue.”  Individual investor demand for Prada shares suffered
because Hong Kong and  Italy  have not signed a double taxation
agreement. Hong Kong investors will be subject to a capital-
gains tax of 12.5 percent, and a 27 percent tax on dividends,
according to its IPO prospectus. The dividend tax will be
withheld by Prada, the company said in the prospectus.  Tax Clarity  “It has not been easy for the investing community to get
enough clarity around that situation,” said  Mark Konyn , chief
executive officer of RCM  Asia  Pacific Ltd., which helps oversee
about $150 billion globally.  Diana Footitt, an outside spokeswoman for Prada in Hong
Kong, declined to comment.  Prada is now likely to sell its shares in a range of
HK$39.50 to HK$42.25 each. That compares with a range of
$HK36.50 to HK$48 earlier, according to the IPO prospectus.  At HK$42.25 the stock would be priced at about 24 times
2011 profit as estimated by banks arranging the sale. LVMH Moet
Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA, the world’s biggest maker of  luxury
goods , trades at about 18.5 times projected earnings, while
smaller rival PPR SA, maker of Gucci, is valued at about 13.5
times, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. Both
companies are based and listed in Paris.  “Prada is priced a little bit richly, it doesn’t have much
of a track record, and I think that’s going to weigh on investor
sentiment,” said RCM’s Konyn.  Among 30 companies that have gone public in the Chinese
city this year, 22, or 73 percent, have fallen from their offer
price, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Prada is scheduled to
debut on June 24.  China Growth  Like Prada, Samsonite narrowed the price range marketed to
investors on June 9 to HK$14.50 to HK$15.50 from an initial
HK$13.50 to HK$17.50. The IPO, announced in February, raised
$250 million less than the maximum originally planned.  Prada and Samsonite have both highlighted expansion plans
in  China  to investors in Hong Kong.  Samsonite said on May 24 its sales in China rose 50 percent
last year. The company aims to expand its Chinese market share
to 35 percent in five years from 12.5 percent now. Prada on June
12 said it will open as many as 12 stores in China and another
25 across Asia in the next three years, out of 80 globally.  “Where markets are at the moment, it’s a pretty tough
place,” Tim Parker, chief executive officer, said today after a
listing ceremony at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. “I feel this
is a pretty good way to open, actually. I’m not at all
displeased.”  High-End Goods  Mainland China, which doesn’t include Hong Kong, Macau or
 Taiwan , will remain the fastest-growing market for high-end
goods in 2011 as sales rise 25 percent to 11.5 billion euros
($16.3 billion), Bain & Co. said May 3. The country may become
the world’s third-largest luxury market in five years, the
consulting company predicted.  “If we were at a point where the China stock market was
doing better, inflation had peaked, we had seen the last round
of interest rate hikes in China, and we saw the robustness in
U.S. and global sentiment, I think pricing toward the top end
wouldn’t be such an issue,” Konyn said. “As ever with IPOs
it’s all about timing.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , Royal Bank of  Scotland  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  managed Samsonite’s
share sale. Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Credit Agricole SA’s CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets unit, Goldman Sachs and UniCredit SpA are
managing Prada’s IPO, along with Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mohammed Hadi at 
 mhadi1@bloomberg.net  