-- 
Saudi Arabia Said to Keep Lid on Raw-Material Prices for Chemical Makers

-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 
2011-06-15T13:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/saudi-arabia-said-to-keep-lid-on-raw-material-prices-for-chemical-makers.html
Saudi Arabia  may keep unchanged for
another year the comparatively low prices it charges local
petrochemical producers for ethane and other feedstock, a
government official with knowledge of the matter said.  “There have been talks on raising the feedstock prices for
some time, but we can’t confirm that this might take place next
year,” the official said, declining to be identified because
the discussions are confidential.  State-run energy company Saudi Aramco, the nation’s sole
producer of ethane, may start charging higher prices in the
first quarter of 2012 in response to anti-dumping concerns
raised by European countries, according to Al Rajhi Capital, the
investment arm of Al Rahji Bank, the largest Saudi lender by
market value. The Ministry of Petroleum and  Mineral Resources ,
which determines feedstock prices and allocations, has no one
designated to speak to media and offered no comment about the
pricing discussions.  Current prices for propane and butane, set more than a
decade ago, are due to expire this year, and the government can
extend them until it makes a final decision, the government
official said on June 12. Prices for ethane, the main feedstock
for Saudi producers, and for methane date from the mid-1990s,
the official said.  The government charges Saudi petrochemical companies an
ethane price of 75 U.S. cents per million British Thermal Units,
or one thousand cubic feet, according to  Al Rajhi Capital . The
average global market price for the gas is six times higher at
about $4.50 per million BTU,  Al Rajhi  estimated in a June 12
report.  Petrochemical Investment  Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter and holder
of a fifth of known crude reserves, plans to invest $100 billion
by 2016 to boost its petrochemicals output to more than 80
million metric tons a year. The Persian Gulf nation now produces
about 60 million tons a year, Mohammed ibn Ibrahim Al-Suwaiyel,
a Saudi Aramco board member, said on June 6.  Ethane comprised 70 percent of total feedstock for Saudi
petrochemical makers in 2010, according to Al Rajhi. This share
is likely to decrease to 65 percent by 2014, the bank said, as
producers consume more propane and naphtha, which yield more
diverse products than ethane though they cost more.  Most of the ethane produced in Saudi Arabia is a by-product
of associated natural gas found with crude oil. Aramco, the
nation’s sole producer of ethane, increased output of ethane to
1.33 trillion BTU last year from 1.11 trillion BTU in 2009, the
company said in its annual review for 2010, issued on June 6.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Khobar at   wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  