-- 
Save U.S. Trade Deals by Fixing Job-Training Programs: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-06-15T19:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/save-u-s-free-trade-agreements-by-modernizing-job-training-programs-view.html
When President  John F. Kennedy  set
out to cut tariffs in 1962, unions feared imports would hurt the
likes of Ohio steelmakers and New England shoemakers. So
Congress enacted  Trade Adjustment Assistance , an aid plan for
displaced factory workers. The creaky program is still with us
almost 50 years later. It needs to be recast for the modern
global economy.  TAA is in the spotlight because Democrats are hitching a
costly expansion of the program to approval of free-trade
agreements with  South Korea, Panama and Colombia . In return,
Senate Republicans, who view TAA as welfare for a small segment
of the unemployed, want it dismantled. They are refusing to
confirm John Bryson, a former utility executive, to be the next
Commerce secretary until the White House sends the trade accords
to Congress. Luckily, there’s a way out of the logjam.  Last year, TAA spent about $2 billion on a grab bag of
extended jobless benefits, retraining programs, relocation
allowances and health-care tax credits for U.S. workers who lost
their jobs for trade-related reasons. The well-intentioned
program has become so distended that it’s no longer effective.  Outside assessors have taken TAA to task for years, with
one notable critique coming in a 2008 study by American
University economists  Kara Reynolds and John Palatucci . They
found that TAA participants, on average, took 30 percent pay
cuts in their next jobs. Unemployed people who didn’t
participate fared better. As the two economists wrote, the trade
assistance program “is of dubious value in terms of helping
displaced workers find new, well-paying employment.”  More Benefits  Democrats would expand TAA by adding newly laid-off
service-sector and government employees to the manufacturing
workers already covered. They would give benefits to anyone
whose job was outsourced or cut because of foreign competition,
not just because of a free-trade deal, as the law now states.
And they would allow benefits for the jobless beyond what’s
available through normal  unemployment insurance .  These proposals would do little to reform TAA; there would
just be more of what was there before. The approach also skirts
a discomfiting question: Why should workers whose jobs were lost
because of overseas competition get a better deal than other
jobless Americans? The most charitable answer is that TAA helps
build support for trade liberalization within society and among
politicians who fear the disruption that trade causes.  If Democrats continue on this course, compromise will elude
both parties and genuinely important trade agreements will
remain in suspended animation. The solution is to update TAA so
that it does what it’s supposed to do: quickly retrain the
jobless and match skills with employer needs. Three simple
reforms would make TAA a more efficient program.  Stop the Checks  First, stop writing TAA checks for extended unemployment.
If lawmakers and the White House believe some people deserve
extra income support in trade-related cases (and some may), then
that’s best dealt with under regular unemployment programs.  Second, promote faster, more intensive training -- and make
all TAA benefits contingent on receiving training. The TAA
petition process can leave laid-off workers in limbo for months,
before they know whether they are eligible for aid. Once
accepted, they can too easily bypass training requirements. Only
about  one in four  received some form of training in 2009.
Training and aid need to go hand-in-hand.  Too Little Money  And third, make sure there is adequate funding for job
search and relocation aid. Currently TAA offers a maximum of
$1,250 in job-search aid; that barely pays the hotel and airfare
for a single trip these days. TAA also covers 90 percent of
“reasonable and necessary” moving expenses -- a benefit that
few eligible recipients claim. A move can make all the
difference in the world; the U.S. Labor Department, which runs
TAA, could do a better job publicizing this benefit and matching
workers with vacancies in other states. Last year, for instance,
96 percent of TAA beneficiaries in  Minnesota , where the economy
is strong, found jobs -- compared with a nationwide hiring rate
of 53 percent.  With these changes, trade assistance will be more cost-
effective and logical. And the three trade deals, which have a
better chance of producing new jobs than almost anything either
party is discussing, can move forward.  Read more  Bloomberg View editorials .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  