-- 
HSBC, Citi Said to Apply to Underwrite Wider Range of Yuan Bonds in China

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-15T12:38:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/hsbc-citi-said-to-apply-to-underwrite-yuan-bonds-in-china.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
are among several foreign banks that have applied to underwrite
a wider range of yuan-denominated corporate bonds in  China , a
person familiar with the situation said.  No time frame has been set for approval of the applications,
said the person, who asked not to be identified as he wasn’t
authorized to speak to media. He declined to identify the other
banks that have applied.  The Wall Street Journal reported the applications by HSBC
and Citi earlier today.  Winning the licenses would give HSBC and Citi greater
access to China’s interbank market that’s 60-times larger than
the exchange market where foreign companies including UBS
Securities Co. and Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities Co. already
underwrite bonds. The  interbank market  had 18.91 trillion yuan
($2.9 trillion) of outstanding bonds at the end of April
compared with 305.3 billion yuan for the exchange market,
according to Chinabond, the bond clearing house.  Stephen Thomas, a Shanghai-based spokesman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on what he called “speculation.” Anthony
Lin, a Shanghai-based spokesman for HSBC, said he couldn’t
immediately comment.  HSBC Bank (China) Co. helped underwrite 5 billion yuan of
bonds for Bank of  Shanghai ,  it said in November 2009.  UBS
Securities has underwritten 17.81 billion yuan of bonds in China
so far this year, according to Bloomberg data, making it the top
foreign underwriter. Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities has helped
underwrite 7.1 billion yuan, the data show.  Debt Sales  The National Association of Financial Market Institutional
Investors, regulator of China’s interbank bond market, said in
August that it may allow foreign banks to underwrite a wider
range of debt. The regulator is overseen by China’s central bank.  Such licenses would allow the foreign banks to underwrite
the sale of non-financial corporate bonds on China’s interbank
market, including commercial paper and medium-term notes.  Commercial paper and medium-term notes sold on the
interbank market and regulated by the central bank totaled 484.8
billion yuan by the end of April, according to Chinabond. Sales
of corporate bonds overseen by other regulators totaled 115
billion yuan in the same period, according to the clearing house.  -- Henry Sanderson . With assistance by Stephanie Wong in Shanghai
and Zhang Dingmin in Beijing. Editors:  John Liu , Chua Kong Ho  To contact the Bloomberg staff on this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith11@bloomberg.net  