-- 
Scene Last Night: Franco, Klum, Kors, Ke$ha, Minnelli for AIDS

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-06-15T15:19:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/scene-last-night-franco-klum-kors-ke-ha-minnelli-hudson-helping-aids.html
James Franco  made sure the $16,000
winning bidder of a photo shoot with him would be satisfied.  “I guarantee it will be naked if you want,” Franco said.  The offer was a highlight of the second annual  American
Foundation for AIDS Research  Inspiration Gala, held last night
at the Museum of  Modern Art .  Heidi Klum wore a Michael Kors turquoise dress that exposed
almost every inch of her sculpted back. Ke$ha, the dance-track
pop singer, showed up in barely any bottoms. Katie Lee, the
cookbook author, wore a $750,000 white-gold cuff studded with
akoya pearls.  And a fashion show featuring designs by Richard Chai and
Marlon Gobel, among others, brought forth bare-chested male
models in metal headdresses and masks designed by Rodrigo Otazu,
who makes jewelry for Lady Gaga.  With all that skin, the event had some serious turns.  Jennifer Hudson, wearing a white Michael Kors dress,
brought a gospel belt to Leonard Cohen’s dark and joyful
“Hallelujah.”  Liza Minnelli recalled bringing the actor Rock Hudson to a
dinner at  Elizabeth Taylor ’s house.  “He didn’t look well at all,” Minnelli said. “Liz asked
me, ‘What is wrong?’ and I told her, ‘There’s this disease and
they don’t know what it is or how to cure it.’”  Soon after, Taylor joined the fight against HIV and AIDS,
becoming a founding chairman of Amfar, which funds research and
education in prevention and treatment.  Cole and Cure  Amfar Chairman Kenneth Cole said that 30 years after the
first reports of the disease, and 25 years after Amfar’s
founding, a cure is within sight.  The Inspiration Gala raised $750,000 and included award
presentations to Michael Kors (who offered a behind-the-scenes
 “Project Runway”  experience that earned $20,000 in the live
auction) and Franco.  On his involvement in Amfar, Franco said, “I’ve been given
so much more than I’ve asked for, it’s become a necessity for me
to give back.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 