-- 
China Urges U.S. Lawmakers Not to Hurt Relations Through Yuan Legislation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T08:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/schumer-to-bring-back-china-currency-bill-that-passed-house-in-september.html
China  urged U.S. lawmakers not to
damage relations between the two countries by seeking “excuses
to start trade protection,” following moves to reintroduce
legislation aimed at forcing an appreciation in the yuan.  “The  exchange rate  isn’t the major reason for trade
imbalances,” Hong Lei, a spokesman for China’s Foreign
Ministry, said at regular briefing in Beijing today. “We urge
relevant senators of the U.S. government to see the importance
of Sino-U.S. relationship clearly, don’t seek excuses to start
trade protection, and avoid damage to the big picture of Sino-
U.S. trade and economic cooperation.”  Hong’s comments come as Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York
Democrat, prepares to revive legislation aimed at pushing China
to raise the value of its currency, according to a letter he
sent to colleagues.  The measure would let U.S. companies petition for duties on
imports from China to compensate for the effect of a weak yuan,
which lawmakers have said gives Chinese companies an unfair
advantage against U.S. manufacturers.  China’s currency “is one of the few issues where you get
unanimity across the board” among voters, Senator Bob Casey, a
Pennsylvania Democrat, said yesterday at a news conference.
Casey is one of seven senators sponsoring the measure with
Schumer, according to the letter.  Schumer proposed similar measures in each of the past six
years and none have been voted on in the Senate. Brian Fallon, a
spokesman for Schumer, didn’t return telephone and e-mail
messages.  U.S. Treasuries  The House in September passed a parallel measure, which
never reached the Senate for a vote. A similar measure on
China’s currency was introduced in the House in February with
more than 100 sponsors.  China is the biggest foreign investor in U.S. Treasuries,
after its holdings rose by $7.6 billion to $1.2 trillion,
according to a Treasury Department report yesterday.  The yuan has appreciated about 5 percent against the dollar
in the past year, while remaining “substantially undervalued,”
William Cline, a fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in  Washington , said June 8.  “What’s new is that the seeming efforts of China to start
moving” still “doesn’t get the job done,” Cline said in an
interview published on the group’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  