-- 
LSE Would Sacrifice Canada With TMX Deal, Maple Group CEO Says

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-06-15T19:18:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/lse-would-sacrifice-canada-with-tmx-deal-maple-group-ceo-says.html
A C$3.58 billion ($3.65 billion)
all-Canadian bid to buy the Toronto Stock Exchange owner would
preserve the health of Canadian companies and the domestic
economy, Maple Group Acquisition Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Luc Bertrand said.  “The LSE proposal makes no sense when weighed against
Maple’s alternative,” Bertrand said today during an event
hosted by the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers in
Calgary. Bertrand, the former head of the Montreal Exchange
derivatives market who became deputy CEO at TMX before leaving
in 2009, is a vice chairman at  National Bank of Canada (NA) , a member
of Maple Group.  “The status quo would be preferable than offering TMX on a
platter to LSE,” he said.  Maple Group, whose 13 members include  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) ,  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  and Alberta Investment Management
Corp., faced off against  TMX Group Inc. (X)  at the Calgary luncheon
to gain support for Maple’s takeover of the Canadian exchange
owner. TMX and  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  are trying to
gain support for their merger proposal ahead of a June 30
shareholders vote, while Maple is fighting to woo investors to
its rival offer.  The London-based exchange would favor the U.K. economy over
Canada’s and would use the TMX purchase to expand its business
in the U.S. rather than  Canada , Bertrand said. Canadian energy
and mining companies would lose the “world-class” access to
capital that they currently have with the TMX, he added.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in
Calgary at   jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
   dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 