-- 
SEC Nominees, FDIC Capital Rule, Broker-Dealers: Compliance

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-06-15T11:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/sec-nominees-fdic-capital-rule-broker-dealers-compliance.html
If the  U.S. Senate  confirms him for
a spot on the Securities and Exchange Commission, Daniel M.
Gallagher will take a pay cut of more than $1 million a year.  Gallagher, a securities lawyer and former SEC deputy
division director, earned about $1.2 million a year advising
SEC-regulated firms at Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP,
his financial disclosures show. He is one of two SEC nominees
who appeared at a confirmation hearing yesterday before the
Senate Banking Committee. If confirmed, his salary will be
$155,500, according to the U.S. Office of Personnel Management.  Gallagher, 39, would replace fellow Republican  Kathleen
Casey , whose five-year term expired last week. President Barack
Obama also nominated incumbent Commissioner Luis Aguilar, 57, a
Democrat, for a second term. Casey is permitted to keep serving
on the five-member commission until replaced, as Aguilar has
done since his term ended more than a year ago.  “This is a time of great importance for the SEC,”
Gallagher said at the hearing. “Investors will only commit
capital if they have faith in the fairness of our markets, and
the SEC is charged with instilling and maintaining this
confidence.”  The Banking Committee yesterday also considered the
nominations of Anthony Frank D’Agostino and Gregory Karawan to
be directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corp.  The committee likely will vote on the nominations in the
next few weeks, said Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota
Democrat who chairs the committee.  A Republican member of the Banking Committee, however, said
in a statement yesterday that he plans to block the nominations
of both Gallagher and Aguilar. David Vitter of  Louisiana  said he
is concerned that the SEC, which has been meeting to consider
whether to help investors in R. Allen Stanford’s alleged Ponzi
scheme through the SIPC, will have to re-start discussions if
new commissioners are introduced.  The Senate confirmation process has drawn criticism this
year from others frustrated with procedural roadblocks,
including Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . He said at
last week’s International Monetary Conference that political
abuses of the confirmation process are “undermining the core
elements of reform,” with Dodd-Frank opponents blocking
appointments of financial regulators.  The day of Geithner’s June 6 speech, Nobel laureate  Peter
Diamond  withdrew as Obama’s nominee to the  Federal Reserve ’s
board of governors, citing 14 months of Republican opposition.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  FDIC Approves Final Rule Setting Capital Floor for Banks  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. board yesterday
approved a final rule barring the nation’s largest lenders from
reducing their capital levels below baselines set for smaller
banks as part of a joint rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act.  FDIC board members approved the measure at a meeting in
 Washington  yesterday. The joint-agency rule with the Federal
Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will
also hold large financial holding companies to the same  capital
requirements  as their subsidiaries that take insured deposits.  The measure, included in the regulatory overhaul at the
request of U.S. Senator Susan Collins of Maine, prevents lenders
from lowering capital holdings using formulas in the Basel II
international banking accords. Without such a floor, banks and
their holding companies would have been allowed to reduce
capital levels over time.  The “rule implements the Collins amendment, which in my
view is the single most important provision of the Dodd-Frank
Act for strengthening the capital of the U.S. banking system and
leveling the competitive playing field,” FDIC Chairman  Sheila
Bair  said in a statement.  The rule by itself won’t require lenders to hold additional
capital, since all U.S. banking companies are already computing
capital requirements using the rules that would serve as the
floor, Bair said. It does, however, ensure that “when the
crisis is forgotten and models again tell us that risks and
needed capital are minimal, that large banks will not be allowed
to operate with less capital than Main Street banks,” she said.  The rule will take effect 30 days after it is published in
the Federal Register.  Systemic Firms May Be Told to Simplify, FDIC Official Says  Systemically important financial institutions in the U.S.
may have to simplify their business if they can’t provide viable
plans for unwinding themselves in a crisis, a senior Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. official said.  “Ultimately, a SIFI could be required to restructure its
operations if it cannot demonstrate it is resolvable in an
orderly manner under the Bankruptcy Code,” Michael Krimminger,
the FDIC’s chief counsel, told a House Financial Services
subcommittee yesterday at a hearing in Washington.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires firms deemed systemically
important to file plans with the FDIC and the Federal Reserve,
laying out how they could be resolved if they should collapse.
Lawmakers gave the FDIC authority to resolve complex firms
aiming to prevent a repeat of the market tumult that followed
the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Companies with at least $50 billion in assets will be
required to provide information on debt, funding, capital and
cash flows. Firms that fail to file workable resolution plans
could be subject to increased capital, leverage or liquidity
requirements, and restrictions on growth or operations.  Krimminger, testifying at a Financial Institutions
subcommittee hearing on whether the new rules put an end to the
notion that some firms are “too big to fail,” said the FDIC
anticipates that companies will “pursue the resolution planning
process in a way to meet statutory requirements.”  Republican lawmakers, who almost unanimously opposed Dodd-
Frank last year, said yesterday the new FDIC powers create
another mechanism for taxpayer bailouts of firms that have only
grown larger in the wake of the subprime mortgage crisis.  “The truth of the matter is, in times of crises,
regulators have always and will always err on the side of more
intervention and more bailouts,” said Representative Ed Royce,
a California Republican. The agency’s new authority “does
little more than facilitate this process.”  Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who
was the co-sponsor of the financial regulation law, said that
Republicans were the only public officials keeping the option of
bailouts open with their statements. He also disagreed with the
idea advanced by Republicans that a designation of systemic
importance would serve as a business enhancement for the largest
firms. Non-bank financial firms  have lobbied  regulators to avoid
the designation, according to meeting summaries posted on the
Fed and FDIC websites.  CFTC Proposes Six-Month Delay of Swap Rules Slated for July  Rules scheduled to take effect in mid-July for the $601
trillion swaps market would be delayed until as late as the end
of the year under a proposal by the U.S.  Commodity Futures
Trading Commission .  The agency’s commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday to propose
“temporary relief” from some requirements set to be in place
on July 16, a year from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. The
delay would give the CFTC more time to write dozens of rules
aimed at reducing risk and boosting transparency after largely
unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  “Some might ask: why six months? Six months will provide
the commission with the opportunity to re-examine the status of
final rulemaking in light of the changed regulatory landscape at
the time,”  Gary Gensler , CFTC chairman, said at the meeting in
Washington. The proposal is open to 14 days of public comment
before it is finalized.  Under the proposal, Dodd-Frank provisions scheduled to take
effect July 16 and that refer to agency rules that haven’t been
finalized would be delayed until those rules are adopted, though
not later than Dec. 31. The agency’s commissioners also could
decide to push the deadline into 2012 if they find that more
time is needed, according to the CFTC.  The CFTC scheduled its next meeting for July 7.  For more, click here.  Bill Would Double Shareholder Limit for Closely Held Firms  Eight U.S. lawmakers backed a bill that would allow closely
held firms including Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc. to have as
many as 1,000 shareholders before the companies needed to file
public financial statements.  The legislation, introduced yesterday by Representative
David Schweikert of Arizona, would also exclude employees and
accredited investors from the rules, which currently set the
ceiling at 500 investors.  “The underlying premise is that there is lots of capital
sitting on the sidelines and for some reason it’s not flowing
into the market,” Schweikert, a Republican on the Financial
Services Committee, said in a telephone interview. “The current
rules just seem to be out of date.”  The legislation is the latest attempt by lawmakers to
revise the regulations that governed closely held firms since
1964. Representative Darrell Issa, a California Republican and
chairman of the  Oversight and Government Reform Committee , has
called on Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman  Mary
Schapiro  to loosen the rules.  Closely held companies with fewer than 500 shareholders
aren’t required to disclose financial data, so investors often
don’t know key figures such as revenue, profit, cash flow and
debt obligations.  Schapiro, in responses to Issa in a letter and in
testimony, said the SEC is in the midst of studying whether the
growth of closely held companies is being hindered by limits on
the numbers of shareholders they can have.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Broker-Dealer Audits Targeted in New U.S. Inspection Program  The biggest U.S. broker-dealers will have to pay more than
$1 million a year to finance inspections of the firms that audit
them under a regulatory program prompted by revelations related
to  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi scheme.  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board voted 5-0
yesterday to establish a temporary system for monitoring
auditors of broker-dealers that will give the Washington-based
watchdog time to determine what a permanent system should look
like.  “If we find violations of law, we won’t wait to act on
them,” Chairman James R. Doty said in remarks before the vote.
“We will use our disciplinary authority in any appropriate
cases of auditor misconduct.”  The PCAOB’s new program requires U.S. broker-dealers to
fund the estimated $14.4 million inspections program, which
could amount to more than $1 million for the largest firms. The
board said 640 brokerages will be charged this year, with fees
assessed in proportion to a firm’s net capital. The fee
structure was also passed by the board with a 5-0 vote.  Companies such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  can expect the new fees to be assessed on their broker-
dealers, separately from fees already assessed on parent
companies for the PCAOB’s existing public-company audit
inspections.  Lawmakers included expanded oversight of broker-dealers in
the Dodd-Frank Act last year after it was revealed that Madoff
conducted his multibillion-dollar fraud while his brokerage was
being audited by a small firm operating out of a 13-by-18-foot
storefront. The regulatory overhaul eliminated a system in which
auditors had to register with the PCAOB but weren’t overseen by
the panel.  A group of U.S. House members who are also accountants
urged the PCAOB in a Feb. 14 letter to focus the program on
brokers who have custody of client assets, not those who don’t.  For more, click here.  Citigroup Asked for More Data-Breach Details by Connecticut  Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen asked  Citigroup
Inc. (C)  to provide more information on how a recent data breach
occurred and what is being done to protect affected customers
from fraud.  Citigroup said this month that the account information of
about 1 percent of its Citi-branded North America credit cards
was viewed through unauthorized access to accounts online.  Jepsen said in a statement yesterday that he wrote to New
York-based Citigroup’s Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  and
its general counsel, Michael Helfer. He requested the additional
information by June 22.  Sean Kevelighan, a Citigroup spokesman, said he couldn’t
comment directly on Jepsen’s request.  “Citi immediately rectified the data breach upon
discovery, while also placing internal fraud alerts and
monitoring on all accounts at risk,” Kevelighan said in an e-
mail. “Simultaneously, we began analysis to determine the
precise accounts and type of information accessed.”  Citigroup also notified law enforcement and government
officials, Kevelighan said. On June 3, within three weeks, the
bank began to notify clients by letter, most of which included
re-issued credit cards, he said.  “None of the data breached was sufficient to perpetrate
fraud,” Kevelighan said.  U.K. Trader Told to Pay $1.6 Million for Manipulating Shares  A self-employed trader was fined 700,000 pounds ($1.15
million) and ordered to pay more than 300,000 pounds in
restitution for manipulating the price of shares traded on the
 London  Stock Exchange.  Barnett Michael Alexander, a former private-client
stockbroker, made multiple small buy and sell orders in an
effort to manipulate the price of contracts-for-differences and
spread bets, generating a profit of 629,130 pounds over 16
months. The Financial Services Authority  banned  him from working
in the finance industry for five years.  “Alexander’s behavior was deliberate and repeated over a
significant period of time,” said Tracey McDermott, the acting
director of enforcement at the FSA. “He sought to conceal his
trading and made substantial profits at the expense of the firms
which allowed him to trade with them.”  The FSA increased its enforcement of market abuse over the
past year to help deter the crime, it said June 13 in its annual
report. Market abuse is a crime where the price of a financial
instrument is distorted.  Alexander, 47, said he “never thought for a second” that
he’d done anything illegal.  “This whole thing is a bit of a nightmare,” Alexander
said in an interview. “I found a loophole in one of the spread
betting companies and I set about exploiting that.”  Courts  New York  ‘Boiler Room’ Salesman Pleads Guilty During Trial  A New York man pleaded guilty to his role in the Gryphon
Holdings Inc. “boiler room” scheme, the last of 18 defendants
to do so, the day after his trial began.  Baldwin Anderson, 57, a former salesman for Gryphon,
pleaded guilty yesterday before U.S. District Judge Jack
Weinstein in Brooklyn, New York, and was taken into custody.
Anderson and Gryphon misled investors into paying for phony
stock tips and investment advice, defrauding them of $20
million, prosecutors charged.  “From April 2007 until April 2010 I participated in the
scheme to defraud Gryphon clients,” Anderson told the judge.  Kenneth Marsh, 44, who ran Gryphon, was the last defendant
before Anderson to plead guilty, on April 14. He’s scheduled to
be sentenced July 12. Gryphon told victims its office was on
 Wall Street  or even in the New York Stock Exchange when it was
in a strip mall in the New York borough of  Staten Island ,
according to Anderson’s indictment. Anderson told Weinstein he
was paid $1.1 million while working at Gryphon.  “He took a long, hard look at the situation and decided
this was the right thing to do,” Michael Padden, Anderson’s
lawyer, said after the hearing.  Anderson, a Jamaican citizen who lived on Staten Island,
pleaded guilty to one count of wire fraud and securities fraud
conspiracy. Federal guidelines call for a prison sentence of up
to 21 years and 10 months, Assistant U.S. Attorney Roger
Burlingame said at the hearing.  Weinstein set sentencing for July 29.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Marsh, 10-cr-00480, and the
SEC case is SEC v. Gryphon Holdings Inc., 10-cv-01742, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  BGC Begins U.K. Trial Against Tullett Over Broker Defection  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP) , a New York brokerage that matches trades
between banks, told a U.K. judge that competitor  Tullett Prebon
Plc (TLPR)  wrongfully encouraged a “disaffected” broker to defect.  Peter Rees, hired in 2007 to manage BGC’s Swiss Franc desk,
was persuaded to move to Tullett half-way through his four-year
contract, lawyers for the U.S. inter-dealer company said
yesterday at the start of a 10-day trial in London. Rees said he
quit after BGC blamed him for failing to secure business from
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and cut his salary by more than half.  “This industry is about contracts,” BGC’s lawyer,
Jonathan Cohen, said. “The life-blood of this industry is the
brokers -- that’s why they take home so much” of the revenue
they generate.  The trial comes a year after London-based Tullett won
another U.K. lawsuit accusing BGC of using tens of millions of
pounds of inducements to poach 10 of its traders -- a ruling
that was upheld on appeal and prompted BGC to reach a private
financial settlement in April. In the U.S., Tullett in August
sued BGC in New York state court over claims it plotted to hire
away 77 staffers.  BGC claims that as the previous trial unfolded in London,
Tullett was already in the process of offering Rees a job in the
U.K., where he wanted to relocate. BGC is seeking damages from
lost business and repayment of a 250,000-pound ($410,000),
interest-free loan to Rees.  “Tullett identified Rees as a disaffected broker who was
vulnerable to a recruitment approach,” BGC said in court papers
outlining its case. Rees quit in 2009 after his salary of
228,000 pounds was reduced to about 105,000 pounds due to poor
performance, according to the filing.  Tullett claims Rees’s desk couldn’t have performed well
without UBS’s business, and that BGC’s internal head-hunter had
promised him the brokerage would secure a “direct line”
between his trading desk and the Zurich-based bank.  While BGC was “rightly concerned” about Rees’s low
revenue without UBS, it breached his contract by failing to take
the head-hunter’s guarantee into account when it reduced his
salary, Tullett claims.  The reduction should have been “slightly less Draconian,”
said Mohinderpal Sethi, Tullett’s lawyer. “It’s an exaggeration
to say the desk could succeed without UBS. BGC seeks to downplay
the importance of the line because of the promise it had made.”  Rajaratnam’s Arrest Led Hedge Fund Analyst to Destroy Data  A former analyst at hedge fund Barai Capital Management LP
yesterday testified that after the arrest of Galleon Group LLC
co-founder Raj Rajaratnam he destroyed files of inside
information his firm received from so-called expert networkers.  The testimony of the former analyst, Jason Pflaum, came
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan during the trial of
Winifred Jiau, 43, the ex- Primary Global Research LLC  consultant
who is charged with passing tips about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  and  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund managers, including Pflaum’s
former boss, Samir Barai.  Under questioning by Jiau’s lawyer, Joanna Hendon, Pflaum,
38, said at least eight people provided Barai with nonpublic
information about technology companies, including Mark Anthony
Longoria, a former employee of  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
Pflaum said he destroyed the files related to these tipsters.
Pflaum testified he didn’t delete files related to Jiau.  “What caused you to delete the files?” Hendon asked.  “The context was the Galleon case,” Pflaum said. “There
was some discussion internally post-Galleon. There was more
sensitivity to over-the-line business. More of a concern
internally of who we could be talking to that was over the
line,” he said.  Pflaum testified he decided to cooperate secretly with the
U.S. after agents with the Federal Bureau of Investigation
approached him in October 2010. He continued to work for Barai
until he pleaded guilty in January.  Jiau is the first of the expert networkers, who provide
industry information to financial company clients, to go to
trial on federal charges of securities fraud and conspiracy. She
faces as long as 25 years if convicted.  The case is U.S. v. Jiau, 11-cr-00161, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 