-- 
Serbian Dinar Not a Good Carry Trade Bet Now, Barclays Says

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-06-15T14:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/serbian-dinar-not-a-good-carry-trade-bet-now-barclays-says.html
The Serbian dinar will remain
volatile and using the currency as a high-yielding investment
has become risky,  Barclays Capital  said.  The London-based bank said it is closing its carry trade
for the dinar as the “outlook for the euro-dinar  exchange rate 
has become more uncertain.” A carry trade occurs when investors
borrow money in countries with low  interest rates  and invest it
in higher-yielding assets abroad.  The dinar was the world’s-best performing currency against
the dollar and euro this year until it began weakening on June
10 after central bank Governor Dejan Soskic said interest rate
cuts were likely after inflation peaked in April and the
government decided not to roll over a euro-indexed dinar-
denominated debt issue maturing next month.  “We expect currency volatility to remain elevated in the
coming weeks given the risks that some holders of the maturing
euro-indexed T-bill” to switch to other debt, Barclays analysts
including  Daniel Hewitt  and George Christou, said in the note.  Forecast Lowered  Barclays last week also reduced its three-month forecast
for the dinar to 101 from 95 against the euro after the Serbian
central bank cut its benchmark rate to 12 percent from 12.5
percent on June 9.  The Serbian dinar traded at 101.06 to the euro at 3:45 p.m.
in Belgrade, extending this week’s losses. The dinar has
weakened by as much as 4 percent in the last three trading days.  The central bank probably won’t fight “further controlled
depreciation” from these levels because the country needs to
keep exports competitive,’’ the Barclays’ analysts said.  “We think there is still some potential for dinar
depreciation from here and prefer to wait until volatility risks
decline, competitiveness concerns abate and rate cuts are more
significantly priced in before rolling back into” the dinar,
the analysts said in the report.  The government decided not to roll over 21 billion dinars
($298 million) of euro-indexed six-month Treasury bills, which
mature on July 1. It will offer investors instead 150 million
euros ($214 million) in euro-denominated debt.  The Greek crisis is another factor behind short-term dinar
weakness,  Elisabeth Andreew , chief analyst with Copenhagen-based
 Nordea Markets , said in a report published today.  Unlike its European Union-member neighbors, Romania and
 Bulgaria , Serbia cannot count on any EU aid in case of a more
serious Greek debt crisis spillover, Andreew said.  “Serbia is the country that we are most worried about
where we could see some more dinar weakness short-term after its
strong performance since the beginning of the year,” she said.  Serbia, which is trying to become an EU candidate by the
end of the year, is “in a larger need of foreign capital than
other countries in the region,” Andreew said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  