-- 
Serena Williams Seeded Eighth at Wimbledon; Rafael Nadal Is Top-Ranked

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-06-15T10:15:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/serena-williams-seeded-eighth-at-wimbledon-rafael-nadal-is-top-ranked.html
Defending  Wimbledon  champion  Serena Williams  has been seeded No. 8 by the All England Club after
missing almost a year of professional tennis because of injury
and illness.  Williams’s ranking on the WTA Tour has dropped to No. 26
after two foot operations last year and treatment for blood
clots in her lungs in February prevented her from playing.
Rafael Nadal of Spain is the men’s top seed as he defends his
title. Novak Djokovic, the Australian Open champion, is No. 2,
followed by  Roger Federer , who ended the Serb’s unbeaten run
this year in the semifinals of the French Open.  Williams started her comeback yesterday with a three-set
victory over  Tsvetana Pironkova  of  Bulgaria  at the Aegon
International grass-court tournament in Eastbourne, England. It
was her first pro match since she collected her fourth Wimbledon
trophy last year.  Her seeding means the 13-time Grand Slam champion from the
U.S. won’t face any of the other top eight seeds until the
quarterfinals at Wimbledon, which starts June 20.  Venus Williams, Serena’s elder sister and a five-time
Wimbledon champion who also made a winning comeback at
Eastbourne this week after a five-month injury-related lay-off,
is seeded 24th by the Wimbledon seeding committee. Venus is
ranked 33rd on the WTA Tour.  WTA Ranking  “The seeding order follows the WTA ranking list, except
where in the opinion of the committee, a change is necessary to
produce a balanced draw,” Wimbledon referee Andrew Jarrett said
in an e-mailed statement. “The only changes this year are
Serena Williams and  Venus Williams  moving to 8 and 24
respectively. This reflects the balance between their proven
records and also their lack of competitive play in the past 12
months.”  The sisters have won 9 of the last 11 Wimbledon trophies.  Women’s top seed is  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark, while
2004 champion Maria Sharapova of Russia is at No. 6. French Open
champion  Li Na , the first player from China to win a Grand Slam
singles title, is seeded fourth. Australian and U.S. Open
champion Kim Clijsters of Belgium is the second seed.  On the men’s side, Nadal took the top seed, which is set by
the ATP Tour rankings and performance on grass courts. The
Spaniard defeated Tomas Berdych of the  Czech Republic  in
straight sets in last year’s final. Djokovic had won 41 straight
matches to start the year before falling to Federer.  Federer of Switzerland, a six-time Wimbledon champion,
could meet Nadal before the final. Britain’s  Andy Murray , who
won the Queen’s grass-court event in  London  last week, is at No.
4. Andy Roddick, a three-time Wimbledon finalist, was seeded at
No. 8. The American is ranked tenth on the ATP World Tour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  