-- 
Siemens to Invest in Wind Power on Offshore Demand

-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 
2011-06-15T15:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/siemens-to-invest-in-wind-power-as-offshore-demand-picks-up.html
(Corrects last name of spokeswoman in fifth paragraph.)  Siemens AG (SIE)  plans to invest 150
million euros ($214 million) in wind research-and-development
and production over the next two years as demand for offshore
turbines picks up.  Germany ’s largest engineering company will set up new
research facilities in the Danish cities of Brande and Aalborg
and boost the capacity of assembly plants in Denmark to meet
demand for offshore turbines across  Europe , Siemens said today
in a website statement.  “Our investments in R&D and the extension of production
facilities will pave the road for our global expansion,” Jens- Peter Saul, chief executive officer of the Siemens Wind Power
unit, said in the statement.  Siemens builds onshore and offshore turbines and competes
with  General Electric Co. (GE) , Vestas Wind Systems A/S and Aurich,
Germany-based Enercon GmbH. The company last year opened two
production facilities in  China  and the U.S. to cope with demand.  Research at the Danish facilities would focus on Siemens’s
direct-drive technology and its lightweight Quantum blades, two
new products now undergoing testing, Siemens Energy spokeswoman
Eva-Maria Baumann said.  Siemens this month unveiled a 6-megawatt direct-drive
offshore turbine, which has fewer moving parts than the
“geared” model produced by Vestas, Siemens’s main offshore
market rival.  As much as 1.5 gigawatts of new offshore turbines may be
connected to the European grid this year, up from 883 megawatts
of installations in 2010, the European Wind Energy Association
said in January.  Siemens also plans to assemble the new direct-drive machine
at facilities including one to be built in the U.K. to fuel the
British offshore market, the world’s largest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  