-- 
Singapore Employers Added More Jobs Last Quarter Than Initially Estimated

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 
2011-06-15T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/singapore-employers-added-more-jobs-last-quarter-than-initially-estimated.html
Singapore employers added more jobs
than initially estimated last quarter as the services industry
increased payrolls to support demand in the growing economy.  The city-state added 28,300 jobs in the three months
through March, compared with an earlier estimate of 23,700, the
 Ministry of Manpower  said in a statement today. The seasonally
adjusted unemployment rate fell to 1.9 percent from 2.2 percent
the previous quarter.  Singapore, ranked by the  World Bank  as the easiest place to
do business, has cut taxes in recent years to encourage
investment in the city state.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Micron Technology
Inc. are among companies that are setting up or expanding
capacity on the island as the government aims to attract as much
as S$14 billion ($11.4 billion) of investments this year.  “The labor market tightened further amid healthy economic
growth in the first quarter of 2011,” the government said in
today’s report. “Fewer workers were laid off and unemployment
improved to a three-year low. With strong manpower demand, the
ratio of job openings to job seekers rose to pre-recessionary
levels.”  The services industry added 26,500 jobs last quarter, while
manufacturing companies increased payrolls by 100, the report
showed. Construction employment rose by 1,500 in the three
months through March, the government said.  Productivity rose 4.5 percent last quarter, the ministry
said. Average wages before adjusting for inflation rose 8.5
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier.  Singapore ’s unemployment rate may be 2 percent by the end
of this quarter and remain at that level at the end of the year,
according to the median estimate in a survey of 21 economists by
the Monetary Authority of Singapore released last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  