-- 
Sinopec, PetroChina’s June Oil Refining May Fall on Maintenance

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-15T03:45:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/sinopec-petrochina-s-june-oil-refining-may-fall-on-maintenance.html
China ’s major oil refineries may cut
processing volumes in June from a month earlier as more plants
shut for scheduled maintenance, according to industry website
Oilchem.net.  PetroChina Co.’s daily oil processing may fall 11 percent
from last month to 360,000 metric tons, or 2.64 million barrels,
the lowest this year, Oilchem said in a report on its  website 
dated June 13, citing a survey of China’s refineries.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ’s daily refining volume
may decline 1 percent to 587,000 tons, or 4.3 million barrels.
That’s still a high level, Oilchem  said .  In May, refiners boosted oil processing to 38.47 million
tons, or 9.096 million barrels a day, the third-highest monthly
volume on record, the government said yesterday. High processing
rates have led to a rebound in the nation’s oil-product
inventories as of end-May as daily consumption of gasoline,
diesel and kerosene declined from April, the National
Development and Reform Commission said on June 13.  Some units at PetroChina’s Jinzhou, Jinxi and Jilin plants
in northeastern China and Urumqi, Ningxia and Lanzhou in the
northwest will be closed this month for repairs, Oilchem said.
Refining volumes at China’s second-largest refiner may rise in
July when the repairs are completed, the industry website said.  Sinopec, as China Petroleum is known, will shut a 5 million
ton-a-year crude distillation unit at Qingdao plant in the
second half of June, Oilchem said. Oil processing is likely to
fall slightly in July from June as the country’s biggest refiner
closes another 5 million ton-a-year crude unit at Jiujiang plant,
according to Oilchem.  --Winnie Zhu. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 