-- 
Sinovel, Goldwind May Lead Acquisitions in Wind Energy, PwC Says

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-06-15T13:12:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/sinovel-goldwind-may-lead-acquisitions-in-wind-energy-pwc-says.html
China ’s two-biggest wind turbine
makers, Sinovel Wind Group Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co., may be preparing to acquire smaller producers as
the industry consolidates, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said.  Flush with funds from initial public offerings, Sinovel and
Goldwind are positioned to compete against western rivals such
as Vestas Wind Systems A/S,  Gamesa Corp Tecnologica SA (GAM) , General
Electric Co. and Siemens AG in the market for larger turbines,
the business advisory company said in a report.  “Sinovel and Xinjiang Goldwind will provide formidable
competition,” said the report on global renewable energy deals
released in  India  today.  Beijing-based Sinovel, the second-biggest wind turbine
maker after Vestas, raised 9.5 billion yuan ($1.43 billion) in
its January debut in  Shanghai , making it China’s biggest IPO
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldwind
raised 8.2 billion yuan in its October IPO in  Hong Kong ,
according to its annual report.  “The sector will be watching to see the extent to which
the IPO proceeds will be used for international expansion,” the
report said. “Acquisition of independent companies could be a
route to expansion in a sector where the costs of transporting
large components inhibits the ability to use a single
manufacturing hub.”  Sinovel and Goldwind will be able to spend more on research
and development to compete in the market for the next generation
of turbines having greater than 6-megawatt capacity, it said.  Meanwhile, the report said smaller independent wind
companies are likely to get taken over by large multinationals,
citing the precedent set by Clipper Windpower Ltd.  United Technologies Corp., the U.S. maker of Pratt &
Whitney jet engines, bought the 51 percent of the London-based
wind turbine maker it didn’t already own in December for 139.5
million pounds ($219 million) in cash.  “The days of independent operators look increasingly
numbered,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  