-- 
South Yemen City Seized by Gunmen as Violence Spreads After Saleh Leaves

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-06-15T18:59:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/south-yemen-city-of-houta-raided-by-gunmen-witness-says-2-.html
About 400 gunmen seized control of
parts of a city in southern Yemen for several hours as violence
spreads through the Arabian Peninsula country after President
Ali Abdullah Saleh’s departure.  Security forces clashed with the armed men earlier today in
Houta, Mohssein Ali, a resident, said in a telephone interview.
The gunmen remained in the town after government forces
retreated, then left after failing to take over a security base,
said Adel Mabrook, another witness.  Fighting between the military and suspected al-Qaeda
militants has increased since Saleh left the country for medical
treatment in  Saudi Arabia  after being injured in an attack on
his palace. Yemen’s army has fought militants this month in the
southern Abyan province on the Gulf of Aden coast. At least 80
militants and 60 soldiers have died since May, Abdu al-Janadi,
the deputy information minister, said today.  Saleh’s government has said rising social unrest threatens
to strengthen al-Qaeda, a concern also expressed by the U.S. The
group has sought to use Yemen as a base from which to
destabilize neighboring Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest
exporter of crude oil, and for attempted attacks on
international targets including two U.S. synagogues last year.  The army destroyed an ammunition depot this month used by
Islamic militants in Zinjibar, the provincial capital of Abyan,
the  Defense Ministry  said on its website June 11.  Improving Health  After months of anti-government protests, fighting in Yemen
escalated when Saleh refused to sign a Gulf Cooperation Council
plan calling for him to step down within 30 days and turn
leadership over to Vice President Abduraboo Mansur Hadi in
exchange for immunity from prosecution. Saleh is recuperating in
Saudi Arabia after surgery for injuries sustained during the
June 3 attack on a mosque in his presidential compound in
Sana’a, the capital.  Saleh’s health is improving and he will return to Yemen in
the coming days, al-Janadi said at a press conference in Sana’a
today. He said Saleh won’t agree to revive the GCC plan or hand
over power unless a timeline for implementation is agreed with
the opposition.  Tens of thousands of protesters gathered yesterday in
Sana’a to demand the formation of a transitional council to
replace Saleh’s administration. The organizing committee of the
Popular Youth Revolution said in a statement read yesterday to
protesters that any agreement stemming from talks with
“remnants” of Saleh’s regime would be “illegitimate.”  GCC Efforts  The  GCC foreign ministers  urged “all parties to exercise
restraint” to prevent more violence and fighting in the
country, according to an e-mailed statement from the six-member
group today. The GCC would “make all efforts” to maintain the
security and stability of Yemen, it said.  A weak central government in Yemen risks mirroring the
situation in Somalia across the  Gulf of Aden , where there hasn’t
been a functioning administration since 1991. Somalia has become
a breeding ground for pirates who attack shipping lanes.  The escalation of violence in south Yemen, particularly in
Abyan, has “caused intolerable suffering among the civilian
population,” the United Nations office in Sana’a said in an e-
mailed statement today. “Thousands of people including women
and children have been forcefully displaced.”  The UN called on “all parties to ensure an immediate
cessation of hostilities” and allow “humanitarian actors” to
provide a response to the affected people, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  