-- 
South African Retail Sales Growth Unexpectedly Accelerated 9.8% in April

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-06-15T12:18:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/south-african-retail-sales-growth-unexpectedly-accelerated-9-8-in-april.html
South African retail sales growth
unexpectedly accelerated to its fastest pace in almost four
years in April, rising 9.8 percent from a year earlier, boosting
the recovery in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  The sales-growth rate increased from a revised 5.3 percent
in March, Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on its
website today. The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was 5 percent, with the highest at 6.1 percent. Prices
rose an adjusted 2.3 percent in the month.  “This really showed that consumers are willing to spend,”
Gina Schoeman, an economist with Absa Bank Ltd., said in an
interview from Johannesburg. “Rates remain low, inflation has
lifted, but real income growth remains on the up.”  The central bank has left its key rate unchanged at a 30-
year low of 5.5 percent, after cutting it three times in 2010,
as price pressures picked up and the economic recovery
strengthened.  “The accommodative monetary-policy stance of the bank over
the past few years has certainly helped to prop up household
consumption expenditure,”  Daniel Mminele , one of the bank’s
deputy governors, said in a May 27 speech in  Pretoria .  The rand paired losses after the release of the data. The
currency was down 0.6 percent at 6.8039 versus the dollar at
1:52 p.m. in Johannesburg, compared with 6.8189 before.  Borrowing by households and businesses rose an annual 6.2
percent in April, up from 5.1 percent in March, the Pretoria-
based  Reserve Bank  said on May 31.  ‘Mixed Signals’  Growth in manufacturing and vehicle car sales slowed,
sending “mixed signals” about the strength of the economy’s
recovery, Schoeman said.  Manufacturing growth in April unexpectedly eased to 0.4
percent, its slowest pace in four months, from a revised 4.9
percent the month before, Statistics SA said on June 9.  Vehicle sales in  South Africa  rose at the slowest pace in
17 months in May, the National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers of South Africa said on June 2.  “If you look at everything in the economy other than
consumption, it remains weak,” Schoeman said. “We’re still
expecting the Reserve Bank to only start tightening rates in the
first quarter of 2012.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 