-- 
Spain Rejects Proposal to Reform Mortgage Foreclosures

-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 
2011-06-15T14:25:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/spain-rejects-proposal-to-reform-mortgage-foreclosure-rules.html
Spain’s  Parliament  rejected a law
that would have eased the effect of mortgage foreclosures for as
many as 300,000 homeowners who have lost their properties.  The Galician National Block, known as the BNG in Spain, had
asked legislators to amend the law to allow mortgage holders to
walk away from their debt by handing over the keys to their
properties. It also would have permitted homeowners to delay
mortgage payments beyond stipulated deadlines and to consent to
partial debt write-offs. Lawmakers rejected the proposals,
Parliament said on its  website  late last night.  Under Spanish law, if a foreclosed property is sold for
less than the outstanding mortgage on the asset, the bank can
claim the difference from the borrower. Lenders can make a claim
against all of a borrower’s present and future assets and
earnings.  The number of foreclosed properties in Spain has climbed
tenfold in three years as unemployment reached 21 percent of the
working population, the highest in the European Union, according
to  Idealista.com , the country’s largest property website. Home
prices fell for the 12th straight quarter in the three months
through March and have dropped 15 percent from the peak three
years earlier, the National Statistics Institute said today.  Idealista advertises more than 30,000 foreclosed homes
worth 4.6 billion euros ($6.6 billion) on behalf of 40 Spanish
banks and savings banks. That’s up from just 3,000 in June 2009,
according to the company’s website.  Social Problem  “We are talking about a social problem of the highest
order,” Francisco Xesus Jorquera, a BNG lawmaker, said by
telephone from Madrid yesterday before the vote. “It’s a debate
that must take place as there is social outcry for the mortgage
law to be reformed.”  The eviction of a family living in a foreclosed home in
 Madrid  was delayed today after 300 people protested outside the
property and prevented authorities from entering, Efe newswire
reported, citing Dolores Carrion, a delegate of the central
government.  The occupants, a Lebanese man, his Bulgarian wife and their
15-year-old daughter, were served with an eviction order after
falling behind on mortgage payments to an unnamed bank, Efe
said. Carrion wasn’t immediately available for comment.  As many as 300,000 homes were foreclosed in Spain between
2008 and 2010, according to the  text  of the proposal.  Probing Changes  Spain’s Parliament has created a committee to study
possible changes to the country’s mortgage rules and whether the
current law allows for abusive practices, the assembly said on
its  website  on June 8. The commission has until December to
present a report on its findings.  “If banks had to assume losses that would result from
pardoning mortgages granted during Spain’s real-estate boom, the
Spanish financial system would collapse,” said  Jesus Encinar ,
founder and chief executive officer of Idealista.com.  The housing boom that ended in 2008 left Spanish banks with
 315.8 billion euros  in loans related to real-estate activities
in the fourth quarter of 2010, according to the Bank of Spain.
That’s after they were forced to take on properties and land in
return for canceling debt to bankrupt developers.  If the law were modified to allow homeowners to hand over
their keys and walk away from their debts, it would hurt banks’
balance sheets and force them to raise their lending costs for
new mortgages as well as force mortgage holders to take out
costly insurance to cover the risk of non-payment, Encinar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  