-- 
Stanley Cup Tickets Go for $5,000, Topping Vancouver Olympics, Super Bowl

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-15T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/stanley-cup-tickets-top-5-000-trumping-vancouver-olympics-and-super-bowl.html
Hockey fever in  Vancouver  has pushed
average ticket prices for tonight’s Stanley Cup Final decider
between the Canucks and  Boston  Bruins to more than $5,000 on the
secondary market.  The average price exceeds the $4,300 for last year’s
Olympic gold medal hockey game between  Canada  and the U.S.,
which was also played in Vancouver. It also tops the $4,500
resale price for this year’s  Super Bowl , according to
 FanSnap.com , an Internet search engine that finds seats on about
50 ticket-reselling Web sites.  The Canucks host Game 7 tonight at Rogers Arena with a
chance to win the National Hockey League championship for the
first time in their 41-year history. They’re also seeking to
become the first Canadian team to win the title since the
 Montreal Canadiens  in 1993.  “This takes it to a new level,” Christian Anderson, a
spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-based FanSnap.com, said in a
telephone interview. “The Canucks haven’t won before and, with
a Game 7, this is it, it’s do or die. That definitely drives the
prices.”  The home team has won each of the first six games in the
series. The Canucks had one-goal wins in all three games in
Vancouver and were outscored by the Bruins 17-3 in Boston,
including a 5-2 loss in Game 6 two days ago.  The Bruins have lost five times in the championship series
since claiming the last of their five Stanley Cups in 1972.  Downtown Crowds  More than 35,000 fans crowded into Vancouver’s downtown
area to watch Game 6 on jumbo television screens, according to
the Vancouver Police Department. The soaring ticket prices may
mean bigger crowds in the streets tonight.  The lowest-priced Game 7 seats are listed at $2,300,
according to  SeatGeek.com , a search engine for tickets to
sporting events and concerts.  “When you look at a team like the Canucks that has never
won a final and how excited the fans in Vancouver are, it’s
pretty incredible,” Ben Kessler, a spokesman for New York-based
SeatGeek.com, said in a telephone interview.  Game 7 seats were listed at SeatGeek for about $5,000 on
average yesterday, said Kessler, who added that the company’s
average doesn’t factor tickets that are priced “absolutely
absurdly.”  “This is a huge game for the Canucks and fans are showing
they care with their wallets,” Kessler said.  Home Ice  The front page of yesterday’s Vancouver Sun, the largest
newspaper in British Columbia, read: “Home-ice advantage.” In
the NHL’s previous 15  Stanley Cup  Finals that have gone to a
seventh game, the host team has a 12-3 record.  “We worked all year long to get home ice,” said Canucks
coach Alain Vigneault, whose team had the NHL’s best record
during the regular season. “Our fans are going to be excited
and our players are going to be excited.”  Since  Montreal  won the Stanley Cup 18 years ago, four
Canadian teams have lost the championship series. Three were
beaten in a seventh game, including Vancouver at the  New York
Rangers  in 1994. Store-front windows were smashed and there was
looting during riots in Vancouver after that loss.  Youssef Zohny, a  fund manager  at Van Arbor Asset Management
in Vancouver who said he plans to watch the game with friends at
a pub, said he’s hoping the city gets to experience a
celebration this time.  “It’s been a memorable season and this city is hungry for
the Stanley Cup,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  