-- 
Stud Horses May Ease Ireland Bailout Burden as ECB Encourages Asset Sales

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-06-15T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/stud-horses-may-ease-ireland-bailout-burden-as-ecb-encourages-asset-sales.html
Irish horses may end up carrying
some of the weight of the country’s economic collapse.  The  National Stud  in Tully, Kildare, is among the 5 billion
euros ($7.3 billion) of state assets earmarked for disposal by a
government-appointed group in Dublin, as Ireland,  Portugal  and
 Greece  try to raise money as a condition of their financial aid.
As well as bigger ticket items such as ports and utilities, a
Greek casino and grain silos in Portugal are up for sale.  “Beggars can’t be choosers really,” said  Alan McQuaid , an
economist at Bloxham Stockbrokers in Dublin. “You want to ease
the burden as much as possible on the taxpayers.”  The bailout bill for Greece, Ireland and Portugal is
currently running at 273 billion euros and the Greek government
is in talks on securing more money. While Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said on June 8 his country wouldn’t hold a “fire
sale,” European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said
the following day that the rescued countries have “immense
responsibilities” to deal with their own debt problems.  A report commissioned by the Irish government and published
in April recommended part of the country’s electricity company,
airports, ports, forests and racecourses be sold, as well as a
stake in airline Aer Lingus Group Plc.  The European Union,  International Monetary Fund  and ECB
asked Ireland to examine privatization after agreeing to finance
Ireland’s 85 billion-euro rescue package in November last year.  Stud Central  Ireland is home to some of the world’s largest stud farms
including  those  owned by Dubai ruler Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid
al-Maktoum and Prince Khalid Abdullah of  Saudi Arabia . Coolmore,
a breeder of champion racehorses, is based in Tipperary in
southern Ireland.  The National Stud, about 50 kilometers (31 miles) west of
Dublin, is the centerpiece of the biggest horse breeding
industry in  Europe . Ireland produces 10 percent of the world’s
thoroughbred foals and more than  France  and Britain combined,
the government-commissioned report said.  The stud farm, where stallions service mares from Ireland
and overseas, played host last month to  Queen Elizabeth II , who
has had some of her champion racehorses at the farm. The most
expensive horse, Invincible Spirit, fetches 60,000 euros for
each mare he “covers,” or impregnates.  The sale is unlikely to be a big money-spinner for the
government, John Osborne, chief executive officer of the farm,
said in a telephone interview. Osborne, who opposes the
privatization, estimates the farm is worth “a seven figure sum,
possibly an eight figure sum,” he said.  ‘Piece by Piece’  “You would hope that the entire construction of the
bloodstock industry isn’t disassembled piece by piece,” Osborne
said. Breeders can invest in the stud’s stallions, while it aims
to keep a 25 percent to 50 percent stake in the horses, he said.  The state took over the stud in 1946, when the Irish
breeding industry was undeveloped, according to the report for
the government, headed by economist  Colm McCarthy .  Now, there are almost 100 stallion studs in the country and
the Kildare operation “no longer plays a critical role” in
providing access to the best stallion lines, the report found.
The stud lost 4.3 million euros in 2009, the latest figures
available, with the  Finance Ministry  injecting 1 million euros
to buy horses as recently as 2006, the McCarthy report said.  Small independent  breeders  who can’t compete with the
world’s largest operators may lose access to the stud’s
services, according John Weld, 53, owner of about 30 horses.  “The National Stud is a tremendous shop window for
investors who come from abroad,” said Weld, who is also based
in Kildare. “The smaller independent studs have fallen by the
wayside to the larger extent. The stud plays a valuable role in
facilitating those smaller breeders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  