-- 
Sudanese Fighting Displaces 60,000 in Southern Kordofan State, UN Says

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-06-15T08:49:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/sudanese-fighting-displaces-60-000-in-southern-kordofan-state-un-says.html
As many as 64 people have died in
air strikes by Sudanese planes and 60,000 people fled their
homes due to fighting between government forces and units of
 Southern Sudan ’s army in Southern Kordofan state, the  United
Nations  said.  “There is a growing sense of panic among some of the
displaced populations who find themselves trapped by the ongoing
violence and the ethnic fault lines,” the UN Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said today in an e-mailed
statement. Other civilians are still hiding in mountainous areas
in the state. The clashes began on June 5.  Sudanese fighter jets dropped 11 bombs on the northern oil-
producing state yesterday, the UN said. Clashes along the north-
south border have raised concern about a resumption of the two-
decade civil war in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest oil
producer that ended with a 2005  peace agreement .  Southern Kordofan borders the oil-rich states of Unity and
Upper Nile in Southern  Sudan , which will assume control of about
75 percent of Sudan’s daily oil production of 490,000 barrels
when it becomes independent next month. The crude is pumped
mainly by China National Petroleum Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  The state accounts for about 115,000 barrels per day,
according to Sudan’s minister of state for oil, Ali Ahmed Osman.  Nuba Ethnic Group  The clashes, which began on June 5, may have broken out
when northern forces tried to disarm members of the Nuba ethnic
group who fought on the side of Southern Sudan in the civil war,
according to the south’s army spokesman, Philip Aguer. The
fighting doesn’t involve the Southern Sudanese army based in the
regional capital, Juba, he said on June 5.  New York-based  Human Rights Watch  has accused Sudanese
government forces of “widespread abuses” in Southern Kordofan,
saying in a  July 10 statement  that witnesses reported house-to-
house searches and executions.  The Sudanese government will continue to bomb areas in the
state where a rebellion is under way by members of Southern
Sudan’s armed forces, army spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled said
yesterday by phone from Khartoum.  “The army is taking military actions to try to quell the
recent rebellion,” Khaled said. “These military operations
will continue until we completely end this rebellion.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 