-- 
Sun’s Magnetic Levels Ebb as Scientists Note Missing Sunspot Activity

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-06-15T18:46:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/sun-s-magnetic-levels-ebb-as-scientists-note-missing-sunspot-activity.html
Solar activity appears on the
decline as events that typically presage bursts of energy in the
sun’s 11-year cycle have decreased or stopped, scientists say.  Tracking the sun’s cycle, which occurs as its magnetic
poles reverse,  helps  predict solar storms that interfere with
satellite orbits, communications and power systems, according
to the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, 
 Colorado . Data reported yesterday at the American Astronomical
Society meeting suggest the sun is nearing a quiet period, said 
Frank Hill, associate director of the  National Solar Observatory .  A wind flow that starts inside the sun and moves toward the
equator in advance of a new sunspot cycle hasn’t been detected,
suggesting a delay for the next round of activity expected in
2020, Hill said. The strength of the sunspots, dark patches on
the sun marked by lower temperatures, may weaken so much that
few will form in the next cycle, a second study found.   “The fact that three completely different views of the sun
point in the same direction is a powerful indicator that the
sunspot cycle may be going into hibernation,” Hill said in a
statement. “If we are right, this could be the last solar
maximum we’ll see for a few decades.”  Fewer Satellite Disruptions  An extended period of no visible solar activity, when the
sun ejects charged particles that can hit the earth, means there
may be fewer disruptions to satellite systems,
telecommunications and power grids, Hill said. Astronauts and
frequent airline flyers who travel over the earth’s poles also
would be exposed to less radiation, he said.  The lack of sunspots also will make the sun a bit dimmer,
perhaps reducing its intensity by 10 percent or so, Hill said in
a telephone interview. The change isn’t likely to affect the
earth’s climate or precipitate another ice age, a contentious
topic, he said.  It is unclear how long the decline in solar energy may
last. No sunspots were visible for a 70-year period starting in
1645, known as the Maunder Minimum, which began two years after
the birth of English physicist and astronomer  Sir Isaac Newton .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  