-- 
Interest Rate Swap Spreads Widen Most Since November on European Debt Woes

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-15T18:41:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/swap-spreads-widen-most-since-november-on-european-debt-crisis.html
U.S. interest-rate swap spreads
widened the most since November after Moody’s Investors Service
said it may cut the credit ratings of three French banks with
investments in  Greece .  The difference between the U.S. two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, widened 4.6 basis points to 24.75 basis points. That was
the largest increase since Nov. 30 when the spread widened by
6.5 basis points. The spread is based in part on expectations
for the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and used to
gauge investor perceptions of credit risk.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  France ’s biggest bank, and local rivals
Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA may have their credit
ratings cut by Moody’s. The rating company placed the three
banks’ ratings on reviews that will focus on their holdings of
Greek public and private debt “and the potential for
inconsistency between the impact of a possible Greek default or
restructuring and current rating levels,” the ratings company
said in a statement today.  “There is some worry that with what is going on in Greece
there will be downgrades and this will cause a problem in
funding and result in a rise in Libor,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG.
“Swap spreads are widening as direct result of these
concerns.”  The move by Moody’s reflects  Europe ’s deepening debt
crisis, centered on Greece, where bond yields touched a record
for the euro area today. Pressure on European governments to
craft a second rescue plan for the country intensified this week
after  Standard & Poor’s  slapped Greece with the world’s lowest
credit rating.  A drop in Treasury two-year yields today also helped widen
swap spreads. Yields on two-year notes dropped six basis points,
or 0.06 percentage point, to 0.38 percent, the biggest since
April 15 on an intraday basis.  Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in many types
of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan securities.  -- Editor:  Paul Cox , Greg Storey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  