-- 
U.K. to Put Northern Rock Up for Sale, Osborne Will Say

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-06-15T17:11:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-k-to-put-northern-rock-up-for-sale-osborne-will-say-at-mansion-house.html
Northern Rock Plc, nationalized in
2008 after suffering the first run on a British bank in more
than a century, will be put up for sale, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  will say today.  “Images of the queues outside Northern Rock branches were
a symbol of all that went wrong, and its chaotic collapse did
great damage to Britain’s international reputation,” Osborne
will say in his annual speech to financiers in London tonight,
according to extracts released by his office. The sale “would
be a very important first step in getting the British taxpayer
out of the business of owning banks -- and a sign of confidence
in the industry.”  The bidding process will be open to anyone including mutual
lenders and the government wants the sale to spur competition in
the banking industry, Osborne will say in his Mansion House
address.  Savers queued outside branches of the bank in September
2007 after it approached the  Bank of England  for emergency
funding. Then Chancellor Alistair Darling took the bank into
public ownership in February 2008 after failing to find a buyer.  “I was always clear that at the end of the day the
taxpayer had to get its money back,” Darling told  BBC
Television  today. “We’ve got to make sure that happens.”  Losses  The government separated Northern Rock Plc, the consumer
bank, from Northern Rock (Asset Management) Plc, which is closed
to new customers, in January 2010. Northern Rock Plc and U.K.
Financial Investments, which manages the government’s bank
stakes, hired Deutsche Bank AG in March to advise on the
lender’s options including a possible sale.  Newcastle-based Northern Rock posted an underlying
pretax loss of 232.4 million pounds ($377 million) in 2010.  Osborne said in March the Treasury is still “some way
off” selling its stakes in Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Lloyds Banking Group Plc. The banks required a 65.8 billion-
pound government rescue after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. roiled financial markets worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  