-- 
U.K. Stocks Slide as Jobless Claims Climb; Banks, Experian Fall

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-06-15T16:19:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-k-stocks-slide-as-jobless-claims-climb-banks-experian-fall.html
U.K. stocks fell after British
jobless claims surged more than forecast last month and
investors speculated that divisions between European officials
may delay a second rescue plan for  Greece .  Barclays Plc (BARC)  led a retreat in banks, falling more than 2
percent.  Experian Plc (EXPN)  slid 1.9 percent amid speculation that the
world’s largest credit-checking company may come under increased
U.S. regulation. Glencore International Plc led commodity-
related shares lower, dropping 5.4 percent.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  dropped 60.58, or 1 percent, to 5,742.55
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , snapping a two-day rebound.
The gauge had fallen for three straight weeks as U.S. payroll
reports trailed economists’ forecasts and concern mounted that
Greece may default on its debt. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) 
declined 1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index lost 1.1
percent.  “ Traders have found little reason to commit to equities
in a big way,” said  Manoj Ladwa , a senior trader at ETX Capital
in London. “All the ‘risk-on’ assets -- equities, precious
metals -- seem to have lost their upside momentum and are
rolling over.”  An Office for National Statistics report today showed that
U.K. jobless claims jumped 19,600 in May while wage growth
slowed, pointing to a continued squeeze on households as
inflation accelerates. The median forecast of 22 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for an increase of 6,500. Wage
growth excluding bonuses slowed to 2 percent in the three months
through April, the weakest since the quarter through August.  Barclays, RBS, Lloyds  Banks fell after an emergency session of finance ministers
in Brussels late yesterday failed to reconcile a German-led push
for bondholders to shoulder part of the cost of a new Greek aid
package with the  European Central Bank ’s warning that the move
may constitute the euro area’s first sovereign default.  Barclays declined 2.7 percent to 257.4 pence.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest government-owned lender,
slid 1.9 percent to 40.8 pence and HSBC Holdings Plc slid 1.2
percent to 608.6 pence.  Separately, Moody’s Investors Service placed the credit
ratings of BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA and Credit
Agricole SA on review to scrutinize the French banks’ holdings
of Greek public and private debt.  Experian Slides  Experian lost 1.9 percent to 785 pence in London on concern
that the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will place
the three major credit-reporting bureaus, including Experian,
under direct supervision by federal examiners.  The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul requires the
new agency to propose regulations by July 21, 2012, on whether
any company constitutes a “larger participant” in consumer
financial services. That designation would lead to supervision
similar to that of banks for the three firms, which provide
credit reports on borrowers to prospective lenders.  Glencore sank 5.4 percent to 473 pence, extending
yesterday’s 4.5 percent selloff after the company reported
profit that analysts deemed “disappointing.”  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,
which is 34 percent owned by Glencore, dropped 2.6 percent to
1,259.5 pence.  Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge
fund firm, dropped 3.2 percent to 232.6 pence after the net
asset value of its AHL Diversified Futures Ltd. fund declined
0.3 percent last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  