-- 
U.S. Stocks Fall Amid Europe Woes as Economic Data Disappoint

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-06-15T16:40:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-stock-index-futures-slide-after-s-p-500-index-rises-most-since-april.html
U.S. stocks retreated, snapping a
two-day gain, on rising concern about a Greek bailout and
growing signs that the American economy is slowing.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  slid at least 3
percent, following losses in European lenders, as officials
failed to agree on a rescue plan for Greece.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) 
and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  slumped more than 1.6 percent as lower-than-
forecast data on manufacturing, industrial production and
homebuilder confidence added to signs the economy is slowing.
 Ford Motor Co. (F)  fell 2.2 percent after saying pretax profit will
be lower in the second half than in the first half.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.6 percent to
1,267.86 at 12:38 p.m. in New York. The gauge yesterday advanced
the most in almost two months. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
declined 163.74 points, or 1.4 percent, to 11,912.37 today.  “They keep talking about kicking the can down the road in
Europe,” said  Quincy Krosby , a market strategist for Newark,
New Jersey-based Prudential Financial Inc., which oversees $859
billion. “The can is getting heavier and heavier when they kick
down. The economy is in a slow patch. We suspect that weaker
economic data should help curtail the march higher in
commodities. The dollar-euro trade is on. We’re seeing a risk-
off day for the markets.”  Benchmark gauges rose over the last two days, rebounding
from six weeks of losses, as a pickup in takeovers and better-
than-estimated data on American retail sales and Chinese
industrial production bolstered confidence. The S&P 500 was
still down 5.6 percent from this year’s high at the end of April
through yesterday amid concern about an economic slowdown.  Global Stocks Slump  Stocks from  Hong Kong  to Sao Paulo fell today as European
officials failed to agree on a rescue plan for  Greece . An
emergency session of finance ministers ended with no progress on
a new aid package for Greece, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said yesterday. BNP Paribas SA, Societe Generale SA
and Credit Agricole SA may have their debt ratings cut because
of their investments in Greece, Moody’s Investors Service said
today.  Stocks also fell as a report showed that manufacturing in
the New York region unexpectedly shrank in June, a sign the
industry still faces parts shortages following the disaster in
Japan. Another report showed that confidence among U.S.
homebuilders slumped in June to the lowest level in nine months
as executives turned more pessimistic on the outlook for sales,
a sign that any pickup will take time to develop.  Industrial Production   Separately, figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed that
industrial production in the U.S. rose less than forecast in
May, restrained by a slump in utility output and shortages of
auto parts from Japan. The cost of living in the U.S. rose more
than forecast in May, reflecting higher prices for everything
from autos to hotel rooms, another report showed.  “The market will sell first and ask questions later,”
said Mark Luschini, chief investment strategist at Philadelphia-
based Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, which manages $54 billion.
“The latest figures are cementing this mushy patch of economic
data. In addition, there’s concern about Greece. Ultimately,
there will be some resolution, but we’ve had a couple of false
starts. There’s still a lot of work and compromise.”  Banks Drop  The KBW Bank Index fell 2 percent as all of its 24 stocks
retreated. Wells Fargo dropped 2.6 percent to $26.33. Bank of
America slid 3.1 percent, the most in the Dow, to $10.47.  Caterpillar slumped 1.6 percent to $96.27. Alcoa slid 2.8
percent to $14.98.  Ford dropped 2.2 percent to $13.13 after saying that pretax
profit will be lower in the second half than in the first half
as the company faces rising structural and commodities costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  