-- 
U.S. Federal Election Commission Deadlocks on Greater ’12 Donor Disclosure

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-06-15T20:13:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-federal-election-panel-considers-increased-donor-disclosure-for-2012.html
The U.S. Federal Election Commission
failed to approve a proposal that could lead to greater
disclosure of donors to independent groups poised to spend
millions on attack ads in the 2012 presidential race.  The FEC deadlocked today in Washington along party lines,
as it did when it failed to move ahead with a similar proposal
in January. Some campaign finance experts who are alarmed by the
rise of secret donations worry that this inaction might expand
the flow of unregulated money.  “I’ve never seen an FEC this bad before,” said  Craig Holman , who lobbies on campaign finance issues for  Public
Citizen . “They’re just giving the green light to everyone
saying, ‘We’re not going to enforce the laws; you can do
whatever you want.’”  Frustration with the FEC stems largely from its structure.
The six-member commission is evenly divided along partisan
lines, which means nothing can get done unless one member is
willing to cross party lines and go along with a change. Since
2008, the commission has seen an increase in party-line voting,
according to a Bloomberg News study.  Partisan activists in recent years have exploited that
built-in bias against aggressive campaign finance oversight by
pushing the limits of the law. Those efforts are expected to
culminate in 2012 with both the Democrats and Republicans
soliciting millions of dollars in anonymous political donations
to pay for negative advertising and direct mail.  Citizens United   Democrats  on the FEC pressed to make increased disclosure a
part of the commission’s rewrite of election rules in light of
the U.S. Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, which paved
the way for corporations and labor unions to spend freely on
political campaigns.  “The commission should be seeking public comment on
whether it remains appropriate for our reporting regulation to
treat corporations and labor unions differently in terms of what
is reported,” Bauerly said in a statement after today’s vote.
“The question is not whether the FEC will comply with the
court’s decision, but how it should do so.”  The FEC rejected a similar proposal in January along party
lines, with the Republicans saying the commission should just
rewrite the rules regarding corporations and labor unions that
conflict with the court decision. An  alternative Republican
draft , which also failed, didn’t discuss disclosure.  Donors Names  Adding proposals on disclosure “is no more responsible
today than it was in January,” said the three Republican
commissioners, Caroline Hunter, Donald McGahn II and Matthew
Petersen, in a statement following the vote.  The commissioners also noted that Congress already
considered and rejected legislation that would shed light on
donors’ names. Senate Republicans killed the bill last year.  The FEC did agree to seek comment on Maryland Democratic
Representative  Chris Van Hollen ’s request that the FEC require
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and other outside groups that run
campaign-related ads to disclose who is paying for them.  Groups that didn’t disclose their donors spent at least
$137 million in the 2010 elections, 25 times more than in 2006,
FEC reports show.  Rove Groups  Two groups created with the help of Republican strategist
 Karl Rove ,  Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies , which
doesn’t disclose contributors, and American Crossroads, which
does, announced plans to raise $120 million for the 2012
campaign after raising $71 million in 2010. Former Obama White
House Spokesman  Bill Burton  and other Democrats have countered
the Rove-led effort by establishing three new nonprofit groups
that won’t identify donors. They also created companion groups
that will disclose donors.  Campaign finance watchdogs cite a 2007 FEC decision for the
growth of nonprofit groups that keep their donors secret.  In that ruling, the commissioners said organizations needed
to disclose only those contributions earmarked for political
spending.  Three years later, the FEC, along party lines, rejected its
counsel’s request to investigate whether Freedom’s Watch,
created by former aides to President  George W. Bush  to run ads
against Democrats, should have identified its donors.  At the time, the three Republicans said disclosure was
required only if the donations were given for a specific ad, a
standard that would rarely, if ever, apply to a contribution.  Proposed Settlements  Since the current Republican commissioners joined the FEC
in July 2008, the commission on 18 occasions has rejected
counsel calls for investigations or rejected proposed
settlements already agreed to.  To the activist community, an FEC tie vote is viewed as
clearance to proceed since the commission is unlikely to muster
the votes for enforcement action later.  Beyond today’s discussion about disclosure, another
significant decision on track to come before the commissioners
is the role elected officials can play in assisting the outside
groups in fundraising.  Republican National Committee member James Bopp Jr., who
argued Citizens United before the  Supreme Court , helped form the
Republican Super PAC to take in unlimited donations. He now
wants Republican lawmakers to seek contributions for the PAC,
which can far exceed the limited donations that lawmakers’ can
accept for their own campaigns.  “The reformers have criticized this but they criticize all
political spending,” Bopp said. “The law is clear that this is
legal.”  Two Democratic super PACs have asked the FEC for a ruling
on the matter.  Stronger Restrictions  Trevor Potter, a former FEC chairman and now head of the
 Campaign Legal Center , a Washington-based advocacy group that
supports stronger campaign finance restrictions, said Bopp’s
plan violates the 2002 law that banned federal candidates from
seeking unlimited donations.  Obama could break the deadlock by replacing the three
Democratic and two Republican commissioners whose terms have
expired with more aggressive regulators. Even if Senate
Republicans blocked the nominees, Obama could put them on the
commission during a congressional recess, remaking the FEC in
time for 2012. He has yet to act.  The president “never wanted to spend any political
capital,” said Melanie Sloan, executive director of the
watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in
 Washington . “I don’t understand it, considering how the
campaign finance world is getting crazier and crazier every
day.”  Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman, said, “The
president intends to nominate well-qualified candidates, and we
will continue to support strong enforcement of our campaign
finance laws.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 