-- 
U.S. Immigration Policy Risks ‘Suicide,’ Bloomberg Says

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 
2011-06-15T17:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-immigration-policy-risks-suicide-bloomberg-says-1-.html
The U.S. government’s failure to set
a national immigration policy places its economy at risk,
creating a barrier to educated and skilled entrepreneurs and
entry-level labor, New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  “We will not remain a global superpower if we continue to
close our doors to people who want to come here to work hard,
start businesses and pursue the American dream,” Bloomberg said
in a speech to the  Council on Foreign Relations  meeting today in
 Washington  “It’s what I call national suicide -- and that’s not
hyperbole.”  Bloomberg, 69, has for years advocated easing visa and
citizen requirements for foreign students and entrepreneurs in
the U.S., and he favors giving more than 10 million illegal
immigrants a chance to become lawful residents. He has also
called for fingerprinted Social Security cards.  Last year, he became one of several mayors and business
leaders, including News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  and Chief
Executive Officer Steven Ballmer of Microsoft Corp., to create
the  Partnership  for a New American Economy. The bipartisan group
describes itself on its website as seeking “to raise awareness
of the economic benefits of sensible immigration reform.”  A study by the group, which Bloomberg released with his
speech, asserts that “a large percentage of Fortune 500
companies were founded by an immigrant -- or by a child of
immigrants,” the mayor said. The immigrant-created companies
employ 10 million people worldwide and generate $4.2 trillion in
revenue a year, he said.  Founded by Immigrants  “American companies founded by immigrants or their
children have revenues that are greater than the gross national
product of every country in the world outside the  United States ,
except two: China and  Japan ,” Bloomberg said in his prepared
remarks.  “The reason is simple,” he said. “Immigrants are
dreamers and risk-takers who are driven to succeed, because they
know that in America hard work and talent are rewarded like
nowhere else.”  In  New York City , with about 8.2 million people, some 40
percent are foreign born, the mayor has said. Last month, the
city’s unemployment rate for April fell to 8.6 percent, a 25-
month low. The U.S. rate was 9 percent then.  Economic Engine  “Immigrants are why New York City became America’s
economic engine,” Bloomberg said. “They are one of the main
reasons why we rebounded so strongly from the tough times we
faced in the 1970s and 1980s. Neighborhoods that 25 years ago
were abandoned are now thriving thanks largely to immigrants.”  Foreign-born students comprise 40 percent of those in U.S.
engineering graduate schools, Bloomberg said. When they can’t
get a visa, “they go home and go to work for companies that
compete with our own. That makes no sense,” he said.  Agricultural and tourist industries that rely on workers
“starting at the bottom of the economic ladder” must have
access to foreign workers when they can’t fill jobs with
Americans, Bloomberg said. “These employers want a legal work
force, but our current system makes that extremely difficult,”
he said.  Enacting laws to let younger illegal immigrants gain lawful
status in the U.S. and ease the visa process for students and
entrepreneurs has been described by President  Barack Obama  as a
“moral imperative” for the U.S.  Democratic Push  Democrats in Congress are urging passage of legislation to
let some younger illegal immigrants gain legal status. The so-
called Dream Act, blocked in the Senate last year, would let
people who were brought to the U.S. illegally before age 16 and
who remain for at least five years gain legal residency after
going to college or serving in the military for at least two
years.  Republican opponents, including Senator  Jeff Sessions  of
 Alabama , a member of the Judiciary Committee, has said it
provides a form of amnesty to many immigrants who have been in
the U.S. for decades and may offer a safe harbor to some
undocumented immigrants with criminal records.  Bloomberg called the political wrangling over immigration
policy ironic in a city where “the street design was drawn up
by Pierre Charles L’Enfant, a French immigrant; the White House
was designed by James Hoban, an Irish immigrant; the U.S.
Capitol was designed by William Thornton, a British immigrant.”  Bloomberg is founder and majority leader of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net  or
William Selwayt .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  