-- 
U.S. Open Has 28% Chance of Continuing Playoff Trend, Odds Say

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-06-15T18:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-open-has-28-chance-of-ending-in-playoff-continuing-trend-odds-say.html
Davis Love III  said he won’t be
surprised if it takes more than four rounds to crown golf’s
second major champion of the year at the U.S. Open.  Neither would oddsmakers, who say there’s a 28 percent
chance that the tournament opening tomorrow at Congressional
Country Club in Bethesda, Maryland, will go to a playoff for the
21st time.  Six of the past eight tournaments on the U.S. PGA Tour went
to a playoff, with 11 of this year’s 25 events needing extra
holes to determine a winner.  Phil Mickelson  is the only player
to win a title in 2011 by more than two shots, at the Houston
Open.  “Playoffs are going to be more and more common, there’s
going to be less three- and four-shot wins,” Love, who has 20
career  PGA Tour  victories, said in an interview on the driving
range at Congressional. “Everybody is shooting the same score
and there’s so many guys playing so well.”  The  U.S. Open  features a unique 18-hole playoff if there is
a tie for the lead after four rounds. The PGA Tour uses sudden-
death playoffs, while the other three majors vary -- the  Masters
Tournament  is sudden death, the British Open is a four-hole
total and the  PGA Championship  is a three-hole score.  Playoff odds are among the 20 U.S. Open proposition bets
offered at the  Las Vegas Hilton’s Race and Sports Book .  The Hilton’s +240 money line means oddsmakers project a 28
percent chance that the  U.S. Open  heads to a playoff after its
scheduled June 19 finish, said RJ Bell, president of Las Vegas-
based handicapping information website  Pregame.com .  With a line of +240, a winning $100 bet would return $240
profit.  Extra Holes  Australia ’s Adam Scott, who tied for second place at this
year’s Masters, said the chances of the U.S. Open being pushed
to extra holes may be even better than that.  “There’s every chance it could because the field is so
deep,” said Scott, who is working this week with Steve Williams, the regular caddie for three-time U.S. Open winner
 Tiger Woods . “A four-shot lead is meaning less and less these
days. Absolutely, I can see it going to a playoff.”  Woods, who is skipping the tournament as he recovers from
knee and ankle injuries, was a part of the most recent U.S. Open
playoff in 2008. Woods that year needed one sudden-death hole
after the 18-hole playoff to beat  Rocco Mediate .  The U.S. Open playoff format switched to 18 holes in 1932,
according to the U.S. Golf Association.  “I think it’s a great playoff format,” Scott said in an
interview on the practice range. “Maybe not for every week, but
certainly for the U.S. Open. It’s a great way to decide a big
event like this and test the guys for another day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Bethesda,  Maryland , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  