-- 
U.S. Shale Oil Output to Reduce Imports, Purvin & Gertz Says

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-06-15T16:12:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-shale-oil-production-to-curb-imports-purvin-gertz-says.html
Rising output from shale formations
may reduce U.S. imports of low-sulfur crude oil by 500,000
barrels a day within five years as new pipelines carry the oil
to refineries along the  Gulf of Mexico , according to a study by
analysts at Purvin & Gertz Inc.  Shale production should rise to about 900,000 barrels a day
by 2015 and to more than 1.3 million barrels daily by 2020,
displacing imports, Geoff Houlton, a vice president at the
Houston-based energy consultant, said in a telephone interview.
The study includes output growth from the Bakken formation in
 North Dakota , Eagle Ford in Texas and Niobrara in Colorado and
Wyoming.  The discount for U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate
crude versus European Brent, which widened to a record $21.80 a
barrel June 14, may shrink to as little as $2 after pipeline
expansions are finished at Cushing, Oklahoma, according to
Houlton.  Crude supplies at the hub, where  New York  Mercantile
Exchange WTI futures are delivered, reached a record 41.9
million barrels in April, according to the Energy Department.
The U.S. imported 9.16 million barrels a day of crude last year,
according to department data.  Keystone XL  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL expansion, designed to
 transport  as much as 700,000 barrels of crude a day from
Alberta’s bitumen reserves through Cushing to refineries in
Texas starting in 2013, awaits U.S. State Department approval.  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Energy Transfer
Partners LP (ETP)  proposed the Double E pipeline to transport 450,000
barrels a day from Cushing to Houston by the fourth quarter of
2012.  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP)  plans to reverse part of
its Longhorn pipeline to carry 200,000 barrels a day of crude
from West Texas to Houston.  “That Enterprise line is the one to eliminate the
pressure,” Houlton said. “You really need something that adds
to the takeaway capacity.”  Refiners also plan to increase the use of local crudes from
oil shale formations.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  is running more than 40,000 barrels of
Eagle Ford crude a day at its Three Rivers refinery in Texas,
and expects to increase the amount to 60,000, or 60 percent of
total capacity at the plant, by the end of the year, Bill Day, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mail. The grade is about as
expensive as WTI, he said.  Corpus Christi   Flint Hills Resources LLC plans to refine “a significant
portion of Eagle Ford crude in our 280,000-barrel-a-day
refinery” in Corpus Christi, Texas, said Katie Stavinoha, a
spokeswoman for the company. The increase in the local grade
being processed “will back out foreign, waterborne imported
crude,” she said.  Frontier Oil Corp. (FTO)  is evaluating options to increase the
use of shale crude at its refineries in Wyoming and Kansas,
according to Kristine Boyd, a company spokeswoman.  “We are excited by the growing opportunity provided by the
Niobrara production in close proximity to both of our
refineries, particularly Cheyenne, which has the capability to
process the full current production from the basin,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 