-- 
U.S. Puts Bahrain on List of Human Rights Abusers

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-06-16T13:54:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-lists-ally-bahrain-with-human-rights-violators-iran-syria.html
The U.S. has put Bahrain, a Persian
Gulf ally, in the company of Iran,  North Korea ,  Syria  and
Zimbabwe on its list of human rights violators to be scrutinized
by the UN Human Rights Council.  “The Bahraini government has arbitrarily detained workers
and others perceived as opponents,” U.S. Ambassador Eileen Donahoe said in a  statement  to the council yesterday in Geneva.  Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet, has tried to
crush protests that have wracked the country since February, as
the Shiite majority population has agitated for the Sunni Muslim
monarchy to allow greater economic opportunities and freedoms.  Bahrain’s crackdown has put the U.S. in the position of
speaking out against a country that is both a close ally and
which received security assistance from  Saudi Arabia  in putting
down the protests.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has repeatedly called on
Bahrain to exercise restraint amid reports that it has detained
doctors for treating injured protesters. President  Barack Obama 
met with Bahrain’s crown prince last week and praised news that
the country will lift the martial law declared in March.  The Bahraini government’s recent moves to end some
restrictions and to start a national dialogue on reforms are
“signs of hope,” Donahoe said.  Her statement also listed Belarus, China, Cuba, Iran,
Libya, Myanmar, North Korea,  Sudan , Syria,  Venezuela ,  Yemen  and
Zimbabwe for council attention because of human rights abuses.  “The  United States  is deeply concerned about violent
repression of peaceful protests in some countries around the
world,” she said in her statement.  Official in Bahrain  She delivered the statement in Geneva on the same day that
 Michael Posner , the State Department’s chief human rights
representative,  spoke about human rights  in the Bahraini capital
after meeting with government officials. He expressed concern
about protesters detained by security forces there.  “We continue to receive reports about some students being
expelled from universities and some workers being dismissed
merely because they have exercised their political rights,”
Posner said. “We remain concerned about the continued detention
of a number of Bahrainis who have neither been charged nor
tried, about the treatment of those people in detention, and
about reports that some have been subjected to physical abuse
during interrogations.”  The Bahraini embassy in  Washington , reached by telephone,
had no immediate comment.  Blaming  Iran   Bahrain, a nation of 1.2 million, and neighboring Saudi
Arabia, also a Sunni monarchy, have portrayed the protests as
provoked by predominately Shiite Iran to destabilize the
country. Bahrain asked Saudi Arabia to send in troops to help
them stop the protests.  “Bahrain unfortunately has been not viewed very
objectively in the media, which affected the perception
outside,” Central Bank of Bahrain Governor Rasheed al-Maraj
said in Manama. “Negative media reporting will always affect
people who are not aware or do not have firsthand information
about Bahrain.”  About 70 percent of Bahrainis are Shiite Muslims who claim
they face routine discrimination over housing and jobs, and
aren’t permitted to rise to top jobs in government or the
military. The State Department’s 2011 Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices noted Bahrain’s response to the protests, which
included widespread arrests.  Other Nations  Among the other countries cited by Donahoe,  China  was noted
for the “growing number of arrests and detentions of lawyers,
activists, bloggers, artists, religious believers, and their
families, and its use of extralegal measures undermine the rule
of law.”  For Iran, “we condemn in the strongest possible terms the
killing of Iranian activist Haleh Sahabi at her father’s
funeral,” she said.  Burma  holds more than 2,000 political prisoners and
routinely violates the rights of its citizens including ethnic
minority populations, according to the U.S. statement.  North Korea’s government “continues to violate the human
rights of its citizens and that regime’s treatment of its own
people is deplorable,” Donahoe said.  Syria’s Crackdown  “The Syrian government continues to repress the legitimate
demands of their people through killings, torture, and arbitrary
arrests,” she said.  In  Libya , she said, Muammar Qaddafi’s regime “has launched
airstrikes on civilians, violently repressed demonstrations,
tortured prisoners, and targeted perceived opponents and
journalists, resulting in hundreds of deaths and
disappearances.”  “In Yemen, hundreds of people have died and over 8,000
wounded in clashes with security forces and opposing factions in
the past three months,” she said. “There are credible
allegations that the government funded supporters who harassed
and beat anti-government protesters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  