-- 
Boehner Says Lawmakers May Seek to Deny Funds for U.S. Operations in Libya

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-06-16T17:58:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-role-in-libya-is-mainly-one-of-support-administration-tells-congress.html
House Speaker  John Boehner  said
President Barack Obama’s explanation of why he can continue the
U.S. mission in  Libya  without lawmakers’ approval “doesn’t pass
a straight-face test” and that lawmakers will consider options
to constrain the president, including withholding funds.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, told reporters at his weekly
press conference today that lawmakers may use the “power of the
purse” in confronting the administration. White House officials
said yesterday the Libya mission is being funded from the
Pentagon budget and that they didn’t expect to ask Congress for
supplemental money.  “The House has options” on Libya, Boehner said. “Next
week we may be prepared to move with those options.”  Boehner’s remarks come a day after the Obama administration
submitted a 32-page unclassified report to Congress arguing that
U.S. military involvement in the Libya campaign led by the  North
Atlantic Treaty Organization  doesn’t need congressional
authorization because U.S. forces are mainly providing a support
role and aren’t engaged in combat with hostile forces.  “It doesn’t pass a straight-face test in my view that we
are not in the midst of hostilities,” Boehner said.  Sound Analysis  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said the
administration has no plans to further explain its legal
rationale.  “We believe that it is accurate and sound legal
analysis,” Carney said. He also said that Boehner himself in
the past has cautioned against Congress tying the president’s
hands with the War Powers Resolution.  Obama also is coming under fire from some members of his
own party. Representative Lynn Woolsey, a  California  Democrat
and antiwar activist, said the Libya report showed “contempt”
for the U.S. Constitution and Congress.  “To say that our aggressive bombing of Libya does not rise
to the level of ‘hostilities’ flies in the face of common sense
and is an insult to the intelligence of the American people,”
Woolsey said in a release.  Nancy Pelosi , the House Democratic leader, said she’s
“satisfied the president has the authority he needs to go
ahead” with the mission because the U.S. role is limited.  “When we have boots on the ground, mano a mano, that’s a
different story,” Pelosi, of California, said at her weekly
news conference. She urged the administration to increase its
consultation with lawmakers.  Administration Argument  The administration released its report after Boehner wrote
to Obama on June 14, saying that without congressional backing,
the mission would violate the  War Powers Resolution  of 1973 as
of June 19.  Congressional authorization isn’t required, the
administration said, because U.S. military operations in Libya
are distinct from the kind of “hostilities” the resolution is
meant to address. For example, it says, the U.S. role doesn’t
involve sustained fighting, active exchange of fire with hostile
forces or ground troops.  “U.S. forces are playing a constrained and supporting role
in a multinational coalition,” the report said. The
“operations are both legitimated by and limited to the terms of
a United Nations Security Council Resolution that authorizes the
use of force solely to protect civilians and civilian-populated
areas under attack or threat of attack and to enforce a no-fly
zone and an arms embargo,” it said.  ‘Highly Contentious’  Robert F. Turner, a law professor and associate director of
the  Center for National Security Law  at the  University of
Virginia  in Charlottesville, said there is “absolutely no
question in my mind” that Obama’s position is justified and
that there was a long history of U.S. involvement in military
actions without congressional approval.  “If U.S. combat forces are not engaged in combat
operations, then the War Powers Resolution doesn’t apply,” he
said.  Turner also said he believes that the War Powers Resolution
is unconstitutional -- although Obama’s lawyers aren’t making
that argument.  Matthew C. Waxman, an associate professor at  Columbia Law
School  in  New York  and a former official in President  George W. Bush ’s administration, agreed that the resolution’s
constitutionality is open to debate. Even so, he said Obama’s
position “is likely to be highly contentious,” given how
essential the U.S. role is in the NATO campaign.  War Fatigue  “One might point out that the  United States  is
contributing the vast bulk of support operations, without which
NATO’s Libya operations would almost certainly cease,” he said.
“And the objectives of this campaign are now quite broad,
seeming to include knocking out the Libyan leadership, so one
could also quite plausibly characterize these operations as
major ones.”  The report comes as Republicans and some Democrats are
challenging the continuation of the mission, spurred by what
lawmakers have described as a combination of war fatigue,
perplexity over the strategic purpose of the U.S. mission in
Libya and Obama’s failure to consult Congress on it.  The Pentagon has spent $715.9 million on military and
humanitarian operations in Libya through June 3, the report
said. The total projected cost to the Pentagon is projected to
be about $1.1 billion through Sept. 30, the end of the second
90-day NATO authorization, it said. All the money will come out
of the regular  defense budget , according to the report.  Humanitarian Work  In addition, the U.S. has spent $81 million on separate
humanitarian work, including supplies and logistics. The State
Department through June 3 has spent $3.7 million.  Boehner’s demand for more information about the operation
follows a 268-145 vote by the  House of Representatives  on June 3
approving a resolution sponsored by Boehner rebuking Obama for
failing to state a “compelling” national security
“rationale” for supporting the bombing campaign.  Obama also sent a consolidated report on U.S. involvement
elsewhere in the world -- including the war against terrorism,
the conflicts in Afghanistan and  Iraq , and a small U.S. role in
 Egypt , where a 40-member security force was sent to protect U.S.
citizens and property.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 