-- 
Speedier Approvals Sought by U.S. to Lure Overseas Investors

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-06-15T17:14:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-commerce-department-to-launch-bid-to-lure-more-investment.html
The Obama administration will begin
a government-wide effort to lure overseas investors by setting
up an office aimed at speeding the approvals needed to operate
in the U.S.  The worldwide staff of the Commerce Department will be
tapped to attract investors, according to a statement today. The
head of the office, called SelectUSA, also will help companies
with permits or grant applications stalled in the federal-
approval process.  “We’re going to cut red tape for companies that want to
invest or expand in the  United States ,” Commerce Secretary Gary Locke said today at a Washington event sponsored by the  Business
Roundtable . “It’s becoming increasingly difficult for
individual states to go head-to-head with countries around the
world.”  The administration’s goal won backing from the Business
Roundtable, which had sparred with White House over health care
and financial overhaul legislation and a spate of new
environmental regulations.  “We want to reverse the perception that the U.S.
relationship with companies doing business here is a contentious
one,”  John Engler , the head of the Business Roundtable, said
today. The Washington-based group represents chief executive
officers of companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Microsoft Corp.  The initiative also is aimed at persuading American
companies to stay or expand at home.  SelectUSA Prodding Powers  The Commerce Department already runs the Invest in America
office, which coordinates contacts with overseas investors.
SelectUSA, established in an order issued today by President
 Barack Obama , will have authority to prod other agencies on
lagging applications, according to the department.  Critics say the administration should try to eliminate the
underlying high corporate tax rate and environmental barriers
rather than help companies circumvent them.  “It’s better than nothing, but it begs the question of why
not fix the real problems?” Dan Mitchell, a senior fellow at
the Washington-based  Cato Institute , which supports a limited
role for government.  U.S. foreign direct investment fell to less than $200
billion in 2010 after peaking at $328 billion in 2008, according
to a study  released  yesterday by the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  