-- 
U.S. Industrial Production Rises Less Than Forecast on Drop in Utilities

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-06-15T13:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/u-s-industrial-production-rose-0-1-in-may.html
Industrial production in the U.S.
rose less than forecast in May, restrained by a slump in utility
output and shortages of auto parts from  Japan .  Output at factories, mines and utilities rose 0.1 percent
after no change the prior month, figures from the  Federal
Reserve  showed today. Economists projected a 0.2 percent gain,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Factory production climbed 0.4 percent, led by the biggest gain
in business equipment output in four months.  Manufacturing may pick up in coming months as disruptions
of parts supplies ease after the earthquake and tsunami in
Japan. Overseas demand and business spending may also spur sales
of U.S.-made equipment and technology, helping bolster the
industry that’s been a mainstay of the recovery.  “Production levels will likely drag along through June and
we’re likely to see more of a rebound in July and August,”  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at Unicredit Group in  New York ,
said before the report. “We will see some moderate acceleration
in growth in the second half.”  Figures from the Fed today showed manufacturing in New York
state unexpectedly contracted this month. The so-called Empire
State Index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and
southern  Connecticut , dropped to minus 7.8, the lowest since
November, from 11.9 in May. Readings less than zero signal
contraction.  Stocks fell after the reports, with the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index declining 0.9 percent to 1,276.01 at 9:32 a.m. in New
York. Treasuries rose, pushing down the yield on the benchmark
10-year note to 3.07 percent from 3.10 percent late yesterday.  Consumer Prices  The Labor Department said today that the consumer-price
index increased 0.2 percent in May. The so-called core measure,
which excludes more volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.3
percent, the most since July 2008.  Forecasts for industrial production in May ranged from a
drop of 0.4 percent to a gain of 0.6 percent, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 79 economists.  Factory output, which makes up 75 percent of the total,
climbed 0.4 percent, while production of automobiles and parts
fell 1.5 percent, the Fed report showed. Excluding autos,
manufacturing rose 0.6 percent, the strongest gain this year.  Production of business equipment jumped 1.2 percent after a
0.3 percent decrease. Output of computers and electronic
products rose 1.4 percent after no change.  Capacity Utilization  Capacity utilization, which measures the amount of a plant
that is in use, held at 76.7 percent in May. The gauge compares
with the average of 79.5 percent over the past 20 years.  Mining production, which includes oil drilling, increased
0.5 percent. Utility output dropped 2.8 percent after a 2.4
percent gain a month earlier.  Cars and light trucks sold at an 11.8 million annual rate
in May, the slowest in eight months and down from a 13.1 million
pace for April, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Some of the drop in demand last month reflected a shortage
of Japanese-made vehicles after the earthquake and tsunami
disrupted supplies. With inventories running low, companies
offered smaller discounts, which also deterred buyers.  Motor-vehicle assemblies rose to 7.88 million units in May,
the second-lowest this year, today’s report showed.  ‘Slower Recovery’  “It’s a slower recovery, but we were in the deepest hole
we’ve ever been in,” Ford Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally
said in a June 7 Bloomberg Television interview. “The slope
that we’re on, with a 2 to 3 percent expansion this year and
increasing next year, is very reasonable growth.”  Manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of
the economy, is likely to keep bolstering economic growth as a
14 percent drop in the dollar against the currencies of major
trading partners in the past year makes American-made goods more
attractive abroad.  “The low dollar means we can export, so we are actually
fundamentally growing globally from the U.S.,” Andrew Liveris,
president and chief executive officer at Dow Chemical Co., said
during a June 2 conference call. “We see strong growth drivers
in emerging regions.  China  is the locus of growth.”  Moline, Illinois-based  Deere & Co. (DE) , the world’s largest
maker of  farm equipment , said on May 18 that earnings will be
$2.65 billion in the fiscal year through October, more than the
$2.5 billion forecast in February.  Deere & Co.  The manufacturer’s forecast includes a negative impact of
about $300 million in sales and $70 million in operating profit
because of disruptions from Japan. Global demand for agriculture
and construction equipment will drive profits, the company said.  Recent data have pointed to slowing growth at factories and
the economy. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing
index fell more than projected in May to the lowest level since
September 2009, while factory payrolls fell in May and overall
job growth was the slowest in eight months.  “Manufacturing activity continued to expand in most parts
of the country, though a number of Districts noted some slowing
in the pace of growth,” the Fed said last week in its Beige
Book report covering April and May.  The  U.S. economy  began 2011 on a weaker note, growing at a
1.8 percent annual rate in the first three months of this year
after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the fourth quarter,
according to Commerce Department figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  