-- 
UBS Hires Citigroup’s Doug Brengel, Bill Frauenhofer for Technology Group

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-06-15T15:08:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ubs-says-citigroup-s-brengel-frauenhofer-join-techonology-group.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
hired Doug Brengel and Bill Frauenhofer from   Citigroup Inc. (C)  to
head its technology group in the latest exchange of executives
between the two firms.  Brengel will become a managing director and chairman of
technology banking and Frauenhofer will join as a managing
director, the Zurich-based company said in an internal memo.
Both held similar positions at Citigroup. Brengel will be based
in  Los Angeles  and Frauenhofer in  San Francisco , UBS said. They
will report to Mark Zanoli and start in late August.  Earlier this month, New York-based Citigroup hired four
executives from UBS, including Cary Kochman, global co-head of
mergers and acquisitions, and James Glerum, head of Asian
industrials. UBS has lost at least 50 dealmakers from its U.S.
investment bank after cutting its bonus pool during the 2008
credit crisis.  UBS also appointed Stephen Cruise and Jonathan Herbst as
co-heads of Midwest coverage and the firm’s Chicago investment-
banking unit, the company said today in a separate internal
memo. Cruise and Herbst will report to Aryeh Bourkoff, head of
 investment banking  for the Americas, according to the memo.  Cruise, who joined UBS in 2004, is a managing director and
led the investment-banking coverage for some of the firm’s top
Midwest clients in the manufacturing industry, according to the
memo. Herbst is a managing director in the firm’s technology,
media and telecommunications group, the memo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  