-- 
Ukraine Needs More Rain for Crops, EU Monitoring Unit Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-06-15T17:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ukraine-needs-more-rain-for-crops-eu-monitoring-unit-says-1-.html
Ukraine, once the world’s largest
barley exporter, is “a new area of concern” for world
agricultural output because of a lack of rain at a time when
crops need water, the European Union’s Monitoring Agricultural
Resources unit said in a report.  The country may get rain in the period through June 23
after low precipitation in May, the EU unit, known as MARS, said
in a  bulletin  issued today.  France , where drought has cut
yields, “remains critical,” the crop forecaster said.  Wheat prices have fallen 6 percent this month on
expectations that increased exports from Russia and Ukraine in
the coming season will make up a decline in shipments from the
U.S. and France, the biggest exporters in the 2010-11 season.  “At the beginning of June the dry period in western  Europe 
ended,” MARS said. “Ukraine appears as a new area of concern
with lacking precipitation while crops have a high water
demand. Here the dry period that started in May continued.”  EU soft-wheat yields will fall to 5.45 metric tons per
hectare (2.47 acres) this year from 5.56 tons in 2010, MARS
said. Last month, the unit had forecast EU farmers would reap
5.6 tons of soft wheat per hectare.  Yield Outlook  The unit said it cut the average EU yield outlook for all
cereals other than spring barley, which remained stable, from
its May 17 report on “unfavorable weather” in France,  Germany 
and the U.K., the 27-nation bloc’s biggest wheat producers.  Rain this month and in the next eight days will help
relieve dry conditions in the three countries as well as
northern  Italy , the crop forecaster said.  “This rainfall will not entirely compensate, especially in
France, for the long-lasting dry spell depleting soil
reservoirs,” MARS said.  “The situation in France remains critical,” the unit
said. “Small amounts of rain are forecast to fall with one or
two days mainly towards the end of the forecast period, but not
in the main agricultural areas.”  Spain is having a “very promising year” for crops, and
yields for the country were raised from a month ago, MARS said.  Soft-wheat yields in France, the EU’s biggest producer,
are forecast to slide 11 percent to 6.42 tons per hectare, the
EU unit said.  Spain ’s soft-wheat productivity will rise 13
percent to 3.8 tons per hectare, according to MARS.  Average EU barley yields are forecast to be 4.25 tons per
hectare, compared with 4.33 tons in 2010. Yields for durum
wheat, the hard variety used to make pasta and couscous, may
slide to 3.11 tons per hectare from 3.15 tons.  Corn yields in the EU are forecast at 6.85 tons per
hectare, down from 7.05 tons last year, MARS said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 