-- 
Ukraine May Have Barley Export Quotas This Summer, Survey Says

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-06-15T12:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ukraine-may-have-barley-export-quotas-this-summer-survey-says.html
Ukraine may restrict grain exports,
which it will start taxing next month, in an attempt to keep a
lid on domestic prices, a Bloomberg survey shows.  The cabinet may set quotas for barley exports as early as
this summer in the northern hemisphere after plantings shrank
and dry weather affected yields, five out of eight analysts,
producers and traders said in a survey conducted by Bloomberg.  Three researchers said Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov ’s
cabinet may also set a quota or raise the tax for milling wheat
depending on how the crop develops this summer. Corn is not
expected to be restricted after the current grain export duty on
it ends on Dec. 31.  Last week, President  Viktor Yanukovych  introduced a grain
export duty of 9 percent for wheat, 12 percent for corn and 14
percent for barley for the July 1 to Dec. 31 period. The move
came after grain export quotas, introduced in October when dry
weather reduced the country’s crop by around 6 million metric
tons, were lifted on June 4.  “Naturally there might be quotas for barley again,” said
Anastasia Ivasenko, a grain analyst from Dnipropetrovsk-based
researcher APK Inform. “Administrative methods are most likely
to be tough. Should there be insufficient supplies or should
prices be unsuitable, they will limit exports.”  The government will probably use grain export quotas from
Jan. 1 to regulate exports, Maria Kolesnik, an analyst at Kiev-
based consultancy AAA said, adding there is concern about
milling wheat. “The government is not worried about FOB price,
it is worried about babushkas at bread stores not seeing a two-
or threefold increase in price tag for bread,” Kolesnik said.  Plantings Fall  Barley plantings declined by 8.1 percent to 2.5 million
hectares (6.2 million acres) this year, according to the
statistics office. Ukraine’s  Agriculture Ministry  estimates a
total grain harvest of 45 million tons if the weather is good.  Early spring grains, especially barley, will likely lose
yields after dry weather in May and June, according to the
 Hydrometeorology Center ’s head of agriculture department Tetiana
Adamenko. The center expects a total grain harvest of 42 million
tons to 43 million tons.  Exports for the year beginning July 1 may be as much as 18
million tons, Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said on
June 2. Shipments will make up 8 million tons from July 1
through to the end of December, when the grain export duty is in
force, the minister said.  Export Demand  Ukraine’s grain exports for the year to date are seen at
10.5 million tons, according Liza Malyshko, an analyst at
researcher UkrAgroConsult in Kiev. Export demand in the year
ahead will be unchanged or slightly lower than 2010-11, she
said.  Producers are “not rushing” to sell grain even after
limits were removed, said Nikolay Vernitsky, director of Kiev-
based researcher ProAgro. The market will have to adjust to the
tax procedures, and it will cut grain exports, he said.
Shipments are traditionally slow in summer.  Ukraine will tax its grain export for the first time since
it obtained independence from the  Soviet Union  in 1991. The
government wants to add up to 1.790 billion hryvnia ($220
million) to revenues from the tax before 2012, according to
state budget changes approved yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  