-- 
UN Paper Calls for Kyoto Carbon Credits to Be Valid After 2012

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-06-15T13:42:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/un-paper-calls-for-kyoto-carbon-credits-to-be-valid-after-2012.html
A United Nations panel meeting to
discuss  emissions trading  after 2012 suggested that credits
issued before then could be used in subsequent years as nations
continue to disagree on extending the Kyoto Protocol.  The UN spinoff group on emissions trading and the project-
based mechanisms published a discussion paper today at the UN
climate talks in Bonn. It recommended that so-called Emission
Reduction Units issued to carbon-reducing projects and Assigned
Amount Units issued in the five years from 2008 to governments
that signed the treaty, may be used after 2012.  The lack of agreement on Kyoto emissions trading after 2012
has sapped confidence among traders and investors, including the
European emissions trading system, which allows UN credits for
compliance. Delegates from almost 200 countries are meeting in
Bonn this week to advance negotiations over a global climate
treaty to succeed the  Kyoto Protocol .  Discussions cover issues such as mandatory commitments to
cut emissions by developed countries, voluntary actions by
 developing countries , and the development of new market
mechanisms to reduce carbon emissions. The Bonn talks will pave
the way for the annual Conference of Parties, the official
decision-making body of the UN Framework Convention on  Climate
Change , which meets from Nov. 28 to Dec. 9 in Durban,  South
Africa .  The spin-off group also proposed that Certified Emission
Reductions from projects in developing countries could continue
to be created and used for trading after 2012. It suggested that
the work of the executive board, the regulator of the Clean
Development Mechanism, should continue after 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alessandro Vitelli at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net  