-- 
Brazil’s Mundial Jumps on Takeover Speculation, Refinancing

-- B y   F e l i p e   F r i s c h   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-06-15T20:47:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/mundial-shares-surge-on-takeover-speculation-refinancing-plan.html
Brazilian consumer-products maker
Mundial SA Produtos de Consumo rallied in  Sao Paulo  on
speculation it will be bought amid a plan to refinance debt.  Mundial’s voting shares jumped 52 percent to 2.70 reais at
the 4:15 p.m. New York time close of trading, extending a three-
day advance to 225 percent. The preferred shares gained 14
percent to 1.03 reais and are up 32 percent since June 10. Since
the end of the first quarter, the stock classes have risen
eleven-fold and threefold, respectively.  The company, which makes cutlery and beauty products, last
month carried out a six-for-one stock split to boost liquidity.
The split, announced April 5, may have spurred speculation
Mundial is seeking a buyer, said Ricardo Bellens, a partner at
Adinvest Consultoria, a Rio de Janeiro-based equity advisory
firm. The operation is part of a plan to drum up market interest
in Mundial, Chief Executive Officer Michael Lenn Ceitlin said in
an e-mail.  “A company doesn’t increase liquidity like this unless
it’s to sell the company or a brand, or to carry out a capital
increase,” Bellens said. While a sale is unlikely, “the market
is speculating,” he said.  Under Brazilian regulation, a potential bidder must offer
to buy out minority holders of Mundial’s voting shares. The rule
doesn’t apply to the preferred shares.  ‘Anomalous’ Movements  Ceitlin said the company hasn’t received a takeover
proposal, declining to comment further on the possibility of a
sale. He also said he had no information to explain any
“anomalous” share movements.  Mundial said May 13 it plans to sell as much as $100
million of eurobonds by October to restructure its debt,
lowering its financing costs by 15 million reais to 20 million
reais a year.  Ceitlin today said the offering is planned for September
and will help finance the company’s growth. Mundial will also
sell non-operational properties to amortize its debt more
quickly, he said.  The bond-sale plan is helping the stock, according to a
June 14 report from Felipe Miranda and Rodolfo Amstalden,
analysts at Empiricus Research in Sao Paulo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Felipe Frisch in Sao Paulo at 
 ffrisch1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  