-- 
Hungary to Breach EU Budget Limit, Needs Further Steps, IMF Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-06-15T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/hungary-to-breach-eu-budget-limit-needs-further-steps-imf-says.html
Hungary should implement more
ambitious spending cuts and scrap special industry taxes as it
may breach the European Union’s budget-deficit limit next year,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Hungary, which received a 20 billion-euro ($29 billion)
bailout from the IMF and the EU in 2008, may have a budget gap
of 3.3 percent of gross domestic product next year, above the
bloc’s 3 percent limit, the IMF said today in a statement. A
lack of detail over “key” fiscal measures raises
implementation risks, the IMF said, echoing a European
Commission recommendation last week that the Cabinet should take
more steps to control its finances.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government in March announced
a three-year plan to cut spending, which the Cabinet estimates
will result in savings of 550 billion forint ($3 billion) next
year and 900 billion forint in 2013 and 2014. The government is
relying on revenue from extraordinary industry taxes and the
effective nationalization of private pension funds to plug
budget holes last year and this year.  “While the size of the package and its emphasis on
expenditures are appropriate, directors saw scope for improving
the nature of the measures,” the IMF said in the statement.
“They recommended replacing levies on specific sectors, in
particular on the banking sector, with more ambitious
expenditure consolidation in areas such as civil service reform
and the restructuring of public transport companies.”  Hungary ’s health and pension revamps lack detail and there
are implementation risks on local government changes, the IMF
said, adding that much of the fiscal achievements during the
economic program supported by the bailout had been “unwound”
since it was terminated last year.  “The recovery from the crisis has been modest and
important vulnerabilities remain,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest 
 agergely@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  