-- 
Hungarian Inflation Rate Drops to Lowest Since September

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-06-15T08:50:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/hungarian-inflation-rate-drops-to-lowest-since-september-1-.html
Hungarian inflation slowed for the
first time in five months in May as a moderation in food-price
gains and household energy prices pushed the gauge closer to the
central bank’s target.  Inflation dropped to 3.9 percent from 4.7 percent in April,
the lowest since September, the Budapest-based statistics office
said today. That compares with a 4.4 percent median estimate of
16 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Prices rose 0.2 percent from
April.  “Inflationary pressures may fade faster than what the
market is expecting, particularly due to weak consumer demand,”
 Elisabeth Andreew , strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen,
wrote in an e-mailed note. “We see a risk that policy makers
may turn more dovish in the months ahead and we also see a risk
of a rate cut at the turn of the year.”  Hungarian central bankers, who target an inflation rate of
3 percent, on May 16 voted unanimously to leave the benchmark
interest rate unchanged at 6 percent for a fourth month after
policy makers said inflation may slow to their target by the end
of next year if rates are left at the current level.  Hungarian bonds gained, pushing the four-year yield to the
lowest in more than a month. The yield on government notes
maturing in February 2015 fell to 6.532 percent by 10:37 a.m. in
Budapest, the lowest since May 6, from 6.628 percent yesterday.
The forint gained 0.1 percent against the euro to trade at
265.28 at 10:17 a.m. in Budapest.  “The primary reason behind the lower figure is the base
effect, namely the fact that in May 2010 we saw a significant
rise in household gas and fuel prices and this wasn’t the case
this year,” statistician Borbala Minary told reporters. “At
the same time, food prices rose at a slower pace than in the
previous months of 2011.”  Food prices rose 8.6 percent from a year earlier after a
9.4 percent gain in April while household energy prices were up
4.4 percent, compared with a rise of 8.4 percent. Fuel prices
dropped 0.3 percent on the month.  Hungary may need to raise the benchmark interest rate if
data suggest a greater pass-through from cost shocks, the rate-
setting Monetary Council said in April. Subdued domestic demand
will support a slowdown in inflation, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 Ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  