-- 
Huntsman Money Made in China Tests Obama Envoy’s 2012 Hopes

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-06-15T17:20:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/huntsman-money-made-in-china-challenges-obama-envoy-s-white-house-hopes.html
An early 1970s photo in a  Huntsman
Corp. (HUN)  annual  report  shows a smiling young Jon Huntsman Jr.
holding a dozen eggs in polystyrene packaging, an innovation
that helped make a fortune for the family business.  The chemical company and Huntsman name would later help the
family scion win Utah’s governorship, make him a
multimillionaire and position him for White House appointments,
including as President Barack Obama’s ambassador to China. The
company also is fodder for opponents as Huntsman prepares to
formally announce his Republican presidential bid next week.  Huntsman Corp.’s revenue in China surged 57 percent from
2009 to 2010 during his ambassadorship, almost two decades after
its entrance there, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Its
expansion in the world’s second-largest economy offers a target
for rivals when U.S. unemployment is shaping the 2012
presidential race.  “ China  has become a bigger and bigger issue in recent
elections, especially exporting jobs to China,” said  John Feehery , a Republican strategist in  Washington  who isn’t working
with any of the presidential campaigns. “If I were an
opposition researcher, I would have a field day with this.”  Tepid  job creation  is poised to be the top issue in the
campaign, with the economy struggling to gain strength amid 9.1
percent unemployment following the worst recession since the
1930s. Feehery said that environment could make recent comments
by Huntsman’s chief executive officer problematic.  Asia  Growth  “We now employ more people between China and  India  than we
do in North America, which is really quite phenomenal when you
consider that about 90 percent of our associates 10 years ago
were in  North America ,” CEO Peter Huntsman, 48, a younger
brother of the potential candidate, told an industry conference
on June 8.  He was referring to employment in all of Asia when he
mentioned those figures, said  Gary Chapman , a company spokesman.  “At Huntsman Corp., we have a rich history of creating
good American jobs and providing quality American product to the
rest of the world,” Chapman said in a statement. “Over the
years, Huntsman Corp. has grown from a small family business
into a global corporation that employs thousands of U.S.
employees.”  Huntsman Corp. had 2010 revenue of $9.25 billion and about
12,000 employees worldwide, with about 2,000 of those in the
U.S. Its chemicals and adhesives are used by a variety of
companies, including by  Boeing Co. (BA)  for its new 787 Dreamliner.
Before the company went public in 2005, it was the world’s
largest privately owned chemical producer.  Chinese History  Like many companies, Huntsman Corp. has placed greater
emphasis on China during the past decade. Now with a presence in
cities such as Beijing and  Shanghai , it has done business in the
country since at least 1992, when it opened a technical service
center, according to an April 2011 bond prospectus.  Its growth there has been through partnerships with Chinese
companies that are typically majority-owned by the government.
In May, weeks after Huntsman left his Beijing post to explore a
presidential bid, his family’s company entered into its latest
license agreement with a Chinese company.  An examination of Huntsman Corp. and its global expansion
illustrates both the benefits and potential liabilities for
Huntsman, 51, the eldest of nine children who parlayed the
family business into a political career.  Mandarin Speaker  He joined the company in 1982, progressing to general
manager of its international division before leaving in 1992 to
become President George H.W. Bush’s ambassador to  Singapore . He
returned as a vice chairman in 1993 and left again in 2001 as a
deputy U.S. trade representative in President  George W. Bush ’s
administration. From mid-2009 to April, he served Obama as
ambassador to China, calling on the Mandarin Chinese he learned
to speak as part of a Mormon mission in  Taiwan  during college.  Huntsman declined an interview request through a spokesman,
Tim Miller. “I am proud of my private-sector experience helping
to grow our family business into a successful, global enterprise
that has created thousands of high-paying American jobs,”
Huntsman said in a statement provided by Miller. “The company’s
global outreach brought capital back to America allowing it to
greatly expand the number of American employees.”  In a 2006 Bloomberg News interview, Peter Huntsman
predicted China sales would represent 15 percent to 20 percent
of total revenue by 2010. The reality didn’t quite live up to
those expectations; China revenue was 9.5 percent of company
sales in 2010, its annual report shows. Other chemical companies
also have experienced strong China growth. DuPont Co., for
example, saw its revenue for China and Hong Kong increase 51
percent from 2009 to 2010, Bloomberg data shows.  Big Mac Clamshell  In a March interview with Bloomberg News, Peter Huntsman,
who wasn’t made available for an interview for this story, said
he voted for Obama in 2008, while adding he thinks his brother
would make “an attractive candidate.” He said he’s as close to
his brother “as anyone except his wife.”  Huntsman Corp., based in  Salt Lake City  and with an
operations headquarters near Houston, started as a family
business in 1970 and remains one in many ways. Its chairman is
Jon Huntsman Sr., 73, who helped create the plastic egg carton
and later the Styrofoam clamshell invented for Big Mac
sandwiches sold by  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)   Huntsman Sr., who has given away hundreds of millions of
dollars to charities and institutions in Utah and elsewhere,
told the Chronicle of Philanthropy in 2008 that his net worth
was roughly $1.9 billion.  Family members and their foundation control 18.5 percent of
the company’s stock, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. Huntsman
Jr. divested his individual shares when the company went public.  Stock Struggles  Supporters have touted his business experience, even as
Huntsman Corp. has recorded a mixed performance.  After daily operating responsibilities moved from the
father to Peter Huntsman in 2000, one of the company’s commodity
businesses ran into financial difficulty amid a recession, heavy
debt and surges in natural gas prices that boosted the company’s
costs. It failed to make interest payments in 2001 and 2002 on
some of its bonds, and restructured its debt.  Its stock also hasn’t fared well since it went public at
$23 in February 2005, a month after Huntsman Jr. was sworn in as
governor of  Utah  for the first time. The stock closed yesterday
at $17.72. Chapman said that price reflected “a very strong
recovery” from its low of $2.11 in February 2009 after a merger
deal collapsed.  Price-Fixing Lawsuit  One of the company’s units, Huntsman International, on May
26 agreed to pay $33 million to settle a lawsuit alleging it and
other companies sought to fix the price of urethane chemicals
sold in the U.S. from 1999 through 2004, Chapman said in a
statement. The company admitted no wrongdoing.  Huntsman Jr., who was an executive of the company for most
of the period covered by the allegations, “had no day-to-day
involvement with the business” involved in the lawsuit, Chapman
said.  As he makes public appearances, Huntsman Jr. often
describes a working-class upbringing, complete with a story
about how he met his wife when they were working at a  Marie
Callender’s Restaurant  in Salt Lake City during high school.  “This dishwasher caught the eye of the salad girl,” he
said during a May 7 commencement speech in  South Carolina .  Before he graduated from high school, his father was a
millionaire, at least on paper. Huntsman Jr. is now worth at
least $15 million, according to a financial-disclosure form he
completed in June 2009. The federal form, the most recent
available, requires only broad ranges for assets values.  No Self-Financing  Huntsman Jr. has said he won’t use his personal fortune to
finance a presidential bid.  “Unless you can raise it legitimately, you don’t win,” he
told reporters on May 6 in South Carolina.  During his first successful run for governor in 2004, he
loaned himself $275,000 and received contributions from family
members, according to news reports. His family name was his most
valuable asset.  “It made it much easier for him to raise money,” said
 Matthew Burbank , a University of Utah political science
professor who has followed Huntsman’s career.  Huntsman Sr., a frequent contributor to Republican
campaigns, was close friends with former Senator Jake Garn of
Utah and also worked in the Nixon administration for H.R. Haldeman, the White House chief of staff who would later serve
18 months in prison for his role in the Watergate scandal.  Bipartisan Giving  The family patriarch has shown bipartisanship in his
political giving, sending checks to the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of  Nevada 
and Democratic Representative Charles Rangel of  New York ,
campaign-finance  records  show.  In the race for the Republican nomination, the challenge
posed by those donations would pale in comparison to Huntsman
Jr.’s most recent employment as the president’s envoy.  “As his good friends in China might say, he is truly the
yin to my yang,” Obama said in March. “And I’m going to make
sure that every primary voter knows it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago, at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  