-- 
Turkey Spurns Assistance as Syria’s Attack on Town Forces More to Flee

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-06-15T11:03:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/turkey-spurns-assistance-as-syria-s-attack-on-town-forces-more-to-flee.html
Turkey  has turned down offers of
international aid to help it cope with an influx of Syrian
refugees that has increased since President Bashar al-Assad’s
forces stepped up an attack on the town of Jisr al-Shughour.  Syrians have been crossing the border for a week to escape
the violence, with the Turkish state-run Anatolia news agency
putting the total in Turkey at 8,421 today, up from 122 on June
8. The military used troops and tanks to seal off Jisr al-
Shughour and other areas of the north and east, the  Associated
Press  reported, citing activists and witnesses. Residents of
Maarat al-Nuhman began fleeing today as the army prepared an
assault on the town, Al Arabiya television reported.  The United Nations Refugee Agency, or UNHCR, the European
Union and the U.S. have offered to assist in aiding the
refugees. Turkey’s Red Crescent can currently accommodate about
8,785 people. Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , who
has promised to keep the border open, talked with Assad
yesterday and expressed apprehension about the refugee inflow.  “I’m astounded that UNHCR is offering to help and Turkey
says we don’t need it,” said Kemal Kirisci, a professor of
international relations at Bogazici University in Istanbul.
“Maybe this stems from  Syria ’s special status and Turkey
doesn’t want to involve the international community, but this is
an international crisis.”  Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu will visit the
camps holding Syrian refugees on his country’s southern border
today, Anatolia said.  Syrians Visit  Thousands of Assad supporters today gathered on the Mazeh
boulevard, one of the main arteries that cuts through Damascus.
Organizers unfurled a giant Syrian flag that stretched 2.3
kilometers (1.4 miles) in the area, which houses colleges,
government offices and embassies. State television showed
Syrians chanting pro-government slogans.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem will arrive in the
capital today and Assad’s envoy Hassan Ali Turkmani, former
defense minister, will meet Erdogan later today, according to
state-run TRT television and Anatolia.  Protests against Assad’s rule began in mid-March, part of a
wave of demonstrations across the  Middle East  and North Africa
this year that have unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .
Attacks on Syrian protesters have escalated since the U.S. and
European Union placed sanctions on senior officials last month.  Numbers May Hold  The U.S. is ready to help Turkey, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said during a June 13 briefing, when he
described the developments in Syria as “abhorrent.” Raphael
Brigandi, a spokesman for the European Commission, said Turkey
is able to care for the refugees and that the EU stands ready to
help with humanitarian aid, Anatolia reported yesterday.  “We are currently meeting the needs of Syrians coming to
Turkey,” Deputy Prime Minister Cemil Cicek said yesterday in a
televised news conference. “Our expectation is for the number
of refugees to hold at current levels and for the situation to
be resolved before there’s a need for the  United Nations  or
other international organizations to step in.”  A total of 1,297 Syrian civilians and 340 members of the
army and security forces have been killed since the protests
started, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said today on
its website. Most of the inhabitants of Jisr al-Shughour have
fled, according to the London-based group.  Opposition supporters and local residents have said the
members of the security forces were executed in the northwestern
town of 50,000 after refusing to fire on pro-democracy
protesters, and described random shootings and the torching of
fields by Assad’s troops.  The  government met late yesterday to discuss Jisr al-
Shughour, accusing “terrorist gangs” of leading the killings,
the Syrian Arab News Agency said. The government called on
residents of the northwestern town and neighboring villages to
return, and instructed the Syrian Arab Red Crescent to contact
its Turkish counterpart to assist, according to SANA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 