-- 
Vietnam Cheaper-Than-China Appeal Diminishes as Labor Strikes

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-16T04:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/vietnam-cheaper-than-china-appeal-diminishes-as-labor-strikes.html
Japanese motor maker Minebea Co.
chose  Cambodia  over  Vietnam  to build a plant for 5,000 workers
in a sign growing labor disputes are hurting Vietnam’s appeal as
a low-cost alternative to China.  “A strike would be trouble,” Yasunari Kuwano, a spokesman
at Tokyo-based Minebea, said of the $62 million plant, which
will make electric motors for appliances and digital equipment.
“Labor is the key focus for us in choosing Cambodia. We need
reliable labor.”  As Minebea broke ground last month in  Phnom Penh , London-
based cable maker  Volex Group Plc (VLX)  and Japanese lingerie company
 Wacoal Holdings Corp. (3591)  were among investors in Vietnam that faced
illegal wildcat strikes. Workers are demanding better pay after
the highest inflation rate in Asia hurt their purchasing power.  The strikes have dented Vietnam’s 25-year-old goal of
attracting foreign investors to set up manufacturing hubs by
offering a reliable workforce with minimum wages now half those
of  China . Planned foreign direct investment into Vietnam fell 48
percent in the first five months of 2011, to $4.7 billion.  “The nation is at a critical crossroads,” said Victoria Kwakwa in Hanoi, the  World Bank ’s country director in the
Southeast Asian nation. “Vietnam can’t assume that FDI will
continue. Money can go elsewhere.”  Inflation Challenge  Inflation quickened to a 29-month high of 19.8 percent in
May, a level the World Bank called “intolerable” in a report
this month. The  development bank , which expects inflation to
peak this quarter and then ease to 15 percent by year-end, said
Vietnam must stick to monetary tightening policies until the
rate is at least halved.  Soaring prices and industrial unrest have given Vietnam the
worst-performing stock market and currency in Asia in the past
year. The VN Index of shares has declined about 12.8 percent in
the period, and the dong has slid 7.6 percent against the dollar.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government in March
switched its emphasis to fighting inflation rather than stoking
economic expansion, and has cut its 2011 growth target to 6
percent from as much as 7.5 percent. With credit-rating
companies lowering the nation’s sovereign-debt grade in part on
weaknesses in economic policymaking, some foreign direct
investors are wary of making a long-term bet on Vietnam.  Srithai Superware PCL (SITHAI) , a Bangkok-based company that makes
tableware, this month suspended plans for a $5 million expansion
at its plant in southern Vietnam because of “economic
instability,” said Santi Sakgumjorn, general director of the
Vietnamese unit. The company said it will set up a subsidiary in
neighboring Laos.  ‘No Confidence’  “In the short term, we have no confidence in the economic
situation in Vietnam,” Sakgumjorn said in an e-mail. The
factory has been hindered by rising production costs after two
salary increases this year, he said.  Vietnam’s workers say they have little choice but to strike
as costs rise. At an industrial park in Hanoi, factory worker Le
Kien scanned job openings, looking for better pay, after his
shift at a plant that assembles cables used in Honda Motor Co.
and Yamaha Motor Co. motorcycles.  “The price of everything -- food, gas, electricity -- has
gone up by more than my pay rise,” said Kien, 24, whose monthly
salary is equivalent to $87. “I can’t even afford to start a
family. I wouldn’t have enough to buy milk for my baby.”  That’s even after Kien and most of his 500 colleagues went
on an illegal strike in April and won a 13 percent pay increase.
The Taiwanese firm he works for had already boosted salaries in
January, he said.  Yamaha’s Halt  Labor disputes have hit local units or suppliers of
companies such as Yamaha, Panasonic Corp., and Adidas AG. Yamaha
was forced to halt production of motorbikes in  Hanoi  when 4,000
employees downed tools in March. The workers were given a pay
raise to return to work, Tokyo-based spokesman Shinichiro Irie
said.  Vietnam had 336 strikes in the first four months, according
to Vietnam’s General Confederation of Labor. That’s on course to
beat the 2008 record of 762. Many are wildcat stoppages, which
lack legal authorization, according to the Geneva-based
International Labour Organization.  “Every day, somewhere in the country, there is a strike,”
said Youngmo Yoon, a Vietnam labor specialist for the ILO.
“Most are being organized by workers spontaneously.” In many
cases, the workers win higher wages, he said.  Biggest Increase  Vietnamese salaries are expected to rise nearly 12 percent
this year, the highest gain in  Asia  Pacific and almost double
the regional average, according to ECA International’s Salary
Trends Survey. Vietnam raised the minimum wage by 14 percent
last month.  “It’s a vicious cycle,” said  Prakriti Sofat , an economist
at  Barclays Capital  in  Singapore . “Higher inflation, unhappy
workers strike, businesses raise wages, then pass costs to
consumers.”  Some companies continue to invest in Vietnam, where 60
percent of the 87 million population is under 35 years old and
minimum wages, at $85 per month on a purchasing-power parity
basis, are still the second-lowest among Asian economies as
measured by the ILO in 2009. Only  Bangladesh  was lower, while
China’s monthly minimum wage was $173. The Vietnamese government
is targeting pledges of $20 billion in foreign
direct investment into Vietnam this year.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the world’s largest producer of thin-film
solar panels, plans to invest an initial $300 million in a
factory in southern Vietnam. Nokia Oyj, the Finnish maker of
mobile phones, said earlier this year it plans to open a 200
million-euro ($287 million) plant near Hanoi in 2012 to produce
low-end handsets.  Earning Pressure  For companies that do operate in the country, rising wages
will put pressure on profits, said Alan Pham, chief economist
for VinaCapital Investment Management Ltd., the biggest  fund
manager  in Vietnam.  “It all adds to the negative impact on the psychology of
the investor,” Pham said. A decline in foreign investment is
particularly troubling because it could worsen the current
account deficit, increasing pressure on the dong, he said.  Only 16 of the 284 companies on the Ho Chi Minh Stock
Exchange have seen their share prices rise in 2011.  Almost a third of strikes this year have been at units of
South Korean companies, according to Vietnam’s labor
confederation. The bulk has occurred at garment factories, said
Kim Soon Ok, director of the Korean Chamber of Commerce and
Industry in  Ho Chi Minh City . Many owners were caught off guard
by the work stoppages, which delayed shipments and resulted in
“huge losses,” she said.  ‘Grave Risk’  Labor unrest in Vietnam is “a grave risk” to foreign
businesses, Bath, U.K.-based risk consulting company Maplecroft
Ltd. said in May. China’s productivity is 2.6 times greater than
Vietnam’s, while  Thailand ’s is 4.3 times higher, according to a
January report by Vietnam’s Ministry of Planning and Investment.
Compounded with labor strife, it’s an equation that may make
Vietnam less attractive to investors, said Maplecroft chief
executive officer Alyson Warhurst.  “Companies are looking to see whether Vietnam is able to
manage inflation and wage pressures, said Warhurst. “If Vietnam
mismanages it, multinationals have other alternatives. They can
go back to China. They can look elsewhere.”  --K. Oanh Ha and Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi. With assistance from
Nick Heath and Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi, Makiko Kitamura in
 Tokyo  and Suttinee Yuvejwattan in Bangkok. Editors: Adam Majendie, Chris Anstey, Anne Swardson  To contact the reporter on this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at   oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  