-- 
Virginia Men Live 15 Years Longer Than Mississippi’s in Study

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-06-15T14:37:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/virginia-men-live-15-years-longer-than-mississippi-s-in-study.html
A man in Fairfax County,  Virginia ,
can expect to live 15 years longer than one in Holmes County,
Mississippi, according to a study released today that
illuminates health disparities across the U.S.  A woman in Collier County,  Florida , has 12 years on a woman
in Holmes, in the Mississippi Delta region of the southern
state, said researchers at the  Institute for Health Metrics and
Evaluation  at the University of  Washington  in  Seattle . The study
examined life expectancy in 3,147 U.S. counties through 2007.  Tobacco use, obesity and high blood pressure have dropped
life expectancy in Appalachia, the Deep South and northern
Texas, said  Christopher Murray , the institute director and a
report author. He called for more investment in public-health
programs and increased emphasis on primary care so doctors can
catch and control high  blood pressure  and cholesterol levels.  “Eighty-five percent of counties in the U.S. are not
keeping up with what’s possible for women, and 81 percent of
counties in the U.S. are not keeping up for men,” Murray said
in a telephone interview. He defined “what’s possible” as
progress made in the top 10 countries, including  Canada ,
Australia and  Japan , in extending human lifespan.  “It’s an achievable thing, to do better,” Murray said.
“The question is: what can we do to reorient our medical care
system and public health to get better outcomes?”  Health Spending  While the U.S. spends more per capita on medical care than
any other nation, it lags more than 30 others in  life
expectancy , said the report, which was done in collaboration
with Imperial College  London . More than $2.3 trillion was paid
out for health care in 2008, or about $7,681 per resident,
according to the  Kaiser Family Foundation , a research group in
 Menlo Park ,  California .  Before the University of Washington report, the most recent
available county data were from 1999, the researchers said.  “The first step for getting more effective primary care
and public health programs is to get local ownership of the
problem,” Murray said. “People need to know they’re not doing
that well. It’s easy to keep doing the same things if you don’t
have a benchmark.”  In Holmes,  Mississippi , men are expected to live to 65.9
years, and women, to 73.5, the study shows. That compares with
81.1 years for men in Fairfax, Virginia, near Washington, D.C.,
and 86 years for women in Collier, in the southwest part of
Florida, the longest in the country.  Highest Achievers  Counties in the northern Plains and on the East and West
Coasts saw the highest life expectancies, the study showed.
Overall, life expectancy at birth in 2007 was 75.6 years for men
and 80.8 years for women. The U.S. lags the top 10 countries in
life expectancy by 3.2 years, according to the report.  Between 1987 and 2007, life expectancy increased by 4.3
years for men and 2.4 years for women, the study showed. Some
counties, such as La Paz in  Arizona , saw expected life spans
shrink in that time.  Changes in life expectancy have been particularly poor for
women, Murray said. Between 2000 and 2007, 661 U.S. counties for
men fell more than five years behind the 10 best-performing
nations, compared with 1,373 for women, the report showed.  “It’s pretty dramatically worse for women,” he said.  Black men and women have lower life expectancies than
whites across all counties, the study showed. For black women,
life expectancy ranged from 69.6 years to 82.6 years, and for
men, from 59.4 years to 77.2 years. For white women, the range
is 75.5 years to 86.2 years, and for men, 66.8 years to 81.1
years, the data show.  The institute will next track specific causes of death to
the county level, Murray said. Focusing on preventable causes of
death, such as tobacco use, obesity, blood pressure and
modifiable parts of the diet, will help lead to improvements in
life expectancy, he said.  “These are major risks that account for a huge part of the
pattern we see, and for which there are known primary care or
public health strategies that can be used,” Murray said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 