-- 
Branson Could Cut Stake to Aid Virgin Atlantic Alliance Search

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-06-16T15:53:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/virgin-atlantic-pilots-want-to-avoid-strike-action-over-pay-ceo-says.html
Richard Branson  said he’s prepared
to reduce his stake in Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. to aid the
U.K. carrier’s search for an alliance partner.  Branson, who owns 51 percent of Virgin Atlantic stock, said
he’ll always be “a major shareholder” in the Crawley, England-
based company and that his preferred option is for Singapore
Airlines Ltd. to reduce its 49 percent holding.  “If I had to sell a few shares and get the right alliance
for Virgin Atlantic I think I would,” the entrepreneur said
today in an interview in Miami. “But it’s more likely that we’d
get Singapore Airlines to sell a few of their shares and that
would be the way we would sort it out going forward.”  Virgin Atlantic has hired Deutsche Bank AG to assess Virgin
Atlantic’s strategic options as rivals British Airways and
American Airlines boost cooperation on key trans-Atlantic
routes. Branson, who founded the carrier in 1984, has said that
while joining an alliance is a key consideration, it’s not yet
clear whether he will sell down his majority holding.  “We’re not necessarily going to tie up with anybody,” he
said today. “We’ve had approaches and if anything makes sense
will tie up. I will always remain a major shareholder in this
airline and all the people who’ve approached us have made it
very clear that fortunately they see me as an asset.”  ‘Own Terms’  Virgin Atlantic is “big enough and the brand is strong
enough” to be able to secure an agreement on its own terms, ,
Chief Executive Officer Steve Ridgway said earlier in an
interview on a flight to Miami, adding that the carrier is
continuing to review options.  “We would want to continue our strong distinctive
identity,” he said. “The attraction of Virgin Atlantic is its
brand and personality, so I don’t know why we would let it get
eclipsed or why anyone would want it to be eclipsed. We’ve got a
very special position and reputation in the markets we’re in.”  Virgin Atlantic needs to examine its strategy following
consolidation among major rivals in the U.S. and  Europe  and as
global alliances take on a more permanent nature, Ridgway said.  “We just want to make sure that if there are opportunities
out there, there might be some for us,” he said. These things
don’t happen in five minutes. It’s a pretty long process and
there are a lot of hurdles to clear.”  Entry into a global alliance won’t on its own affect
Virgin’s identity, he said. Alliance recruits “haven’t all
dumbed themselves down,” the CEO said, citing as an example
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., a member of the Oneworld grouping.  SkyTeam Interest  The SkyTeam alliance, led by  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and  Delta
Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , regards Virgin Atlantic as “an interesting
option,” given its “relevant position in the U.S.-U.K.
market,” Managing Director Michael Wisbrun said in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg News.  SkyTeam doesn’t disclose details of potential membership
until an agreement has been signed, he said.  The  Star Alliance , which includes  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and
 United Airlines , could also be an option for Virgin Atlantic.
Membership of Oneworld may be less likely given its rivalry with
British Airways at London’s Heathrow airport.  Ridgway said that while Virgin’s brand is its strongest
asset, value also lies in the carrier’s take-off and landing
positions at Heathrow, which operates at 99 percent capacity.  “You couldn’t replicate the position that we have at
Heathrow now, it being so full,” he said.  Cancun Route  Virgin Atlantic said today that it will begin a  new route 
from Europe’s biggest hub to Cancun in  Mexico  starting in June
next year. The service will operate twice a week.  Ridgway said that a “very good recovery” in demand
through most of last year has lost some of its “shine.”  “It went off a bit towards the end of the year,” he said.
“The snow didn’t help, then capacity came back in. Consumer
sentiment has also been tailing off a bit and since Christmas
we’ve had the fuel-price increase from the ‘Arab spring’.”  Sales and pricing are strongest in premium seats, said
Ridgway, who flew to Miami to commemorate the 25th anniversary
of Virgin’s first service there.  “The front is performing very well,” the executive said.
“Upper class is performing very well and it’s a good old
battleground in the back.”  Ridgway said he’s hopeful that a strike by Virgin Atlantic
flight crew over pay can be avoided. The  British Airline Pilots
Association  is currently polling members on industrial action at
the carrier, with the result of the ballot due next week.  “Everybody is very clear that we need to reach an
agreement,” he said. “Both sides are very motivated to get a
resolution. I know they don’t want to go on strike.”  Ridgway said there had been talks between the sides after
Balpa rejected an offer to lift wages 4 percent this year and 3
percent next year and in 2013. The union said May 16 it turned
down the proposal because pilots haven’t had a raise since 2008
and U.K. inflation is forecast to breach 5 percent this year.  A walkout could start in late June or early July, including
a one-week notice period required by U.K. labor law, should a
ballot that began on May 24 return a “yes” vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  