-- 
VIX Rises to 12-Week High as Stocks Retreat on Slowing Economy

-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-06-15T21:49:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/vix-rises-to-12-week-high-as-stocks-retreat-on-slowing-economy.html
The benchmark index for U.S. stock
options increased to the highest level since March 18 amid
reports that spurred concern the economy is slowing.  The VIX, as the  Chicago  Board Options Exchange Volatility
Index is known, rose 17 percent to 21.32 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York. The index measures the cost of using options as insurance
against declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, which slid
1.7 percent after lower-than-forecast data on manufacturing,
industrial production and homebuilder confidence added to signs
the economy is slowing.  Options traders are paying higher-than-average prices for
protection for the first time since Japan’s earthquake and
nuclear disaster three months ago, amid concern about Europe’s
debt crisis and signs the  U.S. economy  is cooling down. The VIX
hadn’t closed above 20.34, the average over its two-decade
history, since the week after, in part because the decline
didn’t include larger stock-market swings.  “The last few weeks, even with the  S&P 500  selling off,
the VIX was only up slightly, since most of the S&P moves were
relatively small,” said Jeremy Wien, head of VIX options
trading at Peak6 Capital Management LLC in Chicago. “But today
is now the second move of this magnitude in the last two weeks,
and combined with Europe fears, the market appears to have been
spooked.”  Global Stock Markets  Stocks from  Hong Kong  to London and  Sao Paulo  slumped today
as European officials failed to agree on a rescue plan for
Greece. Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  will name a new
government tomorrow and call a vote of confidence in parliament
as he seeks to pressure opposition lawmakers to back the
austerity plan that aims to secure a new bailout.  Benchmark gauges also fell as a report showed manufacturing
in the New York region unexpectedly shrank in June. Confidence
among U.S. homebuilders slumped in June to the lowest level in
nine months as executives turned more pessimistic on the outlook
for sales, a sign that any pickup will take time to develop.
Figures from the  Federal Reserve  showed that industrial
production in the U.S. rose less than forecast in May.  The S&P 500 moved in a 2 percent range between today’s
intraday high and low, the second time since the global stock
market rout after  Japan ’s earthquake that it swung that much.
The benchmark gauge moved in a 2.3 percent range on June 1, when
it fell the most since August after employers hired fewer
workers than forecast. The swing has averaged 1 percent over the
past three months, compared with the 2010 average of 1.4
percent.  July VIX futures climbed 9.1 percent to 20.95 today, while
August’s gained 6.5 percent to 21.25. The most-active VIX
options were July 25 calls, which rose 72 percent to $1.55. The
VIX hasn’t closed above 25 since March 17.  Implied volatility for 30-day options expiring in July
increased for 72 percent of all 3,647 stocks and indexes with
exchange-traded options in the U.S., according to a report from
 Henry Schwartz , president of Trade Alert LLC, a New York-based
provider of options-market data and analytics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  