-- 
Buenos Aires Airports Open as Volcanic Ash Clears; New Zealand Flights Cut

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-06-16T00:26:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/volcanic-ash-reaches-western-australia-endangers-south-american-soccer.html
Buenos Aires’s two main airports
resumed operations as winds and rain clear volcanic ash that
disrupted flights from  South America  to  Australia  and prompted
 Argentina  to declare an agricultural emergency.  Inbound and outbound flights from Ezeiza, the capital’s
major international airport, have been operating since 11 p.m.
New York time last night and Aeroparque, which handles mainly
domestic flights, is functioning normally, a press official for
 Aeropuertos Argentina 2000  SA said.  Damage to livestock and crops from ash that started spewing
from the Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanic complex in southern
Chile on June 4 led Argentina to declare an agriculture
emergency in the southern provinces of Rio Negro, Chubut and
Neuquen. The decision, announced on the presidential website
today, entitles farmers to financial aid.  “We’ll have a lot fewer animals because there won’t be
enough fodder for them, and wool will be of low quality,” said
Edgar Contin, vice president of the Rural Federation Society of
 Rio Negro , in a telephone interview. Ashes accumulated on
sheep’s coats are weighing them down so much that when they
“try to run they fall over and we have to help them get up
again.”  Sheep, Cattle  Contin said it’s too early to calculate losses among the
300,000 sheep and 30,000 head of cattle in Rio Negro. Parts of
the province are covered by 20 centimeters (eight inches) of
ash, he said.  The ash cloud in Argentina isn’t impacting the capital city
and instead is in the country’s south moving east, the
 Aeropuertos Argentina 2000  official said. Four of 73 planned
arrivals at the international airport were cancelled today and
five of 82 departures were called off, the official said.  Chile ’s airports are all operating normally, the country’s
aeronautical authority, known as DGAC, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The volcanic complex is still active as authorities have
observed on average four temblors an hour and an ash cloud as
long as three miles blowing in an east-southeasterly direction
from the area, Chile’s geological and mining authority, known as
Sernageomin, said in a  statement  on its website today.  “Eruptions continue and it is possible activity could
increase,” it said in the statement, characterizing the
eruptions as “moderate.”  Sernageomin also warned of mudslides and winds that could
cause ash to fall on populated areas in the country’s south.  Australia and New Zealand face a fifth day of disruptions
tomorrow because of ash blown across the Pacific.  Air New
Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  today joined  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  and Virgin
Australia in curtailing flights on concerns about volcanic ash,
which can clog  jet engines .  United Continental Holdings Inc, Delta Air Lines Inc. and
AMR Corp.’s  American Airlines  are operating normally to and from
Argentina, officials at all three airlines said.  Most flights out of Montevideo’s international airport,
including to Buenos Aires, are departing, according to the
airport’s  website .  The disruptions won’t affect the Copa America, South
America’s  continental soccer championship , which is due to start
in Argentina on July 1, according to a statement on the
 Argentine Soccer Association ’s website.  Lan Airlines  Santiago-based  Lan Airlines SA (LAN) ,  Latin America ’s biggest
airline by market value, has reopened flights to and from  Buenos
Aires  and has reestablished travel to Montevideo, it said in a
 statement  today on its website.  The airline, which is giving customers until Sept. 14 to
reschedule travel plans that have been impacted by
cancellations, temporarily scrapped trips to Auckland and Sydney
because of ash clouds, it said.  Lan yesterday afternoon restarted flights to the Argentine
cities of Cordoba and Mendoza, it said in a statement last
night.  Air NZ canceled all flights to Christchurch and points
further south until at least 7:30 a.m. tomorrow, it said on its
 website . Qantas extended a suspension of New Zealand flights
through to noon tomorrow. It plans to resume Perth and Tasmania
services tomorrow following shutdowns caused by the  ash cloud .  Virgin Australia and affiliates today halted Christchurch
and Wellington flights through 9 a.m. tomorrow and Perth flights
through noon tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  