-- 
Wal-Mart Plans to Accelerate Openings of Mid-Sized Stores

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-06-15T20:20:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/wal-mart-plans-to-accelerate-openings-of-walmart-markets-1-.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
biggest retailer, plans to accelerate the opening of its mid-
sized Walmart Market stores, said U.S. stores chief  Bill Simon .  Wal-Mart will open 90 to 100 of the stores in the year
ending in January, and have 300 by fiscal 2013, Simon said today
at the William Blair & Co. Growth Stock Conference in  Chicago .
In May, the retailer said it would roll out as many as 40 this
year.  Wal-Mart is expanding the format because its return on
investment in those stores, which now number 185, is comparable
to that of its larger supercenters, he said. Chief Executive
Officer Mike Duke is looking for ways to spur growth as surging
gasoline prices curb some customers’ shopping trips.  The Market stores are roughly the size of typical
supermarkets at about 42,000 square feet. The company also has
introduced smaller Walmart Express shops to appeal to customers
who want to complete their shopping quickly. Simon said he is
“pleased” with sales at the first two stores, which opened
this month. The retailer is opening a third Express store today
in  North Carolina .  Simon reiterated that Wal-Mart expects to post positive
comparable-store sales in the U.S. by the end of the year. Wal-
Mart has posted eight straight quarters of sales declines at
U.S. stores open at least a year. U.S. Walmart stores account
for almost two-thirds of total revenue.  Last month, Wal-Mart forecast that the change in U.S. same-
store sales in the second quarter ending July 29 would be
between negative 1 percent and positive 1 percent.  Wal-Mart, based in  Bentonville ,  Arkansas , fell 59 cents to
$52.32 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have declined 3 percent this year, while the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net  