-- 
Warner to Offer Pay-Per-View Films on Chinese Television

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-15T19:48:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/warner-to-offer-harry-potter-other-pay-per-view-films-in-china.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  will offer “ Harry
Potter  and the Deathly Hallows - Part 1” and other movies on-
demand to television viewers in China, an agreement that may
pave the way for similar moves by other Hollywood studios.  Warner Bros. Entertainment will work with You On Demand
Holdings Inc. to distribute films through on-demand and pay-per-
view formats this summer. New York-based You on Demand is
discussing similar agreements with other U.S. studios, Chief
Executive Officer Shane McMahon said in an interview.  The deal initially gives Warner Bros. access to 3 million
cable households in a nation where piracy has eroded movie
ticket and DVD sales for film studios. You On Demand has an
exclusive 20-year agreement to provide U.S. content to the pay-
TV arm of CCTV-6, the national movie channel of state
broadcaster  China  Central Television.  “The unbelievable amount of content that’s being watched
over there, much of it illegally, was a huge indicator to me
that there is a huge demand,” said McMahon, former executive
vice president for global marketing at  World Wrestling
Entertainment Inc. (WWE)   The agreement coincides with efforts in China to reduce
movie piracy, McMahon said. The  International Intellectual
Property Alliance  said in February that the problem was a
“serious” hindrance to U.S. companies in China.  You On Demand plans eventually to be available in all of
China’s 200 million cable television homes, McMahon said.  Time Warner, also the owner of the CNN and TNT cable
channels, fell 47 cents to $34.57 at 3:39 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. You On Demand, based in New York,
lost 1 cent to 10 cents in over-the-counter trading.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  