-- 
Warrant Required to Tap Smartphone Location Under House Bill

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-06-15T17:20:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/warrant-would-be-required-to-tap-smartphone-location-under-bill.html
U.S. law enforcement agencies would
be required to obtain a warrant to access location data from an
individual’s smartphone or navigation device under a bill
introduced in Congress today.  The proposed legislation also would require companies to
get consumers’ consent before selling or sharing their location
data, according to the measure, which is co-sponsored by Senator
 Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, and Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican.  “Going to a communications company and asking them to turn
somebody’s cell phone into a tracking device has a major privacy
impact,” Wyden said at a news conference today.  The bill, which was introduced in the House and Senate,
would require government agencies to obtain a warrant for
geolocation data in the same way they would for a wiretap under
current law, Wyden said.  Representative Bob Goodlatte, a Virginia Republican who
chairs the House Judiciary subcommittee on intellectual
property, competition and the Internet, also signed on as a co-
sponsor of the bill.  Lawmakers in recent months have increased scrutiny of how
smartphones and tablet computers collect information on users’
location and movements.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , makers of
software used in millions of smartphones, have defended their
handling of user location data at a series of congressional
hearings this year, saying they do not track individuals.  Leahy Bill  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment.
Google is reviewing the bill and had no immediate comment,
company spokesman Dan Martin said in an e-mail.  Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who chairs the
Senate Judiciary Committee, introduced similar legislation in
May, which would require the government to obtain a search
warrant to access location data gathered from wireless devices.
The Leahy bill did not address how companies should handle
mobile location data.  The Wyden-Chaffetz bill introduced today would bring “much
needed clarity” to legal issues around mobile location
information, Kevin Bankston, a senior staff attorney for the
Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based privacy-
rights group, said in an interview.  “There are dozens of published court decisions reaching
different conclusions on whether or when the government needs a
search warrant to track your cell phone or access records about
your past location,” Bankston said. “It’s the Wild West out
there.”  ‘Necessary Step’  The bill is a “long overdue reform,” Ed Black, president
of the Computer & Communications Industry Association, a
technology trade group representing companies including Google,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Facebook Inc., said in a statement posted on
the group’s website.  “This bipartisan, bicameral legislation would protect
people that use mobile devices from unnecessary government
intervention into their private lives,” Black said. “It would
provide new legal clarity for businesses facing various law
enforcement requests for customer data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  