-- 
WaMu Settlement With Shareholders Over Reorganization Said to Collapse

-- B y   S t e v e   C h u r c h   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-06-16T16:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/washington-mutual-reorganization-accord-with-shareholders-said-to-collapse.html
Washington Mutual Inc.’s agreement
with shareholders, aimed at ending opposition to the company’s
more than $7 billion reorganization proposal, has fallen apart,
three people with direct knowledge of the negotiations said.  The talks broke down over how to split up ownership of the
only WaMu unit that will survive the collapse of the company,
which is the former owner of the biggest  U.S. bank  to fail, one
person with knowledge of the negotiations said.  Creditors, the company and shareholders were trying to
complete a contract based on the outline of a settlement that
would have given a stake in the unit, a reinsurance company, to
shareholders.  WaMu and a committee of shareholders tried to give both
common and preferred shareholders a stake in the reinsurance
company. They were opposed by a group of preferred holders, who
were concerned about anything being given to holders of the
common stock, the person said.  “The equity committee and the debtors were trying to
provide for a distribution to both,” the person said. “The
debtor was hard set on giving something to the commons.”  Bank Failure  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.
WaMu owned Washington Mutual Bank, the biggest bank to fail in
U.S. history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  Black Horse Capital LP of  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
Guggenheim Portfolio Co. VII LLC of  New York , Paige Opportunity
Partners LP of New York, Pandora Select Partners LP of
 Minneapolis  and Scoggin Capital Management II LLC of New York
are among the holders of WaMu preferred shares, known as the
“trust preferred holders,” according to a filing last year by
their  law firm , Brown Rudnick LLP.  One class of preferred shares has fallen since reaching $41
on May 31, their highest price of the year, one week after WaMu
confirmed the outlines of an agreement with shareholders. They
opened today at $27, 18 percent lower than yesterday’s close,
and sold for $31.50 at noon in New York, according to
information on the Bloomberg terminal.  The securities carry a dividend of 7.75 percent and are
convertible to WaMu common shares until 2049. They jumped more
than 86 percent on May 20 to $30 after Bloomberg News reported
the outlines of the agreement, citing people familiar with the
negotiations. Days later the company confirmed the accord during
a court hearing and said the parties were working on final
wording of the proposal.  Notes Rise  Two WaMu bank notes rose yesterday in after-hours trading,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. WaMu’s zero percent
coupon note that was due in February rose 1.4 percent to 36
cents on the dollar and WaMu’s zero percent coupon that matured
last year gained less than 1 percent to 36 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace. Both trades were recorded at about 5:45 p.m.
yesterday in New York.  Should shareholders get nothing from a reorganization,
there may be more money available to pay WaMu’s noteholders.
According to payment priorities in bankruptcy, preferred holders
must be paid in full before common shareholders get anything.  The collapse means that WaMu will move forward with its
sixth version of a reorganization plan that proposes to give
nothing to shareholders.  Sixth Plan  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath said in a hearing
earlier this month that should the agreement fall apart, the
parties would return to court on July 5 to begin a battle on
whether to approve the sixth amended plan.  Robert Stark , a Brown Rudnick attorney who represents some
preferred shareholders, declined to comment.  Under the failed settlement, shareholders offered to drop
their investigation of the hedge funds in exchange for common
equity in the new company and funding for a litigation trust
that would try to raise money through lawsuits. The trust would
be funded initially with $5 million and later have access to as
much as $25 million more, WaMu said.  Now, to defeat WaMu’s sixth amended plan, the committee has
renewed its investigation of four hedge funds it suspects of
using confidential information to buy and sell WaMu debt. The
committee suspects the hedge funds used information it gained
while negotiating the sixth amended plan with WaMu.  ‘Bad for Shareholders’  Shareholders today filed notice in  bankruptcy court  that
they will take testimony from Centerbridge Partners LP,
Appaloosa Management LP and Owl Creek Asset Management LP,
filings show. The company has already questioned the fourth
hedge fund, Aurelius Capital Management.  Walrath gave shareholders permission to question hedge
funds that hold WaMu notes under oath and collect documents
about their WaMu trades. Depositions of the hedge funds had been
on hold during the current round of negotiations.  “It’s bad for shareholders unless it is a temporary
collapse,” Ilene Slatko, a WaMu common shareholder who also
covers the case through Twitter for her company,  Delaware 
Shareholder Services. “I’d like to believe that whatever
information the committee has will be enough to stop the sixth
plan.”  The case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , 08-12229 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net 
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 