-- 
Ways and Means Chairman Questions IRS Chief on Gift Tax Audits

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-06-15T14:33:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/ways-and-means-chairman-questions-irs-chief-on-gift-tax-audits.html
House Ways and Means Committee
Chairman  Dave Camp  has asked the  Internal Revenue Service  to
explain how it decided to examine the returns of five taxpayers
who made contributions to a type of non-profit advocacy
organization increasingly involved in political activity.  In a letter released today, Camp told IRS Commissioner
Douglas Shulman that he found the agency’s lack of transparency
about its gift tax audits “deeply troubling.”  “Not only does this threaten political speech, it casts
doubt on the IRS’ credibility as an impartial enforcer of the
nation’s tax law,” the Michigan Republican wrote in  the letter ,
which was dated June 3. “The IRS’s ability to effectively
enforce tax law and work with taxpayers to ensure compliance is
not served by auditing unsuspecting taxpayers for violating tax
laws the IRS has not acknowledged for decades.”  The IRS confirmed last month that it was auditing five
donors who didn’t file gift tax returns for contributions in
2008 to advocacy groups organized under section 501(c)(4) of the
U.S. tax code. The top gift tax rate is 35 percent, after
exemptions for annual and lifetime donations.  Such groups are allowed to accept donations of any size
without publicly disclosing donors’ names, which has made them
an attractive vehicle for political activity in recent years.  Audit Decisions  The IRS has said its decisions about the audit targets
weren’t influenced by anyone outside the agency. The IRS hasn’t
identified the taxpayers under review or the groups to which
they made donations.  Camp’s letter asks for more details than a similar query
sent to the commissioner last month by six Republican members of
the Senate Finance Committee.  He is seeking the names of the employees who decided to
apply the gift tax to these donations, data on the number of
audits of gift and estate tax returns and IRS internal memos on
applying the gift tax to donations to 501(c)(4) organizations.  Camp asked the IRS to respond by June 17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net 
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  