-- 
Wells Fargo Remains Top Mutual Fund Holding as Financials Sink

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-06-15T16:29:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/wells-fargo-remains-top-mutual-fund-holding-as-financials-sink.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  remained the stock
that’s most frequently among the top 10 holdings of the largest
mutual funds for a third quarter, even as financials were the
worst performing group in the past year,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said.  The biggest U.S. home lender was the most widely owned
company in the 50 largest actively managed U.S. funds in the
first quarter. It’s in the top 10 holdings of 20, down from 22
funds in the fourth quarter, according to a report dated
yesterday by Tobias Levkovich, the New York-based chief U.S.
equity strategist at Citigroup. The San Francisco-based lender
had shared the top spot with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  in the third
quarter, the report said.  Wells Fargo declined 13 percent this year through
yesterday. The company has relied on reserve releases to boost
profit as weak loan demand and new federal regulations erode
fees from overdrafts and debit cards. Financial stocks have had
the lowest returns out of 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index in 2011 and in the past year.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc., State Street
Corp., Fidelity Management & Research LLC and Vanguard Group
Inc. are the top holders of the company, Bloomberg data show.  The sample size for Citigroup’s study was $1.44 trillion,
or about 38 percent of total domestic equity mutual fund assets
under management, the report said.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s
biggest drugmaker, topped New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
become the second-most-held stock in the first quarter from the
fourth, according to Levkovich. Funds reduced their holdings in
financial companies as a whole in the first three months of the
year, the note said.  Wells Fargo,  AT&T Inc. (T) , the Dallas wireless carrier, and
New York-based Pfizer were the most owned stocks in value funds.
IPhone maker  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest Internet-
search company, and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  were the most-owned equities in
growth funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 