-- 
Wheat May Climb as Curbed Acreage in Canada Adds to Global Supply Concern

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-06-15T11:52:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/wheat-may-climb-as-curbed-acreage-in-canada-adds-to-global-supply-concern.html
Wheat may rise in Chicago on
speculation wet weather in  Canada  might curb sowing, adding to
supply concerns after dry weather hurt the winter crop in the
U.S. and  France , the world’s two largest exporters.  Farmers in Canada may be unable to plant 6 million to 8
million acres with wheat this year because of unusually wet
weather, the Canadian Wheat Board said yesterday. The country
ranks fourth worldwide among shippers of the grain, according to
the International Grains Council.  “The Canadian situation is a major one in terms of high-
protein wheat,”  Michael Pitts , commodity sales director at
National Australia Bank Ltd., said by phone from Sydney today.
“The market has been concerned about it for some time.”  Wheat for September delivery was unchanged at $7.62 a
bushel by 12:42 p.m. London time on the  Chicago  Board of Trade
after gaining as much as 0.2 percent. November-delivery milling
wheat traded on NYSE Liffe in Paris rose 2.25 euros, or 1
percent, to 221 euros ($316) a metric ton.  Canada’s acreage planted with all varieties of wheat may be
the second-smallest since 1971 as “unrelenting rains across
large areas of Western Canada” prompt farmers to leave millions
of acres of land unplanted, the board said on its  website 
yesterday.  The harvest in Australia may total 26.2 million tons in the
2011-12 season, 7.8 percent more than forecast and in line with
last year’s crop, as favorable weather aids crops, according to
the Australian Bureau of Agricultural Resources Economics and
Sciences.  Export Estimate  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  last week raised its
wheat-export  forecast  for Australia to 17 million tons from 15
million tons a month earlier. That would make the country the
third-largest shipper in the next season.  Egypt , the world’s biggest wheat buyer, returned to the
import market yesterday for the first time since Feb. 23,
purchasing 120,000 tons of the grain grown in the U.S. and
France.  Corn for December delivery fell 1.75 cents, or 0.3 percent,
to $6.8325 a bushel in Chicago, sliding for a fourth day.
Soybeans for November delivery gained 1.5 cents, or 0.1 percent,
to $13.6525 a bushel.  Remaining corn, soybean and spring-wheat planting in the
U.S. northern plains may continue to be slowed by rains forecast
in the 10 days from June 14, and wet weather may promote more
plant diseases, Telvent DTN Inc. said in a forecast yesterday.  “In the medium term, we’re still concerned about the
weather and crop outlook in the U.S.,” National  Australia 
Bank’s Pitts said. “In the northern half, it’s probably too wet
and cold to develop at optimum yields.”  Soybean inventories will decline 4.2 percent to 66.9
million tons in the 2011-12 season, researcher Oil World said
yesterday in a report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net  