-- 
WikiLeaks Grand Jury Witness Says He Declined to Answer Queries on Manning

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 
2011-06-15T23:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/wikileaks-grand-jury-to-interview-computer-expert-friend-of-manning-today.html
David House, a computer expert and
acquaintance of the U.S. Army private accused of leaking
classified information to the website WikiLeaks, said he
declined to answer most questions in front of a federal grand
jury investigating a possible conspiracy in the case.  In comments today following his appearance before the panel
in Alexandria,  Virginia , House said he provided only his name
and address, invoking his Fifth Amendment right against self-
incrimination.  House, a Boston-area resident, said he was called because
he is a supporter of Bradley Manning, the U.S. Army private
charged with illegally passing it to WikiLeaks secret material
he accessed from his position at an intelligence center in  Iraq .  Asked by reporters if he aided Manning in passing the
classified data, the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
employee said “absolutely not.”  “I think the government is trying to find a way to rein in
the media domestically and internationally,” House said.
“Every citizen should be concerned.”  The probe involves the largest leak of classified material
in U.S. history.  The grand jury is investigating possible violations of the
1917 Espionage Act, theft of government property and computer
security laws, according to a letter accompanying the subpoena
instructing House to appear.  Courthouse Protest  A small number of people stood outside of the courthouse to
protest the investigation. Protests are planned in  Boston  this
evening as well, according to the Bradley Manning Support
Network’s website, which House helped organize.  House said he met Manning in Boston before his arrest.
House was also among a small number of people allowed to visit
Manning while the soldier was detained in a military brig in
Quantico, Virginia. Manning has since been moved to Fort
Leavenworth,  Kansas .  House said he wasn’t told whether he is a target of the
investigation. He said he was questioned about Manning’s time in
Boston in 2010 and about the activities of Jacob Appelbaum, a
WikiLeaks volunteer in  Seattle .  “I think the government is trying to go after Bradley
Manning and Julian Assange and casting a wide net to do so,”
House said.  Students and Activists  Assange, WikiLeaks’ founder, said in April that the grand
jury is targeting a group of students and activists in Boston,
as well as WikiLeaks and Assange himself, for assisting Manning
in the leak.  Appearing via Skype at a journalism conference in Berkeley,
 California , in April, Assange said federal prosecutors are
trying to prove WikiLeaks volunteers in the Boston area
conspired with Manning to steal the material.  Assange said his organization received the material from an
unknown source and is protected in the same way as other media
organizations, including the New York Times, that also published
it.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney in the
Eastern District of Virginia, said “this remains an ongoing
investigation,” and declined further comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  