-- 
Senator Johnson Holds Millions in Cash to Avoids Conflicts, Profits

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-06-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/wisconsin-s-johnson-keeps-millions-in-cash-to-avoid-conflicts.html
Senator  Ron Johnson , a Wisconsin
Republican who founded specialty plastics company  Pacur LLC  and
touted his business credentials on the 2010 campaign trail, sold
all his stocks, bonds and mutual funds and put the money into
cash accounts before taking the oath of office in January.  “I decided to liquidate all my marketable securities to
avoid even a hint of a conflict of interest,” he said in an
interview.  Johnson now has cash accounts worth as much as $25.9
million, according to a financial disclosure statement released
yesterday. The statement gives the value of holdings in broad
ranges.  By keeping cash, Johnson could be losing money: The highest
yield on a cash fund at  Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , where Johnson’s
largest account is held, was 0.05 percent, according to the
company’s web site. The inflation rate as measured by the
 Consumer Price Index  was 3.6 percent for the 12 months ending in
May, the Labor Department said yesterday.  “To the extent that you’re not beating inflation, the
purchasing power of that stack of money is going to decline,”
said Robert Kerr, a spokesman for the National Association of
Enrolled Agents, a membership organization of tax professionals
licensed by the Internal Revenue Service.  Before selling, Johnson held shares of more than 200 mutual
funds and companies, including  BP Plc (BP) , Exxon Mobil Corp. and
 ConocoPhillips. (COP)  He also had interests in 65 foreign companies,
including Toyota Motor Corp.; Petroleo Brasiliero, the Brazilian
oil company; and the telephone companies of Italy, Argentina,
 New Zealand , Spain and Mexico.  Choosing Cash  In a bad investment climate, cash can be a better choice
than stocks, Kerr said. “The market right now has been
sinking,” he said. “Ultimately you don’t know until after the
fact.”  Johnson, who defeated incumbent Democratic Senator Russell Feingold in November, earned $10 million in compensation from
Pacur and an additional $75,000 in so-called flow-thru income
from his 5 percent ownership share in the company, which was
valued between $1 million and $5 million. Taken as a whole,
Johnson’s assets could be worth as much as $36.6 million, the
high financial range on the disclosure reports.  Feingold, by contrast, had little wealth. The largest asset
he reported in his last disclosure was his Wisconsin state
pension, valued between $50,000 and $100,000.  Business Credentials  During the campaign, Johnson trumpeted his business
background and criticized  Washington  for having too many lawyers
in Congress and not enough experienced businessmen.  “That would be fine if we had a lawsuit to settle,” he
said in one campaign television ad, “but we have an economy to
fix. There are zero manufacturers and one accountant. It’s no
wonder we’re losing jobs and piling up debt. I’m not a
politician. I’m an accountant and a manufacturer. I know how to
balance a budget, and I do know how to create jobs. Now that’s
something we could really use.”  In selling his assets, Johnson incurred millions in capital
gains. He enjoyed gains between $100,001 and $1 million on each
of his holdings in  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , ConocoPhillips,  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS) ,  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , among others.  Johnson, who as an accountant acknowledged that cash isn’t
the best investment for his millions, said he would like to set
up a blind trust for his assets but has been busy with his
Senate work.  Johnson serves on the Budget, Appropriations and Homeland
Security committees. He has been an outspoken critic of
President Barack Obama and has co-sponsored a bill that would
place a hard cap on government spending.  “We are hurtling toward bankruptcy, and we have to prevent
that,” he said yesterday on  MSNBC .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  