-- 
Two Indicted, Plead Not Guilty in Alleged Plot to Bomb New York Synagogues

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-06-15T19:12:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/two-defendants-indicted-by-grand-jury-in-plot-to-bomb-manhattan-synagogues.html
Two men arrested last month and
accused of plotting acts of terrorism at  New York  synagogues
were indicted by a grand jury and pleaded not guilty.  Ahmed Ferhani, 26, a native of  Nigeria , and Morocco-born
Mohamed Mamdouh, 20, residents of Queens, New York, were
arrested May 11 after an eight-month undercover operation
conducted by the Manhattan district attorney’s office and the
New York police.  Ferhani and Mamdouh said on April 12 they wanted to blow up
a synagogue and discussed how to do it without being caught,
according to the indictment. Ferhani also asked an undercover
detective if he could contact someone about how to make a bomb,
the indictment said. Ferhani allegedly said they should dress as
Jewish worshippers and leave a bag with a bomb. He said on May 9
he wanted to blow up 10 synagogues at once, the indictment said.  “A picture emerges from today’s indictment that describes
how the defendants plotted to bomb synagogues in  Manhattan  in an
effort to contribute to what they referred to as ‘the cause,’”
District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said in a statement. “Their
desire to commit violent jihad against Jewish Americans is not
only an act of terrorism, but also a hate crime.”  While their primary target seemed to be Jews, Ferhani and
Mamdouh also conspired to bomb churches to send a message of
violence to non-Muslims including Christians, Vance said.  The two are charged with attempted criminal possession of a
weapon as a crime of terrorism, conspiracy as a crime of
terrorism and conspiracy as a hate crime. Ferhani also is
charged with criminal sale of a firearm as a crime of terrorism.  Top Charges  The top charges are punishable by as long as 25 years in
prison.  The initial charges against them included a more serious
conspiracy crime relating to the planned terrorist arson attack,
carrying a maximum sentence of life in prison without parole.
Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment on
the lowering of the charges by the grand jury.  “These are greatly reduced charges from the arrest,”
 Aaron Mysliwiec , Mamdouh’s attorney, said today in an interview.
“Cases often start with sensational allegations which later
prove not to be true. Here, without even having heard from the
defense, a grand jury determined that the original allegations
were not true in some ways.”  Elizabeth Fink, who represents Ferhani, said the new
charges are much less serious felonies, and that the top charges
now are weapons charges related to the sting.  Case ‘Smells’  “They brought the weapons to the table,” she said of the
authorities. “You just have to look at this case, and it smells
to heaven.”  Fink said her client has had serious psychiatric issues
since early adolescence, which the police knew because they took
him to the hospital several times.  “We intend to fight the state on this,” she said.  The men on May 11 discussed their plan to buy weapons,
including guns and a grenade, according to the indictment.
Ferhani and the detective dropped off Mamdouh four blocks from
where they were to meet a purported weapons dealer in Manhattan.  Ferhani turned over $100 as payment for the guns and said
he would pay the rest later. He also said he wanted to buy a
silencer, bulletproof vest, police radio interceptor and a box
of grenades.  Ferhani sold crack cocaine, marijuana and Percocet pills to
raise money to support the cause, according to the indictment.  “Mr. Mamdouh is a citizen,” Mysliwiec said. “His parents
are American citizens. He’s not a political or religious person.
He’s certainly not a radical. This is not a terrorism case.”  The case is People v. Ferhani, 2461/2011, New York state
 Supreme Court , New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  