-- 
Zimbabwe Military Said to Plan Own Ruler Should Mugabe Be Too Ill to Lead

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-06-15T17:34:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/zimbabwe-military-said-to-plan-own-ruler-should-mugabe-be-too-ill-to-lead.html
Zimbabwe ’s military and state
security agencies plan to install the head of the armed forces
as president should  Robert Mugabe  become too ill to rule, three
officials familiar with the situation said.  Constantine Chiwenga will take over as national leader,
sidelining Defense Minister Emmerson Mnangagwa, 64, and Vice
President Joice Mujuru, 56, as potential presidents, according
to the plan discussed by Mugabe loyalists who control the army,
police, secret police and prison services. The officials, a
military officer and two members of the highest decision-making
body in Mugabe’s party, spoke over the last week and declined to
be identified because the plan is secret and they fear reprisals
for giving out the information. The military is concerned by
Mugabe’s repeated trips to  Singapore  for medical treatment.  Zimbabwe is in the third year of an economic recovery after
a decade-long recession caused by Mugabe’s policy of seizing
white-owned commercial farms and distributing them to black
subsistence farmers, which caused a collapse in export income
and shortages of imported goods ranging from gasoline to corn
meal, the country’s staple food. The stability brought by a
coalition between Mugabe’s party and the Movement for Democratic
Change has prompted investment in mining and agriculture.  Installing an army official as president would “send the
few investors we have running,” said  John Robertson , an
independent  economist  who advises international companies with
assets in Zimbabwe, in an interview from Harare, the capital.
“There would be very considerable worry in the business
community.” Zimbabwe has the world’s second-biggest reserves of
platinum and chrome after  South Africa  as well as significant
deposits of coal, gold and iron ore.  Cataracts  Mugabe, 87, has been in power since the country won
independence from the U.K. in 1980 and has traveled to Singapore
for treatment several times, according to the state-controlled
Herald newspaper on May 19 and Zimbabwe’s Daily Mail on May 31.  He says the trips are for cataract operations and follow-up
treatment, the Herald reported.  “I want to live to over 100,” Mugabe said, according to
the newspaper. “For now I am as good as my age says. It is not
an ailment.”  Zimbabwe has a number of eye surgeons including Solomon
Gurumatunhu, who has treated Mugabe in the past, NewsDze -
Zimbabwe, a website that publishes news on the country, said
today.  In May ANC Today, the official newsletter of South Africa’s
ruling  African National Congress , said negotiators from the
 Southern African Development Community , which stretches from
South Africa to the Democratic Republic of Congo, said they were
concerned about leadership succession in Zimbabwe should Mugabe
die before a new constitution is put in place.  ‘Spill Blood’  The military is concerned that competition for the
leadership of Mugabe’s Zimbabwe African National Union -
Patriotic Front will split the party and weaken its chances of
keeping power if Mugabe’s health deteriorates, the officials
said.  Mujuru, as vice president of the party, is next in line as
Zanu-PF’s candidate, John Makumbe, political science professor
at the University of Zimbabwe, said from Harare today. Mujuru, a
former guerrilla known by the nom de guerre of “comrade spill
blood,” is the wife of Solomon Mujuru, the former head of the
Mugabe’s liberation army in the 1970s.  “Zanu-PF rarely shifts from its protocol and Joice Mujuru
is the most likely successor to Mugabe, ahead of Mnangagwa or
anyone else.” Mnangagwa has served in Mugabe’s cabinets since
the early 1980s.  Election Timing  Mugabe wants elections to be held before the end of the
year while  Morgan Tsvangirai , the leader of the MDC and prime
minister in the coalition government, has demanded a new
constitution be put in place first. Leaders of SADC agreed in
Johannesburg on June 12 that a new constitution must be in place
before the vote, the group’s Executive Secretary Tomaz Salomao
said.  The MDC won a majority in parliamentary elections in 2008
and Tsvangirai boycotted the second round of a presidential
election that year, saying his supporters were being attacked
and killed by ruling party loyalists. Tsvangirai garnered more
votes than Mugabe in the first round.  Chiwenga, who would quit the army to become president, will
fill his cabinet with military officials, the army general said.
The plan has the backing of Zimbabwe’s police chief, Augustine Chihuri, prison service commissioner, Paradzai Zimondi, and army
and air force generals, some of whom fear prosecution if Zanu-PF
loses power because of their participation in violent election
campaigns over the last decade, the officials said.  Calls to the Harare office of Chiwenga, who was born in
1956 according to the Zimbabwe Independent newspaper, weren’t
answered today.  George Charamba , Mugabe’s spokesman, didn’t
answer calls made to his office or mobile phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 