-- 
Solorz-Zak Said to Lead Polkomtel Sale With $6.6 Billion Bid

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s ,   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 
2011-06-15T12:52:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-15/zygmunt-solorz-zak-said-to-lead-polkomtel-auction-with-6-6-billion-offer.html
Polish billionaire Zygmunt Solorz- Zak is leading the auction for Polkomtel SA after getting
financing for a bid that values  Poland ’s largest-mobile phone
company at about 18 billion zloty ($6.6 billion), according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  The other candidates, Apax Partners LLP, which has sought
financing for its bid, and  Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Norwegian mobile
operator allied with Bain Capital LLC, are considered less
likely to win the auction, said three people, who declined to be
identified because the process is confidential. Solorz-Zak is
the second-wealthiest Pole, according to Forbes magazine.  Polkomtel’s mobile-phone services may help the Polish
billionaire, who owns the country’s second-biggest television
group Cyfrowy Polsat SA, tap rising demand for bundled phone,
Internet data and TV services. Polkomtel, which uses the Plus
brand for its services and has almost 14 million basic voice and
fast-Internet customers, has lost market share this year,
according to Espirito Santo Bank analyst Will Draper.  “Poland is a growth market, it’s underpenetrated for
data,” Draper said. “It’s a reasonable market structure with
three major mobile-phone players.”  Three Bids  The owners of Polkomtel received three bids, Herbert Wirth,
chief executive officer of shareholder  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) ,
told reporters in Lubin, Poland today. He didn’t name the
bidders.  A winner may be decided this week or next, the people said.
The 2008 sale by  Denmark ’s TDC A/S of a 20 percent holding in
Polkomtel provides a 3.7 billion-euro ($5.3 billion) minimum
valuation, KGMH said in November.  The owners of Polkomtel, which include British mobile-phone
company  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , power utility PGE SA and oil refiner
PKN Orlen SA, plan to complete the sale by the end of June,
Weglokoks SA Chief Executive Officer Jerzy Podsiadlo said on May
16. Weglokoks, a Polish coal trader, owns 5 percent of
Polkomtel.  Spokesmen for Solorz-Zak, Telenor, Apax, Bain and Vodafone
declined to comment. Sweden’s biggest phone company  TeliaSonera
AB (TLSN)  said last week it decided against making an offer.  Enterprise Value  Solorz-Zak’s 18 billion-zloty bid represents Polkomtel’s
enterprise value and would include debt that may get refinanced,
said the people. The mobile-phone company’s enterprise value
includes about 2 billion zloty of net debt, a 1.03 billion-zloty
dividend due to current shareholders and a 130.7 million-zloty
fine imposed by Polish antitrust regulators, a person close to
the talks said on May 25.  Not all of the shareholders are unified about the process
as they weigh local and political issues and assess the quality
of Solorz-Zak’s funding, two of the people said, adding that the
deal could still fall apart.  Vodafone, which holds rights to bid for the Polish
operator, must still decide whether to sell its 24 percent
holding, said  Espirito Santo ’s Draper.  “It’s not a given that Vodafone will sell,” he said. “If
the bids that finally materialize do not meet their criteria
then they won’t accept the offers and they will exercise their
pre-emption.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jacqueline Simmons  in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net 
 Jonathan Browning  in  London  
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 