-- Pascal Sets ‘Memphis’ Ablaze: Reviews
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/-memphis-set-on-fire-by-pascal-iliad-drips-with-gore-theater-reviews.html
Eighteen months into its run at the
Shubert Theatre, “ Memphis ” rocks better than ever.  Much of that is thanks to Adam Pascal who has taken over
the role of disc jockey Huey Calhoun and made it his own.  The primary reason, however, is that this remains a wildly
entertaining musical with fine songs, high energy and a heart of
gold. It fully deserved its Best Musical Tony Award in 2010.  Calhoun is a white man in Memphis during the early 1950s,
when  Jim Crow  still reigned and “race music” was limited to
bars frequented by blacks and radio stations at the end of the
dial.  When Huey is turned on by the blues he hears from the
street, he descends into a grotto bar and his life is changed.  “This is the music of my soul,” he tells a skeptical
crowd, promising to make a star of the singer, Felicia Farrell
(the magnificent Montego Glover, who originated the role).  Of course they become lovers. And of course Southern
sentiments rise to the surface in the form of violence against
Felicia and picketing of Huey’s integrated concerts.  Serious Ideas  Things don’t tie up sweetly. The songs (by Joe DiPietro and
David Bryan) deftly mix blues, blues-infused rock and gospel.
And yet the show has serious ideas on its mind, mashing themes
of race hate with the singer on the rise, a la “A Star Is
Born.”  Pascal, a veteran of “Rent” and other shows, kicks up a
storm as the mischievous Huey, drunk on love and soul music and
the city that gives the show its name. He’s electrifying. Go see
for yourself.  At 225 W. 44th St. Information: +1- 212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: *** (Jeremy Gerard)  ‘An Iliad’  Early in “An Iliad” at off-Broadway’s  New York Theatre
Workshop , the poet-narrator-wanderer ruminates on the subject of
soldiers coming home after nine years fighting in the Trojan
War.  “You left, your baby was 1, you come back, your baby is
dead,” he said, rattling off possibilities. “You come back,
your wife has had three affairs and two more kids.”  Written by Denis O’Hare and Lisa Peterson, who directs,
and based on the translation by Robert Fagles, the one-man show
zips from tragedy to light comedy, from poetry to contemporary
prose. I saw O’Hare, who shares the role with Stephen Spinella.
Both are  Tony Award  winners familiar to  New Yorkers .  Pointless Slaughter  Wearing a baggy outfit and work boots, the guide is
initially sheepish recounting his story of endless, pointless
slaughter. He gradually becomes as obsessed in the telling as
his protagonists were in the doing.  The 100 minute-adaptation of “The Iliad” -- or least part
of it, hence “An Iliad” -- aims to bring the rage of Achilles
and the grace of his nemesis, Hector, home to American
audiences.  Young soldiers on hundreds of Greek ships are “from every
small town in Ohio...the boys of  Nebraska  or  South Dakota ,” he
said, before listing other U.S. places.  “You get the point,” he says. Later he breaks from the
glory and gore of his war story to enumerate more than 120
conflicts worldwide, starting with the Peloponnesian War, ending
with  Afghanistan ,  Libya  and  Syria .  O’Hare works hard to connect -- bellowing, racing from one
end of the stage to the other, inhabiting at least a dozen
characters.  Keeping track of everyone from Paris to Patroclus to Priam
isn’t easy. O’Hare’s abundant talent can’t mask that the play is
more “tell” than “show.”  Scott Zielinski’s lighting and scene transitions are
striking. The set by Rachel Hauck is largely bare, save for a
bassist (Brian Ellingsen) on an overhead platform playing Mark
Bennett’s dissonant and evocative music.  Through March 25 at 79 E. 4th St. Information: +1-212-279-
4200;  http://nytw.org . Rating: * 1/2 (Philip Boroff)  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic, and Philip Boroff is a writer, for Muse, the arts and leisure section of
Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers of this column:  Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 