-- Adani Ports Said to Be Investigated by India on Possible Money Laundering
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-03-09T09:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/adani-ports-said-to-be-investigated-by-india-on-possible-money-laundering.html
Billionaire  Gautam Adani ’s port unit
has failed to win security clearances needed to expand
operations because it is being investigated by the Indian
government for possible  money laundering , according to three
people familiar with the matter. The stock slumped.  The Ministry of Home Affairs has for more than a year been
probing  Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone Ltd. (ADSEZ)  and the source
of money transferred to the company from Mauritius, said two
government officials. All three people declined to be identified
as they aren’t authorized to release the information.  The investigation has derailed or disrupted the Ahmedabad,
India-based company’s bids to operate at least three port
projects, the people said. That has hindered the Adani Group’s
push to boost port capacity about fourfold by 2020 as it imports
coal from  Australia  and  Indonesia  for its power stations.  The Adani Group didn’t comment on the investigation after
repeated phone calls and e-mails. It said in a statement that it
won government approval last month to develop a bulk-cargo
terminal in Kandla on the west coast, and that it’s begun
building an import terminal in the eastern port of Visakhapatnam.  “We are thankful to the government of India for having
reposed its faith in us and awarded us two key port development
projects,” the group said. Adani Ports also operates  Mundra
Port (ADSEZ)  in western Gujarat state, the nation’s busiest non-
government run harbor.  Ira Joshi, a spokeswoman at the Ministry of Home Affairs,
didn’t reply to e-mailed questions about the probe. The Ministry
of Home Affairs is responsible for India’s internal security.  The port operator slumped as much as 11 percent in Mumbai
trading. It was down 6.4 percent at 135.95 rupees as of 2:41 p.m.
Parent  Adani Enterprises Ltd. (ADE)  fell as much as 5.05 percent.  Vizhinjam Port  The projects that Adani Ports has been unable to win
security approval for include a multipurpose facility in
Vizhinjam in the southern state of Kerala, the people said. The
company was also shut out of the bidding for a bulk-cargo export
terminal in Visakhapatnam in  Andhra Pradesh  last year, they said.  Adani Ports is 77 percent owned by  Adani Enterprises ,
Gautam Adani’s main holding company and India’s biggest coal
importer. The group, founded in 1988, also has investments in
mining and edible oils in countries including India, Australia
and Indonesia. The 49-year-old Gautam Adani, who owns 57 percent
of Adani Enterprises, has a $5.4 billion fortune, according to
 Forbes .  Gujarat State  The billionaire’s business is based in Gujarat state, which
is run by the  Bharatiya Janata Party . On the federal level, the
BJP is the main opposition to the ruling Indian National
Congress-led coalition government.  The country’s Enforcement Directorate imposed a penalty on
Rajesh Adani, managing director of Adani Enterprises and
Gautam’s brother, for violating the Foreign Exchange Regulation
Act and the Customs Act, according to the 2007  prospectus  for
the port unit’s initial public offering. The penalty was set
aside on appeal and the matter was returned to the Directorate,
it said.  It is common for Indian companies to receive funds from
Mauritius. The island nation was the single largest source of
foreign direct investments into India in the year ended March 31.
Overseas investors often buy shares in  India  through
subsidiaries in Mauritius to take advantage of a tax agreement
between the two countries. Indian companies have also  invested 
more than $200 million in Mauritius in the last five years,
according to India’s Ministry of External Affairs.  Adani Ports’ contract to operate the Kandla bulk-cargo
terminal may eventually be derailed by the investigation, said
one of the government officials. The company failed to win a
Chennai container-terminal deal last year after placing the only
bid. Chennai Port Trust Chairman Atulya Misra said Dec. 31 that
the offer was rejected because it was too low.  The company won security clearance for the Kandla project
before a 2010 change in how India classifies money laundering,
the two government officials said. The country upgraded the
issue to a security concern from an economic crime that year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 