-- Madison Dearborn Said to Weigh Bolthouse Farms Sale or IPO
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-09T17:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/madison-dearborn-said-to-weigh-bolthouse-farms-sale-or-ipo.html
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC, the
Chicago buyout firm that owns Bolthouse Farms, is weighing a
sale or an initial public offering for the vegetable-juice
maker, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  The firm is seeking a price of as much as $2 billion, said
the people, who declined to be identified as deliberations are
private. Madison Dearborn acquired WM Bolthouse Farms Inc. in
2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Madison Dearborn hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CS)  as an adviser
on the process, said one of these people. The bank will approach
other consumer-product companies including  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  as
well as private equity funds to gauge their interest in a sale,
said the person.  “As a policy we don’t comment on rumor and speculation,
but we have said that we are looking to grow through external
developments including mergers and acquisitions,” Anthony
Sanzio, a Campbell spokesman, said in a telephone interview.  Bolthouse’s origins date back almost a century, when the
family of the same name began commercial vegetable farming in
 Michigan , according to the company’s  website . Bolthouse now
counts fresh carrots, salad dressings and juices among its
products.  Madison Dearborn has invested in industries such as
consumer products, financial services and health care, its
 website shows . The firm, co-founded by Chairman John Canning
three decades ago, has completed at least six acquisitions in
the past year.  Chuck Dohrenwend, an outside spokesman for Madison
Dearborn, declined to comment, as did a spokesman for Credit
Suisse.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  