-- Fight Birth-Control Battle Over the Counter: Virginia Postrel
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-03-09T00:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/take-birth-control-battle-over-the-counter-commentary-by-virginia-postrel.html
Anyone -- a local teenager, a
traveling businessman, a married mother of four, an illegal
immigrant, even a  student  at a Jesuit university -- can walk
into my neighborhood CVS any time, day or night, and, for less
than $30, buy a 36-count “value pack” of Trojan condoms.  That’s enough to last most Americans at least three months,
according to  Kinsey Institute  surveys. If you want more, you can
buy out the store’s entire stock. There’s no limit, and you
don’t need to see a doctor for permission and a prescription.  Contrary to widespread belief, there’s no good reason that
oral contraceptives -- a far more effective form of  birth
control  -- can’t be equally convenient.  True, making the pill available over the counter could
reduce the amount of outrage and invective available for
entertaining radio audiences, spurring political fundraising and
otherwise amusing the American public. But the medical risks are
quite low.  Partly because birth-control pills are available only by
prescription, people tend to think they’re more dangerous and
less well understood than they actually are. In fact, “more is
known about the safety of oral contraceptives than has been
known about any other drug in the history of medicine,”
declared  an editorial  in the American Journal of Public Health
back in 1993. That editorial accompanied an article arguing for
over-the-counter sales.  Safer Than Ever  Unlike most medications, the article noted, birth-control
pills require no medical diagnosis: “A woman herself determines
her need for oral contraception; she assesses her own risk of
pregnancy ... and the costs and benefits of both pregnancy and
alternative contraceptions.” Nearly two decades later, birth-
control pills look even safer than they did then, and recent
research indicates that women are both able and eager to manage
their own purchase decisions.  Requiring a prescription “acts more as a barrier to access
rather than providing medically necessary supervision,” argues
Daniel Grossman of Ibis Reproductive Health, a research and
advocacy group based in  Massachusetts , in an article published
in September in  Expert Review of Obstetrics & Gynecology.   Birth-control pills can have side effects, of course, but
so can such over-the-counter drugs as antihistamines, ibuprofen
or the Aleve that once turned me into a scary, hive-covered
monster. That’s why even the most common over-the-counter drugs,
including aspirin, carry warning labels. Most women aren’t at
risk from oral contraceptives, however, just as most patients
aren’t at risk from aspirin or Benadryl, and studies suggest
that a patient checklist can catch most potential problems.  To further increase safety, over-the-counter sales could
start with a progestin-only formulation, sometimes called the
“ minipill ,” rather than the more-common  combinations  of
progestin and estrogen. (Although we casually refer to “The
Pill,” oral contraceptives actually come in about 100
formulations.)  Progestin-only pills, or POPs, have fewer
contraindications. Unlike combination pills, they’re OK for
women with hypertension, for instance, or smokers over the age
of 35. The main dangers are fairly rare conditions such as
 breast cancer  or current liver disease. “Not only are POP
contraindications rare, but women appear to be able to
accurately identify them using a simple checklist without the
aid of a clinician,” declares an article forthcoming in the
journal Contraception.  Doctors’ Financial Interest  Aside from safety, the biggest argument for keeping birth-
control pills prescription-only is, to put it bluntly,
extortion. The current arrangement forces women to go to the
doctor at least once a year, usually submitting to a pelvic
exam, if they want this extremely reliable form of
contraception. That demand may suit doctors’ paternalist
instincts and financial interests, but it doesn’t serve
patients’ needs. As the 1993 article’s authors noted, the exam
requirement “assumes that it would be worse for a woman’s
health to miss out on routine care than it would be to miss out
on taking oral contraceptives.”  Going to the doctor is costly in time, money and sometimes
in dignity. Not surprisingly, the prescription requirement
deters use of oral contraceptives. In a 2004  phone survey , 68
percent of American women said they would start the pill or
another form of hormonal birth control, such as the patch, if
they could buy it in a pharmacy with screening by a pharmacist
instead of getting a doctor’s prescription. Two-thirds of blacks
and slightly more than half of whites and Latinas surveyed said
they chose their current, less-effective method of birth control
because it didn’t require a prescription.  Right now, the American women who have the most choice are
those who live near the  border with Mexico , where pharmacies
sell oral contraceptives without a prescription, generally for
about $5 for a one-month supply. A group of researchers
including Grossman have conducted  extensive interviews  with more
than 1,000 women who live in El Paso,  Texas . Roughly half the
women get birth-control pills from local clinics, often free,
while the other half go across the border to pharmacies in
 Ciudad Juarez . The researchers find, not surprisingly, that
those who cross the border have more ties to  Mexico ; 77 percent
were born there, compared with 60 percent of clinic users. But
there are also differences in priorities.  “Among pharmacy users, very large percentages noted both
not having to go to a doctor to get a prescription and being
able to send a friend or relative to pick up their pills as
advantages of Mexican pharmacies,” the researchers write in a
June 2010 article in the American Journal of  Public Health .
Clinic users, on the other hand, cite low cost and the
availability of other  health services .  Convenient and Reasonable  In addition, the authors note, for many clinic users
crossing the border to buy contraceptives “was neither
convenient nor free of risk; more than half expressed a fear of
being stopped by US customs upon their return.” Nonetheless,
Grossman notes in an e-mail, the research “showed that US
resident women are interested in OTC access when it’s convenient
and available at a reasonable price.”  One result from the El Paso study surprised researchers.
“Women who got the pill in clinics were significantly more
likely to stop using it during the study -- even though they
still didn’t want to get pregnant,” Grossman says. That’s a big
deal. In fact, he says, “my hope was that we would show that
continuation was no worse for the OTC group, but in fact we
showed it was better.”  This suggests that having to see a doctor to get a
prescription renewed really does drive women away from oral
contraceptives. “People rarely tell you, ‘I ran out and I was
too lazy to get my prescription renewed,’” says  Joseph Potter ,
a  University of Texas  demographer who worked on the El Paso
research. “They say they quit because of side effects.” But
the problem isn’t really laziness or, for that matter, out-of-
pocket expense. It’s all the things that get in the way. Potter
recalls an airplane conversation with a department-store
executive who said that poor women weren’t the only ones to quit
the pill because they couldn’t get to a doctor. She’d done the
same thing, because she was busy.  The real question now isn’t whether allowing over-the-
counter sales would benefit women and prevent unwanted
pregnancies -- the evidence is overwhelming that it would -- but
whether any pharmaceutical maker wants to change the status quo.
For a pill already approved by the  Food and Drug Administration 
for prescription sales, getting  over-the-counter approval  would
require an estimated $10 million to pay for new studies. And, of
course, there would be huge marketing costs to establish the new
brand.  The company best positioned to make the switch is probably
 Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)  Its McNeil Consumer Healthcare division, most
famous for Tylenol, has lots of experience marketing formerly
prescription-only products, including Nicorette, Motrin and
Pepcid. Most important, its drug Ortho Micronor is one of the
few progestin-only pills already registered with the FDA.
(Minipills are more common in  Europe , but moving one of those
drugs to the U.S. would require millions more in regulatory
expenses just to get approval for prescription sales.)  Will J&J or another company take a chance on creating the
Advil of oral contraceptives -- making a prescription product a
touchstone consumer brand? Are there public policy changes that
could encourage the switch? If you’re actually interested in
preventing unwanted pregnancies rather than merely scoring
political points, these are the questions you should be asking.  (Virginia Postrel is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel in  Los Angeles  at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 