-- Alabama Can’t Enforce Two More Parts of State Immigration Law
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-03-09T17:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/alabama-can-t-enforce-parts-of-immigration-law-during-appeal-court-rules.html
Alabama  was barred from enforcing
two more provisions of its immigration law while a federal
appeals court considers a challenge to the statute, described by
critics as the harshest such measure in the country.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in Atlanta yesterday expanded its
Oct. 14 order blocking the state from implementing parts of the
law, freezing enforcement of restrictions on transactions
between the state and undocumented immigrants and a provision
making private contracts unenforceable if either party was known
to be undocumented.  U.S. Appeals Court Judge Charles Wilson said at a March 1
hearing that the court won’t issue an opinion on the Alabama
statute until the U.S.  Supreme Court  rules on a similar law
enacted in  Arizona . The appeals court is also considering an
immigration law from  Georgia .  Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange, in a statement
posted on his website yesterday, said, “I strongly disagree
with the Eleventh Circuit’s decision. I am hopeful that the
Supreme Court’s coming decision in the Arizona case will make it
clear our law is constitutional.”  Arizona’s case goes to the high court in April.  Judge’s Comments  The order freezing parts of the law echoed comments made by
U.S. Appeals Court Judge Beverly Martin during oral arguments.
She said the provision making it unlawful for the state to enter
a contract with an illegal immigrant could stop an undocumented
resident from even getting water service.  The other section in the law the court froze would have
barred an illegal immigrant from leasing or renting a room or
lodging for more than one night.  The “ruling strikes at the heart of this racist law and is
yet another blow for the effort to pass similar laws across the
country,” Mary Bauer, legal director for the Southern Poverty
Law Center, one of the groups challenging the law, said in a
statement yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Alabama, 11-14532,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Eleventh Circuit (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 