-- Malaysia Joins Asian Nations in Holding Rates on Inflation
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-03-09T10:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/malaysia-joins-asian-nations-in-holding-rates-on-inflation-1-.html
Malaysia  left  interest rates 
unchanged for a fifth straight meeting as economic growth risks
diminished and rising  oil prices  revive inflation pressure.  Bank Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz kept the
 benchmark overnight policy rate  at 3 percent, the central bank
said in a statement in  Kuala Lumpur  today. The decision was
predicted by 19 of 20 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News,
with one calling for a quarter-percentage-point cut.  The Southeast Asian nation joined  Indonesia  and  South Korea 
in holding rates this week as easing concern of a euro-area
meltdown and higher oil prices give policy makers room to pause
from adding stimulus. Prime Minister Najib Razak said yesterday
salaries of civil servants will be raised by as much as 13
percent as part of the 232.8 billion-ringgit ($77 billion)
annual budget to spur growth as elections loom.  “Improving global financial conditions have reduced the
risks of more aggressive monetary easing,” said Chua Hak Bin, an
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Singapore. He now
predicts the central bank will cut rates by 25 basis points this
year, compared with an earlier estimate of 50 basis points.  The ringgit has climbed more than 5 percent against the
dollar this year, the best performer after the Indian rupee
among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The  FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index (FBMKLCI)  of stocks has gained more than 3 percent.  Price Risks  Headline inflation is expected to moderate in Malaysia this
year, even as high global commodity prices continue to pose
risks, Bank Negara said in a statement today. Private
consumption and business spending are still increasing, the
central bank said.  “Domestic demand will continue to drive the expansion of
the Malaysian economy,” it said. “However, the overall growth
momentum in 2012 is expected to moderate largely due to the
weaker external environment.”  Malaysia’s $238 billion economy expanded 5.2 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, slowing from a 5.8 percent
pace in the previous three months. The government is boosting
spending on roads and railways to spur growth to between 5
percent and 6 percent this year, ahead of general elections that
must be held by early 2013.  “Downside risks to growth are contained in the country,”
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore , said
before the announcement. Higher wages and rising oil prices may
fuel inflation expectations and growth risks are “not too
severe right now,” giving the central bank scope to maintain
rates this year, she said.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicts growth in Malaysia
may slow to 4 percent in 2012, and Zeti said last month the
central bank will keep interest rates “accommodative” as the
outlook for the global economy remains uncertain. Bank Negara
last raised the benchmark rate in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  