-- Ally Financial’s ResCap Is Said to Discuss Buyout With Fortress Investment
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-03-09T19:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/ally-financial-s-rescap-is-said-to-discuss-buyout-with-fortress-investment.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s mortgage unit
is in exclusive talks with  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  to sell
itself through a prepackaged bankruptcy, according to a person
familiar with the negotiations.  Fortress would buy the Residential Capital LLC unit through
a so-called 363 sale, said the person, declining to be
identified because the talks are private.  Ally, the home and auto lender majority owned by the U.S.
government, would set aside an as yet undecided amount of funds
to cover future liabilities at the unit, the person said. Ally’s
payment would help ResCap weather losses including mortgage
liabilities and may reach $2 billion or more, a person familiar
with the discussions said in December.  A sale of ResCap would allow Ally to separate itself from
mortgage litigation tied to private-label securitizations and
pursue an initial public offering intended to repay the
government’s $17.2 billion investment. Ally Chief Executive
Officer Michael Carpenter, who once predicted that an IPO could
value the company at $30 billion, said last month the IPO won’t
happen until there’s progress on the mortgage business.  A prearranged bankruptcy would allow ResCap to reach an
agreement with creditors and other stakeholders before filing,
and would allow the buyer to leave behind liabilities. The U.S.
owns 74 percent of Ally.  The New York Post reported the exclusive talks earlier
today. Ally spokeswoman Gina Proia declined to comment, as did
Fortress spokesman Gordon Runte.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  