-- AMR Unions Seek Arbitration in Bankruptcy Concession Talks
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-09T20:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/american-airlines-unions-seek-u-s-arbitrator-in-bankruptcy-giveback-talks.html
American Airlines (AMR)  pilots, flight
attendants, mechanics and baggage handlers asked U.S. mediators
to intervene in talks with management as the carrier seeks $1.25
billion in labor concessions, including 13,000 job cuts, in
bankruptcy.  The unions’ requests late yesterday added new complexity to
American’s effort to win givebacks in union bargaining instead
of asking a judge for authority to scrap existing contracts and
impose new terms. American said last week that time is running
out for consensual accords at the third-largest U.S. airline.  “All efforts to reach voluntary agreements through direct
negotiations were exhausted,” Jim Little, Transport Workers
Union international president, told members in a  message . TWU,
American’s biggest union, has been in talks with the Fort Worth,
Texas-based carrier since 2006.  American, a unit of AMR Corp., is awaiting a request for a
response from the mediation board, Bruce Hicks, a spokesman,
said in an e-mailed statement today.  “In the meantime, we must stay focused on reaching
consensual agreements that allow the company to restructure
successfully,” he said.  The TWU,  Allied Pilots Association  and  Association of
Professional Flight Attendants  disclosed the arbitration
requests in updates posted on their websites.  Arbitration Process  The unions asked the  U.S. National Mediation Board  to make
an offer of binding arbitration to both sides. Each would be
asked to accept contract terms set by neutral arbitrators, with
no ability to challenge decisions.  The pilots union sued American last month, challenging the
airline’s right to seek bankruptcy court authority to dump the
group’s contract if givebacks can’t be negotiated. The airline
earlier rejected early retirement proposals offered by the TWU
and flight attendants’ union to help reduce job cuts.  “We need to recognize that bargaining a consensual
agreement may not prove to be possible, and that management may
eventually seek to have our contract rejected in  bankruptcy
court ,” APA President  David Bates  told members in APA’s website
statement.  The NMB declined to comment or confirm it received the
requests from American’s unions, said spokesman Don West.  The mediation board assists unions and companies in trying
to reach labor agreements. In the  airline industry , it also
oversees a series of required steps leading to any strike or
lockout.  American’s unions are seeking the board’s involvement
because they were in contract talks when the airline sought
court protection. The board generally hasn’t been involved in
talks on concessions during bankruptcies.  AMR filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in November, listing
$24.7 billion in assets and $29.6 billion in debt.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  