-- AMR Attendant Said to Shout About Crash Before Being Subdued by Passengers
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-03-09T21:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/american-airlines-says-2-attendants-hurt-in-onboard-incident-1-.html
An  American Airlines (AMR)  flight
attendant forced a jet to return to the gate at the  Dallas-Fort
Worth airport  after shouting about a crash and having to be
subdued by passengers, a law enforcement official said.  The attendant was taken to a hospital for evaluation, along
with a coworker who was injured, said the official, who wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly. She was restrained after making
comments about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and union issues,
along with discussing a crash, the official said.  Airport police aren’t seeking state criminal charges, said
David Magana, a D-FW spokesman. Flight 2332 was waiting to take
off for  Chicago  with 144 passengers and five crew members when
the incident occurred,  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American said.  Tim Smith , a spokesman for  Fort Worth , Texas-based
American, declined to discuss details beyond saying the incident
on the  Boeing Co. (BA)  MD-80 jet involved “some of the cabin crew.”
The airline is investigating, he said.  Passengers were put on another flight to Chicago that left
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport at 9:46 a.m. local time,
about 80 minutes after Flight 2332 originally pushed back from
the terminal. They were never in any danger, Smith said.  ‘Nonviolent Confrontation’  The episode was an “unfortunate but nonviolent
confrontation involving a flight attendant,” the  Association of
Professional Flight Attendants  said in an e-mailed statement.
Details remain sketchy, Jeff Pharr, a union spokesman, said in
the statement.  American and the union are negotiating concessions that
include 2,300 attendant job cuts being sought by the airline
under its bankruptcy restructuring plan. The third-largest U.S.
carrier wants to freeze pensions and change work rules and
benefits.  Airport police met the plane when it taxied back to the
gate, according to Magana, the airport spokesman.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  “assessed the
situation and determined there was no need” for any further
inquiry, said Lydia Maese, a spokeswoman. The  Federal Aviation
Administration  is looking into the case, said Elizabeth Cory, a
spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  