-- Manchester Clubs Lose in Europa League Soccer as Spanish Teams Get Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-09T11:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/manchester-clubs-lose-in-europa-league-soccer-as-spanish-teams-get-wins.html
Tournament favorite  Manchester City 
and Manchester United opened the Europa League round of 16 with
losses as all three remaining Spanish teams won.  Alexandre Xandao’s goal gave Sporting Lisbon a 1-0 home win
last night over Manchester City, the bookmakers’ favorite to win
European soccer’s second-tier club competition. Athletic Bilbao
came from behind to upset Manchester United 3-2 at Old Trafford.  “We were well beaten,” United manager  Alex Ferguson  told
Channel 5. “I have to say they were the better team.”  Atletico Madrid beat Besiktas 3-1 and Valencia defeated PSV
Eindhoven 4-2 to join Athletic as Spanish winners. Olympiacos,
FC Twente and AZ Alkmaar also won, while Standard Liege and
Hannover tied 2-2. The return matches in the two-game series
will be played March 15, with the quarterfinal draw the
following day.  Manchester United ’s home struggles in  Europe  continued as
Athletic rallied for the win. The Red Devils have won one of
their five Champions League and Europa League games at Old
Trafford this season and suffered back-to-back home European
losses for the first time since 1996.  Wayne Rooney  put United ahead in the 22nd minute and
Fernando Llorente tied the score just before halftime. Oscar de
Marcos put Athletic in front in the 72nd minute and teenage
forward Iker Muniain made it 3-1 in the 90th.  Rooney then scored with a penalty kick in stoppage time to
prevent United from slipping to its first European home loss by
more than a one goal.  “We showed we can make chances against them, but obviously
we have to defend better,” Ferguson added.  Xandao’s Backheel  Sporting took the lead in  Portugal  in the 51st minute as
central defender Xandao scored with a backheel off a rebound of
his own shot after City goalkeeper  Joe Hart  knocked away Matias
Fernandez’s free kick.  Xandao preserved his team’s advantage over the Premier
League leader by blocking Sergio Aguero’s goalbound chip over
goalkeeper Rui Patricio in the final minute.  “We did not play well, we had chances to score but didn’t
take them,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  said on the team’s
website. “It will be a different game in Manchester.”  Atletico Madrid  got two goals from Eduardo Salvio and one
from Adrian Lopez for the home win over Besiktas.  Roberto
Soldado  scored twice and Victor Ruiz and Pablo Piatti one each
to lead Valencia over PSV Eindhoven.  Second-half scores from Maarten Martens and Erik
Falkenburg, both assisted by U.S. forward Jozy Altidore, gave AZ
Alkmaar a 2-0 home win over Udinese, while David Fuster’s goal
lifted Olympiacos past Metalist Kharkiv 1-0 in Ukraine.  Luuk de Jong’s second-half penalty gave FC Twente a 1-0
home win over 10-man Schalke. The spot-kick came after Joel
Matip received a red card for taking down de Jong.  Mame Diouf’s goal in the 56th minute give Hannover the away
draw with Standard Liege. Lars Stindl scored with a penalty for
Hannover, while Yoni Buyens and Mohamed Tchite got Standard’s
goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  