-- Manchester United Said to Revisit Plans for 2012 Singapore Initial Offer
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h ,   F o x   H u   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-03-09T10:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/manchester-united-said-to-revive-plans-for-initial-share-sale-in-singapore.html
Manchester United Ltd (MNU) ., the record
19-time English soccer champion, is revisiting plans for an
initial public offering in  Singapore  as stock markets recover,
said five people with knowledge of the matter.  United and its bankers restarted discussions about 10 days
ago, said one of the people, who requested anonymity because the
deliberations are private. The IPO may take place this year, two
people said.  The soccer club received the Singapore stock exchange’s
approval in September to raise about $1 billion in an IPO,
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time. The
process then stalled as volatile stock markets made equity sales
more difficult to pull off, bankers said.  United will have to file new financial statements to the
Singapore bourse should it opt to proceed with the IPO, the
people said. The company may still pick  Hong Kong  over Singapore
for the offering, according to one person.  Singapore’s benchmark Straits Times Index has gained 12
percent since Dec. 31 after tumbling 17 percent in 2011, the
biggest annual decline in three years. The city-state hasn’t had
any IPOs of more than $100 million since October, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  United hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  as
bookrunners for the IPO together with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
people with knowledge of the matter said last year. Philip
Townsend, a spokesman for the club, declined to comment.  The soccer club’s pretax profit in the year ended June 30
was 29.7 million pounds ($46.9 million), compared with a loss of
15 million pounds the year before. It’s the second time in six
years that the club has been profitable. United’s U.S. owners,
the Glazer family, bought the team in 2005 for 790 million
pounds.  United’s Chief Executive Officer David Gill in October told
the Sunday Telegraph that the potential share sale would be
“beneficial.”  The club lost the first leg of its Europa League knock out
game to  Spain ’s Athletic Bilbao 3-2 at Old Trafford last night.
It will need to win the return in Spain to stand a chance of
making the quarterfinals.  United is playing in  Europe ’s second-tier competition after
being eliminated from the  Champions League  in the group stages
for only the third time in 17 years. Last season it broke
Liverpool’s record of 18 English championships.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  