-- AOL Cutting as Many as 40 Employees as Executives Depart
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-09T21:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/aol-to-eliminate-up-to-40-staff-as-van-miltenburg-shellen-leave.html
AOL Inc. (AOL)  is firing as many as 40
people in the group that includes its AOL Instant Messenger
service, while executives  Eric van Miltenburg  and  Jason Shellen 
depart, three people with knowledge of the matter said.  David Tempkin, who now runs the mobile group, will become
head of the consumer applications division, which includes
mobile, AIM, e-mail and about.me, an online profile application,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
changes haven’t been announced. He replaces van Miltenburg, they
said. Shellen was head of AIM, the instant messaging service.  AOL, based in  New York , has 5,660 employees and is trimming
costs amid declining sales. AIM’s staff cuts are related to the
division’s underperformance, the people said. AOL, led by Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong , could eliminate more staff in
other departments, these people said.  Last year, the company combined the dial-up Internet access
business with Web services, including AIM, into a new group
reporting to Chief Financial Officer Arthur Minson.  That arrangement indicated that AOL wanted to impose fiscal
discipline on the unit,  Clayton Moran , an analyst at Benchmark
Co. in  Delray Beach ,  Florida , said in December.  Thing Labs  Shellen joined in September 2010 when AOL bought Thing Labs
Inc., a startup that creates applications that work on Twitter
Inc. and Facebook Inc. Van Miltenburg, a former Yahoo! Inc.
executive, joined AOL in 2009.  “We are making some strategic, but very difficult changes
to better align our resources with key areas of growth for us as
a company,” Maureen Sullivan, a spokeswoman for AOL, said in a
statement. “We remain committed to our presence in Silicon
Valley and driving innovation in consumer products and mobile.”  News Corp.’s AllThingsD technology blog earlier  reported 
the cuts.  Other AOL managers who have left the company in recent
months include technology executive Alex Gounares, whose
departure was announced last month. TechCrunch editor  Erick
Schonfeld  also said he is leaving to pursue other opportunities.
 Brad Garlinghouse , who ran the applications and commerce group,
stepped down last year.  AOL rose less than 1 percent to $17.70 at the close in New
York. The stock has gained 17 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  