-- Apple, Stamps.com, Humana, DuPont: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-09T12:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/apple-stamps-com-humana-dupont-intellectual-property-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a bid to file a
patent-infringement complaint against  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  and
restart litigation over ownership of a patent that Kodak intends
to sell while in bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper in Manhattan yesterday
denied Apple’s request to file a complaint with the
International Trade Commission and attempt to unfreeze a patent
lawsuit pending between the companies.  Apple, in seeking to file the ITC complaint, said in court
papers that it owns “a number of valuable patents that Kodak is
infringing in the course of its daily operations.” Apple said
it also planned to seek an injunction against Kodak in federal
court.  The patents cover technologies used in printers, digital
cameras and digital picture frames, Apple said.  Separately, Apple sought to proceed with a dispute against
Kodak over ownership of a patent that is included in Kodak’s
digital imaging portfolio. Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York ,
plans to sell the portfolio, which it says is worth as much as
$2.6 billion, as part of its bankruptcy restructuring.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , claimed in court
papers that Kodak obtained the patent “by secretly taking
Apple’s innovations.” The maker of the iPad and iPhone said a
sale of the patent before the ownership dispute is settled would
cause it “irreparable harm.”  Apple’s claim that it owns the patent is “baseless” and
potentially damaging to the effort to sell the digital imaging
portfolio, Kodak said in court papers. The dispute should be
“resolved promptly” in bankruptcy court, it said.  The case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District New York (Manhattan).  Stamps.com, PSI Systems Settle Dispute Through Cross-Licenses  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL) ’s PSI Systems and Stamps.com Inc.
resolved their four-year-old patent infringement suit, according
to a March 6 court filing.  PSI, based in Palo Alto, sued Stamps.com in federal court
in  Los Angeles  in August 2008, claiming three patents related to
postage handling were infringed.  According to a March 7 regulatory filing by Los Angeles-
based Stamps.com Inc., the dispute’s resolution includes patent
cross-licensing. No payments were made to either party, and both
sides agreed not to sue each other for patent infringement
during the next five years.  This is the second patent case Stamps.com has settled in
the past year. In August the company resolved a dispute with a
Texas company, agreeing to pay $5.4 million in damages, and to
buy the disputes patents for $400,000. The California company
also agreed to grant the patent owner 35,000 Stamps.com shares.  That case had gone to a federal appeals court before it was
resolved.  The appeals court case is Kara Technology Inc. v.
 Stamps.com Inc. (STMP) , 2009-1027, 1028, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The lower court case is Kara
Technology Inc. v. Stamps.com Inc., 05-cv-1890, U.S. District
Court for the Central District of California (Los Angeles).  The newly resolved case is PSI Systems Inc. v. Stamps.com
Inc., 2:08-cv-04233-ODW-JEM, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  Mitsubishi Heavy (7011)  Told to Pay GE $170 Million Over Turbines  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. must pay about $170
million to General Electric Co. after a jury in the U.S. found
the company infringed a wind-turbine patent.  Mitsubishi Heavy,  Japan ’s biggest heavy-machinery maker,
will challenge the verdict and seek to have the GE patent ruled
unenforceable in a second phase of the trial in  Dallas ,
according to a statement yesterday from the Tokyo-based company.
A second GE patent, related to the turbines’ base design, was
ruled invalid by U.S. District Judge Royal Ferguson on Feb. 10.  GE accused Mitsubishi Heavy of infringing a patent on how
to keep turbines connected to utility grids during voltage
fluctuations without sustaining damage. The dispute is part of
an effort by GE to maintain its market lead in the U.S., where
the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company says it has made about
half of the turbines in use.  “It is important to see this case within the larger
context: as part of a GE litigation strategy that would stifle
competition and innovation in wind turbine technology,” Sonia P
Williams, a spokeswoman for Mitsubishi Heavy in the U.S., said
in the statement.  Chet Lasell, a GE spokesman, said the company had no
immediate comment on the jury verdict.  GE claimed that at least 179 Mitsubishi Heavy turbines made
for Iberdrola SA’s renewables unit and Edison Mission Energy
infringe the first patent. Mitsubishi Heavy signed contracts
with the power companies in 2007 and 2008, and the turbines were
installed in 2010 and 2011.  The Dallas suit was filed after GE lost a case at the U.S.
International Trade Commission to block Mitsubishi Heavy turbine
imports. An appeals court on Feb. 29 ordered the ITC to review
findings on one GE patent, reviving part of the case.  Mitsubishi Heavy filed an antitrust lawsuit in  Arkansas 
accusing GE of trying to monopolize the wind-turbine market.
That suit is on hold pending the outcome of the patent cases.
The company also has a patent-infringement complaint against GE
in federal court in  Orlando ,  Florida .  The case is  General Electric Co. (GE)  v. Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd., 10-cv-276, U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Humana Sues Preval Over ‘Concentra’ Ads on Limbaugh Program  Humana Inc., the Louisville, Kentucky-based healthcare
company, has filed a trademark infringement suit in the wake of
protests over the  Rush Limbaugh  radio program.  The suit, filed March 7 in federal court in Louisville, is
against  Preval Group LLC of  Portland, Maine. Humana is objecting
to Preval’s use of “Concentra” for memory-enhancing pills that
are advertised on Limbaugh’s program.  After Limbaugh used derogatory language in late February in
reference to a witness who testified before Congress, Humana
said it began to receive a storm of protests from customers who
said they would no longer do business with the company.  The customers were mistakenly connecting Preval’s
Concentra, which is advertised on the program, with Humana’s
Concentra Health Services unit, which provides health services
in 40 states, according to the complaint.  Humana said it has received negative phone calls, and
negative comments were posted on the company’s website and on
its Twitter and Facebook accounts complaining about a supposed
association with Limbaugh.  The healthcare company claims that Preval is deliberately
advertising on the program to “garner widespread attention”
when the program and the placement of advertisements are “a
national controversy widely discussed in the media.”  The complaint quotes a statement from one former customer
who said that “so long as you continue to advertise on Rush
Limbaugh’s show, your facilities will receive absolutely no
referrals from me or any of the entities I manage.”  Humana said it has suffered irreparable harm as the result
of Preval’s unauthorized use of the trademark because the public
is falsely led to believe there is some sort of affiliation
between the advertised product and the healthcare company.  Even before the controversy arose over the Limbaugh
program, Humana said it had issues with Preval. In November 2001
the company sent Preval a cease-and-desist letter demanding that
the Maine-based company halt all uses of the term “Concentra.”
In response, Preval said it was winding down its Concentra
operations and would stop selling the product once its inventory
was depleted.  Preval and Humana “are currently working to reach an
agreement,” Preval spokeswoman Jackaline Rutter said in an e-
mail yesterday. She said the company didn’t buy Concentra
advertising targeted for the Limbaugh show. Instead, it bought
advertising to air anything between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. in New
York. The ads aired during a time when Limbaugh was broadcast in
New York, she said.  Rutter added that her company “is disappointed by the
recent offensive comments by Rush Limbaugh” and has
discontinued advertising on the show. The company “will
consider the concerns of our customers and the public with
respect to further advertising on the Rush Limbaugh show,” she
said.  Humana asked the court to bar Preval’s use of the term
“Concentra” and for awards of money damages, including profits
derived from the alleged infringement, together with extra
damages intended to punish Preval for its actions.  Humana also asked for an order for the destruction of all
Preval promotional materials related to “Concentra,” and for
awards for litigation costs and attorney fees.  Humana is represented by  John K. Bush ,  Christie A. Moore 
and  Amy B. Berge  of Indianapolis-based  Binghman Greenebaum Doll 
LLP.  The case is  Humana Inc. (HUM) , v. Preval Group LLC, 3:12-
cv-00123-CRS, U.S. District Court, Western District of Kentucky
(Louisville).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Hungary’s Schmitt to ‘Respect’ Plagiarism Ruling, Bruxinfo Says  Hungarian President  Pal Schmitt  said he will “respect”
the ruling of a university panel that is probing his doctoral
thesis after media reports said it was plagiarized, Bruxinfo
reported, citing an interview with the president.  Schmitt repeated that he rejects the allegations of
plagiarism, according to the transcript of the interview posted
yesterday on Bruxinfo’s website. He said the allegations may
have surfaced because he has “helped” the government’s work as
president, Bruxinfo said.  In response to a question on whether he should resign,
Schmitt said he was still considered a “satisfactory president
for two-thirds of the country,” Bruxinfo reported.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-DuPont Employee Pleads Not Guilty in Trade Secrets Case  Ex- DuPont Co. (DD)  worker Robert J. Maegerle pleaded not guilty
to conspiracy to steal trade secrets from his former employer in
an economic espionage case alleging he and others gave the
secrets to  China ’s  Pangang Group Co. (000629)   Maegerle, 76, a process engineer for DuPont from 1956 to
1991, had detailed knowledge of DuPont’s titanium dioxide
technology and expertise in building production lines for the
substance, a widely used white pigment, according to a revised
indictment filed Feb. 7.  At the center of the case is Walter Liew, the owner of an
Oakland, California-based company who had contracts with state-
owned Pangang. Prosecutors said in court papers that Liew
claimed he was directed by a Chinese government official to
obtain technology needed for China to build pigment factories.  As far back as 1998, Maegerle gave Liew secret information
from Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont, including trade secrets
about the process and equipment needed to design a plant to make
titanium dioxide, known as Ti02, prosecutors said in the
indictment. DuPont is the world’s largest maker of Ti02 and
won’t sell or license its technology to other companies.  Maegerle is accused of e-mailing Liew photographs in 2005
from DuPont plants with information about the company’s
technologies for a cost-efficient process to develop the
substance, according to the indictment.  Maegerle, Liew and a former DuPont employee, Tze Chao,
provided information to Pangang in 2008 for the design and
construction of a new plant to make 100,000 metric tons of
titanium dioxide a year, prosecutors said. After DuPont filed a
trade-secret lawsuit against Liew, Maegerle gave the Californian
information for responding to the case which falsely stated that
nothing from DuPont was used by Liew, according to prosecutors.  In addition to the conspiracy count, Maegerle is charged
with attempted theft of trade secrets, aiding and abetting and
conspiring to tamper with witnesses and evidence. The most
serious charge, tampering, carries a maximum penalty of 20 years
in prison and at least a $250,000 fine.  Jerome Froelich, Maegerle’s attorney, appeared with his
client and entered a not guilty plea.  Liew, his wife, Christina, and Pangang have also been
charged. Chao, 77, who was with DuPont from 1996 to 2002,
pleaded guilty March 1 to one count of conspiracy to commit
economic espionage and is cooperating with the government.  Christina Liew pleaded not guilty yesterday. Liew’s
arraignment is scheduled for March 21.  The case is U.S. v. Liew, 3:11-cr-00573, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 