-- Apple Drives Silicon Valley’s Biggest Leasing Boom Since 2000
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/apple-drives-silicon-valley-s-biggest-leasing-boom-since-2000.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is leading the biggest
leasing surge in  California ’s Silicon Valley since the dot-com
boom, as the company scours the region for space before building
a futuristic new headquarters.  Office occupancy in the region rose by 2.7 million square
feet (251,000 square meters) last year, the most since 2000, and
rents may advance 11 percent to an average $36 a square foot in
2012 as tenant demand swells, according to broker Cassidy Turley
Inc. Commercial-property investment in the Valley has jumped
six-fold from a record low in 2009, luring buyers from outside
California and the U.S., Real Capital Analytics Inc. data show.  “The foundation has been laid,” Sam Hamilton, managing
director of San Francisco-based DivcoWest Inc., said in a phone
interview. The real estate investment firm paid more than $300
million since July for 10 Silicon Valley office buildings.
“When a large tenant leases a large amount of space, you have
the domino effect.”  Apple, which has vaulted past Exxon Mobil Corp. to become
the world’s most valuable company, burst out of its longtime
base in Cupertino in 2011 to lease more than 1 million square
feet in neighboring Sunnyvale, helping to cut the city’s office
vacancy rate by more than half. The maker of iPad tablets,
iPhones and Mac computers may rent an additional 700,000 square
feet this year, said Gregory Davies, a senior vice president at
 Cassidy Turley  in  San Jose , California.  Drawing Investors  Apple’s expansion has attracted investors including New
York-based Tishman Speyer Properties LP, which bought office
buildings in Sunnyvale, and Alecta Pensionsforsakring, a Swedish
pension manager, which purchased in Cupertino, according to Real
Capital.  Speculative development, property built without a signed
tenant, is under way in Santa Clara, just east of Sunnyvale.
Irvine Co. of  Newport Beach , California; Boston-based Beacon
Capital Partners Inc. in partnership with Palo Alto-based Menlo
Equities LLC; and the Sobrato Organization in Cupertino are
constructing almost 1.2 million square feet of offices,
according to the companies.  “It’s incredible and harkens back to an earlier era,”
said Davies, referring to the late 1990s Internet wave, when
such companies as Cisco Systems Inc., EBay Inc. and Sun
Microsystems Inc., now part of Oracle Corp., leased hundreds of
thousands of square feet at a time.  Sunnyvale’s office vacancy rate declined to 16.3 percent in
the fourth quarter and rents rose 18 percent from a year earlier
to $45.60 a square foot, Cassidy Turley data show. In Santa
Clara, rents increased 11 percent to $24 a square foot, while
vacancy fell to 21.5 percent from 22.3 percent.  Apple’s Growing Workforce  The Valley’s office rents peaked at $77.88 in the fourth
quarter of 2000, the brokerage said.  Cupertino, where Apple fills 60 percent of the  office
space , including 856,000 square feet at its Infinite Loop
campus, had Silicon Valley’s lowest vacancy rate. In the fourth
quarter, it dropped to 3.6 percent, from 6.9 percent at the end
of 2010, and rents rose 3.8 percent to $39 a square foot,
Cassidy Turley said.  Apple, propelled by global  sales  of more than 35 million
iPhones in the fourth quarter and 55 million iPads since the
tablet was introduced, needs space to house its growing
workforce in the years before completion of a proposed new
headquarters in Cupertino, which at 2.8 million square feet
would be one of the world’s largest corporate buildings.  The  circular structure  would house 12,000 workers and sit
amid 5.7 million square feet of landscaping on the site of
former Hewlett-Packard Co. and Compaq Computer Corp. office
campuses that Apple owns. The city is looking over the plans,
which will be refined in an environmental-review process, said
Rick Kitson, a Cupertino spokesman.  Jobs’s ‘Spaceship’  “It’s a little like a spaceship landed,”  Steve Jobs ,
Apple’s late co-founder, told the Cupertino City Council in June
as he  unveiled  the project’s conception in one of his last
public appearances. He died Oct. 5 of cancer.  Renderings show the glass-faced behemoth reflecting trails
and a meadow-like setting. The design is by  Foster + Partners ,
the London-based firm run by the Pritzker Prize-winning
architect  Norman Foster , with engineers Arup Ltd., also of
 London , and Philadelphia-based landscape architect  Olin .  A fitness center, research buildings and 1,000-seat
auditorium are also proposed for the 175 acres (70 hectares),
which were assembled with three smaller deals beginning in 2006.  The proposal has been “generally well-received” and Apple
has been a good corporate citizen since it was established in
Cupertino in 1976, according to Kitson said. Still, the scale is
unprecedented and the city wants a “thorough” vetting, he
said.  Google Deals  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s real estate plans.  Apple was Silicon Valley’s top property buyer over the last
two years, based on its $415 million purchase in November 2010
of the 1.5 million square feet of Hewlett-Packard offices,
according to Real Capital.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  ranked second, with four
deals worth $184 million. Tishman was third with $156 million,
and Rockwood Capital Partners LLC of  White Plains ,  New York ,
which bought buildings in Sunnyvale, was fourth with $122
million.  Office sales totaled $1.3 billion in each of the past two
years, following a trough in 2009 of $200 million, the lowest
tally in records going back a decade.  The average capitalization rate for Silicon Valley deals
last year was 6.1 percent, compared with a 7.3 percent U.S.
average, showing high investor demand, the research firm said. A
cap rate, a measure of investment yield, is a property’s net
income divided by purchase price.  Next Moves  “It feels like we’re right in the middle of it,” said
Hamilton of DivcoWest, whose clients include U.S. pensions and
other institutional buyers. “Where to invest next in the Valley
is our daily debate.”  Google, maker of the most popular search engine and the
Android operating system, is seeking more space near its campus
in  Mountain View  as the company expands its video and mobile-
device offerings, said Phil Mahoney, a broker at Cornish & Carey
Commercial Newmark Knight Frank in  Santa Clara . He represented
landlord Jay Paul Co. in Google’s lease for 715,000 square feet
in Sunnyvale in August.  The company had its “biggest hiring year in history” in
2011, and will continue its property search this year “in the
vicinity of our headquarters,” Jordan Newman, a Google
spokesman, wrote in an e-mail.  ‘Greatest Recovery’  Mountain View’s office vacancy rate fell to 6 percent in
the fourth quarter from 9.6 percent a year earlier, according to
Cassidy Turley. That was third-lowest in the Valley after 4.4
percent for  Palo Alto , the former home of Facebook Inc., where
it dropped from 6.3 percent. For Silicon Valley as a whole, the
rate tumbled to 14 percent from a peak of 19.1 percent in the
first quarter of 2010.  “This is the greatest recovery I’ve ever seen in the Bay
Area,” said Michael Covarrubias, chief executive officer of San
Francisco-based TMG Partners and a 35-year veteran of the
industry. The developer is seeking approval from Mountain View
officials to tear down an office park and build two towers with
double the space, he said.  The tech rebound goes beyond familiar companies to hundreds
of little-known firms that are creating services and
applications for the Internet, said  Stephen Levy , a Palo Alto-
based economist. He said he expects 25,000 to 30,000 jobs to be
added this year in Santa Clara County, the heart of the Valley,
and that will further increase demand for space.  “The social-media guys, the guys doing apps, these markets
are exploding,” said Levy, director of the Center for the
Continuing Study of the California Economy. “They’re producing
things that people want.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  