-- Armory Show Spills Art Over Two Huge Piers: Our Guide
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/armory-show-spills-over-two-huge-art-filled-piers-our-guide.html
The  Armory Show  spreads over two
hangar-size piers along the  Hudson River  in  New York . It’s
crowded and confusing.  Pier 94 features 157 contemporary galleries from 30
countries. Paintings, sculptures, video, installations,
performances bombard you from every direction.  Pier 92’s modern section includes 71 galleries from nine
countries.  Here’s some help:  Pier 94: The lounge area by the bar at the entrance is a
good place to meet people, grab a $16 flute of Pommery Brut NV
and contemplate the 40-foot-long pink neon sign “Scandinavian
Pain” hanging above.  The sign is by Icelandic artist Ragnar Kjartansson, whose
gallery, i8, is offering it for $55,000. If you are looking at
“Pain,” the group of 19 Scandinavian dealers is to your left.  It has an informal, laid-back feel and stacks of artsy
posters on the floor, free for anyone to take.  Every couple of minutes, you hear a whooshy sound, which
brings to mind waves beating against the shore.  Towering Totems  The source is a kinetic sculpture featuring little steel
balls by Finnish artist duo Tommi Gronlund and Petteri Nisunen
at Helsinki’s Galerie Anhava booth. The structure shifts every
couple of minutes, creating the meditative sounds. The work is
$28,000.  Nearby, David Risley Gallery from Denmark displays towering
totems by Oslo-based American artist Charlie Roberts. Carved
with an ax from 12-foot-tall wooden beams, they mix primitivism
with hip-hop and gangsta imagery. Prices range from $6,700 to
$22,000.  Head to the right of the Pommery bar to see the sculptures
by Chicago-based artist Theaster Gates at the booth of Kavi
Gupta Gallery.  Made with salvaged materials from gutted houses in poor
black communities, they have been quickly snapped up by
collectors on opening day, with prices ranging from $15,000 to
$50,000.  Gates, who is the official artist of the Armory Show, will
chat with visitors at the booth daily from noon to 4 p.m.  The space resembles a makeshift classroom with green chalk
boards, small yellow chairs and a giant table welded together by
school desks.  Hanged Man  Down the aisle, the silhouettes of a hanged man, the Statue
of Liberty and  Jesus Christ  surrounded by paparazzi are shown in
the stark new photographs by Andres Serrano at the booth of
Edward Tyler Nahem Fine Art. Prices range from $30,000 to
$50,000.  At Derek Eller’s booth, a fiery canvas by Tom Thayer, who
is also represented at the  Whitney Biennial , caught my eye.
Layered with red paint, it also has cutout cardboard figures of
birds, men and geometric shapes hanging on the string. The work
sold for $10,000.  The main section of the fair starts with blue-chip photos
by  Cindy Sherman  and  Andreas Gursky  at the booth of Sprueth
Magers as well as black-and-white text-based silkscreens by
Michael Riedel at  David Zwirner .  Things get more unexpected from there. Galerie Laurent
Godin displays 30 plaster heads of  Osama bin Laden  on the floor.
They are by Chinese Paris-based artist Wang Du and cost $15,000
each or $320,000 as a group.  There were no early takers.  Creepy Dolls  Shamanism is palpable in pastel pink dolls hand-sewn by
Evgeny Antufiev, a young Russian artist shown by Moscow-based
Regina Gallery. The creepy and adorable dolls include crystal
and animal bones, coarse embroidery and fluffy fabrics. Prices
range from $3,000 to $15,000.  Take a passage to the quieter Pier 92 (thankfully, the
scary rickety staircase is gone).  One of the priciest pieces here is an abstract painting by
 Gerhard Richter , which has the asking price of $13.5 million at
 Tokyo ’s Galerie Sho Contemporary Art.  Among the early sales was Vik Muniz’s vibrant photograph of
pigments arranged to mimic Picasso’s “Weeping Woman” painting.
Its asking price was $110,000 at Chowaiki & Co.  The booth of  Italy ’s Galleria d’Arte Maggiore G.A.M. feels
like a tiny museum, with paintings by Leger, Delvaux, Magritte
and Morandi, priced well below the Richter.  Around the corner, at Munich-based Galerie Thomas Modern,
there’s  Anselm Kiefer ’s “Elisabeth,” which evokes the murdered
Austrian empress with a ship and lumps of dark hair. Its asking
price: $1.85 million.  The Armory Show runs March 8-11 at Twelfth Avenue and 55th
Street. General admission is $30;  http://www.thearmoryshow.com .  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 