-- Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Plans Default on Bond Payments
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-03-09T20:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/harrisburg-pennsylvania-set-to-default-on-5-27-million-go-bond-payments.html
Harrisburg (9661MF) ,  Pennsylvania ’s insolvent
capital, says it will miss general-obligation bond payments for
the first time next week as its receiver seeks approval for a
plan to sell assets.  The city, carrying a debt load of more than five times its
general-fund budget, will miss $5.27 million in bond payments
due March 15 on $51.5 million of bonds issued in 1997, according
to a notice its receiver posted on the Electronic Municipal
Market Access system, a database for filings by debt issuers.  The default is the latest for the $3.7 trillion municipal
market, which has seen the number grow while remaining rare. The
rate of U.S. municipal-bond defaults doubled to 5.5 a year in
2010 and 2011, from 2.7 in the previous 39 years, Moody’s
Investors Service said this week in a report. Stockton,
 California , last month voted to default on some of its bonds.  “It’s a worrisome trend if it becomes more commonplace”
for communities to expect bond insurers to pick up debt
payments, said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income research
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia. Municipal
issuers may become increasingly willing to default even if there
is no insurance for bondholders, he said.  “If it’s OK to hurt the bond insurer, is it OK to hurt
bond holders?” Schankel said.  Objections to Plan  The default decision was made as some city officials
objected to a plan to sell assets and avoid a trip to  bankruptcy
court . State law bars the city from seeking Chapter 9 protection
from creditors until July. A majority of the City Council sought
unsuccessfully to make that move last year.  “It’s just an indication of how severe the problem is,”
Dan Miller, the city controller and a supporter of seeking court
protection, said by telephone. “Without a bankruptcy judge, we
can’t get a solution.”  Ambac Assurance, a unit of New York-based  Ambac Financial
Group Inc. (ABKFQ) , insures the city’s general-obligation debt.  “We are honoring and paying” valid claims,  Michael
Fitzgerald , an Ambac spokesman, said by e-mail. He said the
company doesn’t comment on specific cases.  While Harrisburg in 2009 started skipping payments on debt
related to an incinerator overhaul and expansion, it hasn’t
defaulted on general-obligation bonds. The city’s fiscal crisis
is driven by more than $300 million in debt from the project at
the waste-to-energy plant, which doesn’t generate enough revenue
to cover its costs.  Receiver Appointed  In December, David Unkovic was appointed as the city’s
receiver, a first for the state. Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, had declared a fiscal emergency to ensure
vital services, including making payroll and paying debt
obligations, were continued.  “My first priority as receiver is to ensure that vital and
necessary services such as police and fire are maintained,”
Unkovic said today in a statement. “The city will not be making
these payments to ensure sufficient  cash flow  so the citizens of
Harrisburg continue to receive essential services.”  By defaulting, Harrisburg will be able to keep paying
municipal workers about $1 million every two weeks, through the
third quarter at least, Unkovic said by telephone. He declined
to say if other bond obligations may be missed. The city’s debt
service, including the March payments, totals almost $12 million
this year, not including incinerator-related securities.  To the Brink  Harrisburg almost missed payments on its general-obligation
bonds in the past two Septembers. Last year, it covered the
obligations with the help of a $7.5 million advance from the
Harrisburg Parking Authority for a lease of municipal land. In
2010, the community averted default after then-Governor  Ed Rendell , a Democrat, expedited state aid to meet debt service.  Unkovic’s recovery proposal, which must be approved by a
state court, calls for the sale or lease of city assets, raising
taxes and fees, and winning concessions from municipal unions in
the community of 49,500 residents.  “From my perspective, this doesn’t diminish my
determination to proceed with the plan,” Unkovic said of the
default. “This preserves my ability to do that.”  In court papers, Unkovic estimated the city’s deficit at
$9.53 million this fiscal year, without concessions from labor
unions, while net revenue is forecast at about $48.5 million.  A bid by the council majority to put Harrisburg into
Chapter 9 proceedings was dismissed on Nov. 23 by U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary D.  France  in Harrisburg. She said the
filing wasn’t allowed under state law. The council is seeking to
appeal that decision.  The default “shows what a charade this receivership is,”
said  Mark Schwartz , a lawyer hired by the council, in a
telephone interview today.  One of the general-obligation bonds to be in default,
maturing in September 2021, traded at an average of 49.3 cents
on the dollar on March 5. That’s up from an average of about
38.7 cents in October, the month the council sought  bankruptcy
protection , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  