-- Harry Wendelstedt, Umpire Who Worked Five World Series, Dies at Age 73
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-03-09T21:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/harry-wendelstedt-umpire-who-worked-five-world-series-dies-at-age-73.html
Harry Wendelstedt, a Major League
Baseball umpire who worked five  World Series , died today. He was
73.  Wendelstedt died this morning in Ormond Beach,  Florida , MLB
said in an e-mailed statement. A cause of death wasn’t given.
The  Associated Press  said he was diagnosed several years ago
with a brain tumor, without giving the source of its
information.  Wendelstedt was a major-league umpire from 1966 to 1998. In
addition to the World Series assignments, he worked seven
National League Championship Series and four All-Star Games, and
was behind the plate for four no-hitters, including ones by Hall
of Fame pitchers Gaylord Perry in 1968 and Bob Gibson in 1971,
according to MLB.  He also ran the  Wendelstedt Umpire School  since 1977, was
supervisor of National League umpires in 1999 and served four
terms as president of the Major League Umpires Association.  Wendelstedt’s son Hunter is a current major-league umpire.
The two worked together during the final year of Harry’s career,
when Hunter was a call-up umpire.  In 1968, Wendelstedt was the plate umpire in a game between
the  Los Angeles Dodgers  and the  San Francisco Giants  in the
middle of pitcher Don Drysdale’s then-record 58 2/3 scoreless-
innings streak.  With the bases loaded and no outs in the ninth inning,
Drysdale hit Giants catcher Dick Dietz, which would have forced
in a run. Wendelstedt ruled that Dietz didn’t attempt to get out
of the way of the pitch, which was called a ball. Drysdale
escaped the inning without surrendering a run.  The scoreless-innings record was broken by Orel Hershiser
in 1988.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  