-- Harvard, Yale Dons, Pearlman Stories Take Book Critics Awards
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/harvard-yale-historians-edith-pearlman-stories-take-book-critics-awards.html
The National Book Critics Circle
gave its fiction award to Edith Pearlman for her story
collection “Binocular Vision” (Lookout Books) Thursday night
in  Manhattan .  This was the first book published by Lookout, which is
based at the University of North Carolina  Wilmington (9594MF) . Pearlman,
born in 1936, published her debut collection of stories in 1996.
Also a finalist this year for the National Book Award, she
called the NBCC honor “a very sweet moment for me.”  Maya Jasanoff, a history professor at  Harvard University ,
won the award for general nonfiction for “Liberty’s Exiles:
American Loyalists in the Revolutionary War” (Knopf). She
opened her remarks by saying, “When you write a book about
losers, you don’t really expect to get up and make a speech like
this.”  The award for poetry went to Laura Kasischke for “Space,
in Chains” (Copper Canyon Press). She thanked “my husband and
son, who give me all my material, for better or worse.”  Geoff Dyer won in the criticism category for “Otherwise
Known as the Human Condition: Selected Essays and Reviews”
(Graywolf).  Mira Bartok won the award for autobiography for “The
Memory Palace” (Free Press), while the biography award went to
John Lewis Gaddis for “George F. Kennan: An American Life”
(Penguin). A history professor at  Yale University , Gaddis was a
2005 recipient of the National Humanities Medal. His son and
stepdaughter accepted in his absence.  ‘First Real Job’  The Nona Balakian Citation for Excellence in Reviewing went
to Kathryn Schulz, for reviews appearing in the New York Times
Book Review and the Boston Globe. Schulz noted that she heard
the news of her win “about 72 hours after I accepted my first
real job as a book critic” -- at New York magazine.  The Ivan Sandrof Lifetime Achievement Award went to Robert
Silvers, editor of the  New York Review of Books , who was
introduced by a frequent contributor, Daniel Mendelsohn. He
noted that Silvers once placed a trans-Atlantic call to him,
while he was on a ship in the Aegean, to discuss changing a
semicolon to a period.  Silvers traced his career back to the tiny Paris offices of
 the Paris Review  and the first editing assignments given to him
in 1954 by George Plimpton. He described an editor as “someone
who dreams of bringing together the writers he admires and a
group of readers who will appreciate them, and then stays out of
the way.”  The  National Book Critics Circle  is an organization of
about 600 book reviewers and editors. Founded in 1974, the group
gave out its first awards the following year.  Nominees were chosen from books published in 2011 and
winners were selected by the group’s 25-member board of
directors, which includes Bloomberg book editor Laurie Muchnick.  To contact the writer on this story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 Jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 