-- Las Vegas Sands Said to Hire Global Coordinators for Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-03-09T05:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/las-vegas-sands-said-to-hire-banks-as-coordinators-for-3-7-billion-loan.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  hired DBS Bank
Ltd., Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. and  United Overseas Bank
Ltd. (UOB)  as global coordinators for a S$4.6 billion ($3.7 billion)
loan, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Proceeds will be used by  Marina Bay Sands Pte , the
Singapore unit of Las Vegas Sands, to refinance debt, the person
said, asking not to be identified because the details are
private. The loan may be split into a S$4.1 billion term
facility and a S$500 million revolving credit facility, the
person said.  Las Vegas Sands’ vice president of corporate finance,
Stephen Cootey, declined to comment on the financing when
contacted by phone at his office in Las Vegas today.  The U.S. casino company controlled by billionaire  Sheldon
Adelson  declared its first dividend earlier this year as it
reported a 17 percent rise in fourth-quarter profit on growth in
Singapore and  China . Net income rose to $320.1 million from $273
million a year earlier, the Las Vegas-based company said in a
Feb. 1 statement.  Singapore has authorized just two casinos, which Las Vegas
Sands and Malaysia’s  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  opened in the first half of
2010. International visitor arrivals to the Southeast Asian
city-state rose 13 percent to 13.2 million in 2011, the
Singapore Tourism Board said in a Feb. 7 statement. Preliminary
tourism receipts are estimated to have reached S$22.2 billion,
the board said.  Las Vegas Sands is offering to pay a margin of 185 basis
points more than the Singapore dollar swap offered rate on both
facilities, the person said. The term facility will mature in
six years while the revolving credit facility would have a tenor
of 5 1/2 years, the person said.  A meeting has been set for April 4 with the borrower to
discuss key lender commitments before the facility is marketed
more widely to other banks, the person said.  Marina Bay Sands has S$5.4 billion in loans that mature in
2015, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  