-- Atlanta Offices Showing ‘Staggering’ Delinquencies, Fitch Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-03-09T16:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/atlanta-offices-showing-staggering-delinquencies-fitch-says.html
The struggling  office property 
market, particularly in Atlanta, held back improvements in late
payments for commercial mortgages bundled into bonds, according
to Fitch Ratings.  One Alliance Center, a 22-story tower in the Buckhead area
10 miles north of downtown Atlanta, became 60 days delinquent
last month, Fitch said today in a report. A “staggering 37
percent of all Atlanta office properties in Fitch-rated deals
are now considered delinquent,” the report said. That compares
with late payments on commercial mortgage-backed securities of
8.3 percent in February, a 0.02 percentage point decline from a
month earlier, Fitch said.  “The outlook for office properties will remain strained
for the foreseeable future, with performance among Atlanta
office properties to be particularly dismal,” Mary MacNeill, a
managing director at  Fitch Ratings , said in an e-mail statement.  The delinquency rate for office loans overall increased 30
basis points to 7.68 percent and the rate for multifamily rose
to 13.3 percent from 13.04 percent in January, Fitch said. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Atlanta’s office market  is a victim of overbuilding and
inflated real-estate prices fueled by issuance of commercial
mortgage-backed securities that peaked in the U.S. at $232
billion in 2007. Bank of America Plaza, the tallest tower in the
U.S. Southeast, was sold in a foreclosure auction last month
after vacancies rose and the value of the building tumbled.  “Atlanta office owners have faced an uphill battle with an
abundance of new supply in recent years,” MacNeill said.  While investor confidence in commercial-property debt is at
the highest since May, borrowers in cities outside of prime U.S.
office markets of  New York ,  Los Angeles , Washington and  Boston 
are finding it hard to refinance debt bundled inside CMBS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 Charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  