-- Australia Sees No Quick Relief from La Nina-Triggered Floods
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-09T01:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/australia-sees-no-quick-relief-from-la-nina-triggered-floods.html
New South Wales  faces at least two
more weeks of flooding with 75 percent of  Australia ’s most
populous state still “under water” and areas of the capital of
Sydney now under threat, according to  emergency services .  “There are 15 evacuation orders in place for the whole
state,” NSW State Emergency Services spokeswoman Jacqueline
Sergeant said in a phone interview today. “The water is very
slow moving. The town of Hay in the state’s south is due for
major flooding about March 24.”  Residents in towns in New South  Wales , which was hit by the
most rain in 38 years last week, and its southern neighbor
 Victoria  have been using sandbags to strengthen riverbank
levees. Streets and houses in the rural centers of Forbes and
Griffith have been submerged and agricultural land swamped,
television images showed today.  Eastern Australia is being affected by its second-
consecutive La Nina, a weather event which typically brings
higher-than-normal  rainfall  to that area while causing droughts
to the southern U.S. and  South America  and flooding to
plantations in Thailand and  Malaysia . New South Wales averaged
123.9 millimeters (4.9 inches) of rain last week, matching the
record reached in 1974, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  In Sydney’s western fringe, bridges and roads have been
closed in areas including Penrith, North Richmond and Windsor.
Residents in properties along the Hawkesbury River have been
ordered to evacuate.  Ignoring Orders  A “large number of residents” in Nathalia, a town of
about 1,400 people in northern Victoria, have ignored evacuation
orders and are staying with their properties, Victoria State
Emergency Services spokesman Toby Borella said in a phone
interview today. “At this stage the flood levees are working
but they are operating past their design level and we can’t
guarantee they won’t fail.”  Rabobank International yesterday cut its forecast for
Australian cotton production 7 percent as a result of the
floods. Government officials, including Prime Minister  Julia Gillard , have said it’s too early to put an estimate on the
financial damage the floods have caused to infrastructure, homes
and crops.  Costs to Economy  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  forecast in May that last year’s
flooding throughout Australia’s eastern states and a cyclone
that hit Queensland would cost the nation’s economy A$9 billion
($9.6 billion) in lost output and reduce real gross domestic
product growth by a half percentage point in fiscal 2010-2011.  No heavy rain is forecast for New South Wales or Victoria
until at least March 12, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  La Nina, a cooling in the  Pacific Ocean , is expected to
fade by the end of April, the national Climate Prediction Center
said yesterday. The weather pattern occurs on average every
three years to five years and usually lasts from nine months to
12 months. It sometimes occurs in back-to-back years, as
happened this year and last.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  