-- Australia Records First Trade Deficit in 11 Months on 8% Plunge in Exports
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-03-09T01:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/australia-records-trade-deficit-in-january-first-in-11-months.html
Australia  recorded a  trade deficit 
in January, its first in 11 months, as weaker shipments of  iron
ore  and coal contributed to the biggest drop in total exports in
almost three years. The local currency fell.  Imports outpaced exports by A$673 million ($715 million),
from a revised A$1.33 billion surplus in December, the Bureau of
Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. It was the biggest
shortfall since March 2010. The median estimate in a Bloomberg
News  survey  of 24 economists was for a surplus of A$1.5 billion.  The data add to pressure on  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  to end a two-month pause in interest-rate
cuts after the economy slowed last quarter and payrolls fell in
February. The currency has strengthened this year on a A$456
billion pipeline of resource projects driven by companies such
as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Today’s report showed exports to China,
which accounts for about a quarter of Australia’s merchandise
sales abroad, fell by 23 percent.  “The numbers are pretty soft and consistent with our view
that Chinese growth is going to be a fair bit weaker in the
first half of the year than the second half,” said Ben Jarman,
a Sydney-based economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , who cautioned
data can be volatile due to the Lunar New Year holiday.
“Today’s report shows why the RBA needs to maintain its
conditional easing bias.”  Currency Drops  The local dollar fell to as low as $1.0617 from $1.0641
immediately before the data were released. It bought $1.0630 at
12:41 p.m. in Sydney. The world’s fifth-most traded currency has
strengthened about 4 percent this year against its U.S.
counterpart.  Today’s report showed Australia’s two-way trade weakened in
January with each of the nation’s top four trading partners --
China,  Japan , the U.S. and  South Korea . Exports to Japan sank
16.5 percent, according to the report.  Total coal exports in January declined 5.6 percent and iron
ore was down 23 percent, it showed.  Total exports plunged 8 percent to A$25.4 billion in
January, led by a 56 percent decline in non-monetary gold, a 15
percent fall in metal ores and minerals, and a 9 percent drop in
coal, coke and briquettes, today’s report showed.  Imports declined 1 percent to A$26 billion on an 18 percent
drop in fuels and lubricants, it showed.  Annette Beacher , the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities Inc., said she is taking the report
“with a complete grain of salt” because of holidays in  Asia  at
the start of the year.  ‘Caution’  “Anything to do with  China  in January, when Chinese New
Year fell, I’m treating with caution,” she said. “I’m going to
wait for February before I panic.”  Stevens lowered the overnight cash rate target twice late
last year to 4.25 percent. He paused last month and again on
March 6, while noting that policy makers have scope to lower
borrowing costs as  Europe  remains a potential source of shocks
“for some time yet.”  China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and its demand
for iron ore, coal and energy drove the nation’s terms of trade,
or export prices relative to import prices, to a record last
year.  The trade report capped a week of weaker-than-forecast
economic figures in Australia, which avoided a recession during
the 2009 global contraction and where the benchmark  interest
rate  is the highest among major developed economies.  Slowing Growth  Gross domestic product in the final three months of 2011
grew 0.4 percent from the third quarter, half the expansion
economists predicted, a government report showed March 7.
Household consumption, which accounts for 56 percent of GDP,
advanced at the slowest pace since the first quarter of 2010.  Business profits unexpectedly dropped in the three months
through December by the most in two-and-a-half years as earnings
weakened at mining and financial companies. Gross operating
profits fell 6.5 percent in the fourth quarter to A$66.3 billion
from the previous three months, when they rose a revised 4.7
percent, a government report showed March 5.  Yesterday, a Bureau of Statistics report showed Australian
employers cut payrolls by 15,400 jobs in February and the
 unemployment rate  rose for the first time since August, to 5.2
percent.  RBA Deputy Governor  Philip Lowe  said earlier this week that
the labor market is one of the key indicators the central bank
is monitoring for how the economy is managing the “historically
unusual” structural change.  “Over the next few years, mining-sector investment will
reach new highs as a share of GDP, and is likely to account for
around 40 percent of total business investment,” Lowe said in
the March 7 speech. “Structural change is also clearly evident
in the export numbers, with resources now accounting for around
60 percent of total exports, up from 35 percent a decade ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  