-- Australia’s Dollar Is Poised for Weekly Decline on Surprise Trade Deficit
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-03-09T02:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/australia-s-dollar-halts-advance-on-data-showing-surprise-trade-deficit.html
Australia ’s dollar was set for a
weekly decline after a report showed the nation’s trade balance
unexpectedly turned to a deficit.  The  New Zealand dollar  headed for the biggest five-day drop
in two months against the yen after central bank Governor Alan Bollard said an interest-rate cut is a possibility if currency
strength undermines growth. Losses in the South Pacific nations’
currencies were limited after a report today showed inflation in
China cooled last month, providing the People’s Bank of China
more leeway to ease monetary policy.  Trade balance data “looks like a weak number, and it’s
putting some downward pressure on the Australian dollar,” said
Greg Gibbs, a foreign-exchange strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in Sydney. “This would certainly add to the
weaker tone in economic data in the past two weeks.”  The Australian dollar was little changed at $1.0642 as of
1:13 p.m. in Sydney from yesterday when it gained 0.6 percent.
It’s retreated 0.9 percent this week. The so-called Aussie
advanced 0.2 percent to 86.99 yen after strengthening 1.2
percent yesterday.  New Zealand ’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to 82.58 U.S. cents.
The so-called kiwi climbed 0.4 percent to 67.51 yen. It’s headed
for a 0.5 percent drop against  Japan ’s currency this week, the
biggest decline since the five-day period ended Dec. 30.  Australian imports outpaced exports by A$673 million ($715
million), from a revised A$1.33 billion surplus in December, the
Bureau of Statistics said in a report in Sydney today. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists was
for a surplus of A$1.5 billion.  The data added to pressure on central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  to end a two-month pause in interest-rate cuts after the
economy slowed last quarter and payrolls fell in February.  RBNZ Policy  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Bollard yesterday kept
the cash rate at a record low 2.5 percent in line with
expectations of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. A rate cut is
“not something we’re looking at at the minute, but it’s
completely a possibility,” Bollard said in an interview on
Television New Zealand’s “Breakfast” program today.  He said the New Zealand dollar’s gain the past 12 months is
undermining economic growth, inhibiting exports and that
sustained currency gains would reduce the need for further rate
increases.  The value of transactions on electronic cards declined 0.7
percent last month from January, when it gained a revised 1.1
percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said today in Wellington.
Economists expected a 0.1 percent increase, according to the
median of five estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  China ’s consumer prices rose 3.2 percent in February from a
year earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said on its
website today. That compared with the 3.4 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 35 economists and a 4.5
percent gain the previous month. Producer-price inflation was
unchanged last month from a year earlier.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  