-- Austria Faces $1.3 Billion Bank Injection After ISDA Triggers Greek CDS
-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-09T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/austria-faces-1-3-billion-bank-injection-after-isda-triggers-greek-cds.html
Austria is facing a capital
injection of as much as 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) into KA
Finanz AG less than two weeks after bailing out  Oesterreichische
Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)   The International Swaps & Derivatives Association yesterday
ruled that  Greece ’s use of collective action clauses forcing
investors to take losses under the nation’s debt restructuring
will trigger default insurance payouts.  In a statement before ISDA’s decision, KA Finanz said it
may have risk provisions of about 1 billion euros if credit-
default swaps on Greece it has written are activated. That
includes charges of 423.6 million euros on an assumed loss quota
of 80 percent, it said.  KA Finanz is the so-called bad bank of Kommunalkredit
Austria AG, which was nationalized in 2008 when it was owned by
Volksbanken and Dexia SA. While Kommunalkredit continues as a
municipal lender and has to be sold again by  Austria  by
mid-2013, KA Finanz took on securities, loans and CDS that are
not part of that main business and is winding down those assets.  Austria has promised to keep KA Finanz’s capital ratio at 7
percent and Finance Ministry Maria Fekter said on March 3 that
the country may have to inject as much as 1 billion euros into
KA Finanz to keep that pledge.  The Alpine republic also has nationalized Hypo Alpe-Adria-
Bank International AG and on Feb. 27 announced that it would
take a stake of as much as 49 percent in Volksbanken after
injecting 250 million euros into the lender and writing off 700
million euros of previous sate aid. Austria is boosting its
banking tax to finance the Volksbanken bailout. It has yet to
say how it may finance KA Finanz.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  