-- Bain’s Quintiles Pays 50% Premium to Finance Dividend: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/bain-s-quintiles-pays-50-premium-to-finance-dividend-corporate-finance.html
Quintiles Transnational Corp. (QTRN)  is
paying as much 50 percent more for a $300 million loan than on a
similar borrowing in June, burdening the company with increased
interest costs to fund its second dividend in a year to Bain
Capital LLC and TPG Capital.  The biggest provider of testing and drug-trial services to
pharmaceutical and biotech firms will pay a fixed 7.5 percent on
the five-year credit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It pays a minimum 5 percent on a $2 billion floating-rate,
seven-year term loan it obtained last year, also used to finance
a dividend to its private-equity owners, the data show.  Bain, TPG and other owners are taking advantage of
Quintiles’s  cash flow  to collect roughly $1 billion of
distributions in little more than two years, according to
Bloomberg data and reports from Moody’s Investors Service. The
new loan, due in 2017, represents $23 million of annual interest
costs and will finance most of a $335 million payout, limiting
the junk-rated company’s ability to obtain upgrades.  “Two in one year is fairly aggressive,” Jessica Gladstone, a New York-based analyst with Moody’s, said in a
telephone interview. Quintiles’s “penchant for making
dividends” is keeping it from rising above a B1  credit rating ,
she said.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is ranked less than
Baa3 by Moody’s and below BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘It Was Appropriate’  Quintiles, based in Durham,  North Carolina , is owned by
Bain, TPG, 3i Group Plc,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment firm
Temasek Holdings Pte and the company’s founder Dennis Gillings.  “Given Quintiles’s strong performance in 2011, we felt it
was appropriate to provide a return on investment,” Phil
Bridges, a spokesman for the company, said in a telephone
interview. Charlyn Lusk of Stanton Public Relations & Marketing,
a spokeswoman for Bain, and  Owen Blicksilver  of Owen Blicksilver
Public Relations Inc., a spokesman for TPG, declined to comment.  “The majority of Quintiles employees globally will also
receive bonus payments based upon 2011 performance,” Bridges
said in an e-mail. The company has 25,000 employees in more than
60 countries, he said. The company had 16,986 full-time
equivalent workers at the end of January 2005, according to its
annual regulatory filing for 2004, the last one it provided.  Quintiles announced three acquisitions in October without
disclosing the terms, including  Outcome Sciences Inc.,  an
observational and late-phase research firm in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Leverage Increase  “We’re paying dividends, but we’re investing in our
business at the same time,” Bridges said in the telephone
interview.  The new loan increases Quintiles’s debt to 5.2 times
Ebitda, from 4.6 times as of Sept. 30, Moody’s said in a Feb. 23
research report. The fixed-rate loan was issued at the holding
company level and has no prepayment requirements, according to
Gladstone. It has a pay-in-kind feature that lets the company
defer cash interest if it doesn’t have sufficient liquidity to
make them, she said.  Bain, the buyout firm co-founded by  Mitt Romney , the
leading contender to be the Republican candidate for president
this year, along with  David Bonderman ’s TPG and Gillings  bought 
Quintiles in January 2008. 3i also became a significant
investor, while Temasek remained an equity owner. One Equity
Partners, the private equity arm of JPMorgan Chase & Co., sold
its ownership stake in the deal, less than five years after
purchasing the company for about $1.7 billion in September 2003.  ‘Significant Amount’  One Equity had invested $222.3 million in the leveraged
buyout, while TPG and Temasek each contributed $90 million,
according to an April 2005  regulatory filing .  Quintiles has $2.53 billion of debt, comprising the $2
billion term loan, $225 million revolver and $300 million
holding company loan. The $2 billion loan pays the higher of 5
percent or 3.75 percentage points more than the three-month
London interbank offered rate. Libor, the rate banks charge each
other on loans, was fixed at 0.47 percent yesterday.  Share repurchases and dividends Quintiles has paid since
the acquisition by One Equity have “well exceeded” the value
of the buyout, according to Moody’s Feb. 23 report.  “Ever since the 2003 LBO, they’ve done a significant
amount of distributions to shareholders,” said Gladstone.  The dividends include a payout of about $400 million
financed by the sale of $525 million of 9.5 percent notes by
Quintile’s holding company in December 2009, according to a term
sheet at the time.  Refinancing  The notes were redeemed in a refinancing last year that
consisted of $2.23 billion of loans, Bloomberg data show. The
debt, which comprised a $2 billion  term loan  and a $225 million
revolving  credit line , was used in part to finance a roughly
$300 million distribution to shareholders, according a report
from Moody’s in May.  Quintiles had $3.2 billion of sales for the 12 months
through September, according to Moody’s. Revenue grew more than
10 percent last year as demand returned for Quintiles’s clinical
development services, which largely target the late-stage
market, S&P said in a Feb. 22 report.  S&P estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization will increase at a mid-single-digit rate as
Quintiles benefits from “slight growth” in pharmaceutical
research and development, as well as an increase in outsourcing
by large drug companies.  ‘High Risk’  The world’s largest biopharmaceutical services company has
reduced leverage after previous dividends, according to S&P. It
also said Quintiles’s “shareholder-friendly financial policy”
prevents sustained debt reduction and limits the prospect of a
higher rating.  “We know the company is going to keep levering up to do
this,” said Michael Berrian, an analyst with S&P in  Boston ,
said in a telephone interview.  S&P maintained Quintiles’s BB- junk rating, according to
the Feb. 22 report, reflecting its “aggressive” use of excess
cash and debt capacity to reward its owners, as well as its
position in the growing contract-research industry.  “They generate good positive free cash flow,” said
Moody’s Gladstone. “Sometimes their leverage actually got very
low for a B1, below 4 times debt-to-Ebitda.”  Moody’s ranking of Quintiles is four levels below
investment grade.  “We always kept it at B1 because we always felt there was
high risk of future debt-funded dividends or distributions,”
she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  