-- BofA Taps Koder to Head Asia-Pacific, Brille Appointed Chairman for Region
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-03-09T02:43:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/bank-of-america-appoints-matthew-koder-president-of-its-asia-pacific-unit.html
Bank of America Corp.  promoted
Matthew Koder to president of its Asian unit, less than a year
after the investment banker joined from  UBS AG. (UBSN)   Koder will take over from Brian Brille, who will become the
bank’s chairman for the region, according to an internal memo
obtained by Bloomberg News. Mark Tsang, a spokesman at the
lender in Hong Kong, confirmed the contents of the document.  Bank of America hired Koder last year as it was trying to
integrate Merrill Lynch, the investment bank it acquired in
2009. Koder has had a “tremendous impact” on the business and
helped “re-shape and re-focus” Bank of America in Asia, Co-
chief operating officer Thomas K. Montag said in the memo.  “Asia is one of the fastest growing client and revenue
opportunities for our firm and continuing to leverage our
platform in  Asia  is a key element of our strategy,” Montag
wrote.  Koder, who joined the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company as head of corporate and investment banking for Asia
last June, previously spent eight years at UBS. There, he helped
build the Zurich-based bank into an equity capital markets force
in the Asia-Pacific region. UBS was the region’s top-ranked
adviser on equity and equity-linked offerings from 2007 to 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rankings Gain  Bank of America ranked fourth among underwriters of stock
sales in the region last year, up from ninth in 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank also bolstered its
standing in mergers advisory, rising to fourth from sixth.  Koder, who started at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in the
1990s, joined UBS in 2003. He was promoted to head of UBS’s
global  equity capital markets  division in 2008.  Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit has undergone several
rounds of top management changes in Asia since 2008. Jason Brand
stepped down as head of the unit in December of that year and
was replaced by Nelson Chai, who spent just two months in the
position. Chai was succeeded by Ki Myung Hong in February 2009,
and Brille took over in September of that year.  One key country where Bank of America trails investment-
banking rivals is  China . Unlike such firms as Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and UBS, the company still lacks a partner in the
world’s fastest-growing major economy that would allow it to
underwrite share and bond sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  