-- Bank President Shuns Bonus to Turn Turkish Winemaker
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/bank-president-shuns-bonus-stress-to-turn-winemaker-in-turkey-interview.html
Akin Ongor, former chief executive
of  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , might walk with a spring in his
step if he weren’t as modest and dignified as he is successful.  The former national basketball player, 66, headed Istanbul-
based Garanti for nine years, transforming it into  Turkey ’s
largest bank by market value. His sport-team style management
went onto the case-study curriculum at  Harvard Business School ,
according to the  Turkish-U.S. Business Council .  Then -- like other top bankers -- he stepped away from the
bonuses and stress. He retired in 2000 to pursue another
passion: To create a family-owned winery capable of producing
some of Turkey’s finest bottles. His company,  Selendi  AS,
currently sells in the home market and plans to export as much
as 50 percent of its output within three or four years.  “It started as a hobby,” he said in an interview in
Quince restaurant,  London , seated beside his daughter, Pelin.
“I didn’t go into the business to make money. Wine is for the
next generation, so my daughter, my son will harvest the fruits
but it’s a risky business because we are dealing with nature.”  He began by buying land in the Akhisar region in the west
of the country, using organic farming methods and enlisting help
from the Italian winemaker Andrea Paoletti. Selendi produces one
red wine and one rose each year. Ongor is building a new winery
and estimated his investment at 5 million euros ($7.9 million.)  Bottle Growth  “It started in small numbers, from a few thousand bottles,
but with existing vineyards and the new winery, we will reach
around 125,000, 150,000 bottles: high-quality, boutique wines,
hand-picked, hand-selected,” he said. “We are selling at about
25-30 euros a bottle, and we have new wine coming up at around
50 euros a bottle, so when we multiply this by 125,000 it will
become a small business, but a very high quality business.”  Is he looking at any particular export market?  “Britain is key,” he said. “The  Far East  is interesting
for us:  Hong Kong ,  China ,  Taiwan  those areas,  India . New areas.  “There’s a  Wines of Turkey  platform, together with some
other producers. In three or four years’ time, we will be
exporting 40-50 percent of our production.”  How does Ongor compare banking and wine-making?  “We produce our own grapes so it’s an agricultural
activity and it requires close, personal care,” he said. “It’s
a kind of art. Banking is very much calculated. It’s scientific.
Some bankers really did badly in the Western world but not in
Turkey, so when I say a banker in my country, it’s a high-
prestige business that you are talking about.  Banking Pressure  “I was in a very high-stress environment in banking. I
used to work about 12-13 hours every day, very fast-moving, lots
of pressures from the government, from international markets,
domestic markets and trying to achieve better results.  “In the wine business, the target is to make the best
wine, better than the previous one, so it’s not the same rhythm.
Still, dealing with nature is difficult. We know the climate in
general but we can’t control the climate.”  That sounds like the economy to me. Still, Ongor said he
has no regrets about retiring. He was the bank’s president as
well as chief executive.  “I wanted to allocate more time to my hobbies, to my
family, to my passion,” he said. “We have to realize that we
have limited time in life.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 