-- BG Said to Sell Gas Field Off Gaza After Israel Blocks Project
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-03-09T10:54:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/bg-said-to-sell-gas-field-off-gaza-after-israel-blocks-project.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest oil and gas producer, will sell a gas field off the  Gaza
Strip  after its development was blocked by Israel, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The company may get $70 million to $80 million for the Gaza
Marine field, one of the people said, declining to be identified
because the talks are private. A spokesman for Reading-based BG
declined to comment.  BG ended talks with Israel on selling gas from the field in
2008 and closed its office in the nation citing differences over
price. The company, which holds a 90 percent stake,  discovered 
about 1 trillion cubic feet of gas in 2000.  Israel  was also concerned the Hamas Islamic group governing
Gaza would get some revenue from the field.  Consolidated
Contractors Co.  has the rest of the license and the  Palestinian
Authority  has an option to acquire a stake.  “Israel operates always on the basis of might is right,”
said Charles Gurdon, a managing director at  Menas Associates ,
which advises companies and governments on border disputes. “It
has the ability to do that and it does it.”  Israel Finds Gas  Israel, which relies on gas supplies from Egypt, has less
need for Gaza Marine’s gas after making discoveries in its own
waters. Noble Energy Inc. and partners have found at least 30
trillion cubic feet of gas offshore, enough to meet Israeli
demand for more than a century, according to  BP Plc (BP/)  data.  “You shouldn’t hold your breath on this one,” BG Chief
Executive Officer  Frank Chapman  said last year, when asked about
prospects for Gaza Marine.  BG plans to sell $5 billion of assets in the next two years
to maintain investment and production growth at projects in
Brazil, the North Sea and Australia, it said on Feb. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  