-- Biggest Shipping Banks Withdraw New Funding, Lender DVB Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-03-09T17:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/biggest-shipping-banks-withdraw-new-funding-lender-dvb-says-1-.html
Thirteen of the world’s 19 largest
shipping banks stopped new lending to the industry amid an
“extreme” vessel surplus that’s cut cash flows and led to
vessel seizures, financier  DVB Bank SE (DVB)  said.  The Rotterdam-based transportation lender that’s financing
1,500 vessels through 450 loan agreements is one of six
remaining banks funding shipping, Dagfinn Lunde, a member of
DVB’s board of managing directors, said at a presentation in
London today. As many as 100 were lending to the industry four
years ago, he said.  Fifteen DVB loans worth $2 billion breached loan-to-value
clauses after asset prices fell during the past four years and
needed additional cash or security to regain compliance, Lunde
said. The bank controls 20 ships, has seized and sold others and
is prepared to take over more as rates for vessels “haven’t hit
bottom yet,” he said. Lunde didn’t give a total figure for
numbers of vessels seized.  “We don’t mind taking the ship at all if there’s a risk
the loan is coming under water and the owner says he’s not
willing to support or stand behind or do something,” Lunde
said. “I just say ‘please give me the key.’”  The glut of vessels will depress freight rates for
 container ships , tankers and dry-bulk vessels for at least the
next 12 months and as long as two years, Wolfgang Driese, chief
executive and chairman said at the presentation.  Crisis Not Over  “The crisis is not yet over,” Driese said. “It’s a
composition of lower demand and an idiotic situation that
everybody ordered at a time when they should have stopped
ordering ships so there’s a huge over-capacity in the market.”  Overcapacity at the world’s shipyards is “extreme” and
needs to be addressed to pave the way for a recovery in freight
rates, Lunde said.  “We have a capacity for shipbuilding which is about double
what we need for normal fleet renewal and that’s really scary
and it doesn’t go away,” Lunde said.  Prices for new ships will drop further over the next 12 to
18 months, forcing some yards to close, then bringing supply of
ships and demand into balance, he said.  Delays in delivering new vessels are due to owners
postponing completion in a poor market, not because they can’t
pay, he said.  Export credit agencies are loaning money to owners unable
to secure finance from banks to pay the final instalment on new
ships, he said. Shipbuilders are also providing “sellers’
credit,” effectively deferring the last payment so the vessel
is able to leave the yard.  ‘Brutal Supply’  DVB’s lending volumes for shipping reached $14.6 billion in
in 2011, comprising 52 percent of all loans, and covering seven
sectors and 67 sub-sectors in shipping, according to the
presentation. The bank is the world’s ninth-biggest lender to
the industry and completed 93 deals last year, it said.  Rates for  oil tankers  that haul crude are “especially
bad” because of “brutal supply and struggling demand,” Lunde
said. Tankers account for 32 percent of DVB’s loans. Freight
rates to haul manufactured goods in boxes on container ships are
expected to recover as soon as the end of this year, he said.  Today’s market is all about cash flow, according to Driese.  “It doesn’t help me to finance a vessel at 50 percent in
today’s depressed market if you can’t pay the first instalment
and can’t generate the cash flow,” he said.  Many owners of vessels seeking finance are approaching DVB
amid the curbs on new ship finance lending elsewhere, he said.  “German shipowners have learned that their friendly banks
have disappeared and they are eager to talk and we are
selectively following up on their invitations,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  