-- BOJ Seen Easing by Only Analyst to Predict Previous Stimulus
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-03-09T03:47:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/boj-seen-easing-by-only-analyst-to-predict-previous-stimulus.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  will expand
monetary stimulus at next week’s policy meeting to show a
commitment to ending deflation, according to the only analyst in
a Bloomberg News survey who predicted last month’s easing.  “There will be a big disappointment if they don’t do
anything this time,”  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief  Japan  economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG in Tokyo and a former BOJ official,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “The BOJ knows the market
is gauging its seriousness at the next meeting and it wants to
show it is really stepping up to end deflation.”  Shirakawa was the only one of 13 economists surveyed to
forecast the BOJ’s easing last month aimed at weakening the yen
and countering price declines as the nation struggles to recover
from last year’s earthquake. The currency’s rise to a post-World
War II record against the dollar in October contributed to the
economy contracting for a third year in four.  The yen weakened 0.3 percent to 81.83 per dollar as of
12:33 p.m. in  Tokyo  today as  Greece  moved closer to securing a
rescue package, diminishing the Japanese currency’s appeal as a
haven. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.8 percent, heading
for its highest close since August.  The economist’s view contrasts with forecasts from BNP
Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc. and Nomura Securities Co. that the
BOJ will leave policy unchanged next week.  On Feb. 14, the central bank expanded its asset purchase
program by 10 trillion yen ($123 billion) and set an inflation
goal of 1 percent. The next policy decision is due March 13.
Shirakawa didn’t specify what extra step is likely.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  