-- High-Frequency Traders Should Be Registered to Aid Oversight, Chilton Says
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-09T20:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/boost-high-frequency-trading-firm-oversight-cftc-s-chilton-says.html
Creating a registration category for
high-frequency trading firms that buy and sell rapidly will help
U.S. regulators determine whether new rules should be imposed on
them as a group, according to Bart Chilton, a Democrat at the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Private automated trading companies and units in banks that
rely on split-second timing to implement strategies should
register as high-frequency traders so regulators know who they
are and what they’re doing, CFTC Commissioner Chilton said in an
interview during a TradeTech conference in  New York  yesterday.
While banks and brokers are already regulated, some proprietary
firms aren’t overseen by anyone, he said.  “It’s a gaping hole in our regulatory oversight,” Chilton
said. “Some HFTs are unregulated. We should compel
registration. Then we can determine what they might need to be
required to do to ensure markets are efficient and effective.”  The CFTC plans to create a new group within its technology
advisory committee to examine automated and high-frequency
trading, the agency said last month. One of the tasks is to
define high-frequency trading as a first step toward determining
the impact of that activity on the market and potential policy
responses, the CFTC said at the time.  Chilton said he shouldn’t be seen by high-frequency firms
as a “Darth Vader” villain for advocating curbs on some of
their activities. “I’m impressed by them and excited by
technology and markets,” he said. “But to blindly accept that
all technology and the way it’s being used is nothing but good
is a naive attitude in general and a dangerous attitude for
regulators.”  Market Swings  The role of automated trading firms in periods of market
swings has come under scrutiny since the May 6, 2010, crash that
briefly erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. shares.
Traders and other professional investors were said to have
withdrawn bids as the selloff worsened, according to a September
2010 report from the Securities and Exchange Commission and
CFTC. Securities regulators and exchanges later installed curbs
limiting price moves to reduce disruption to the markets.  High-frequency trading relies on the rapid and automated
placement of orders, many of which are immediately updated or
canceled, as part of strategies such as market making and
statistical arbitrage and tactics based on stock-price momentum.
Hedge funds, brokerages and trading firms use these techniques
to implement strategies or to quickly execute orders as prices
and available bids and offers change.  Creating a category for these firms, like the swaps-dealer
designation that securities and futures regulators are currently
trying to define for the  derivatives market , would ensure that
the CFTC and others can capture information about all the
relevant firms in their sights, he said.  ‘Rogue Cheetah’  “I’m not really concerned about the established traders
who seem to be doing a good job,” Chilton said. “I’m concerned
about a rogue cheetah who may take some action in the market
that may result in a significant problem. The reaction to that
could affect the entire high-frequency trading regime.”  CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  and Chilton said in January the
agency would publish a so-called concept release to gather
public comments on supervision and potential regulations for
high-frequency trading. The release may discuss pre- and post-
trade transparency, Chilton said at the time. Chilton first
 raised  the idea of registering high-frequency traders in July.  “Trying to put the panoply of market participants in
buckets could be a real challenge,”  William O’Brien , chief
executive officer of Direct Edge Holdings LLC, which operates
two U.S. stock markets, said in an interview. Regulators seeking
to address issues raised by automated trading strategies may
want to “focus on behavior rather than classifying
participants,” he said.  Testing Algorithms  High-frequency firms should be required to test their
algorithms or automated trading strategies before they go live
in the market and have so-called kill switches for “when one of
the cheetah programs goes feral,” Chilton said, referring to
the activities of companies employing computerized tactics. This
shouldn’t preclude exchanges from having systems to protect
their markets, he said.  Many of the larger proprietary trading firms already test
their algorithms and have kill switches, he said. Smaller
companies should be forced to implement the same protections, he
said. He added that the CFTC could discuss what the appropriate
guidelines and tests should be with experienced firms.  Pre-Established Mechanisms  “If a firm pushes the market aggressively, it’s likely to
be losing money on that trade and will likely adjust its systems
to minimize similar losses,” Ephraim Zakry, head trader at PAZ
Investments LLC, a New York firm specializing in emerging-market
derivatives, said in an interview. “If anyone should be
stopping it, it should be the exchange or market center via pre-
established mechanisms,” said Zakry, who previously worked at a
high-frequency firm that engaged in statistical arbitrage.  Proprietary trading firms usually devise their own
algorithms to decide what products to buy or sell based on data
they purchase, at what price and under what market conditions.
Some arbitrage strategies seek to profit from price
discrepancies between products or asset classes.  Brokers and asset managers also employ multiple types of
computerized trading strategies to buy and sell futures
contracts, options or securities rapidly. Mutual, pension and
some  hedge funds  use these algorithms to execute bigger orders
by breaking them into smaller pieces and sending them to
exchanges instead of manually placing orders in markets or
turning to humans to buy and sell blocks.  Classification System  While the SEC doesn’t have a classification system for
firms employing high-frequency techniques as part of their
strategies, a new program aimed at capturing information about
large traders will allow regulators to get all order and
transaction information from a firm regardless of which broker
services the client. Those firms, which include high-frequency
traders, must use an identification code when they submit orders
to their brokers and exchanges, according to the rule.  Individuals or companies that trade at least 2 million
shares or $20 million of securities in a day, or 20 million
shares or $200 million in a month, are covered by the rules,
according to the SEC. The single-day share figure represents
less than 0.03 percent of the average daily U.S. equities volume
of 6.9 billion shares in the first two months of this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chilton said he expects supervision of high-frequency firms
employing appropriate controls to improve confidence in the
markets and ensure that the firms don’t “go extinct.” The
alternative may be regulations imposed on automated trading
groups by Congress if another plunge like the May 2010 intraday
crash occurs and analysis of the data places the blame on them,
he said.  “I’m from the government,” Chilton said, citing a comment
President  Ronald Reagan  made in jest in 1986. “I’m here to
help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  