-- Bovespa Index Declines as Greek Default Swaps Move Renews Europe Concern
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-03-09T22:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/bovespa-stock-index-futures-advance-as-europe-debt-concern-eases.html
The Bovespa index fell, reversing an
earlier gain, as a ruling that  Greece ’s debt restructuring will
trigger default insurance payments stoked concern that a
deepening Europe crisis will reduce demand for Brazilian stocks.  Sul America SA (SULA11) , a Brazilian insurer, fell to the lowest
since Feb. 27 after  Barclays Capital  cut its recommendation to
the equivalent of sell.  Cia. de Bebidas das Americas ,  Latin
America ’s largest brewer, and other consumer stocks limited the
benchmark’s decline, rising on speculation policy makers will
continue to cut borrowing costs at an accelerated pace.  The Bovespa fell 0.3 percent to 66,703.96 at the close in
 Sao Paulo . Thirty-three stocks gained on the measure, while 34
fell. The gauge reversed an earlier gain of as much as 0.8
percent after the International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc. said Greece’s use of collective action clauses
forcing investors to take losses under the restructuring will
trigger payouts on $3 billion of default insurance.  “For Greece, the debt restructuring was crucial, but for
creditors it was a default,” Joao Pedro Brugger, a portfolio
manager at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,  Brazil , said in
a phone interview. “For Brazil, the main downside risk is the
uncertainties in Europe, which could increase risk aversion
around the world, hurting the Bovespa.”  The benchmark’s decline today extended the weekly drop to
1.6 percent.  Sul America slid 2.9 percent to 17.45 reais. AmBev, as Cia.
de Bebidas is known, gained 2.3 percent to 73.67 reais, the best
performer on the MSCI Brazil/Consumer Staples Index, which
advanced 0.9 percent.  Brazil Inflation  The Bovespa earlier gained as much as 0.8 percent, led by
consumer stocks, after a report showed consumer prices in
Brazil, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index, rose 0.45
percent in February, after a 0.56 percent increase in the
previous month. Last month’s result matched the median estimate
of 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2014 fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 9.23 percent.  The Bovespa has advanced 18 percent this year after
slumping 18 percent in 2011, buoyed by Brazil’s interest-rate
cuts, renewed optimism  Europe  may be closer to solving its debt
crisis and signs of growth in the U.S. Today is the third
anniversary of the 2009 bear-market low for the  Standard &
Poor’s  500 index. Since then the U.S. gauge has risen 103
percent, while Brazil’s benchmark gauge has gained 82 percent.  Traders  moved  6.55 billion reais in stocks in Sao Paulo
today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with a
daily average of 7.22 billion reais this year through March 1,
according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  