-- Brazil Real Falls on Bets Government to Weaken It
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-09T21:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/brazil-real-heads-for-second-weekly-loss-after-greek-debt-swap.html
Brazil’s real headed for a second
weekly loss as  Greece ’s move to compel investors to take part in
its debt swap damped demand for higher-yielding assets and as
speculation mounted that the government may introduce more
measures to stem the currency’s gains.  The real weakened 1.1 percent to 1.7803 per  U.S. dollar  at
12:56 p.m. in Sao Paulo, from 1.7607 yesterday. It has lost 2.8
percent this week, heading for the biggest decline since the
week ended Dec. 16.  The real declined with most other major and emerging-market
currencies after Greece said it triggered an option compelling
investors to take part in its debt swap, the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history. The real was also hurt this week by
speculation the government may take more steps to curb the
real’s gains after enacting two tax increases last week, said
Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at Renasenca DTVM Ltda in
 Sao Paulo .  “The question of Greece and  Europe  continues to make the
market uncomfortable,” Amado said by phone from Sao Paulo.
“The market has begun to operate with the real above 1.75 per
dollar because it knows the government is watching the currency
issue.”  The government will keep taking measures to prevent the
real from strengthening, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said at
a March 7 event in Brasilia. The real has gained 5.7 percent
this year, following an 11 percent drop in 2011.  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment on the prospect of
future measures.  Inflation Slows  The yield on the Brazilian interest-rate futures contract
due in January 2013 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point to 8.66 percent, reversing an earlier climb. The yield
tumbled 24 basis points yesterday after the central bank cut the
benchmark rate 75 basis points to 9.75 percent on March 7 to
bolster economic growth, more than the 50 basis-point move
predicted by a majority of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Traders betting the central bank will maintain the 75
basis-point pace at the next monetary policy meeting in April
helped push down futures yields, said Eduardo Galasini, head of
treasury at Banco Banif in Sao Paulo.  “The markets are still being affected by Copom, a climate
that rates will continue to fall,” Galasini said in a telephone
interview. “The market’s mind is that rates have to fall more
with everything that’s happening abroad.”  Interest-Rate Outlook  Traders are anticipating central bank President Alexandre Tombini will reduce the Selic rate by as much as 75 basis points
in April and to as low as 8.5 percent by July, according to rate
futures yields.  Brazil ’s  consumer prices  in February rose at the slowest
pace in four months on falling transportation and clothing
costs, a government report showed today.  Prices, as measured by the benchmark  IPCA (BZPIIPCM)  index, rose 0.45
percent in February following a 0.56 percent increase the
previous month. The result matched the 0.45 percent median
estimate of 51 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation slowed for a fifth straight month, to 5.85
percent from a six-year high of 7.31 percent in September. The
annual rate was the lowest since November 2010. The government
 targets  annual inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two
percentage points.  “The IPCA came in line with expectations,”  Andre Perfeito , chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Gradual
Investimentos, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The market will
be in stand-by mode until the minutes of the meeting are
released to know why the central bank accelerated the cuts.”  The yield on the January 2013 futures contract has fallen
37 basis points this week, the biggest drop since the week ended
Sept. 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  