-- Brazil Sugar-Cane Growers to Invest $3.4 Billion to Renew Crops
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-09T22:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/brazil-sugar-cane-growers-to-invest-3-4-billion-to-renew-crops.html
Brazilian sugar-cane companies  will
spend as much as 6 billion reais ($3.4 billion) this year to
renew aging plantations as the nation seeks to boost supply of
ethanol.  Cane companies may replant as many as 1.5 million hectares
(3.7 million acres), or 15 percent of their fields, the optimum
amount to restore productivity to the industry, Antonio de Padua Rodrigues, technical director for the sugar-cane trade group
Unica, said today in a telephone interview. Last year the nation
renewed 1 million hectares.  Brazil  is seeking to boost production after a shortage of
ethanol drove up prices last year and prompted the government to
cut the amount of the renewable fuel that must be blended into
gasoline. Mills will probably operate at 80 percent of capacity
this year after cutting investments in new fields, which
typically are renewed every five years to maintain yields, he
said.  “This quantity of renewals needs to happen each year,” to
guarantee ethanol supplies, Rodrigues said.  Cane-growers are currently using their own funds and will
probably begin to access a special government  credit line 
offered to promote plantation renewals.  Yields will increase this year because mills planted 40
percent more crops in 2011 from the prior year. Companies are
expected to renew 20 percent more plantations between January
and April from the same period last year, he said.  If current investment trends continue, the nation’s mills
will be functioning at full capacity by 2015, he said.  Credit Line  Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social,
Brazil’s national development bank, will loan mills 4 billion
reais to renew 1 million hectares of fields and develop new
ones, the lender said Jan. 11.  “Most of this line will be utilized,” Rodrigues said.
“Many big groups are preparing documentation and procuring
environmental licenses” to start tapping the credit.  Mills and growers in the Center South region will harvest
between 518 million metric tons and 540 million tons of sugar
cane in the next crop, up from 494.3 million tons in the current
crop, Padua said March 2. Mills in the region harvest and
process most of the crop between April and December.  Mills can typically process about 700 million tons of cane
a year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  