-- Brazil’s February Consumer Prices Rise 0.45% From Previous Month
-- B y   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-03-09T20:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/brazil-s-february-consumer-prices-rise-0-45-from-previous-month.html
Brazil ’s consumer prices in February
rose at the slowest pace in four months on falling
transportation and clothing costs, supporting the central bank’s
decision to accelerate the pace of interest-rate cuts.  Prices, as measured by the benchmark  IPCA (BZPIIPCM)  index, rose 0.45
percent in February, from 0.56 percent in the previous month.
The result matched the 0.45 percent median estimate of 51
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s central bank surprised analysts this week by
speeding up the pace of interest rate cuts, after gross domestic
product and industrial output data were weaker than expected.
Policy makers cut the benchmark rate 0.75 percentage point,
following four half-point cuts since August.  “The inflation number strengthens the position of the
central bank,” said Luis Leal, chief economist of Banco ABC
Brasil SA, in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . “If you
compare it with the bank’s expectations for the first quarter,
it made reasonable headway on annual inflation, according to its
model.”  Annual inflation slowed for a fifth straight month, to 5.85
percent, from a six-year high of 7.31 percent in September. The
annual number was the lowest since November, 2010. The
government  targets  consumer price increases of 4.5 percent, plus
or minus two percentage points.  Transportation costs fell 0.33 percent and clothing prices
were down 0.23 percent, while education surged 5.62 percent in
February.  ‘Focused on Growth’  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government is trying to maximize
economic growth as much as is consistent with keeping inflation
below the 6.5 percent upper limit of its target range, said
Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank in Sao Paulo.  “We are likely to see inflation going higher,” Serrano
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “They said, though not
clearly, forget about inflation, we are focused on growth.”  Traders are betting that central bank President Alexandre Tombini will cut the rate to at least 8.75 percent by July, from
9.75 percent, according to Bloomberg estimates based on  interest
rate  futures contracts.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2014, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point to 9.26 percent at 10:59
a.m. Brasilia time. The real declined 0.5 percent to 1.7693 per
dollar.  Inflation Forecast  Espirito Santo raised its 2013 inflation forecast to 5.8
percent, from 5.3 percent, after the interest rate cut, and held
its inflation forecast for this year at 5.3 percent.  Consumer prices will rise 5.24 percent this year and 5.2
percent in 2013, according to a March 2 central bank survey. The
economists who took part in the survey expect inflation to
remain above the 4.5 percent target until 2016.  Annual  core inflation  was 6.2 percent in February, ABC’s
Leal said.  The government’s concern over the appreciation of the real
may also have been a reason for the faster interest rate cuts,
said  Gustavo Rangel , chief Brazil economist for ING Financial
Markets in  New York . The currency has strengthened 5.6 percent
against the dollar this year.  Rousseff, on a trip to  Germany  this week, said her
government would spare no effort to protect manufacturers from a
“monetary tsunami” triggered by loose credit conditions in
rich nations.  Prioritizing Currency  “They clearly choose to prioritize the currency over
inflation,” Rangel said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Brazil’s economy grew 2.7 percent last year, its second-
weakest performance since 2003, while industrial output suffered
its biggest drop in three years in January, according to data
published this week by the national statistics agency.  Consumer demand is being sustained by unemployment close to
record lows, a 14 percent increase in the minimum wage this
year, and credit growing at an 18 percent annual pace.  Unemployment was 5.5 percent in January, a record low for
the month, from 6.1 percent a year earlier. In the minutes to
its January policy meeting, the central bank said the tight
labor market is an “important risk” for inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  