-- Britain Faces $8 Billion Cost of Tax-Free Allowance, IFS Says
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-03-09T15:33:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/britain-faces-8-billion-cost-of-tax-free-allowance-ifs-says.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  will face a 5.3 billion-pound ($8.3 billion) bill
in three years if he increases the level at which workers start
paying income tax, the  Institute for Fiscal Studies  said.  The coalition government has a policy to increase the
income tax threshold to 10,000 pounds from 7,475 pounds during
the current parliament, which runs until May 2015. The cost of
introducing that in the next fiscal year, which runs through
March 2013, would be 8.9 billion pounds, the IFS said. The
threshold is currently set to rise to 8,105 pounds next month.  “Increasing the income tax allowance takes low income
people out of income tax,” wrote James Browne, author of the
report published in  London  today. “It is the best way of
focusing income tax cuts on those with lower incomes and it will
strengthen work incentives, especially for low earners.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  this week said his top
priority is to raise the allowance to take low-income families
out of the tax net altogether. Clegg’s Liberal Democrats, the
junior partner in the Conservative-led government, are pressing
Osborne to increase taxes on the wealthy to help pay for the
policy in the annual budget due on March 21.  Increasing the tax-free threshold next fiscal year would
leave workers earning between 10,000 pounds and 116,210 a year
better off by 379 pounds a year, the IFS said.  Business Secretary Vince Cable earlier this week said the
Liberal Democrats are prepared to scrap the 50 percent top rate
of income tax as long as the Conservatives agree to introduce
new taxes on the rich.  Cable said his party favors the introduction of a “mansion
tax” on the most expensive properties so the wealthy contribute
“their share.” Homes worth millions of pounds, particularly in
the south of  England , are going untaxed under the current
system, Cable said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  