-- Broker-Dealer Audits to Intensify Under U.S. Regulator Proposal
-- B y   D a n a   W i l k i e
-- 2012-03-09T20:13:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/broker-dealer-audits-to-intensify-under-u-s-regulator-proposal.html
Broker-dealers and public companies
would be subject to stricter audits that probe relationships
with subsidiaries, shareholders and executive officers for any
hint of manipulation or fraud under new standards proposed by
the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board .  Under the plan, auditors would also dig into executive
compensation agreements and “significant unusual transactions”
-- those that seem outside a company’s normal course of business
-- for signs of the types of abuses that led to corporate
financial failures involving  Enron (ENRNQ)  Corp.,  WorldCom Group (WCOEQ)  and
others, according to Bloomberg’s Financial Regulation
newsletter.  The plan calls for penalties -- including potential fines
and disbarment -- for auditors who fail to comply. The new
standards would apply to broker-dealers because the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the most
significant financial regulatory reform law since the Great
Depression, gave the PCAOB oversight of broker-dealer auditors.  The new standards would be part of the audits that
registered financial institutions are required to file each year
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Related parties” are the chief focus of the proposal,
and can include subsidiaries, executives, shareholders or
relatives tied to the company. The goal of the plan, which the
PCAOB opened to public comment last week, is to strengthen audit
standards so they can better expose transactions designed to
hide fraud.  Few Challenges  The PCAOB’s own inspections and enforcement actions
illustrate that historically, auditors have not aggressively
challenged related-party relationships and transactions. One-
quarter of the board’s settled disciplinary orders cite auditor
failures with respect to related-party or similar transactions,
PCAOB member Daniel Goelzer said last week.  Following PCAOB approval, the SEC must sign off on the
plan. Comments are due May 15.  “When you can influence, you can get special terms and
special deals, you can persuade a party to do something for your
benefit,” said Greg Scates, deputy chief auditor for the PCAOB,
in a phone interview. “You can make the numbers look a little
rosier, which can lead to financial fraud.”  The PCAOB is a non-profit that Congress created to oversee
public company audits.  Related Parties  The board’s proposal would require auditors to identify a
company’s related parties -- those with which it has a
potentially symbiotic relationship -- understand the terms and
business reasons of the transactions between the company and
related parties and note any related-party dealings that a
company hasn’t disclosed. Auditors must also be more direct with
managers when gathering information on related parties and their
business arrangements with a company, discuss such transactions
with the company’s audit committee and ensure the accounting and
disclosures are adequate.  With regard to executive compensation agreements, auditors
would have to consider ways senior executives might be motivated
to manipulate accounts to meet performance targets.  The PCAOB recommends this type of auditing diligence, and
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles require auditors to
disclose close relationships behind business deals and assure
the accounting behind them is above-board. But PCAOB member
Goelzer said his board’s inspections and enforcement actions
indicate not all auditors follow these guidelines diligently.  Legitimate Transactions  Related-party transactions can be legitimate activities
that serve practical purposes, such as tax planning and
liability insulation. If abused, however, such transactions can
be a way to overstate the results of operations or a company’s
financial condition, or a way to divert value from the company
to benefit an insider.  Issues with related parties played a prominent role in
scandals at  Enron Corp. (ENRNQ) ,  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  and  Refco Inc. (RFXCQ) 
For instance, Enron used close relationships with certain
entities to paint an inaccurate picture of the company’s
financial health. A study by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission, a group of five
auditing and accounting professional organizations, found that
companies that engage in fraud also typically have more related-
party transactions.  Ralph V. De Martino, chairman of the global securities
practice group at Cozen O’Connor, said the proposal should have
“a positive effect,” though he noted that audit costs have
skyrocketed since adoption of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002.  “The burden of those costs has been inordinately borne by
small- and mid-cap companies,” De Martino said in an e-mail.
“Any additional audit procedures will escalate those costs.”  Robust Education  De Martino cautioned that new auditing standards should be
paired with robust education -- such as the training offered by
the National Association of Corporate Directors -- that provides
auditors and companies with examples of the types of fraud they
should be watching for.  “Often, the members of audit committees don’t have the
sophistication to appreciate how related-party transactions may
be used to misstate a company’s financial condition or results
of operations,” he said. “There needs to be an additional
effort, outside of the PCAOB’s mandate, to educate the
community. Changes of this type are most productive when
accompanied by the presentation of actual or hypothetical audit
failures and the resulting impact on financial reporting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dana Wilkie in Washington at 
 dwilkie2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  