-- Cambridge University Students to Protest Strauss-Kahn Speech
-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 2012-03-09T11:23:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/cambridge-university-students-to-protest-strauss-kahn-speech.html
University of Cambridge students
plan to protest a debating club appearance tonight by  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former head of the  International Monetary Fund 
who resigned last year after being accused of sexual assault.  The Women’s Campaign, part of the Cambridge University
Students’ Union, has invited the lawyer representing Nafissatou
Diallo, the New York hotel maid suing Strauss-Kahn in civil
court for rape, to speak at the rally, according to Ruth Graham,
the women’s officer for the student union. The group has also
gathered 700 signatures on a  petition  asking the club to revoke
Strauss-Kahn’s invitation.  Strauss-Kahn resigned as managing director of the IMF in
May after his arrest in the alleged sexual assault. Criminal
charges were later dropped. He was also held by police last
month for questioning about a French prostitution ring. His
invitation by the Cambridge Union Society, a private campus club
run by students, ignores his treatment of women, Graham said.  “People are really concerned about using this prestigious
forum to give a platform to a man to speak simply about the
economy without acknowledging these accusations,” Graham said.
“People are worried about legitimizing his role in public
life.”  While speakers normally take questions, the format of the
speech has no formal means for acknowledging the accusations or
for confronting Strauss-Kahn about them, Graham said.  Strauss-Kahn’s attorney, Frederique Baulieu, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Strauss-Kahn said there was no violence involved in his
sexual encounter with Nafissatou and called it a moral failing
in a September interview with TF1 television in  France . He
denies any wrongdoing in connection to the prostitution ring.  Not an Endorsement  The Union Society, believed to have been founded in 1815,
has a history of inviting prominent speakers including  Winston
Churchill ,  Ronald Reagan  and  Nelson Mandela . Other controversial
guests have included WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who spoke
last year. Strauss-Kahn has been invited for several years to
talk about the IMF and French politics, according to a statement
from the society.  “An invitation to the Union does not imply support or
endorsement, or indeed disapproval, on the part of the Society
or any of the individuals in it,” the group said in the
 statement . “We invite people to speak at the Union regardless
of their ideology, background or personal history.”  Strauss-Kahn won’t be paid for his speech and about 600 to
800 people are expected to attend, said Katie Lam, president of
the society and a Cambridge student.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in London at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  