-- Canada January International Merchandise Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-09T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/canada-january-international-merchandise-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s international merchandise trade report for January
from  Statistics Canada .  Canada’s merchandise exports declined 2.3% and imports edged
down 0.6%. As a result, Canada’s  trade surplus  narrowed from
$2.9 billion in December 2011 to $2.1 billion in January 2012.
This was the third consecutive monthly trade surplus.  Exports and imports  Exports decreased to $41.4 billion in January, as prices fell
2.2%. Lower exports of precious metals and alloys as well as
aircraft, engines and parts largely contributed to the decline
in value. Higher exports of crude petroleum partially offset the
decrease in exports.  Imports decreased to $39.3 billion in January, as six out of
seven sectors posted declines. Industrial goods and materials,
followed by energy products, contributed the most to the
decrease. Overall, import prices fell 0.8%.  Exports to the  United States  edged up 0.3% to $30.6 billion
in January, largely on the strength of crude petroleum. Imports
from the United States declined 0.3% to $24.5 billion.
Consequently, Canada’s trade surplus with the United States
increased from $5.9 billion in December to $6.1 billion in
January.  Exports to countries other than the United States fell 9.0%
to $10.8 billion in January, mainly the result of lower exports
to the European Union and Japan. Imports from countries other
than the United States decreased 0.9% to $14.8 billion. Canada’s
trade deficit with countries other than the United States
increased from $3.0 billion in December to $4.0 billion in
January.  Industrial goods and materials contribute most to exports’
decline  Exports of industrial goods and materials fell 11.9% to $9.3
billion in January as all subsectors decreased. Both prices and
volumes fell 6.1%. Exports of precious metals and alloys,
fertilizers and fertilizer materials, as well as copper ores,
concentrates and scrap were the main contributors to the
sector’s decline, a result of lower volumes.  Exports of machinery and equipment fell 11.9% to $6.6 billion
as volumes fell 11.0%. A decrease of 26.1% in exports of
aircraft and other transportation equipment was responsible for
more than half of the sector’s decline.  Exports of energy products grew 8.7% to $11.6 billion on the
strength of crude petroleum, which reached a record high of $8.2
billion in January. Petroleum and coal products, up 12.8%, also
contributed to the increase. Coal and other bituminous
substances partly offset the sector’s gain, falling 37.1%. The
gain in the sector was the result of volumes increasing 11.0%.  Exports of automotive products, up for a fifth consecutive
month, rose 6.1% to $6.2 billion. Volumes grew 8.4%. Passenger
autos and chassis increased 9.3% to $4.4 billion, the highest
level since January 2006.  Imports: Widespread decreases  Imports of industrial goods and materials decreased 3.8% to
$8.2 billion in January, as prices declined 4.0%. Metals and
metal ores led the overall decline in the sector as precious
metals and alloys fell 26.2%.  Imports of energy products fell 5.9% to $4.2 billion as all
subsectors posted decreases. Petroleum and coal products led the
decline, mainly as a result of lower imports of aviation and
diesel fuels.  Imports of machinery and equipment declined 1.7% to $10.7
billion in January. Lower imports of office machines and
equipment, excavating machinery as well as other communication
and related equipment contributed the most to the decrease.  The total decline in imports was partially offset by imports
of automotive products, up 7.0% to $6.6 billion. This was the
highest level since July 2007. Passenger autos and chassis led
the increase, as volumes rose 14.4%.  Trade balance  Note: In general, merchandise trade data are revised on an
ongoing basis for each month of the current year. Current year
revisions are reflected in both the customs and balance of
payments (BOP) based data.  The previous year’s customs data are revised with the release
of the January and February reference months as well as on a
quarterly basis. The previous two years of customs based data
are revised annually and are released in February with the
December reference month.  The previous year’s BOP based data will be revised with the
release of the January, February, March and April 2012 reference
months.  Factors influencing revisions include late receipt of import
and export documentation, incorrect information on customs forms,
replacement of estimates produced for the energy sector with
actual figures, changes in classification of merchandise based
on more current information, and changes to seasonal adjustment
factors.  Revised data are available in the appropriate CANSIM tables.  Note to readers  Merchandise trade is one component of Canada’s international
balance of payments (BOP), which also includes trade in services,
investment income, current transfers as well as capital and
financial flows.  International merchandise trade data by country are available
on both a BOP and a customs basis for the United States,  Japan 
and the  United Kingdom . Trade data for all other individual
countries are available on a customs basis only. BOP data are
derived from customs data by making adjustments for factors such
as valuation, coverage, timing and residency. These adjustments
are made to conform to the concepts and definitions of the
Canadian System of National Accounts.  Data in this release are on a BOP basis, seasonally adjusted
and in current dollars. Constant dollars are calculated using
the Laspeyres volume formula.  Changes to the classification  Statistics Canada has reduced the number of 10-digit
Harmonized Commodity Coding and Description System (HS)
classification codes that are used to report the commodity
detail in Canada’s merchandise import trade data. This will
improve efficiency, maintain data quality and reduce response
burden.  These changes are in effect as of January 2012 and coincide
with the World Customs Organization 2012 amendments to the 6-
digit HS classification codes as well as with Finance Canada’s
changes to the 2012 Customs Tariff at the 8-digit HS codes. To
obtain an HS 2012 Concordance Table, contact the International
Trade Division’s Marketing and Client Services Section
( trade@statcan.gc.ca ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  