-- Canada Fourth Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-09T13:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/canada-fourth-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s business sector labor productivity report for
the fourth quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  The labour productivity of Canadian businesses rose 0.7% in
the fourth quarter, similar to the gain observed in the third
quarter (+0.6%).  Productivity of Canadian businesses increases once again  The fourth-quarter increase in productivity occurred in a
context where business output continued to grow, albeit at a
slower pace than in the previous quarter, while hours worked
declined for the first time in five quarters.  The growth of the real gross domestic product (GDP) of
businesses was 0.5% in the fourth quarter, less than half the
growth rate in the previous quarter (+1.2%). The main factor
moderating fourth-quarter output was a slowdown in mining and
oil and gas extraction, wholesale trade, construction, and
finance and insurance services.  At the same time, hours worked in businesses decreased 0.2%,
after rising in the previous four quarters. Construction,
wholesale trade, and professional, scientific and technical
services were primarily responsible for the decline.  Both goods-producing and services-producing businesses
contributed to the overall productivity gain in the fourth
quarter. The productivity of goods-producing businesses was up
1.1%, its second consecutive quarterly increase, largely a
result of gains in manufacturing and construction.  Productivity in the services-producing industries grew 0.5%,
following two consecutive quarterly declines. Professional,
scientific and technical services, retail trade, and other
services were the main contributors to the increase.  For 2011 as a whole, business productivity was up 0.8%, after
rising 1.5% in 2010. In comparison, a slight fourth-quarter
increase of 0.2% in the  United States  resulted in the annual
growth of productivity in American businesses being 0.2% for
2011, down from 4.0% in 2010. This is the first time since 2006
that productivity has grown faster in Canada than in the United
States.  The 2011 difference in productivity between Canada and the
United States was mostly the result of a difference in the
growth in real GDP of businesses, since the two countries had
similar increases in hours worked. Although it slowed in both
countries in 2011, real GDP growth was higher in Canadian
businesses (+2.6%) than in American businesses (+2.2%).  In Canadian businesses, labour costs per unit of production
rose 0.8% in the fourth quarter, after declining 0.6% in the
previous quarter. The fourth-quarter increase occurred because
average compensation per hour worked (+1.5%) grew more than
twice as fast as productivity. In the previous two quarters,
average hourly compensation in  Canada  was almost unchanged.  However, the Canadian dollar was down an average of 4.2% in
relation to the US dollar. As a result, Canadian businesses’
unit labour costs in US dollars fell 3.4% in the fourth quarter,
their second consecutive quarterly decline. By comparison,
American businesses’ unit labour costs were up 0.7% in the
fourth quarter.  For 2011 as a whole, the growth of labour costs per unit of
production in American businesses (+2.3%) outpaced that of
Canadian businesses (+2.1%), the first time this has occurred
since 2006.  The labour productivity figures for the fourth quarter,
released today, were revised back to the first quarter of 2011.  Note: Important changes are coming to Canada’s System of
National Accounts (CSNA), starting in October. These changes
will affect all users of CSNA products and statistics such as
gross domestic product (GDP), balance of payments, international
investment, and input-output tables. For more information,
consult the National Economic Accounts website.  The term “productivity” in this release refers to labour
productivity. For the purposes of this analysis, labour
productivity and related variables cover the business sector
only. Labour productivity is a measure of real GDP per hour
worked. Unit labour cost is defined as the cost of workers’
wages and benefits per unit of real GDP.  All the growth rates reported in this release are rounded to
one decimal place. They are calculated with index numbers
rounded to three decimal places, which are now available on
CANSIM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  