-- Canadian Stocks Rise as U.S. Payrolls Increase
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-03-09T22:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/canadian-gold-stocks-fall-as-u-s-dollar-surges.html
Canadian stocks  rose, trimming a
weekly loss, as insurance, base-metals and manufacturing shares
advanced after the U.S. reported a bigger gain in payrolls than
most economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  North America ’s third-largest
insurer, advanced 1.8 percent.  Viterra Inc. (VT) ,  Canada ’s biggest
grain handler, jumped 24 percent after saying it “received
expressions of interest from third parties.”  Neo Material
Technologies Inc. (NEM) , which makes rare-earths and zirconium
products, soared 37 percent after agreeing to be bought by
Molycorp Inc.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  gained 41.69 points, or 0.3
percent, to 12,503.62, reducing its weekly drop to 1.1 percent.  “The U.S. economy is clearly improving -- not stellar
growth, but improving,” Jeff Bradacs, a  money manager  on a
Manulife team that oversees about C$1.5 billion ($1.5 billion),
said in a telephone interview. “The stronger job number in the
U.S. is important because it’s driving demand for commodities
and oil, and that’s important for the Canadian stock market.”  The S&P/TSX retreated for a second-straight week for the
first time since Dec. 16. Raw-materials and energy stocks
slipped as the  U.S. dollar  rose on concern about sovereign debt
and a potential economic slowdown in  Europe , amid speculation
the U.S. Federal Reserve won’t begin a third round of asset
purchases. Resources companies account for 47 percent of
Canadian stocks by market value, according to Bloomberg data.  U.S. Employment  U.S. nonfarm employers added 227,000 jobs in February, the
Labor Department said today in  Washington . Economists had
forecast an increase of 210,000 positions, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The  S&P/TSX Insurance Index (STINSU)  rose. Manulife, which derived
70 percent of its income from the U.S. in the third quarter,
gained 1.8 percent to C$12.22.  Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF) , an
insurer with operations in Canada, the U.S. and  Asia , climbed
1.4 percent to C$21.16. Industrial Alliance Insurance and
Financial Services Inc. increased 1.6 percent to C$27.39.  Viterra surged 24 percent, the most in nine years, to
C$13.58. The Canadian government’s plan to end the Canadian
Wheat Board monopoly may encourage a takeover bid for the
Regina, Saskatchewan-based company, Jason Zandberg, an analyst
at PI Financial Corp. in  Vancouver , said in a telephone
interview.  Staples Index  Due to Viterra’s jump, the  S&P/TSX Consumer Staples Index (STCONS) 
climbed the most since November 2008, wiping out its decline for
the year.  Base-metals and coal producers  rose as copper gained for a
third day on the Comex in  New York .  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) ,
Canada’s largest company in the industry, advanced 0.9 percent
to C$36.53.  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the country’s second-
largest publicly traded copper producer, increased 1.9 percent
to C$20.93.  Copper and zinc producer  HudBay Minerals Inc. (HBM)  rallied 4.3
percent to C$12.17. Shane Nagle, an analyst at  National Bank of
Canada , raised his rating on the shares to outperform from
sector perform two days after it reported fourth-quarter
earnings that beat the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg
survey by 40 percent, excluding certain items. An outperform
rating means the stock will gain more than other companies the
analyst monitors.  Rare-Earths Acquisition  Neo Material Technologies jumped 37 percent to a record
C$10.94 after  Greenwood Village , Colorado-based mining company
Molycorp agreed to buy the company for about C$1.3 billion ($1.3
billion) in cash and shares. Neo owners will receive C$8.05 in
cash and 0.122 of a Molycorp share for each Neo share. Molycorp
rose 19 percent in New York.  Rare Element Resources Ltd. (RES) , which is developing a rare-
earths project in  Wyoming , surged 21 percent to C$6.10.  Quest
Rare Minerals Ltd. (QRM) , which explores in eastern Canada, soared 17
percent to C$2.91.  Tasman Metals Ltd. (TSM) , which explores for rare
earths in Europe, rallied 24 percent, the most since December
2010, to C$2.58.  Uranium producer Denison Mines Ltd. plunged 13 percent to
C$1.52 after  reporting  a fourth-quarter loss of 9 cents a share,
excluding certain items. Analysts had forecast a loss of 3 cents
a share, according to the average estimate in a Bloomberg
survey.  Magna International Inc. (MG) , Canada’s largest auto-parts
maker, climbed 2.6 percent to C$47.37. Twenty-three percent of
its revenue last year came from the U.S.  Gildan Activewear Inc. (GIL) ,
a clothing maker that derived  89 percent  of its sales from the
U.S., rose 2.7 percent to C$26.62.  Sterling Resources Ltd. (SLG) , which explores for oil and gas in
Europe, climbed 21 percent to C$1.82 after sinking 35 percent in
the previous four days. Stephane Foucaud, an analyst at
FirstEnergy Capital Corp., reiterated his top pick rating on the
stock today, saying its valuation is “extremely compelling” in
a note to clients. A top pick rating means the company will
provide a “materially higher” return than the  peer group
average.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  