-- Carnival Posts Net Loss After Concordia Accident in Italy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-09T18:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/carnival-posts-loss-on-costs-from-concordia-crash-in-italy.html
Carnival Corp. (CCL) , the world’s largest
cruise-ship operator, posted a $139 million first-quarter loss,
after the grounding of its Costa Concordia off  Italy  killed at
least 25 persons.  The net loss equaled 18 cents a share, and compared with
net income of $152 million, or 19 cents, a year earlier, Miami-
based Carnival said today in a  statement . Excluding some items,
profit was 2 cents a share. Analysts projected a loss of 6
cents, the average of  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Fallout from the Concordia, which ran aground off the
Italian island Giglio in January, will extend through 2012, the
company said. Carnival’s troubles grew when another Costa
Cruises ship, the Allegra, was towed to shore to the Seychelles
islands in the  Indian Ocean  after catching fire on Feb. 27, and
22 guests on the Carnival Splendor were robbed on land in
 Mexico .  “This has been a most difficult and challenging time for
our corporation,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Micky Arison  said in a conference call today. “The cruise industry
remains incredibly safe and maintains one of the best safety
records of any form of recreational travel in the world.”  Sales for the quarter ended Feb. 29 rose 4.8 percent to
$3.58 billion. Analysts had projected $3.56 billion on average.  Carnival fell 1.7 percent to $30.42 at 1:49 p.m. in New
York. The shares had  declined  5.2 percent this year before
today, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 8.6 percent.  Concordia Captain Francesco Schettino and eight other
employees are being investigated by Italian authorities for
their role in the sinking.  Post-Crash Forecast  Carnival forecasts modest improvement in its North American
business, while the European operation is expected to show
slightly lower yields because of slowing economies, according to
the statement. Cruise customers shouldn’t count on price
cutting, the company said.  “This is all good news and confirmation of the resiliency
of the cruise industry,” Felicia Hendrix, a Barclays Capital
analyst in  New York , said in a note. “Bookings are improving.”
Hendrix has a hold rating on the stock and Barclays has done
investment banking work for Carnival in the past year.  Excluding the Costa Cruises line, the company forecasts
full-year 2012 net revenue yields, in constant dollars, to be in
line with the prior year. Including Costa, the company forecasts
a decline in net revenue yields of 2 percent to 4 percent.  Costa Brand  This quarter, the company forecasts profit of 5 cents to 9
cents a share, excluding items. For the year, Carnival sees
earnings of $1.40 to $1.70 a share, excluding items, compared
with December guidance of $2.55 to $2.85. About 65 cents of the
full-year reduction is from the Costa brand, which is expected
to lose $100 million this year.  Charges in the first quarter included $29 million for the
Concordia, $34 million on the Allegra and a $173 million
goodwill impairment on the company’s Ibero line, which Carnival
attributed to slower capacity growth due to the Spanish economy.  The first quarter typically accounts for 10 percent of
annual profit, Rachael Rothman, an analyst with Susquehanna
Financial Group in  Bala Cynwyd ,  Pennsylvania , wrote in a report
yesterday. The greater concern is bookings. European cruise
prices have weakened since the Concordia accident, with second-
quarter rates falling 15 percent, she said.  Insurance Proceeds  Costa curtailed its marketing in the wake of the Concordia
accident and will resume in several weeks, company officials
said in the conference call. Bookings for the brand were half
what they were in the previous year, for the three-week period
ending March 4, an improvement from the almost 90 percent
decline in the four weeks after the crash.  Carnival expects to recover $515 million in insurance
proceeds for the Concordia, which has been deemed a total loss,
the company said in the statement. Six bids have been received
to salvage the ship, a process that could take a year, Costa
said in a separate release today.  The Allegra, which was for sale prior to its accident,
remains on the block although at a lower price now, Carvival
officials said in the conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  