-- Batali Agrees to $5.25 Million Server Tip Suit Accord
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/chef-batali-settles-accusation-of-workers-cheated-tips-for-5-25-million.html
Mario Batali , the celebrity TV chef
who compared bankers to Hitler and Stalin and criticized the
financial industry for having “toppled the way money is
distributed,” agreed to pay $5.25 million to settle allegations
he cheated workers out of their tips.  Batali and his associate, Joseph Bastianich, made the
agreement to resolve a group lawsuit brought on behalf of former
and current workers at establishments that include  Manhattan 
power restaurants Babbo and  Del Posto , according to court papers
filed in federal court in  New York .  The workers sued Batali and Bastianich in July 2010,
accusing them of violating the  Fair Labor Standards Act . The
employers pocketed gratuities equal to as much as 5 percent of
nightly wine sales, didn’t pay the federal  minimum wage  and
failed to pay overtime, according to the complaint.  “Mr. Batali, Mr. Bastianich, and their restaurants
unlawfully confiscated a portion of their workers’ hard-earned
tips in order to supplement their own profits,” employees said
in their complaint.  The settlement agreement for the class-action, filed
March 5, is subject to approval by a federal judge.  The accord may cover as many as 1,100 employees including
servers, waiters and bartenders who work or worked at Babbo, Del
Posto, Bar Jamon, Casa Mono, Esca, Lupa, Otto and Tarry Lodge
dating back to 2004, according to court papers.  Tip Pool Deductions  A former bartender at Bar Jamon was told that 4 percent of
the night’s wine sales was deducted from the tip pool each
evening to cover the cost of sommeliers and expenses associated
with the restaurant’s large wine selection, former Judge Richard J. Holwell wrote in a ruling last May. Other employees were told
the deduction covered broken glassware and that “it was policy
across the Batali restaurant group,” the judge wrote.  “The matter has been resolved to the satisfaction of all
parties,”  Rachel M. Bien , one of the employees’ lawyers, said
yesterday by e-mail. A. Michael Weber, who represented Batali,
declined to comment on the settlement.  Bastianich, son of public television cooking instructor
Lidia Bastianich, had previously  said  that he intended to
“fight this to every inch of the law, because we know we’re
right,” in a July 2010 interview with  Eater , a food-related
blog.  Share of Settlement  The workers named in the suit, and those who joined the
class, will receive a share of the settlement based on the
number of hours they worked, the restaurant at which they were
employed and the percentage of the total tips they received
during their employment, according to court filings. The lawyers
for the plaintiffs have asked to receive as much as a third of
the settlement as legal fees.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Ronald L. Ellis will oversee the
remainder of the case, as Holwell has resigned to enter private
practice.  Batali, who is often seen with actress  Gwyneth Paltrow ,
taste-testing the culinary delights of  Spain  in their public
television series “On the Road Again,” apologized for the
comments about bankers the day after he made them in November
following a call by financial industry executives for a boycott
of his restaurants.  The case is Capsolas v. Pasta Resources Inc., 10-cv-05595,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). 