-- Chile Peso Gains Third Day as U.S. Jobs Boosts Copper Outlook
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-09T14:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/chilean-peso-is-little-changed-as-euro-counters-copper-gains.html
Chile ’s peso strengthened for a
third day, reversing an earlier decline, after U.S. employers
increased payrolls more than forecast, bolstering trade
prospects for the biggest copper-producing nation.  The peso climbed 0.2 percent to 483.57 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:08 a.m. in Santiago after sliding 0.1 percent. The currency
surged the most in a month yesterday.  Copper gained as much as 1.4 percent in  London  and U.S.-
equity index futures rallied as Labor Department figures showed
a 227,000 increase in payrolls in February, beating the 210,000
median projection of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Copper accounts for more than half of Chile’s exports.  “The U.S. jobs figures were good,” said Eugenio Cortes,
head of currency forwards at EuroAmerica Corredores de Bolsa SA
in Santiago. “Stock futures turned positive, the dollar
appreciated versus the euro and copper rose a bit.”  The peso weakened earlier today along with the euro as
 Greece  pushed through the biggest sovereign restructuring in
history after cajoling private investors to forgive more than
100 billion euros ($132 billion) of debt.  Chile’s currency surged 1.1 percent yesterday, while
interest-rate swaps jumped, after consumer prices rose 0.4
percent in February, double the median estimate of 18 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Swaps were little changed today.  “The scenario has changed,” Cortes said. “Yesterday,
before the inflation number, the market was incorporating at
least 50 basis points of interest-rate cuts and now nobody is
talking about cuts. That’s pressuring the peso to appreciate. If
the external scenario remains calm, we should return to 475.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  