-- China Mobile Jumps to 2009 High on Goldman Buy: Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-03-11T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-mobile-leads-stock-gains-as-goldman-rates-it-a-buy-china-overnight.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest phone carrier by users, surged to the highest level
since 2009 and led gains in U.S.-traded Chinese stocks after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse AG recommended buying
the shares.  The Hong Kong-based phone operator added 5.3 percent to
$55.35, boosting the  premium  over Hong Kong shares to 2 percent,
the most since November. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 index  of the
most-traded Chinese companies in the U.S. rose 0.8 percent to
104.22, paring its loss in the week to 1.3 percent.  Renren Inc. (RENN) 
climbed to a one-week high after the social networking website
reported better-than-estimated earnings.  An improving smartphone business, high dividends and the
development of its fourth-generation network spurred Goldman
Sachs to boost their price target for  China  Mobile. The company
pays a dividend yield of 3.7 percent and trades at 11 times
estimated 12-month earnings, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg .  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the largest U.S. mobile-
phone carrier, has a yield of 5.1 percent and a valuation of 16
times earnings, the data show.  “We have a positive view on the Chinese wireless space in
general, and there’s revenue opportunities for all the wireless
carriers,” said  Steve Clement , an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities Inc. in  Portland ,  Oregon  who rates China Mobile
outperform, meaning he expects it to do slightly better than the
market return. “There’s room for China Mobile to pay out a lot
more cash. The earnings multiples are attractive.”  China ETF Pares Decline  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.6 percent to $39.03
on March 9, trimming its decline last week to 3.1 percent, after
a U.S. Labor Department report showed the world’s largest
economy added more jobs in February than economists forecast and
debt-stricken  Greece  succeeded in getting more aid.  The ETF has gained 65 percent since March 9, 2009, when a
 bull market  for U.S. stocks started after the global financial
crisis. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of China’s domestic shares
has gained 15 percent over the past three years, compared with a
103 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Beijing-based  Renren (RENN)  rose 0.9 percent to $5.40, reducing
its decline last week to 4.9 percent. The social networking site
operator said it made money for the first time since its initial
public offering in May, with adjusted fourth-quarter earnings at
11 cents per American depositary receipt, as adverting revenue
increased. The  median forecast  of 14 analysts was for a loss of
1 cent.  Home Inns  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , China’s second-largest video website
operator, rose 12.5 percent to be the biggest gainer on the
Bloomberg China-US 55, following an 11 percent gain on March 8.
Tudou is narrowing the gap with leader Youku Inc. after adding
content and expanding ties with microblogs, Chief Executive
Officer Gary Wang said in an interview last week.  Home Inns & Hotels Management Inc. (HMIN) , which runs budget
hotels in China, was the biggest loser on the index on March 9,
falling 6.4 percent to $27.80 after the company reported
earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates. The Shanghai-based
company reported fourth-quarter adjusted earnings of 12 cents a
share, compared with a prediction of 27 cents by one analyst who
submitted an estimate to Bloomberg.  The acquisition of Motel 168, a hotel chain operator, last
year increased Home Inns’ operating costs and will lower its
“operational performance” over the next two years, analysts
led by Chenyi Lu at Cowen & Co Llc wrote in a note to clients e-
mailed on March 9. Home Inns agreed to buy Motel 168 in May for
$470 million in cash, debt and shares.  Growth Target  7 Days Group Holdings Ltd. (SVN) , a hotel chain, dropped 4.9
percent to $14.27. The company reported adjusted earnings 14
cents in the fourth quarter after the market closed on March 8,
compared with 10 cents a year earlier and 18 cents the previous
quarter. The shares are “fair valued,” Cowen’s Lu wrote in a
separate report.  The Bloomberg China-U.S. 55 index declined last week by the
most in a month after Premier  Wen Jiabao  reduced the nation’s
economic growth goal to 7.5 percent for 2012, from 8 percent
over the past seven years.  Chinese inflation eased to the slowest pace in 20 months
while new loans, industrial output and retail sales were all
below analysts’ median estimates, boosting the case for a
loosening of monetary policy as exports slow and the housing
market cools.  Price Target  The government lowered banks’ reserve requirements in
February for the second time in three months to boost lending
and sustain growth. Citigroup Inc. says the central bank will
cut the reserve ratio once more as soon as this month. People’s
Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan will hold a press
conference during the National People’s Congress on March 12.  China Mobile gained 5.1 percent in the U.S. last week,
extending its gain this year to 14 percent. The company’s  Hong
Kong  shares gained 3.1 percent in the week to HK$84.20, or the
equivalent of $11.07. Goldman Sachs technology analyst Donald Lu
raised his 12-month target to HK$95 from HK$84. Credit Suisse’s
Colin McCallum lifted his rating to outperform, setting a price
target of HK$101.  China Mobile, which is sitting on $51 billion in cash and
equivalent assets, will increase its payout to investors at
least 10 percent every year and dividend growth may climb at a
faster pace than earnings, according to Jason Pidcock, who
manages a 1.4 billion-pound ($2.2 billion) Asian equities fund
at Newton Investment Management Ltd. in  London .  Pidcock, whose fund has beaten 98 percent of its peers in
the past five years, said he bought China Mobile shares last
month. The company had 655 million subscribers as of January,
twice the population of the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  