-- China Car Sales Have Worst Start Since 2005 as Economy Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T08:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-car-sales-have-worst-start-since-2005-on-slowing-economy.html
China ’s passenger-car sales had
their worst two-month start in seven years as slowing economic
growth and record fuel prices discouraged consumers in the
world’s largest vehicle market.  Wholesale deliveries of passenger automobiles, including
multipurpose and sport-utility vehicles, declined 4.4 percent to
2.37 million units in January and February, the biggest drop
since 2005, according to the  China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers . Sales were projected to fall 3 percent, based on
the median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China’s industry minister said car sales may fail to meet
this year’s growth forecast after Premier  Wen Jiabao  this week
set the lowest target for economic expansion since 2004. The
data is a blow to global carmakers from  General Motors Co. (GM)  to
Volkswagen AG that are already contending with a slump in
European sales.  “This is going to be a tough year for China’s
automakers,” said  Harry Chen , an analyst with Guotai Junan
Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “The government is concerned about
inflation and economic growth is projected to slow.”  Lunar New Year  China’s  passenger-vehicle sales  rose 27 percent from a year
earlier to 1.21 million units in February, according to CAAM,
matching the median analyst estimate. Vice Secretary-General
Xiong Chuanlin said the state-backed group may adjust its growth
forecast for 2012 vehicle sales in the coming months.  Economists and analysts typically combine statistics for
January and February to remove the distortion caused by the New
Year holiday period, which can occur in either month depending
on the lunar calendar.  Sales of local-brand cars, excluding minivans, multipurpose
vehicles and SUVs, fell 17 percent in the January-February
period, according to CAAM data. Their market share dropped 4.2
percentage points to 27.9 percent, the figures show.  So-called dual-purpose vehicles, used for ferrying goods
and people, slumped 12 percent to 404,200 units. SUV deliveries
climbed 10 percent to 265,300 vehicles in the first two months,
bucking the industrywide decline.  Counting on China  Global carmakers are counting on a rebound in China to help
drive earnings this year, with auto demand in  Europe  forecast to
decline for a fifth straight year as the sovereign debt crisis
unsettles consumers.  GM, the biggest overseas automaker in China, boosted
February sales in the country by 30 percent to 240,554 units.
Volkswagen’s luxury unit Audi increased sales last month by 66
percent to 31,352 cars.  Automakers will find “big difficulties” delivering as
many cars in China as CAAM projected for this year, Minister of
Industry and Information Technology Miao Wei told reporters in
Beijing yesterday. The state-backed auto association in January
predicted passenger-vehicle sales would rise 9.5 percent in
2012.  China raised benchmark gasoline prices on Feb. 8 to a
record 9,417 yuan a metric ton, or $4.20 a gallon, according to
Bloomberg calculations from government data. American motorists
paid $3.72 for a gallon of regular gasoline in the week to Feb.
27, according to data from the  Department of Energy .  Premier Wen this week pared the nation’s economic growth
target to 7.5 percent from an 8 percent goal in place since
2005, saying that the world’s most populous country needs to
shift to a more sustainable and efficient economic model.  ‘Rational Adjustment’  “China’s auto market has entered a rational adjustment
period,” said Xu Jianyi, chairman of China  FAW Group Corp (FAWGRP) .,
which produces vehicles with General Motors Co.,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  in China. “Local automakers need to
focus on improving their competitiveness and efficiency,” he
said this week at the annual meeting of the legislature.  China will control the increase in auto manufacturing
capacity and encourage mergers and reorganizations in the
industry, according to Wen’s work report, which sets out the
administration’s priorities. The government earlier removed auto
manufacturing from the list of industries in which it encourages
foreign investment.  The country will also promote new-energy vehicles and
encourage the scrapping of old vehicles to reduce pollution, the
nation’s top economic planner said in a separate report this
week. The government this year exempted buyers of approved
alternative-energy cars from an annual vehicle tax, while fuel-
efficient cars are eligible for a 50 percent reduction in the
levy.  All 412 models approved for purchase by state agencies this
year will be limited to Chinese brands, according to a proposal
disclosed by the industry ministry. Public consultation on the
list closes today.  Foreign brands accounted for nine of the top 10 car models
by sales in China last year, led by GM’s Buick Excelle with
253,500 vehicles, followed by the 247,500 VW Lavida cars sold.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  