-- China’s February New Yuan Loans Were a Lower-Than-Estimated $113 Billion
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T16:42:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-s-february-new-yuan-loans-were-a-lower-than-estimated-113-billion.html
China ’s new yuan loans were less
than estimated in February and money supply growth was below the
government’s target, central bank data showed yesterday, raising
the odds of policy easing to support credit.  Local-currency-denominated  loans  were 710.7 billion yuan
($113 billion) last month, the People’s Bank of China said in a
statement on its website yesterday. That compares with the 750
billion yuan median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 26
economists and 738 billion yuan in January. M2, the broadest
measure of money supply, expanded 13 percent in February from a
year earlier.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  may step up efforts to support economic
expansion after inflation slowed more than estimated in February
while industrial output and retail sales growth weakened.
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  signaled this week that exports in
February may also have been lower than economists forecast.  “With banks’ deposit growth unlikely to accelerate and
inflationary pressures continuing to ease, further reserve-
requirement ratio cuts will be needed to maintain stable
economic growth,”  Jing Ulrich , managing director and chairman
of global markets for China at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said before
the release. She expects two more reductions in the first half.  The central bank cut the amount of cash lenders must set
aside as reserves in February for the first time in three months
to support lending and sustain growth after new lending in
January was the lowest for that month in five years.  Weaker Output Growth  Inflation eased to 3.2 percent in February from a year
earlier, the lowest in 20 months, as food prices moderated, a
statistics bureau report showed yesterday. Industrial output in
the first two months of the year rose 11.4 percent, the smallest
increase for January and February combined since 2009.  Economic data in the first two months are distorted by the
timing of a weeklong Chinese New Year Holiday, which fell in
January this year and February in 2011.  Wen this week set a target of 14 percent growth for M2 in
2012, compared with a 16 percent goal last year, as the
government vowed to maintain a prudent monetary policy. The
broad measure of  money supply  grew 13.6 percent last year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  