-- China Inflation May Provide Room for Stimulus: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T09:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-s-inflation-eases-to-slowest-in-20-months-giving-room-for-stimulus.html
China ’s inflation eased to the
slowest pace in 20 months while new loans, industrial output and
retail sales were below analysts’ forecasts, boosting the case
for easing monetary policy in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Consumer prices  gained 3.2 percent in February from a year
earlier, the National Bureau of Statistics said. Local-currency
loans were 710.7 billion yuan ($113 billion) in February.
Factory  production  rose 11.4 percent in January and February
combined and retail sales advanced 14.7 percent. Data in the
first two months of the year are distorted by a weeklong holiday.  Asian stocks rallied on a debt deal in  Greece  and
speculation that China’s moderating inflation and growth will
lead the ruling Communist Party to loosen policy. Citigroup Inc.
says a cut in banks’ reserve  requirements  may come as soon as
this month, while the government also has more room to boost
wages and ease price controls on energy and water.  “Today’s data, with surprisingly low retail sales and
output continuing to weaken, point to economic growth further
cooling to 8 percent or lower this quarter,” said Ding Shuang,
senior China economist at Citigroup in  Hong Kong . Data this
month may show further worsening if the government fails to cut
banks’ reserve requirements for the third time since November,
he said.  The benchmark MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks rose 1
percent as of 6 p.m. in  Tokyo , while China’s Shanghai Composite
Index gained 0.8 percent. China’s  interest-rate  swaps had their
biggest weekly decline in three months.  Below Estimates  The rise in consumer prices was less than the 3.4 percent
 median estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of 35 economists and
below January’s 4.5 percent rate. Retail sales were forecast to
rise 17.6 percent in January and February, while analysts
predicted industrial output growth of 12.3 percent.  Producer prices were unchanged in February from a year
earlier, the Beijing-based statistics bureau said. That compares
with a median estimate for a 0.1 percent increase. The gauge
rose 0.7 percent in January.  New local-currency loans  reported  by the central bank
compared with the 750 billion yuan median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists and 738 billion yuan in
January. M2, the broadest measure of  money supply , expanded 13
percent in February from a year earlier.  Fixed-asset investment excluding rural households rose 21.5
percent in January and February combined from a year earlier,
above the 20.5 percent median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Home Prices  China’s home sales declined 25 percent in the first two
months of the year as the government pledged to maintain its
housing curbs, separate data showed today.  The statistics bureau didn’t release the year-over-year
change for industrial production and retail sales in January or
February alone.  China’s government has done a terrific job in controlling
inflation,  Stephen Roach , former non-executive chairman for
Morgan Stanley in Asia and previously the bank’s chief economist,
said at a conference in  Shanghai  yesterday. Concerns that China
will have a so-called hard landing are “vastly overblown” even
as economic growth becomes more unbalanced, Roach said.  Even so, “they need to focus more on the downside risk”
to growth,  Qu Hongbin , co-head of Asian economics research at
HSBC Holdings Plc in Hong Kong, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “They need to react to those data and I think they
will,” he said, predicting the central bank will lower banks’
required reserve ratios at least twice by the end of June.  Resource Prices  Premier  Wen Jiabao  this week set an inflation target of
about 4 percent for 2012, unchanged from last year. The goal
takes into account risks from imported inflation and rising
costs of land, labor and capital and will leave room to change
the way prices of resources including electricity and oil are
set, he told lawmakers at the National People’s Congress.  Tao Dong, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit Suisse
Group AG, said the industrial-production report “looks bad”
and is a “loud warning to the commodity bulls.” Still, China’s
leaders are unlikely to start a large-scale stimulus right away
and may wait until reports on March data “before making a
decisive call on the direction of the economy,” Tao said.  Food price gains last month slowed to 6.2 percent from a
year ago, compared with a pace of 10.5 percent in January, and
accounted for 62 percent of the total inflation rate, the
statistics bureau said today. Consumer prices fell 0.1 percent
from the previous month.  Malaysia Rate  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Malaysia ’s central bank is forecast to
keep its benchmark interest rate at 3 percent for a fifth
meeting today, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In Europe,  Germany  said exports rebounded 2.3 percent in
January from the prior month, while French industrial production
in the same period also bounced back 0.3 percent. Italy’s
industrial output probably dropped in January, while  Spain ’s
retail sales declined.  U.S. employers probably added more than 200,000 workers for
a third straight month in February, economists predicted ahead
of a Labor Department report today. The jobless rate stayed at
8.3 percent, a separate survey showed.  China’s economic  growth  has moderated for the past four
quarters as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimped demand for exports and
the government limited lending and imposed curbs on home
purchases to rein in prices.  Separately today, Politburo member Bo Xilai gave figures
that indicate China’s wealth gap has now exceeded the point that
analysts view as a predictor for social unrest, in a rare
disclosure of the country’s income disparity.  Barclays Capital  is forecasting a “cautious easing”
stance for monetary policy and a “modest expansionary fiscal
policy stance to ensure a soft landing of the Chinese economy,”
said Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist at the company.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  