-- Chinese Bicycle Exporters May Win Easing of 48.5% EU Tariff
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-03-09T10:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/chinese-bicycle-exporters-may-win-easing-of-48-5-eu-tariff.html
The European Union may ease 19-year-
old trade protection on bicycles from China because of changes
in the Chinese and EU markets.  The EU said it would review a 48.5 percent import duty
because Chinese bikemakers may be eligible for more favorable
treatment following China’s removal last year of an export-quota
system. In addition, EU bicycle output in lower-cost eastern
countries has grown, according to the bloc.  The levy is meant to punish Chinese exporters for selling
bikes in  Europe  below cost, a practice known as dumping. In
October, the EU renewed the anti-dumping duty for five years to
help European producers including  Accell Group NV (ACCEL)  compete with
cheaper imports.  The review “will determine whether there is a need for the
continuation, removal or amendment of the existing measures,”
the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s trade authority in
Brussels, said today in the Official Journal. “The continued
imposition of measures at the existing level may no longer be
appropriate.” The probe will last as long as 15 months.  European trade protection against Chinese bicycles dates to
1993, when the EU introduced a 30.6 percent anti-dumping duty on
imports from China. The bloc renewed that levy in 2000 before
raising it to the current 48.5 percent in 2005 at the same time
as introducing anti-dumping duties as high as 34.5 percent on
imports from  Vietnam .  Vietnam Duties  The EU let the levies against Vietnam expire in July 2010
while opening an investigation into whether to renew the 48.5
duty against China, a step that automatically kept the measure
in place at least for the duration of the probe. The five-year
extension in October was the outcome of that inquiry.  In its reasons for opening the review today, the commission
also said “several” European bikemakers had switched to
partial assembly operations involving imported parts. In
addition, the commission said most bikes are now made of
aluminum alloys rather than steel, which was the basis for
determining injury to EU producers caused by imports from  China .  China’s share of the EU bicycle market fell to 3.1 percent
in the 12 months through March 2010 from 4.4 percent in 2007,
the bloc said in  October . China annually produces 80 million
bikes, of which 55 million are for export, according to the EU.  Separately  today , the EU threatened to renew anti-dumping
duties on a welding product from China for another five years.
The commission opened a review into whether to let lapse the
levies of as much as 63.5 percent on tungsten electrodes, used
for welding in industries such as aerospace, automobiles,
shipbuilding and oil and natural gas.  The EU imposed the duties against China in March 2007 to
shield  Austria ’s Plansee Metall GmbH from cheaper imports. The
trade protection, which was due to lapse next week, will now
stay in place during the probe, which can last as long as 15
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  