-- China’s Economy a Bigger Worry Than Yuan
-- B y   S a m u e l   S h e r r a d e n
-- 2012-03-09T00:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-s-economy-a-bigger-worry-than-yuan-commentary-by-samuel-sherraden.html
When it comes to economic relations
with  China , U.S. political leaders are responding to the
problems of yesterday rather than preparing for tomorrow.  Lawmakers in both parties -- from Republican  Mitt Romney  to
leading Democrats on  Capitol Hill  -- continue to criticize China
for its currency manipulation just as economic problems in China
are deepening, potentially leading to dangerous spillover
effects for the U.S.  There is no doubt that for years China was guilty of
currency manipulation. This and other policies helped Chinese
exporters gain an edge over their competitors and allowed the
government to accumulate a $3.2 trillion stockpile of  foreign
reserves . As a result of years of subsidized production, China
retains its large  trade surplus  in manufactured goods.  But now, domestic and foreign economic pressures are
causing cracks to emerge. Domestically, over-investment and
excess capacity weigh on China’s economy. The housing market is
deflating and the local-government debt on banks’ balance sheets
will limit future fiscal stimulus. Monetary authorities are
constrained from further easing for fear of inflation. And
China’s major export markets -- the U.S. and  Europe  -- are
facing slow growth at best.  The  International Monetary Fund  recently lowered its growth
forecast for China and said if Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis
worsens, China’s growth rate may fall by as much as four
percentage points from current projections.  Currency Movements  Movements in  currency markets  also suggest a lack of
confidence in China’s economy. In September, currency forwards
contracts, or bets on the value of the yuan in the future,
started predicting that it would depreciate, rather than
continue the appreciation trend that forwards markets had
generally shown since China’s currency de-pegged from the dollar
in 2005. Forwards contracts now predict China’s currency will be
basically flat in the next 12 months, a reflection that concerns
over the Chinese economy remain.  In the past, bouts of weakness in  China’s economy  weren’t
as obvious because its capital account was closed, meaning that
capital couldn’t leave the country. Even though the capital
account is still largely closed, money can now flow out of the
economy more easily than before: In the fourth quarter of 2011,
China’s surplus in the trade of goods, services and transfers,
known as the  current account , was almost completely offset by
outflows from the capital account or elsewhere, according to
preliminary figures from the State Administration of Foreign
Exchange. This indicates that despite China’s trade surplus,
investors are still insecure about domestic economic conditions.  As  Li Yang , a former adviser to the central bank, recently
said, “One-way capital inflow or one-way bets on a yuan rise
have become history.”  Although for years China’s central bank manipulated the
currency by selling yuan at a below-market rate, in the fall it
started setting the  exchange rate  above the market value and
selling foreign-exchange reserves to support the yuan. China’s
foreign-exchange reserves declined in September, November and
December of 2011, evidence that the central bank was trying to
hold up the value of the currency rather than push it down.
Early data from 2012 show that foreign-exchange inflows resumed,
but that the growth has been moderate.  Corporate Confidence  Confidence is also slipping in China’s corporate sector.
Based on central-bank data on purchases and sales of foreign
exchange by banks to companies,  exporters  chose to hold more of
the foreign currency they accumulated from trade in the fourth
quarter than they did during the first three quarters of 2011.
The lower rate of conversion to yuan accounted for an estimated
$52 billion in foreign currency sitting on the balance sheets of
Chinese companies.  Similarly,  importers  purchased more foreign exchange to
finance their imports, accounting for an additional $74 billion
in foreign currency held by companies. Both trends suggest that
Chinese companies have lost confidence that the domestic
currency will appreciate.  Lastly, there is mounting anecdotal evidence that Chinese
are trying to protect their wealth by holding less yuan or even
moving their wealth offshore. According to the  Hong Kong  Census
and Statistics Department, China’s gold imports from Hong Kong
increased threefold in 2011. This is often assumed to be a hedge
against inflation, but it may also be seen as a store of value
given a weaker economy and faltering  real-estate market .  In a further sign that Chinese citizens may be trying to
protect their wealth,  gambling revenue  in Macau increased 35
percent in January due to more traffic from mainland China,
according to Macau’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau.
Gambling is thought to be a way Chinese individuals can exchange
their yuan for foreign currency and move wealth offshore. In
this respect, increased gambling revenue in Macau may be a
contrary indicator for the health of China’s economy and
confidence in its currency.  Complaints from U.S. leaders about China’s currency
manipulation may be misplaced and leave America more vulnerable
to a Chinese economic decline. Rather than stoke the fire over
currency manipulation, U.S. officials should consider reducing
exposure to China through trade and financial flows and assess
what stimulus and pro-growth measures America would undertake if
China’s growth waned. At the same time, the U.S. should continue
to pressure China to transition from growth driven by net
exports and investment, to growth driven by greater  household
consumption .  Antagonism over currency manipulation will only inflame
nationalistic sentiment in China and limit the ability of
 China’s leaders  to enact necessary reforms. This only
complicates China’s economic transition and leaves the U.S.
unprepared for the difficult road ahead.  (Samuel Sherraden is the associate director of the Economic
Growth Program at the  New America Foundation . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Samuel Sherraden at  sherraden@newamerica.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  