-- China Should Maintain Housing Curbs to Prevent Chaos, Lo Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T01:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-should-maintain-housing-curbs-to-prevent-chaos-vincent-lo-says.html
China  should maintain its property
curbs as any relaxation may result in a “chaotic” housing
market, said billionaire developer Vincent Lo, also a member of
the government’s advisory board.  Home prices may post a “single-digit” decline this year,
said Lo, chairman of  Shui On Land Ltd. (272) , a Shanghai-based
developer. Property values in the nation’s city centers will
hold up, he said, adding that he doesn’t expect a property crash
this year.  “I don’t want them to relax the property curbs immediately
because the market will be completely chaotic,” Lo said in an
interview in Beijing yesterday. “There’s so much pent-up
demand.”  China’s falling prices have already prompted brokerages
including Morgan Stanley and UBS AG to speculate on an easing in
housing curbs this year. JPMorgan Chase & Co. said this week the
“worst is behind us” for the nation’s property market.  February  home prices  posted the biggest drop in 19 months
as the government pledged to maintain property curbs, according
to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the nation’s largest real-estate
website owner.  Jing Ulrich, managing director and chairman of global
markets for China at JPMorgan, said at a conference in Hong Kong
on March 7 that home prices and transactions may improve in the
second half. Her comments came a week after Morgan Stanley said
some curbs may be eased as early as the end of the first quarter,
while UBS AG said earlier this year the measures may be lifted
mid-year to prevent a collapse of the residential market.  ‘Critical Stage’  Regulation of the real estate market is at a “crucial
stage,” Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in his work report to the
National People’s Congress on March 5.  “Unless something dramatic happens in the international
economy, these more restrictive measures will remain for at
least another 18 months,” Lo said. When the government decides
to ease its curbs, “it will be in a typical Chinese way: they
won’t say let’s relax, but will do it quietly without disturbing
the overall economy,” he said.  Lo, a member of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference, is in Beijing attending its annual week-long meeting.
The conference is an advisory body to the People’s Congress, the
highest governmental body in the country.  Chinese developers are going through a rough time as sales
fell following the two-year efforts to rein in property prices,
Lo said. The measures included higher down payments and mortgage
rates, as well as home purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  Credit Downgrades  The nation’s  developers  will probably face more credit
rating downgrades over the next six months as refinancing risks
increase, according to  Standard & Poor’s . Home prices may fall
10 percent by June from a year earlier, according to an S&P
report yesterday that said “the worst is yet to come” for
developers.  Home prices in China’s seven or eight biggest cities must
decline,  Securities Times  reported yesterday, citing Housing
Minister  Jiang Weixin . The Shanghai Securities News cited Jiang
as saying that the government will “resolutely” continue with
its housing curbs and won’t ease home-purchase restrictions in
the near term.  Spin Off  Shui On plans to spin off its Chinese commercial property
leasing business by the end of this year in an initial public
offering in Hong Kong, said Lo, who’s ranked the 25th richest
person in the city by Forbes magazine, with an estimated net
worth of $1.46 billion.  The company will not be set up as a real estate investment
trust. It doesn’t want to just collect rents and distribute
dividends, he said, adding that it’s ready to appoint investment
banks for the share sale.  Shui On will increase its land holdings this year, Lo said.
The company is set to complete about 1 million square meters
(10.76 million square feet) of commercial and residential
projects in 2012, he said.  Lo, the youngest son of late  Hong Kong  property tycoon Lo Ying-shek, is known as “Mister Shanghai” after turning the
city’s century-old homes into a pub and entertainment district
called  Xintiandi , which means New Heaven and Earth in Chinese.  The concern for the housing markets in both China and Hong
Kong is the lack of lower-cost homes for the masses, Lo said.  “Home prices in Hong Kong at the moment are beyond
affordability of normal families,” he said. “We shouldn’t look
at the matter from developers’ perspective but the overall
society, even though I’m a developer myself.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  