-- Sanya Party Chief Says Southern China Resort City to Keep Property Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T09:50:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-s-sanya-resort-keeps-rules-to-curb-housing-speculation.html
Chinese resort Sanya is keeping
rules aimed at curbing property speculation, according to its
province’s deputy governor, in contrast to other parts of the
country that want to ease limits and reverse declines in prices.  The city on Hainan will limit home sales to non-island
buyers to the equivalent of 5,000 100-square-meter apartments a
year, Jiang Sixian, deputy governor of Hainan and secretary of
Sanya’s Communist Party committee, said in an interview in
Beijing yesterday. As a result, home sales will keep falling in
2012, he said.  The resort on the tropical island off  China ’s southern
coast is trying to reduce speculation from outsiders that’s
“depleting our resources” and boost its year-round population,
Jiang said. Hainan’s goal is to become an international tourism
destination and win visitors away from  Indonesia ’s Bali or
 Thailand ’s Phuket.  “We’ll be very prudent in handling housing demand from
outside,” Jiang, 57, said while in Beijing attending an annual
lawmakers’ congress. “Many people bought homes only for
visiting in winter.”  Hainan’s willingness to maintain property curbs contrasts
with recent efforts in  Shanghai  to loosen home-purchase
restrictions and in the eastern city of Wuhu to subsidize some
sales.  China’s home sales by square meters fell 16 percent in
January and February combined from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said today. The value of homes sold
declined 25 percent after surging 26 percent in the first two
months of 2011.  Jiang said Sanya’s home prices “dropped a bit” in the
first two months of 2012 from a year earlier. Developers are
becoming “more rational” when setting apartment prices, he
said.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Baizhen Chua. Editors:
Scott Lanman, Chris Anstey  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  