-- China Telecom iPhone Sales Start; Subsidy May Damp Profit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T08:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-telecom-iphone-sales-start-subsidy-may-damp-profit.html
China Telecom Corp. (728) , the nation’s
third-largest mobile phone company, starts sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone today, drawing subscribers with subsidies the company has
said may crimp profit.  The iPhone’s introduction will probably boost the carrier’s
subsidy costs by 19 percent to 24.1 billion yuan ($3.8 billion),
said Alen Lin, an analyst at BNP Paribas Securities  Asia  in  Hong
Kong . He cut his rating on China Telecom this week to “hold”
from “buy,” citing sales promotion costs for high-end devices.  A 16-gigabyte iPhone 4S costs 4,988 yuan ($790) at Apple’s
online store, or more than two months’ wages for the average
urban worker in China. China Telecom, using subsidies to attract
subscribers, said last month new customers who sign up for three
years can get a free handset with monthly service plans as low
as 289 yuan.  “The introduction of high-tier devices such as the iPhone
4S is a near-term risk to profitability, given the possible high
handset subsidy costs,” Lin said in a March 6 note to clients.
“Recent  market sentiment  has been strong for China Telecom. We
believe the market will soon shift focus to the expense side of
the equation.”  For China Telecom, the iPhone will “significantly enhance
its long-term sustainable growth,” Chief Executive Officer Wang Xiaochu said in a Feb. 21 statement announcing plans to sell the
handset. Costs related to the iPhone will mean “short-term
pressure” on profitability, he said.  Lining Up  About 30 customers were in line when iPhone sales started
at 2 p.m. at a China Telecom outlet in the Xidan shopping
district of western Beijing.  One of the first in line was Jeff Huang, who said he wanted
an iPhone to make FaceTime video calls to family and friends in
other parts of China. He signed up for a three-year plan with a
commitment of 189 yuan a month that got him an iPhone 4S for
1,699 yuan. That’s a discount of about 66 percent off the price
at Apple’s online store.  “This package was suitable for me,” said Huang, a 35-
year-old manager in an export-processing factory. He said his
purchase was a switch from both his old carrier,  China Mobile
Ltd. (941) , and the device brand,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , that he’s used for years.  China Telecom fell 2.4 percent to close at HK$4.47 in Hong
Kong, trimming this year’s gain to 1.1 percent, compared with
the 14 percent advance of the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  China Telecom is rated “buy” by 26 analysts among the 38
tracked by Bloomberg. The stock is rated “hold” by nine and
“sell” by three of them.  China Telecom becomes the nation’s second wireless operator
to offer iPhone after  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762) , which first
offered it in October 2009, and began selling the 4S in January.  For Apple, adding China Telecom’s 38.7 million 3G
subscribers at the end of January does almost double its reach
among users of 3G service who could get the device with a
carrier subsidy.  China  Unicom had 43 million users at the end of
January.  China Mobile  China Mobile Ltd., the world’s largest carrier by
customers, is now the only Chinese wireless company not offering
the iPhone with a service contract. The iPhone doesn’t support
the provider’s third-generation network, which is based on a
technology developed in China.  China Telecom’s introduction of the handset after its rival
may limit sales, because many customers who want the iPhone
already have it, said Lisa Soh, a Hong Kong-based analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. She cut her rating to “underperform” from
“neutral” previously. Costs for the device will cause a drop
in profit this year, she said.  “China Telecom will have to squeeze hard to get any
remaining iPhone juice, leading to higher costs and lower upside
than what the market may expect,” Soh wrote in her March 5 note
to clients.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  