-- China’s Bo Signals Wealth Gap Breached Unrest Trigger Point
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T09:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/china-s-gini-coefficient-exceeds-trigger-for-unrest-chongqing-s-bo-says.html
China ’s wealth gap has exceeded the
point that triggers social unrest, according to figures revealed
by Politburo member  Bo Xilai , in a rare disclosure of the
country’s  income disparity .  China’s Gini coefficient, an index of the income gap, has
exceeded 0.46, Bo, the Communist Party Secretary for Chongqing
Municipality, told reporters in Beijing today, without giving
specifics. The index ranges from 0 to 1 and the 0.4 mark is used
as a predictor by analysts for social disturbances.  The meeting where Bo spoke, held during the annual National
People’s Congress in Beijing, highlighted Chongqing’s efforts to
reduce the urban-rural income gap during the past five years,
encompassing Bo’s tenure. Bo, 62, has reintroduced slogans and
songs from the late Chairman  Mao Zedong  in a bid to re-instill a
Communist spirit in a country that still officially adheres to
the principles espoused by  Karl Marx .  “As Chairman Mao said as he was building the nation, the
goal of our building a socialist society is to make sure
everyone has a job to do and food to eat, that everybody is
wealthy together,” Bo said. “If only a few people are rich,
then we’ll slide into capitalism. We’ve failed. If a new
capitalist class is created then we’ll really have turned onto a
wrong road.”  In a speech later in the day attended by Bo,  Wu Bangguo ,
head of the NPC, said China in the next year would adjust the
income tax system to “give a bigger role to taxation in
adjusting  income distribution .”  Wukan Protests  On Monday, Guangdong Communist Party Secretary Wang Yang,
like Bo a candidate for the Politburo Standing Committee, told
reporters at the National People’s Congress that reform needs to
“represent the interests of the people.”  He said the region would learn from protests in the village
of Wukan, where demonstrators kicked out local party leaders
over illegal land grabs and were later permitted to hold
elections. Bo declined to comment today when asked about the
protests in Wukan.  Guangdong Governor Zhu Xiaodan said today the government
put the “highest priority” on the lessons it learned from
Wukan and said the region was looking to crack down on official
corruption and improve citizen-led supervision.  The  World Bank ’s data for China’s Gini coefficient goes up
to 2005 and the country doesn’t regularly publish a nationwide
figure. The country hasn’t disclosed an urban coefficient
because it had too much trouble getting accurate information
from high-income urban families, according to  Ma Jiantang , the
head of the National Bureau of Statistics.  ‘Completely Rubbish’  Speaking at today’s briefing, Bo denied as “completely
rubbish” reports that his son drives a red Ferrari, and said
his son attended  Harvard University  and Oxford University on
scholarships. He also said his wife had quit her law practice
and primarily does housework now.  “I am very moved of her sacrifice,” Bo said.  So-called mass incidents in China -- strikes, riots and
other disturbances -- doubled from 2006 to 2010 as China’s
wealth gap rose, according to Sun Liping, a professor at
Beijing’s Tsinghua University. China’s Gini coefficient has
risen from 0.302 in 1978 when the Communist Party began to open
the economy to market forces, according to a 2008 report by Chen
Jiandong at Southwestern University of Finance and Economics in
Sichuan.  China’s Gini coefficient -- and hence its wealth gap -- has
risen more than any other Asian economy in the last two decades,
according to Murtaza Syed, the International Monetary Fund’s
resident representative in Beijing, citing World Bank data. Syed
told reporters in Beijing last month that the high wealth gap
may hurt China’s long-term growth prospects.  ‘More Unequal’  “If China becomes more and more unequal, it may find it
very hard to keep growing at anywhere near the rates it’s been
growing,” Syed said on Feb. 22.  China will carry out a comprehensive survey of urban and
rural salaries that may help better gauge its  income gap , the
 China Daily  reported Feb. 7, citing Xie Hongguang, a deputy head
of the statistics bureau.  Inaccurate information and fragmented efforts in the past
have hindered government attempts to produce a nationwide Gini
coefficient, Ma told reporters Jan. 17.  A Gini level of 1 is perfect inequality, with one person
holding all the wealth, and a level of zero is perfect equality.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7565 or
 jliu42@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
John Liu in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  