-- Chongqing’s Bo Says He’s Not Under Investigation Deputy Mayor Wang Probed
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-09T08:38:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/chongqing-s-bo-says-he-is-not-under-investigation-amid-wang-probe-in-china.html
Bo Xilai, the Communist Party
secretary of  China ’s Chongqing municipality, said he is not
under investigation as the government probes his former police
chief, who spent a night in a U.S. consulate last month.  Bo, 62, took reporters’ questions in Beijing today after he
was absent from a session of the National People’s Congress
yesterday, calling into question his political future amid an
investigation into Chongqing Vice Mayor Wang Lijun, whose stay
at the U.S. Consulate in Chengdu sparked speculation that he was
seeking asylum. Bo said he was ill and apologized for drawing
attention to himself.  “I feel like it came out of nowhere,” Bo said of Wang’s
consulate visit. “It looks like that in any place, no matter
how good the situation is, we have to be alert and be prepared
to prevent unexpected things from happening.”  The intrigue at the highest levels of China’s government --
Bo is a member of China’s ruling Politburo -- comes as the
Communist Party holds a once-every-five-years meeting later this
year that will pick the leadership to rule the country for the
next decade, a period which PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP says
China will surpass the U.S. to become the world’s biggest
economy.  Bo was named by analysts including  Li Cheng  of  Washington ’s
 Brookings Institution  as being a candidate for the next
Politburo Standing Committee, now with nine men, that exercises
supreme power in China.  Corruption Fight  Bo, laughing as he spoke to reporters in the Chongqing room
of the Great Hall of the People, said the results of the probe
into Wang will be released and that Chongqing was cooperating in
the investigation. He said the situation relates to the fight
against organized crime that Wang helmed and that earned Bo a
reputation as a fighter against corruption.  After attending a speech in the main auditorium this
afternoon, Bo remained as most of the top leaders left to shake
hands with delegates of the National People’s Congress. He and
General Xu Caihou, one of two military leaders on the Politburo,
worked the dais together, greeting other leaders.  Wang’s visit to the consulate from Feb. 6-7 was confirmed
by Chinese and U.S. officials. An investigation may hurt Bo’s
chances for a spot on the Politburo Standing Committee, ahead of
a leadership change at the Communist Party’s congress later this
year, said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of Chinese
history at the  Chinese University  of  Hong Kong .  ‘Chances are Gone’  “His chances for the PBSC at the 18th Congress are gone,”
Lam said in an e-mail.  Bo said he’s “not thinking about the 18th Party
Congress.” He said stories that he had offered to resign his
post were speculation.  Wang led Bo’s effort to crack down on organized crime in
Chongqing, a South Carolina-sized municipality with a population
of about 30 million people. Today, Bo said that “fighting
organized crime is an effort that will upset some people.”  Bo said Wang’s was an isolated case and it shouldn’t be
blown out of proportion.  On Feb. 2, the Chongqing government said Wang had been
relieved of his police duties and put in charge of areas
including sanitation, athletics and education. On Feb. 8 the
Chongqing government’s information office said he had gone on
“vacation-style treatment” after suffering mental stress and
physical discomfort.  Bloomberg News reported last month that a first-class seat
was purchased for Wang on a flight from  Chengdu  to Beijing on
Feb. 8. Another first-class ticket on that flight was bought for
Qiu Jin, a vice minister at the agency responsible for anti-
espionage and covert operations.  Chongqing Mayor Huang Qifan, also at today’s meeting, said
he met Wang for two hours in Chengdu and after that Wang agreed
to come out of the consulate.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 John Liu  in Beijing at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  