-- Coeure Says Low Rates May Weaken Will to Fix Balance Sheets
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-09T16:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/coeure-says-low-ecb-rates-may-weaken-will-to-fix-balance-sheets.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said record low  interest rates  may
prompt banks to delay repairing their balance sheets.  “Low short-term interest rates in the euro area should in
the short term help to prevent a disorderly adjustment of
balance sheets and support the profitability of financial
institutions, but they may weaken the incentives for repairing
balance sheets in the first place,” Coeure said in the text of
a speech delivered in Paris on March 6 and published today.  While the ECB kept its  benchmark lending rate  at a record
low of 1 percent for a fourth month yesterday, ECB President
 Mario Draghi  signaled the central bank has done enough to battle
the debt and financial crisis, laying the groundwork for an
eventual exit from low interest rates and emergency lending
measures by turning the spotlight on inflation again.  “The ECB has used conventional and non-conventional
measures to support  price stability ,” Coeure said. “It is
striving to restore the transmission channels of monetary policy
and make sure that the impulse stemming from it is transmitted
uniformly across the 17 economies of the euro area.”  Coeure echoed Draghi’s sentiment on a more favorable
economic outlook, saying that government action on stricter
fiscal enforcement and other economic policies is “bearing
fruit.”  Clearing Dispute  The policy maker, who until this year was the chief
economist of  France ’s Treasury, restated the ECB’s policy that
euro-denominated securities should be cleared within the
17-nation currency bloc. The matter is currently the subject of
a legal dispute with the U.K.  “I would like to reaffirm that as a rule, the core
infrastructures for the euro should be located in the euro
area,” Coeure said. “There can and should be no automatic
granting of liquidity to offshore” clearing houses.  Britain is suing the ECB over this policy, trying to
protect the business of London-based houses that clear euro-
denominated products. The U.K. government accuses the central
bank of going against principles of the European Union single
market and contravening European law amid wider international
efforts to regulate derivatives markets.  Separately, Coeure said euro-area nations should be allowed
to toughen some bank rules beyond normal EU standards if their
financial stability is threatened.  The ECB has proposed “the possibility for national
authorities, within the framework of a single EU rulebook, to
adopt -– with specific safeguards -– stricter requirements in
their respective  member states  for macro-prudential reasons,”
he said. “This is necessary because member states need to
address country-specific financial stability concerns stemming
from different structural features of their domestic financial
systems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  