-- Coffee Council Urges Brazil Growers Not to Panic as Price Slumps
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-09T17:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/coffee-council-urges-brazil-growers-not-to-panic-as-price-slumps.html
The National Coffee Council in
Brazil, the world’s largest producer of the commodity, has urged
growers not to panic after prices slumped 17 percent this year.  Arabica coffee prices traded in  New York  closed at $1.9305
a pound on the ICE Futures U.S. exchange on March 6. That was
the first time that the market ended below $2 a pound since Nov.
3, 2010, data on Bloomberg show. The beans, which are grown
mainly in  Latin America  and favored by  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , have
slid 8.2 percent in the past two weeks alone.  “The movements have nothing to do with market
fundamentals, which we understand to be positive,” Silas Brasileiro, president of the council, known as CNC, wrote in a
weekly report e-mailed today. “In this moment of instability we
believe, as we said in previous reports, that the producer
should not panic.”  Supply and demand fundamentals continue to be “tight,”
Brasileiro said in the report. Global inventories remain limited
and consumption continues to grow, he said.  The council is working with the government to ensure that
financing is available to growers to guarantee that prices won’t
be impacted because producer sales are concentrated in a small
period of time, according to the report.  Brazil  plans to double financing available for coffee
storage this year to 1.5 billion reais ($840 million), Edilson
Martins de Alcantara, director of the coffee department at the
Ministry of Agriculture, said in an interview in London on March
6. The proposal may be approved as early as this month, he said.  “The aim is to enable the producer to store coffee and to
sell it at the best opportunity,” de Alcantara said during
meetings of the  International Coffee Organization .  Coffee output in Brazil will likely rise to a record in the
2012-13 season starting in July as trees enter the higher-
yielding half of a two-year cycle, the government estimates.
Production will be 49 million to 52.3 million bags, exceeding
the high of 48.5 million bags in 2002, according to a Jan. 10
report from Conab, the government’s forecasting agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 