-- Cold Returns Briefly Before Warm Weather Takes Hold Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-03-09T14:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/cold-returns-briefly-before-warm-weather-takes-hold-next-week.html
A quick chill will return to the
eastern U.S. late today and tomorrow before temperatures rise
next week, possibly reaching 80 degrees Fahrenheit (27 Celsius)
along the mid-Atlantic coast, forecasters said.  Low temperatures overnight are expected to hit 32 degrees
in  New York City , 30 in Washington and Philadelphia, 27 in
 Chicago  and 28 in Boston, where some snow may fall without
sticking, according to the  National Weather Service .  Even with the cold, average temperatures will be slightly
above normal for this time of year in  New York , said Joey Picca,
a weather service meteorologist in Upton, New York.  “It was more of a case of temperatures being so far above
normal yesterday and a cold front simply returning us to reality
for this time of year,” Picca said by telephone.  Yesterday’s high in New York was 71, compared with a normal
of 47, Picca said. Boston’s high of 68 degrees broke a record
for the date of 67 set in 1995, the weather service said.  By next week, temperatures will be approaching 70 to 75 in
New York, said Rob Carolan, a meteorologist with Hometown
Forecast Services in Nashua,  New Hampshire .  “Welcome to March,” Carolan said.  Carolan said the milder-than-normal weather is in part due
to a lack of snow cover across the U.S. If there had been snow,
most of the sun’s energy would go into melting it and warming
the ground, he said. This year, the sun is warming the air
instead.  Warm Weather Dominates  While there will be pockets of cool air coming into the
U.S. from  Canada , forecasters predict warmer weather will
dominate through mid-month.  Average temperatures from the upper Great Plains to  New
England  and throughout the South may be at least 15 degrees
above normal from March 14 to March 23, said  Matt Rogers ,
president of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  “Many cities should see frequent 70s with 80s in the South
and occasionally up to the lower Midwest and mid-Atlantic
areas,” Rogers said in a note to clients.  Parts of Indiana and Ohio may be 18 degrees above normal
for this time of year, said David Salmon, owner of Weather
Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri .  As a result, the eastern U.S. may need 30 to 60 percent
less energy to heat homes and businesses, he said.  Cooler in West  While the eastern U.S. warms, the West Coast to the Rocky
Mountains will probably be cooler than normal or close to
seasonal, said  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  California  may be 5 to 7 degrees below normal from March 19
to March 23, according to MDA.  Carolan said the temperature shifts from warm to cool can
cause problems for farmers because plants start to develop
earlier than they should. The shifts also create conditions for
severe weather such as last week’s tornado outbreak.  In New York, the normal average temperature on March 17 is
about 43 degrees, according to MDA. It’s 39 in Boston, 39 in
Chicago, 55 in Atlanta, 63 in Houston, 47 in  Seattle  and 59 in
Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  