-- Czech Inflation Fastest in More Than Three Years on Tax Change
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-03-09T08:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/czech-inflation-fastest-in-more-than-three-years-on-tax-change.html
Czech inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace in more than three years in February because of an
increase in the value-added  tax rate  at the start of the year.  The  inflation rate  rose to 3.7 percent, the highest since
November 2008, from 3.5 percent the previous month, the
Statistics Office in  Prague  said today on its website. That
exceeded the 3.6 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 13 analysts. Prices advanced 0.2 percent from January.  The government raised the lower bracket for the value-added
tax levied on goods and services including food, drugs and
public transport to 14 percent from 10 percent starting in 2012
to boost budget revenue. The  economy  contracted for a second
quarter in the final three months of last year after state
expenditure fell and households and companies cut spending as
the euro area’s debt crisis threatens to infect eastern  Europe .  The central bank doesn’t need to react to a spike in
inflation that is caused by an increase in the value-added tax,
central bank Vice-Governor Mojmir Hampl said on public Czech
Radio on Feb. 20.  Inflation relevant for monetary policy, defined as price
growth adjusted for the primary impact of changes in indirect
taxes, will “move near” the inflation target of 2 percent by
the third quarter of next year, the bank said in a Feb. 2
forecast.  At least one policy maker said during the Feb. 2 rate
meeting that “second-round effects of the VAT increase may be
stronger than assumed” in the bank’s forecast, according to the
Feb. 10 minutes from the session.  The Ceska Narodni Banka left the benchmark  two-week  rate at
0.75 percent in February, a quarter-point below the  European
Central Bank ’s main rate. The bank has kept the rate at that
record-low level since May 2010, repeatedly saying the economy
isn’t generating demand-driven inflation pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  