-- Dassault Says Indian Fighter Jet Deal Secure as Talks Intensify
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-03-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/dassault-says-indian-fighter-jet-deal-secure-as-talks-intensify.html
Dassault Aviation SA (AM)  is confident
that an accord to supply at least 126 Rafale combat planes to
India will cross all hurdles as the French company intensifies
negotiations to clinch the first-ever export deal for the jet.  Dassault and India are now in final talks to conclude
details of the contract, after the Rafale was given preference
over the competing Eurofighter jet last month, Chief Executive
Officer Charles Edelstenne said in an interview in Paris.
Negotiations may wrap up by the end of the year, he said.  Selling the Rafale to India would mark a major victory for
Edelstenne, who has had to rely on  France  as the aircraft’s sole
customer. The Indian backing for the $11 billion contract has
boosted Dassault’s hopes it can also prevail in  Brazil , and help
raise production rates of the Rafale that are now hovering at
the minimum of one a month, the CEO said.  “For 15 years, we’ve been saying the Rafale costs less
than the Eurofighter,” Edelstenne said. “Now it’s the Indians
who are saying it.”  Dassault will prevail against the Eurofighter in India
because in every competition where the two jets have been in
direct competition, the French model gained higher rankings,
even if it ultimately didn’t win the final deal, the CEO said.  Edelstenne said Dassault can easily boost production to two
or three Rafales a month or more if needed, depending on what
other orders the company may win. Beyond Brazil and the  United
Arab Emirates , Dassault is also pitching the plane to other
export prospects he said, including  Malaysia .  Fighting Back  Dassault  has already delivered 106 of 180 fighters ordered
by France, which has said it will order 286 planes over the
lifetime of the plane. Edelstenne said India’s naming Dassault
as lowest-bidder would help generally export prospects .  British Prime Minister David Cameron has said he would keep
fighting for the Eurofighter Typhoon, partly built by  BAE
Systems Plc (BA/) , to get back into the contest.  Louis Gallois , the
CEO of European Aeronautic, Defence &  Space Co. (EAD) , said yesterday
the only way for his company to get back to into the contest is
if talks between Dassault and the Indian side fall through.  Until India decided on the Rafale, Dassault had failed to
win any export contracts for the aircraft, losing out in a half
dozen competitions to countries including  Singapore ,  South
Korea , Morocco, the Netherlands, and Switzerland.  U.S. manufacturers beat Dassault in all those contests
except in Switzerland, where  Saab AB (SAABB) ’s Gripen has been pre-
selected. The company still hasn’t given up in Switzerland,
Edelstenne said, citing a review of the decision process.  Long Relations  Dassault’s relations with India date back 60 years. India
was the very first export customer for Dassault, ordering 71
Ouragans in June 1953, and India has purchased most Dassault
models sold since. India replaced the Ouragans with Dassault’s
Mystere IV A in 1957, procuring 104 in 1957 and using them in
1961 for air strikes against the Portuguese colony of Daman.  The French company will gradually turn over the
manufacturing of its plane for the Indian market to local
businesses because that was a requirement  India  had set for all
competitors, he said. Dassault will provide the assistance
required to do that.  “Little by little, the whole plane will come to be
produced in India within 10 years,” he said. “We are open to
all transfers of technology, I don’t fear competition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  