-- Deadly Equine Herpes Virus Slows Netherlands Olympic Readiness
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-03-09T14:46:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/deadly-equine-herpes-virus-slows-netherlands-olympic-readiness.html
An outbreak of a deadly equine virus
is preventing horses from traveling in the Netherlands, causing
animals including those of triple Olympic dressage champion Anky van Grunsven to miss competitions.  The  rhinopneumonitis  virus, or equine herpes, poses no risk
to humans. Symptoms vary from a common cold to miscarriages and
paralysis, according to the website of the Dutch Ministry of
Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation. The disease, which
can be fatal, is spread by close contact between horses. It can
also be transferred indirectly by people, feed or equipment.  “This is a normal virus in the horse population and most
of the time all it causes is a cold, but we are taking extra
measures because we have had outbreaks of the less common
paralysis strain in three different places and we don’t know
why,” Willem Luiten, spokesman for the Dutch Equestrian
Federation (KNHS), said in a phone interview.  The virus killed a number of horses in Berg en Dal, in the
east of the Netherlands, on Feb. 22. Two more fatal outbreaks
followed, one in Heumen in the east and the third one in
Woubrugge in the province of South Holland a week ago.  The KNHS has advised horse owners not to move their animals
unless absolutely necessary, while all equestrian competitions
have been canceled.  The KNHS stressed there is “no threat” to the
participation of the Dutch equestrian squad at the London
Olympics, which start July 27.  “The virus has an incubation time of ten days, so once we
are beyond that period of time counting from the last outbreak,
we should be fine again,” Luiten said.  “Our yard is closed, all classes are canceled and there
won’t be any outside horses coming to our stables,” Van Grunsven, the Olympic champion in the individual freestyle
dressage at the Sydney, Athens and Beijing Games, said on her
website. “Better safe than sorry.”  Van Grunsven, whose stables are based in the southern town
of Erp, has withdrawn from a competition this weekend in
Dortmund,  Germany . Fellow Dutch rider Sander Marijnissen has
also pulled out of Dortmund because of the virus outbreak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  