-- Debt Exchange Set to Trigger $3 Billion of Default Swaps Under ISDA Rules
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-03-09T08:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/debt-exchange-set-to-trigger-3-billion-of-default-swaps-under-isda-rules.html
Greece ’s use of collective action
clauses forcing investors to take part in the sovereign
restructuring should trigger $3 billion of insurance payouts
under rules governing credit-default swap contracts.  The  International Swaps & Derivatives Association ’s
determinations committee meets at 1 p.m. in London today to
decide whether the use of CACs is a restructuring credit event
which will cause a payout of swaps insuring Greek debt.  The Greek government said today it reached its target for
participation in the restructuring, with investors in 95.7
percent of bonds taking part, after it received approval to
activate CACs to force the hand of holdouts. Bondholders
tendered 152 billion euros ($201 billion) or 85.8 percent, of
bonds governed by Greek law after the government offered to swap
their holdings for new securities, it said.  “After this morning’s announcement that CACs clauses will
be invoked I think most people would be surprised if the answer
was negative,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed income analyst at
Investec Bank Plc in London. “I’ve been surprised throughout at
the strong desire not to trigger CDS. This should be good for
anyone seeking protection elsewhere, such as Spain or  Italy .”  ISDA said last week that swaps on Greek bonds hadn’t been
triggered by the  European Central Bank ’s exchange of the bonds
for new securities exempt from losses taken by private
investors. Under ISDA rules the use of CACs should trigger a
credit event.  Indebted Nations  Although policy makers had hoped to achieve debt
sustainability in  Europe ’s most indebted nations without
triggering default swaps, political determination to avoid the
stigma of a credit event waned as Greece struggled to meet the
terms of its bailout.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the nation to
selective default on Feb. 27 after the government retroactively
inserted CACs into bond terms.  Credit-default swaps on Greece now cover $3.16 billion of
debt, down from about $6 billion last year, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That compares with a swaps
settlement of $5.2 billion on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008.  While there were concerns at that time about a daisy chain
of losses if counterparties failed to meet their commitments,
the settlement of swaps guaranteeing debt of Lehman, as well as
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , were “orderly” and caused no major
disruptions for the market, according to regulators.  Restructuring Event  Swaps on western European governments can pay out on a
 credit event  triggered by failure to pay, restructuring or a
moratorium on payments. A restructuring event can be caused by
a reduction in principal or interest, postponement or deferral
of payments or a change in the ranking or currency of
obligations, according to ISDA rules. Any of these changes must
result from deterioration in creditworthiness, apply to multiple
investors and be binding on all holders.  The determinations committee which decides whether a credit
event has occurred consists of representatives from 15 dealers
and investors. The group, which includes  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Pacific Investment Management Co. and Morgan Stanley, rules
after a request is made by a market participant.  In a restructuring credit event investors have the right to
choose whether to settle their default swap contracts.  Should the committee rule a credit event has taken place
auctions will be held to set a recovery value on the bonds and
swaps sellers will pay buyers the difference between that and
the face value of the debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net :
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  