-- Dippy ‘John Carter’; Sour ‘Friends’; ‘Salmon Fishing’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/dippy-john-carter-sour-friends-with-kids-salmon-fishing-movies.html
The arid, canyon-slashed Mars
(sorry, Barsoom) looks awfully familiar in  “John Carter,” 
Disney’s $250 million sci-fi extravaganza with the imprimatur of
Edgar Rice Burroughs and the everything else of “Star Wars.”  Burroughs began writing his influential, planet-hopping
 John Carter  stories in 1912, so props for literary innovation.
But a century of copy-catting results in a been-there, seen-that
feeling during much of the non-stop galactic derring-do of
“John Carter.”  Directed by Andrew Stanton, whose animated  “Wall-E”  had a
heart mostly absent from his live-action debut, “John Carter”
stars a buff Taylor Kitsch (from TV’s “Friday Night Lights”)
as the title character, a Confederate Civil War vet who
discovers a mysterious cave of gold and finds himself
transported to Earth’s planetary neighbor.  Landing smack in the middle of yet another war, Carter
susses out the situation -- and Barsoom’s demographics -- more
quickly than the audience might. Among the denizens are the
Tharks, tall, skinny green reptilian creatures with four arms,
two tusks and, one might assume, a standing reservation at the
 Star Wars  canteen.  Laser Fight  More advanced, technologically if not ethically, are the
crimson-skinned, humanoid residents of warring cities Zodanga
and Helium, who dress like old Hollywood’s idea of ancient Rome
while battling with lasers and flying in airships resembling
mechanized hornets.  Manipulating all the factions -- on Barzoom and,
apparently, Earth -- are the Thern, shape-shifting intergalactic
bald guys who infiltrate local populations to stir up strife and
war.  Stanton, using a script he co-wrote with Mark Andrews and
Michael Chabon, races past the details as if they don’t matter
(they don’t). “John Carter” (reviewed in its 3-D version) aims
for the Saturday morning serial panache of the early “Star
Wars” movies, and sometimes lands close.  With the loincloth and flat affectation of Charlton Heston
in “Planet of the Apes,” Kitsch offers little appeal beyond
the physical, and sounds awfully dude-ish for a 19th-century
Virginian. Lynn Collins, no more or less charismatic than
Kitsch, plays the blue-eyed, raven-haired Helium princess in
distress.  Burroughs’s readers will be pleased with the fidelity that
keeps snicker-prompting elements like the name Helium intact,
but retrograde touches like the royal damsel in need should have
been left to yellowing storybooks.  “John Carter,” from Walt  Disney (DIS) , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Friends With Kids’  Early in Jennifer Westfeldt’s romantic comedy  “Friends
With Kids,”  two platonic Harry and Sally types decide to have a
child together and panic over how to explain the decision to
friends.  Handing out old tapes of “thirtysomething” or “Cheers”
doesn’t occur to them. The scenario isn’t nearly as fresh as
Westfeldt seems to think.  The actress/screenwriter, making her directing debut 10
years after writing and starring in the middling “Kissing
Jessica Stein,” tells the story with feeling and some wit, and
has recruited a fine bunch of her own actor buddies to give
“Friends With Kids” a comfortable, intimate tone.  Grumpy Partners  Jon Hamm  (Westfeldts’ real-life partner, playing against
type as a tired-looking grouch), Maya Rudolph,  Kristen Wiig , and
Chris O’Dowd -- all reunited after last year’s hugely successful
“Bridesmaids” -- are among the FWKs who are either excited or
wary about welcoming Julie (Westfeldt) and Jason ( Adam Scott ,
from “Parks and Recreation”) into their stroller-pushing
ranks.  Best buds since college, Julie and Jason are appalled at
how their once free-spirited, fun-loving Manhattan-centric gang
has become a bickering, stressed-out and (horror of horrors)
Brooklyn-based gaggle of mommies, daddies and screaming brats.
They decide to sidestep the obnoxious-parent trap by having and
raising a baby as the hip, platonic friends they are, in the
borough of their choice.  As she did with  “Kissing Jessica Stein,”  in which her
character had a lesbian fling before settling down with Mr.
Right, Westfeldt flirts with convention-flaunting before bedding
down with romantic cliche.  “Friends With Kids,” from Roadside Attractions, is
playing across the U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  ‘Salmon Fishing’  In  “Salmon Fishing in the Yemen,”  a super-rich sheikh
(Amr Waked) decides to bring salmon -- a cold-water fish -- to
his desert land.  So a representative of the British company that works for
him, the beautiful Harriet Chetwode-Talbot ( Emily Blunt ),
contacts a leading ichthyologist, the fussy (but handsome) Dr.
Alfred Jones (Ewan McGregor).  Dr. Jones finds the idea, as he snaps in an e-mail,
“unfeasible.” When his boss forces him to meet with her
anyway, he stalks over to her sleek skyscraper office and gives
her a piece of his mind. Guess what happens.  Blunt and McGregor are both very charming, but neither the
director, Lasse Hallstrom, nor the writer, Simon Beaufoy, seems
to have put any effort into the movie. (Hallstrom made  “What’s
Eating Gilbert Grape”  and Beaufoy wrote  “Slumdog
Millionaire,”  so once they were both capable of something
better than hackwork.)  The one bright spot, or rather dark spot, is Kristin  Scott Thomas , who plays a high-level, hardheaded government press
officer as equal parts Tina Brown and Lady Macbeth.  Except for the polished and pious Sheikh Muhammad, the
picture’s Arabs are religious louts who shout a lot and don’t
appreciate the nice things rich people are trying to do for
their country.  And when the plot really runs out of steam, terrorists are
hauled in. By the end, the combination of stupidity and racism
does at least manage to lift this mild little movie into genuine
offensiveness.  “Salmon Fishing in the Yemen,” a CBS Films release, is
playing in selected theaters across the U.S. Rating: *
(Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com ;
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 