-- Disney Board Nominees Opposed by Glass Lewis Over Executive Compensation
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-03-09T21:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/disney-board-nominees-opposed-by-proxy-adviser-glass-lewis.html
Proxy adviser Glass Lewis & Co. is
opposing five nominees to the board of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , citing
deficient links between performance and executive pay, and one
director’s ties to a failed lender.  Four of the nominees served on the TV, theme-park and film
company’s compensation committee, Glass Lewis said in a report.
The fifth nominee served on the board of a bank that was seized
by regulators in 2008, resulting in losses for the investors.  The firm joins proxy adviser Institutional Shareholder
Services Inc. and Connecticut Treasurer Denise L. Nappier in
opposing Disney directors up for a vote at the March 13 annual
meeting in Kansas City, Missouri. Glass Lewis opposes half the
nominees. A third proxy adviser, Egan-Jones Proxy Services,
supports the company’s nominees and other issues on the ballot.  Much of the opposition relates to Disney’s decision last
year to give Chief Executive Officer  Robert Iger  the additional
title of chairman at the annual meeting. The company hasn’t had
one executive in both positions since then-chief executive
 Michael Eisner  gave up the chairman title in 2004 under pressure
from shareholder groups that said an independent chairman would
lead to better shareholder stewardship.  Disney, based in Burbank, California, rose 0.5 percent to
$42.24 at the close in  New York . The stock has gained 13 percent
this year.  Glass Lewis prefers companies split the jobs of chairman
and chief executive or have a lead director who isn’t an
executive of the company, the firm said in the Feb. 23 report.  While Disney said it will appoint an independent lead
director, the company doesn’t appear to have done so and Glass
Lewis said it is monitoring the issue.  Planned Transition  The decision to combine the positions was part of a
transition plan that was carefully thought out by the board,
retiring Chairman John Pepper said in a statement March 7.  “Nine out of the ten directors will be independent,
including an independent lead director with duties and
responsibilities that exceed in scope those recommended by
governance advisers,” Pepper said.  Of the 100 biggest  Standard & Poor’s  companies, 68 percent
have a joint chairman and CEO, Pepper said. In a filing last
week, the company cited better long-term stock performance than
peers such as  News Corp. (NWSA) ,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  and Viacom Inc.  Board View  “The Board rightfully considered Mr. Iger’s performance
over the course of his tenure when viewed in relation to the
industry peers against which both he and his compensation
package are most fairly measured,” Disney said in the filing.
“On that measure Mr. Iger’s compensation is fully warranted.”  In backing the nominees, Egan Jones said in its March 6
report the audit, compensation and governance-nominating
committees were composed of independent, outside directors.  According to Glass Lewis, Disney overall paid more than its
peers, while performing moderately worse. The adviser based its
analysis on 29 similarly sized companies, including four in
consumer products and six in movies and entertainment.  Glass Lewis  also cited the role of Orin Smith on the audit
and governance committee of Washington Mutual when that lender
was seized by regulators in September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  