-- DKSH of Zurich Said to Cover Book in $982 Million IPO
-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-03-09T17:32:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/dksh-of-zurich-said-to-cover-book-in-982-million-ipo.html
Banks managing the initial public
offering of DKSH Holding Ltd.,  Switzerland ’s largest privately
owned company, received orders for all the offered shares, said
two people with knowledge of the transaction.  Shareholders of DKSH, which has helped companies such as
 Nestle SA (NESN)  grow in  Asia , are seeking to raise as much as 903
million Swiss francs ($982 million) in what may be among western
 Europe ’s biggest IPOs this year. Books taking orders for the
sale, which opened yesterday, are scheduled to close on March
20, said the people, who declined to e identified because the
process is private.  DKSH’s share sale launched during the same week as the IPO
of Ziggo NV, the Dutch cable company controlled by Warburg
Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd., which is seeking as much as 745
million euros ($977 million). Banks arranging Ziggo’s offering
also received enough orders for the entire stock on the first
day, according to a sales document obtained by Bloomberg.  European companies are tapping the IPO markets again after
a near drought since July, as the region’s debt crisis spurred
market volatility and investors shunned new stock sales.  Siemens
AG (SIE) ’s lighting unit Osram AG and  Spain ’s national lottery
operator Sociedad Estatal Loterias & Apuestas SA del Estado SA
were among the companies that postponed IPO plans in the second
half of 2011.  DKSH has assisted companies including Levi Strauss & Co.
and French drugmaker Sanofi in expanding in Asia by selling
marketing, distribution and after-sales services. As many as
18.8 million shares are being offered at between 42 francs and
48 francs each.  Profit from continuing operations rose 26 percent to 152
million francs last year as revenue gained 0.6 percent to 7.3
billion francs. DKSH runs 180 distribution centers and operates
a fleet of 2,375 trucks. The company bought Swiss watchmaker
Maurice Lacroix last year to tap Asian luxury demand.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are joint global coordinators
of the IPO, and Berenberg Bank Schweiz AG and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  are joint bookrunners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  