-- Dollar Reaches 10-Month High as Jobs Gains Dim Outlook for More Fed Easing
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-09T22:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/dollar-gains-on-u-s-employment-gain-damping-further-fed-stimulus-outlook.html
The dollar rose to a 10-month high
versus the yen as a report showed U.S. job growth during the
past six months was the strongest since 2006, dimming prospects
for further Federal Reserve monetary stimulus.  The 17-nation euro remained lower as  Greece ’s use of
collective action clauses forcing investors to take losses under
the nation’s debt restructuring will trigger payouts on $3
billion of default insurance.  Canada ’s dollar and Mexico’s peso
erased losses against the greenback amid a brighter outlook for
 consumer spending  in their biggest trading partner. Norway’s
krone tumbled as the government and central bank stepped up
verbal intervention to contain the currency’s strength.  “The Fed is probably looking at the labor data today and
seeing how strong it is and thinking that even if they do
support the economy with more stimulus, it might not be in the
same fashion as it has done before,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc. “Better U.S. data is helping the dollar against the
euro, sterling and yen.”  The dollar added 1.1 percent to 82.46 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York, it earlier touched 82.65, the strongest since April. The
greenback rose 1.1 percent against the euro to $1.3123.  Cumulative outflows from the euro in the past five days are
one and a half times as strong compared with the average during
the past year, according to Bank of New York Mellon iFlow data.
Inflows into  U.S. debt  today are twice as strong as average.  Treasuries Slide  Treasuries fell for a third day, adding to the premium
investors get investing in U.S. debt versus relative Japanese
securities. The two-year  yield spread  was 20 basis points, or
0.2 percentage point.  The yen has declined 6.9 percent in the past three months,
the worst performer among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
fell 0.5 percent, and euro slid 2.7 percent.  Higher-yielding currencies rose against the euro and yen as
implied volatility of three-month options for nine currency
pairs within Group-of-10 nations was 10.2 percent, according to
the Deutsche Bank CVIX Index. That compares with an average of
12.4 percent during the past six months.  “It looks like euro and yen are now the favorite funding
currencies and are consequently under the hammer,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in  New York . “Euro-yen is flat for now as there is
no clarity in the choice between yen and euro at this point.”  Borrowing yen at almost zero percent to invest in
 Australia ’s dollar, Mexico’s peso,  Brazil ’s real and  South
Korea ’s won returned 0.6 percent today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The trade using euros would also result
in a 0.6 percent gain compared with a 0.5 percent loss using
dollars.  U.S. Trading Partners  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, advanced 1 percent to 79.959.  Canada’s dollar erased a decline versus its U.S.
counterpart as the better than expected payrolls in its largest
trading partner outweighed a weaker than expected domestic
report.  The Canadian currency was little changed at 99.05 cents per
 U.S. dollar . It touched C$1.0029 on March 6, the weakest level
since Feb. 27.  Mexico ’s peso rose 0.3 percent to 12.6425 per dollar.  The krone weakened the most among the 16 major currencies
against the dollar after Trade Minister Trond Giske said its
strength was hurting exports. Verbal intervention has increased
in an attempt to contain the krone’s ascent after the currency
climbed to a nine-year high of 7.3884 per euro this month.  The krone tumbled 2 percent to 5.7007 per dollar, and sank
0.8 percent to 7.4805 versus the euro.  Economic Data  U.S. nonfarm payrolls increased by 227,000 in February
after rising by a revised 284,000 the prior month, data from the
Labor Department showed today. The unemployment rate held at a
three-year low of 8.3 percent.  “The economy is back on the road to recovery, and what we
need most desperately in this economy, which is new jobs, that
seems to be well on its way,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior
currency strategist in New York at Bank of New York Mellon Corp.
“This is further confirmation that the North American economy
continues to grow at a faster-than-expected pace and pushing
unemployment rates lower.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s comments in congressional
testimony last week damped speculation the central bank will
introduce another round of asset purchases.  “We have seen some positive developments in the labor
market,” Bernanke said in prepared testimony to the House
Financial Services Committee in  Washington . He said keeping
monetary stimulus is warranted even as the unemployment rate
falls.  Fed Moves  The Fed has bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing from December 2008 until June
2011. Central bank officials at their January meeting were
keeping open the option of a third round of bond purchases in
case the economy weakens or inflation falls too low.  The central bank has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
between zero and 0.25 percent since 2008.  Greece said that 95.7 percent of bondholders would
participate in its debt swap after it used an option to force
investors to participate. The government said holders tendered
152 billion euros ($199 billion) of Greek-law bonds, or 85.8
percent, in response to the offer to swap their holdings.  A total 4,323 credit-default swap contracts can now be
settled after the International Swaps & Derivatives
Association’s determinations committee ruled the use of CACs is
a restructuring credit event. Before the ruling, Greek swaps
rose to a record $7.68 million in advance and $100,000 annually
to insure $10 million of debt for five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  