-- Draghi Oil Dilemma Risks Worsening Recession: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-03-09T11:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/draghi-oil-dilemma-risks-worsening-recession-euro-credit.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  is trapped between accelerating inflation and
slowing growth, making it hard for him to defend countries such
as Italy and Spain from the ravages of recession.  The central bank yesterday revised its inflation forecast
for the euro area to an average rate of 2.4 percent this year,
up from a December prediction for prices to rise by 2 percent.
The new projections show the economy may contract 0.1 percent,
down from a previous forecast for 0.3 percent growth.  With at least six of the 17 euro nations in recession, the
latest forecasts may mean Draghi, who cut  interest rates  at his
first two monthly meetings as head of the central bank, won’t be
able to reduce borrowing costs further as efforts to resuscitate
growth by lending unlimited funds to banks lose steam.  “There is not much Draghi can do about the situation
really, and the best he can do is doing nothing and see how the
liquidity measures play out,” said  Frances Hudson , a strategist
at Standard Life Investments in London, which has $242 billion
in assets. “Combined that with the global economic backdrop
where growth remains fragile, the danger is that the debt crisis
could drag on longer than previously envisaged.”  Bond investors are starting to demand higher compensation
to protect against a rise in consumer prices. The yield
difference between two-year German bonds and index-linked
securities of the same maturity advanced to 1.11 percentage
points today, the most since Jan. 26.  Yield Shifts  The extra yield investors demand to  hold Spanish 10-year
debt  rather than German bunds has dropped to 315 basis points,
from the euro-era record of 503 basis points on Nov. 18. The
yield premium  Italy  pays to  Germany  is down to a six-month low
of 2.87 percentage points, with  Italy’s 10-year borrowing cost 
down to the lowest in nine months, declining to 4.68 percent.  After flooding financial companies with more than 1
trillion euros ($1.33 trillion), the ECB is now confronted with
 oil prices  that have climbed by about 27 percent in the past six
months when measured in the common currency. Oil for April
delivery rose to $106.93 a barrel in  New York , marking a 7.9
percent increase this year in dollars.  Contracting Economies  “Owing to rises in energy prices and indirect taxes,
inflation rates are now likely to stay above 2 percent in 2012,
with upside risks prevailing,” Draghi said yesterday.
“Available survey indicators confirm signs of stabilization in
the euro area economy. However, the economic outlook is still
subject to downside risks.”  The euro region will shrink 0.3 percent this year, down
from a November estimate for growth of 0.5 percent, according to
European Commission forecasts.  Spain ’s economy contracted 0.3
percent in the fourth quarter of last year, while Italy shrank
0.7 percent, the European Union said on March 6. The region’s
inflation rate was at 2.7 percent in January, while the ECB aims
to keep it just below 2 percent.  “Growth is the big question mark going forward,” said
 Charles Diebel , head of strategy at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in
London. “Structural reforms take time to work and there’s no
magic growth bullet lying around that they can fire.”  The so-called five-year, five-year forward breakeven rate,
one of the key indicators the ECB monitors, has risen. The rate,
which measures inflation expectations for the five-year period
beginning in 2017, rose to 2.63 percent last month, the most
since March 2010. That’s higher than in April and July of last
year, when the ECB raised  interest rates . It was at 2.40 percent
today, up from 2.29 percent at the start of the week.  ‘Rates on Hold’  “We expect the ECB to keep interest rates on hold for the
foreseeable future,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research
at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. The ECB is signaling that “it has
done enough,” he said. The central bank’s key interest rate is
1 percent.  The liquidity measures that the ECB provided have helped to
bring down Italian and Spanish bond yields from the euro-era
records seen in November as banks used the loans which cost 1
percent to borrow to buy higher-yielding assets.  Those cash injections won’t get the euro region out of
debt, said Tom Fahey, a senior global strategist at Boston-based
Loomis Sayles & Co., which has $165 billion in assets.  “To achieve debt sustainability, you need growth but that’s
going to be challenging in this environment,” Fahey said in
 London . “Liquidity is necessary, but not sufficient, to solve
the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  