-- Dynegy Transfer of Coal Assets Was Fraudulent, Examiner Says
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-03-09T21:23:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/dynegy-transfer-of-coal-assets-was-fraudulent-examiner-says-in-report.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  closed at a record low
after a court-ordered investigation found that its purchase of
coal-fired  power plants  from a unit that later filed for
bankruptcy was fraudulent and harmed creditors.  Dynegy plunged 36 percent to 76 cents in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading, bringing the past year’s decline to
86 percent. The Houston-based company put subsidiary Dynegy
Holdings LLC and four of its units into bankruptcy in November
after moving ownership of the plants to the parent.  “Throughout the planning and execution of the prepetition
restructuring, the Dynegy Inc. board favored paths that
benefited Dynegy Inc. and its stockholders to the detriment of
Dynegy Holdings and its creditors,” examiner Susheel Kirpalani
said in report filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Poughkeepsie, New York.  Dynegy Holdings’ $1 billion of 8.375 percent debt due 2016
rose 4.25 cents to 69 cents on the dollar at 2:20 p.m. New York
time, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Kirpalani, a lawyer at  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan
LLP (496224L) , was appointed in January to investigate the pre-bankruptcy
reorganization. Dynegy put the units into Chapter 11 court
protection with a restructuring agreement backed by a group of
bondholders including Franklin Advisers Inc. and Avenue Capital
Group, according to court documents.  The bankruptcy filing came after bondholders sued the
company over the reorganization, saying it moved assets out of
their reach to benefit shareholders of the Dynegy parent,
including billionaire  Carl Icahn .  ‘Fraudulent Transfer’  “The examiner concludes that the conveyance of CoalCo to
Dynegy Inc. was an actual fraudulent transfer,” Kirpalani said
in the report. He was selected by the U.S. Trustee, an arm of
the  Justice Department  that oversees bankruptcies.  Dynegy has proposed swapping debt for preferred shares that
would convert to common stock at the end of 2015, effectively
giving the shareholder-elected board four years to turn around
the money-losing power producer, Chief Executive Officer Robert Flexon said in an interview at the company’s Houston office
yesterday, before the examiner filed his report.  “This is a significant setback for Dynegy shareholders,”
Joseph DeSapri, a credit analyst for Morningstar Investment
Services, said of the report in a telephone interview. “It
represents a potential pick-up in value for bondholders.”  Morningstar rated Dynegy shares three stars out of a
possible four as of yesterday. DeSapri doesn’t own the stock.  Assets Unavailable  As a result of the coal transaction, half of the revenue-
generating assets of Dynegy Holdings were no longer available to
satisfy creditor claims, U.S. Bank NA, which represents
noteholders under sale-leaseback transactions at two Dynegy
facilities, said in court papers.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Cecelia Morris in December agreed to
to U.S. Bank’s request for an examiner and ordered an
“unfettered investigation” into the restructuring. U.S. Bank’s
request was supported by Appaloosa Management LP and the
committee representing unsecured creditors.  Dynegy had opposed naming an examiner, saying it was an
attempt to gain negotiating leverage over the company.  The boards of both Dynegy and Dynegy Holdings “take the
examiner’s findings seriously and intend to review the full
report, once it is made available, to determine its impact,”
the company said today in a statement.  Katy Sullivan, a Dynegy spokeswoman, declined to comment
further in a telephone interview today, saying the company’s
lawyers haven’t yet been able to read the entire report.  Coal Unit  Dynegy is the fourth-largest U.S. independent power
producer by revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Its coal unit owns and operates six plants in  Illinois  with a
combined capacity of 3,132 megawatts, according to the company
 website . That’s enough to power 2.5 million average U.S. homes,
based on Energy Department data.  Independent power producers don’t own  power lines  and get
no revenue from state or federally regulated rates.  NRG Energy
Inc. (NRG) , based in Princeton,  New Jersey , is the largest U.S.
independent power producer by sales, followed by  Calpine Corp. (CPN) 
and  GenOn Energy Inc. (GEN)  Both are based in Houston.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  