-- Tea Party Cold to U.S. Presidential Race Sets Sights on Congress
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/tea-party-cold-to-u-s-presidential-race-sets-sights-on-congress-members.html
Republican U.S. Representative
Roscoe Bartlett boasts that he voted against all of President
Barack Obama’s economic stimulus plans and was an early member
of the House  Tea Party  Caucus. That’s not good enough for other
anti-spending Republicans back home.  The  Maryland (BEESMD)  congressman faces at least seven primary
election challengers, some claiming Tea Party support, after he
voted last August to raise the U.S.  debt ceiling .  Bartlett said he’s a “little concerned” that the Tea
Party may have become “too much purists.” The debt increase
was embedded in a bigger bill, he said in an interview. “I
voted for it for the first time ever.”  With no clear Tea Party favorite in the Republican
presidential race, the limited-government movement is pushing
candidates for other elected offices. While many of the races
are in safe Republican areas, others may drain party resources
in districts, like Bartlett’s, where Democrats have a chance to
win, said  Michael McDonald , assistant professor of government
and politics at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia.  “The Republicans had a very decent chance to control the
 U.S. Senate  in 2010 but for the Tea Party,” said McDonald, who
studies voter turnout. Tea Party candidates Christine O’Donnell
in  Delaware  and Sharron Angle in  Nevada  won primaries, then lost
the general election to Democrats Christopher Coons and  Harry Reid .  House Control  It’s eight months until the November elections and much
will depend on the economy. The nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report projects Democrats will gain five to 12 seats, short of
the 25 needed to take the House from Republicans. Democrats
control the Senate 53-47.  Newcomers, if they gain momentum, may put as many as six
House Republican seats in play, almost one-fourth the number
Democrats need to take control. The challengers are targeting
members who voted to raise the debt limit and for federal
spending bills that did little to trim the deficit.  “Tea Party claims first scalp,” said the Redstate.com
website after Tea Party favorite Brad Wenstrup defeated three-
term Republican Representative Jean Schmidt in Ohio’s March 6
primary. She had voted for the  debt-ceiling  increase.  The number of intra-party challengers is “more than you’d
expect,” said Christina Botteri, a founding member of the
National Tea Party Federation, a coalition of local and regional
groups.  Club for Growth  In  California (BEESCA) ’s 50th district, Representative Brian Bilbray
is being labeled a “Republican in Name Only” by primary
challenger John Stahl, a former semiconductor executive.  In  Pennsylvania , the Club for Growth, which supports
limited government, is helping finance an effort by former
Senate aide Evan Feinberg to defeat Representative Tim Murphy in
Pittsburgh’s suburbs. Ohio Representative  Robert Gibbs  is under
fire from businessman and pastor Hombre Liggett for voting to
raise the nation’s borrowing limit and backing Republican House
Speaker  John Boehner  on other issues.  “The worst offenders, you’ll see us challenge as a shot
across the bow to other guys that ‘if you vote this way you
could get challenged,’” said Brendan Steinhauser, director of
campaigns for FreedomWorks, the Tea Party-aligned group led by
former House Majority Leader  Dick Armey  of  Texas . “It’s a
healthy thing to keep them accountable.”  ‘Hail Mary’  Still, of all the announced primary challengers to
Republicans, only two had more than $100,000 in cash on hand by
Dec. 31, according to the  National Republican Congressional
Committee . Stahl had $302,035 for his campaign against Bilbray,
who had $561,692, the committee reported. Weston Wamp had
$285,142 for his challenge to Tennessee Representative Chuck Fleischmann, with $617,323.  The rush of candidates magnifies competing philosophies.  “You have a lot of people always going for the  Hail Mary ,
I want to cut the deficit now. Others of us see that we’re
moving the football down the field,” said Scott Hagerstrom, a
Tea Party activist in  Michigan , where at least two Republican
lawmakers,  Fred Upton  and Tim Walberg, face primary challenges.  The Walberg, Gibbs and Bilbray races are listed as
competitive by the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, which
considers Schmidt and Fleischmann’s districts to be solid
Republican.  Upton’s district in western Michigan supported Obama by a
10-point margin in 2008. A Feinberg victory in Murphy’s
Pennsylvania district may help hand it to Democrats, said
McDonald of  George Mason University .  Movement’s 2009 Start  The anti-spending Tea Party movement began in 2009, drawing
on the spirit of the Boston Tea Party, a protest by colonists
against a British tax on tea in 1773. It has evolved from public
protests into a campaign to penetrate state and local
government, according to its leaders.  “Many of these folks have come to a conclusion that
standing on a street corner is a waste of their time,” said
Botteri. “They’re getting deeply involved in making deep
changes in the local and state level.”  In Michigan, Hagerstrom estimated the number of Tea Party
activists has grown to 68,000 from 50,000 a year ago.  “You have people who are upset with Boehner and people who
are in lockstep with Boehner,” said Hagerstrom, state director
of Americans for Prosperity in East Lansing.  Several members of the House Tea Party Caucus voted with
Boehner of  Ohio  on Aug. 1 to raise the federal debt ceiling by
$2.1 trillion, including Bartlett, 85, in  Maryland , Schmidt in
Ohio and freshmen members Stephen Fincher of Tennessee and Bill Cassidy of  Louisiana .  ‘The Final Straw’  Bartlett’s debt-ceiling vote “was kind of the final straw
and suggested that the congressman, even if he were to run for
re-election, was out of touch with the wishes of voters,” said
Don Murphy, spokesman for Maryland state Senator David Brinkley,
who is challenging Bartlett in the April 3 primary.  First elected in 1992, Bartlett has won by solid margins,
including by 61 percent in 2010. Maryland’s new redistricting
map pushed the boundaries into more Democratic territory in
Montgomery County, a Washington suburb, which will give
Democrats a better chance of beating him.  The House Republican campaign arm has added Bartlett and
Gibbs to their main incumbent-protection program, called the
“Patriot Program,” signaling their vulnerability in a general
election.  “The debt-limit vote is the best example of taking a hard
look at what would happen if they didn’t raise the debt
ceiling” -- a government default, said Jessica Taylor, a senior
analyst at the Rothenberg Political Report. “Several members
came up here and had to adjust to the realities.”  The Tea Party is at a critical juncture, said McDonald.
“The Tea Party is successful right now because they’re
affiliated with the  Republican Party .”  “If they continue to go down this path of ideological
purity, it makes them a minor political party,” much like the
Libertarian or Green parties, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  