-- El Pais Publisher Leans on Slim to Take Aim at Latin America
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-09T17:02:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/el-pais-publisher-leans-on-billionaire-slim-to-take-aim-at-latin-america.html
After losing almost 80 percent of
its value in two years, one share of  Promotora de Informaciones
SA  costs less than a copy of El Pais, the best-selling Spanish
newspaper published by the Polanco family-controlled company.  The stock was trading at about 75 euro cents ($1) when
 Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man, bought a 3.2 percent stake
in November. After the investment boosted confidence among the
Madrid-based company’s lenders over a 2.9 billion-euro
refinancing agreement, Prisa is now set to use Slim’s cachet in
Latin America to expand in the region.  “El Pais has such strength in Latin America that is
difficult to measure because it’s an absolute reference and
needs to be valued,” Chairman Ignacio de Polanco, 57, whose
late father Jesus de Polanco built Prisa around El Pais, the
daily that spearheaded Spain’s democratic transition after the
death of Francisco Franco in 1975, said in Madrid this week.
“We’ll do it little by little.”  As newspapers grapple with the loss of readers and
advertisers, patrons like Slim, who also owns a stake in  New
York Times (NYT)  Co., may buy them time to innovate. The same month
Prisa announced Slim’s investment, billionaire Warren Buffett,
who in 2009 said that newspapers have the “potential for
unending losses,” agreed to pay about $150 million to acquire
his hometown newspaper’s publisher, the Omaha World-Herald Co.  Prisa  rose  3.7 percent to 71 euro cents in Madrid, valuing
the company at 704.3 million euros. The  Madrid Stock Exchange
General Index (MADX)  fell 0.4 percent.  ‘Room to Maneuver’  “What newspapers need is room to maneuver,” said  Jack Griffin , a former chief executive officer of Time Inc. magazine,
now a senior adviser at AlixPartners LLP in  New York . “If
you’re a wealthy person without stockholders or answering to a
board, you can buy a paper for cash. You’re not worried about
interest coverage or debt covenants, and you can focus on the
business rather than the financial structure.”  El Pais, whose weekday editions sell for 1.20 euros in
 Spain , has seen its circulation dip 1 percent to 365,000 copies
last year, according to statistics compiled by the Madrid-based
OJD circulation office. That compared with 11 percent decreases
at El Mundo and ABC, the two closest rivals, each costing 1.30
euros. El Pais’s figures were helped by sales outside Spain,
where circulation jumped 28 percent to 55,000, according to OJD.  Next quarter, El Pais will go on sale in  Peru , said
communications director Pedro Zuazua. The daily, whose masthead
reads “The global newspaper in Spanish,” is also distributed
through partnerships with local dailies in countries including
Chile,  Mexico , Argentina and the Dominican Republic.  London Olympics  A smaller audience for newspapers globally has meant
shrinking ad revenue. In 2012, a year full of advertising
windfalls including the summer Olympics in  London , European
soccer championships and U.S. presidential elections, newspaper
ad sales will shrink 1 percent, according to New York-based
researcher MagnaGlobal, a unit of  Interpublic Group of Cos .  In Spain, the toll will be greater. Newspaper ad revenue
will probably slump 12 percent to 851 million euros, after
falling by a similar magnitude in 2011 to pre-1993 levels,
without taking inflation into account, said Eduardo
Madinaveitia, a director for media research at Zenith Media in
Madrid.  “Prisa has great growth potential in  Latin America  thanks
to El Pais, but to tap that growth it needs more of an American
strategy,” said Luis Jimenez, a partner at Deloitte LLP in
Madrid. “People in Latin America don’t really want a local
paper from El Pais, but they want to know what Spain thinks of a
particular country in the region, something like the  BBC .”  Shares Slump  Slim hasn’t made money from his investment yet. Since
announcing the linkup with the billionaire, Prisa had fallen 8.7
percent through yesterday. Last week, the company reported a 451
million-euro net loss because of provisions for investments in
 Portugal  and tax risks.  Besides El Pais, Prisa also publishes business newspaper
Cinco Dias, magazines, and owns television and radio stations as
well as the Santillana education division.  A spokeswoman for Inmobiliaria Carso SA, Slim’s investment
arm in Mexico City, said his investments in El Pais’s publisher
and The New York Times are exclusively financial investments.  Slim’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB is Latin America’s biggest pay-TV
provider, with more than 13 million cable and satellite
subscribers, mostly in  Brazil . The company has also started
video services over the Internet in Argentina and Uruguay.  Profitable Media  Other billionaires have taken on a more hands-on approach.  When  Alexander Lebedev , a Russian ex-KGB officer who made a
fortune with holdings from banks, airplanes to property,
acquired the London Evening Standard in 2009, he said he’d use
the British tabloid to help fight corruption. Lebedev added the
Independent newspaper a year later. He paid 1 pound ($1.60) each
for the titles.  He made the Evening Standard free in October 2009 and
introduced digital editions of the papers to increase
circulation. The Evening Standard’s circulation almost tripled
in the three years through January 2012, according to the U.K.
Audit Bureau of Circulation. While the Independent’s print
circulation has declined since Lebedev purchased it, online
readers are up 40 percent.  “I buy to make sure we have independent media and freedom
of speech, this goes for Novaya Gazeta, ‘I’ and Independent,”
Lebedev said in an interview in January. “I am trying to
compensate for the emerging impossibility to sustain profitable
media in the market because the market is going against the
media.”  Murdoch Titles  The U.K. phone-hacking scandal around Rupert Murdoch’s
newspaper empire may provide opportunities for buyers interested
in British newspapers.  Murdoch, chairman and CEO of  News Corp. (NWSA) , shut the News of
the World Sunday tabloid in July after his reporters were found
having hacked into voice-mails for stories. Last month, he
started a Sunday edition of the Sun newspaper.  News Corp.’s Times and Sun titles in the U.K. will probably
be sold within two years as Murdoch extracts himself from
Britain, and wealthy individuals would be among potential
suitors, Panmure Gordon analyst  Alex DeGroote  predicted.  Newspaper ownership comes with prestige in the U.K. and
executives are frequently rewarded with honors. Marjorie Scardino, the CEO of  Pearson Plc (PSON) , which publishes the Financial
Times, was made a dame in 2002. Ian Gibson, chairman of  Trinity
Mirror Plc (TNI) , was knighted in 1999.  “If you’ve got a big ego and a big checkbook, then British
newspapers allow you to play at being influential,” said
 Charlie Beckett , director of media at the London School of
Economics. “They’re more influential in many ways because
they’re in English and they have a tradition of being
opinionated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  