-- Telkom South Africa Says KT Corp. Transaction Talks Progress
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-03-09T10:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/telkom-south-africa-says-kt-corp-transaction-talks-progress-1-.html
Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG) ,  Africa ’s
largest fixed-line telephone company, said discussions with
 South Korea ’s  KT Corp. (030200)  are advancing as the companies seek to
conclude a transaction “as soon as possible.”  KT Corp., based in Seongnam, has been in talks to buy a 20
percent stake in Telkom for 36.06 rand per share, valuing the
deal at 3.8 billion rand ($505 million).  A review of potential business cooperation and benefits
with South Korea’s largest phone and Internet company has “been
substantially completed,” Pretoria-based Telkom said in a
statement today. “Discussions continue to be positive and
collaborative.”  The talks are “going well,” KT Corp. Chairman Lee Suk
Chae said on March 7. KT Corp. may cut the price of the offer or
abandon the transaction as Telkom’s stock has dropped since the
announcement of the talks, Absa Asset Management and MMI Asset
Management said on Feb. 29.  Telkom’s shares have declined about 20 percent since the
offer was announced on Oct. 14. The stock traded at 25.85 rand
as of 12:13 p.m. today in Johannesburg.  Telkom faces an antitrust fine of as much as 3.25 billion
rand for abuse of market dominance and anti-competitive practice
by charging excessive prices for services to other industry
participants before the Pretoria-based Competition Tribunal. The
company has denied the charges, and judgment is still pending.  The South African government holds 39.8 percent of Telkom
while a South African state pension fund manager, the Public
Investment Corp., owns 10.9 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   Kwong11@bloomberg.net  