-- Emerging Stocks Climb as Greek Swap Victory Buoys Market
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-03-09T23:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/emerging-stocks-rise-on-greece-debt-swap-china-inflation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, paring
the first weekly loss in four, as Greece’s private creditors
agreed to a debt swap and employers in the U.S. added more jobs
than expected, bolstering the outlook for global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.7 percent to
close at 1,060.01 in  New York , trimming this week’s drop to 1.8
percent. Technology companies led gains, with Samsung
Electronics Co. reaching a record high in  Seoul . Hungarian
stocks gained 1.2 percent as  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , the nation’s
largest lender, climbed 3.4 percent. Benchmarks in  Brazil  and
 Mexico  declined after an industry group ruled that Greece’s debt
restructuring will trigger payouts of default insurance.  U.S. employers boosted payrolls by 227,000, exceeding the
median projection for an increase of 210,000 in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. Greece’s debt swap, the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history, allowed the nation to activate
collective action clauses forcing investors to take losses. The
International Swaps & Derivatives Association said the deal will
be considered a “ credit event ” and credit-default swaps on the
debt may now be settled.  “One more chapter in the Greek debt saga is nearing its
end,” said Andreas Koutras, a partner at In Touch Capital
Markets in  London . “This does not solve the number of problems
in  Greece . It gives, however, political impetus to the
process.”  The MSCI Emerging Market Index has risen 16 percent this
year,  beating  the 9.2 percent gain on the MSCI World Index. The
developing-nation gauge trades at 10.7 times estimated earnings,
compared with a multiple of 12.9 for the developed-market index.  Bull Market  Today is the three-year anniversary of the  bull market  in
U.S. stocks that followed the global financial crisis. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 103 percent from its 12-
year low reached on March 9, 2009, while the  MSCI All-Country
World Index (MXWD)  jumped 91 percent.  Emerging-market stock funds took in $907 million in the
week ended March 7, the 10th week of inflows and the longest run
of gains since 2010, according to EPFR Global. Net investment
into developing-nation equity funds has totaled $22.6 billion in
2012, compared with outflows of $19.6 billion for the same
period of 2011, according to a report e-mailed today from the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based data provider.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the most-traded ETF that tracks developing-nation shares,
was little changed at $43.79, down 1.9 percent in the week.  Brazil’s Bovespa fell 0.3 percent, after earlier advancing
as much as 0.8 percent, extending its weekly loss to 1.6
percent. Iron ore miners  MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA (MMXM3)  and  Vale
SA (VALE5)  led losses for the week.  Hang Seng  The  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  slid 0.3 percent in Mexico, led by exchange
operator  Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SA , which slumped 2.5
percent.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  gained for a second day to pare this
week’s loss to 2.6 percent.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  advanced 0.8 percent
after  China ’s National Bureau of Statistics said consumer prices
rose 3.2 percent in February from a year earlier, less than a
median estimate of 3.4 percent in a Bloomberg survey of 35
economists and trailing January’s 4.5 percent advance.  “If growth in China shows further weakness, there could be
further loosening of monetary policy,” said Michiya Tomita, a
Hong Kong-based fund manager at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management
Co., which oversees $65 billion. “That should support
equities.”  Bond Yields  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  advanced 1
percent in  Hong Kong , while  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the
nation’s third-biggest lender by market value, rose 1.1 percent
today.  Samsung Electronics (005930) , the biggest electronics exporter in
 Asia , rose 4.2 percent to a record in Seoul on speculation its
profit estimates will be raised.  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  rose 3.6
percent in Taipei after reporting an increase in February sales.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries declined four basis points, or 0.04
percentage points, to 341 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  