-- Merck’s Victrelis Drug Wins Backing of U.K. Health-Cost Agency
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-03-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/merck-s-victrelis-drug-wins-backing-of-u-k-health-cost-agency.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Victrelis won the
backing of the U.K.’s health-cost regulator in draft
recommendations for the treatment of hepatitis C, less than a
year after the product went on sale in  Europe .  The medicine, also known as boceprevir, is a cost-effective
option for the most common form of the infection when it’s used
with older drugs peginterferon alfa and ribavirin, the  National
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence  said today in an e-
mailed statement. The agency advises the state-run  National
Health Service  on which products represent value for money.  Victrelis is a pill that has fewer side effects than
existing injections for hepatitis C, a bloodborne virus that
causes illness in 85 percent of infected people. Combining
Victrelis with peginterferon alfa and ribavirin results in
higher cure rates than using just the older pair of treatments,
the agency said.  “In the past, patients have declined treatment because the
perceived chance of a sustained virological response with
peginterferon alfa plus ribavirin was too low for them to accept
the associated side effects,” Meindert Boysen, the agency’s
technology appraisal program director, said in the statement.
“We are therefore very pleased to be able to recommend
boceprevir.”  Merck, based in  Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey , won
approval to market Victrelis in Europe in July and in the U.S.
in May. The medicine belongs to a class of drugs known as
protease inhibitors that work by blocking an enzyme used by the
virus to reproduce.  Drug Costs  Victrelis costs about 30,800 pounds ($48,650) for 44 weeks
of treatment, plus 11,000 pounds for peginterferon alfa and
ribavirin, said the agency known as NICE. The product may bring
in sales of $527 million for Merck by 2016, according to the
average of four  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  About 146,000 people in England and  Wales  were chronically
infected with hepatitis C in 2009, according to NICE. The draft
recommendation applies to patients with genotype 1, which is
found in as many as half of hepatitis C patients and is the most
resistant to treatment, NICE said.  A final recommendation will be made to the NHS after a
public comment period on the draft guidance, NICE said. The
agency is also evaluating  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s Incivo for the
same use as Victrelis. Incivo won European approval in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  