-- Erdogan Illness May Be ‘Clear Danger’ for Politics, RBS Says
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-03-09T15:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/erdogan-illness-may-be-clear-danger-for-politics-rbs-says-2-.html
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s illness may present a “clear danger” to the unity of
Turkey’s ruling party, after his uninterrupted decade in power
bolstered political stability and the economy, Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  Erdogan’s “remarkable” personality hinders “the
development of obvious successors,” sparking debate on who may
succeed him from the governing  Justice and Development Party 
should he step down, Tim Ash, the London-based chief of  emerging
markets  at RBS, said in an e-mailed report to clients today
after holding meetings with officials and analysts in Ankara.  Erdogan’s party showed signs of discord for the first time
since 2003 after he underwent initial surgery on his digestive
tract in November, over legislation that was vetoed by President
 Abdullah Gul , his predecessor as prime minister and a co-founder
of the governing party. The premier, 58, who underwent a second
operation last month and is serving a third term, lashed out at
people commenting on his health two days ago after Wikileaks
published  documents  saying he might die of cancer within two
years.  Erdogan Dominance  “The risk is that post-Erdogan the AK Party would face
centrifugal forces, with the clear danger that the party could
split,” Ash said in the report. “Arguably the leadership and
vision provided by Erdogan, and the dominance of the AK Party
which has resulted, has been central to Turkey’s relative
political stability and economic success over the past decade.”  Markets have shrugged off reports on Erdogan’s health. The
benchmark  ISE-100 stock index  rose 1,212.36 points, or 2.4
percent, to 52,283.58 on Nov. 28, when the premier’s office said
Erdogan underwent surgery two days before and was in good
health. The index has gained 13 percent since to 59,280.43
today. The lira rose 4.1 percent against the dollar.  Erdogan, who became  Turkey ’s leader in 2003, and his
single-party government have presided over a record period of
 economic growth  in the $735 billion economy. He began membership
talks with the European Union and has also elevated Turkey to a
regional power in the  Middle East  and southeastern  Europe  by
expanding trade and diplomatic ties.  ‘Rumor Mongers’  “Those who believe rumors and try to calculate our
lifespan are not only bold but also insolent,” Erdogan told
provincial chiefs of his party in a speech in the capital Ankara
on March 7. “Only Allah can decide on how long we live.”  Surgeons removed polyps that tests revealed to be benign
from Erdogan’s intestines in a Nov. 26 surgery and made a
“second and final” operation last month, according to his
office. Erdogan denied rumors he had cancer, Kanal D television
presenter Mehmet Ali Birand said in January citing an interview
with the premier.  “Erdogan’s recent incapacity with illness was somewhat
revealing as tensions and rivalries appeared to surface in the
ruling party during this period,” RBS’s Ash said. The premier
keeps rival factions within AK Party in check, he said, adding
that “without him, the divisions would break out into the
open.”  Erdogan, who has said he favors a presidential system in
Turkey to replace the parliamentary system of government, hasn’t
ruled out running for head of state in 2014, leaving the prime
ministry a year before parliamentary elections. President Gul,
who was elected by the national assembly and can’t run for a
second term, is among the contenders to become premier,
according to the RBS report.  “There does not appear to be an obvious successor to
Erdogan,” Ash said in his report, while listing deputy prime
ministers Bulent Arinc, Ali Babacan and other ministers as
possible successors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  