-- Estonian Economic Growth Second-Fastest in European Union
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-03-09T06:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/estonian-economic-growth-second-fastest-in-european-union-1-.html
Estonian economic growth was the
second fastest in the European Union in the fourth quarter, and
quicker than previously estimated, led by construction and
communications output.  Gross domestic product expanded 4.5 percent from a year
earlier, lagging only Baltic neighbor  Latvia  at 5 percent,
compared with a preliminary estimate of 4 percent and growth of
8.5 percent in the third quarter, the statistics office in the
capital, Tallinn, said today on its website. Output shrank a
seasonally adjusted 0.2 percent from the previous quarter,
compared with an initial estimate of a 0.8 percent contraction.  “GDP growth was boosted the most by the fast growth of the
value added of construction and information and communication,”
the statistics office said. “The growth in construction was
supported mainly by the repair and reconstruction work of
buildings. The construction volume of civil engineering works
also increased rapidly.”  The $19 billion economy may grow 1.2 percent this year,
according to the European Commission, slowing from the European
Union’s fastest growth of 7.6 percent last year, when improved
competitiveness and confidence following euro adoption boosted
demand for electronics and machinery from neighboring Sweden and
 Finland . The central bank has said a recession can’t be ruled
out if Europe’s debt crisis worsens.  Shipments of goods such as wireless network gear for
Stockholm-based  Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and wind generators for Zurich-based
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  rose 10 percent from a year earlier in the fourth
quarter after a 32 percent increase in the third. Household
spending rose 5 percent and investment increased 34 percent,
both little changed from the previous quarter.  Estonia has no outstanding bonds, so investors speculate on
its creditworthiness by trading credit-default swaps. Five-year
Estonian CDS traded at 120 points yesterday, after declining to
a six-month low on March 5, according to data provider CMA.
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services on Jan. 13 affirmed Estonia’s
AA- rating, the fourth-highest investment grade and the highest
rating in eastern  Europe  on a par with the  Czech Republic .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  