-- EU Approves $47 Billion for Greece While Backing Bond Swap With Creditors
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-03-09T13:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/eu-approves-47-billion-for-greece-while-backing-bond-swap-with-creditors.html
Euro-area finance ministers freed
35.5 billion euros ($47 billion) of aid for Greece and backed
the country’s debt swap with private creditors, including the
use of collective action clauses.  The decision, made by ministers on a conference call today,
allows the bond swap to close this month as planned with as much
as 30 billion euros in public sweeteners, Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the group of euro-region
finance chiefs, said in an e-mailed statement. They also
released 5.5 billion euros for Greek interest payments and said
Greece was on track to win the rest of its bailout funds.  “The necessary conditions are in place to launch the
relevant national procedures required for the final approval of
the euro area’s contribution to the financing of a second Greek
rescue package,” Juncker said. He welcomed a report from
European and International Monetary Fund officials on Greece’s
efforts and said the ministers expect a “significant
contribution” from the IMF in the new package.  Euro leaders have hailed the debt exchange as a central
element in their efforts to contain the sovereign debt crisis
and get Greece’s economy back on track. IMF Managing Director
 Christine Lagarde  said yesterday that the crisis, had it
remained unchecked, could have done more damage to the global
economy than the financial market collapse of 2008.  ‘Harder Default’  The debt swap and second rescue package may not cure
Greece’s long-term debt woes, said  Charles Wyplosz , director of
the Geneva-based International Center for Money and Banking
Studies. The debt swap aims to reduce Greece’s debt burden by
more than 100 billion euros and lower debt to 120.5 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020.  “We still don’t have a solution for Greece, so there will
be a harder default to come,” Wyplosz said. “Greece can’t grow
with this kind of debt so something more has to give.”  The euro-area ministers are scheduled to meet in Brussels
on March 12 to discuss further elements of  Europe ’s crisis-
fighting efforts, including whether and how to increase the
firewall provided by the euro area’s rescue funds. German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that ministers will
decide on the main Greek aid package at that meeting.  ‘Only a Foundation’  While the participation rate in the swap was “very
heartening,” it remains decisive that Greece now carries out
the necessary economic reforms, he said. “Naturally, this is
only a foundation that’s been laid,” he told reporters in
Berlin.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association ’s
determinations committee meets in  London  today to weigh whether
the use of the collective action clauses is a  credit event  that
will trigger the swaps. Schaeuble said that decision won’t
affect  Greece ’s aid.  Juncker said today that ministers had been told Greece
would use collective action clauses on bonds governed by Greek
law and that finance ministers were encouraged by “high
private-sector participation” in the swap. The ministers said
participation could rise further during a sign-up extension for
bonds governed by foreign law.  The debt swap operation has been a “resounding success,”
said  Amadeu Altafaj , a spokesman for economic and monetary
affairs commissioner  Olli Rehn , to reporters in Brussels today.  New Bonds  The Greek government said today it will reach its target
for the debt restructuring, with investors holding 95.7 percent
of eligible bonds taking part. The government’s figure includes
using the clauses to enforce participation, a move that may
trigger insurance payouts under rules governing credit-default
swap contracts.  In the exchange, investors will receive new bonds with a
face value of 31.5 percent of the old ones together with notes
from the European Financial Stability Facility. The new debt is
governed by  English law  and comes with warrants that will
provide extra income in years when Greek economic growth exceeds
thresholds. The net present value loss for investors is more
than 70 percent.  If the swaps do get triggered, it probably won’t roil
financial markets,  Italy ’s deputy finance minister,  Vittorio Grilli , told Bloomberg News today.  “I think it’s in the market already,” Grilli said. “It
is not that it will be taking anyone by surprise. So I think a
lot of these events are already priced in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  