-- EU Carbon for December Falls to Three-Week Low as Ministers Meet
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-03-09T10:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/eu-carbon-for-december-falls-to-three-week-low-as-ministers-meet.html
European Union carbon permits
dropped to their lowest level in more than three weeks as the
bloc’s environment ministers meet in Brussels to discuss
greenhouse-gas targets through 2050.  EU allowances for December dropped as much as 2.3 percent
to 8.25 euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London , the lowest since Feb. 16, and were at 8.38 euros as of
9:34 a.m. local time.  Nations are set for a clash over the bloc’s strategy to cut
 greenhouse gases  at the meeting today after Poland threatened to
veto any declaration that may lead to stricter targets. Three
eastern European countries led by Poland object to any mention
of carbon targets for 2030 and 2040 in a statement to be adopted
after the meeting, said government officials. Five other
countries favor including a more ambitious goal for 2020, a
draft EU document obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  The option of temporarily withholding carbon permits from
the trading system, a so-called set-aside measure aimed at
propping up prices, isn’t on the agenda of today’s meeting,
according to an EU presidency official, who declined to be
identified, citing policy.  Poland  and other EU nations will probably eventually agree
on the targets and set-aside, Markus Weber, head of natural gas
and emission trading at  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , said March 6 at the
Argus carbon conference in Amsterdam. He didn’t specify when and
said his comments didn’t necessarily reflect the views of his
employer,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker.  “I think there will be a deal,” Weber said. “The set-
aside will happen” and in return Poland will get a more
generous allocation of emission rights for after this year, he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  