-- EU Nations to Clash Over Carbon as Poland Threatens Veto
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-03-09T10:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/eu-set-for-clash-over-carbon-goals-as-poland-threatens-veto.html
European Union nations are set for a
clash over the bloc’s strategy to cut  greenhouse gases  at a
meeting today after  Poland  threatened to veto any declaration
that may lead to stricter targets in the future.  Three east European  member states  led by Poland object to
any mention of the so-called milestones, or most cost-effective
carbon-reduction levels, for 2030 and 2040 identified by the EU
regulatory arm, in a statement to be adopted after the gathering
of environment ministers in Brussels, according to government
officials. Five other countries favor including in the
conclusions a more ambitious goal for 2020, a draft EU document
obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  “I expect it to be a long day,” said Martin Lidegaard,
climate minister of  Denmark , which holds the bloc’s rotating
presidency in the first half of this year. “It’s no secret we
have very different opinions around the table and it’s going to
be quite a task to bridge all these different points of view.”  Political statements after EU ministerial meetings, which
often lead to new legislation, require unanimous support. At
stake is the pathway to  Europe ’s political goal of reducing
pollution by at least 80 percent from 1990 levels by 2050 and
the price of allowances in the bloc’s emissions trading system,
the world’s largest, which slumped 50 percent in the past year.  ‘Strongly Against Milestones’  Poland, which relies on coal for about 90 percent of its
electricity generation and blocked an EU declaration on climate
policies last year, has repeatedly said it would not accept more
stringent climate policies than already agreed. It also opposes
any decisions on post-2020 goals before Europe gets more clarity
on a global carbon-reduction deal that countries worldwide
agreed to achieve by 2015.  “We are strongly against milestones, indicators and
intermediate steps,” said a Polish government official, who
declined to be identified, quoting policy.  Carbon prices slumped to a four-year low of 6.30 euros
($8.36) a metric ton last year due to oversupply and uncertainty
over the future emission-reduction framework. This prompted
calls from investors including U.K.’s second-largest electricity
producer SSE Plc on European policy makers to adopt ambitious
intermediate climate targets.  “I’m pretty confident that the message we will get from
the European countries today is that we should move on with our
climate policies,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard 
told reporters before the meeting. “That’s what we’re going to
fight for.”  ‘Difficult Negotiations’  The EU is already on track to meet its binding goal of
lowering CO2 discharges by 20 percent by 2020. The bloc may
exceed this target and reduce emissions by 25 percent as long as
nations step up energy savings, the commission said in a paper,
known as the 2050 low-carbon road map, published last year and
due to be discussed today.  “We have difficult negotiations ahead of us,” Swedish
Environment Minister Lena Ek said. “The road map is really
important for all the member states and for the European
industry to have a clear view on where we’re going and where
they should put their investment.”  The Danish presidency proposed ministers “recognize” the
roadmap’s finding that “the gradual, cost-effective transition
to a low-carbon economy in 2050 passes through milestones for EU
domestic greenhouse gas emission reductions of 40 percent by
2030, 60 percent by 2040 and 80 percent by 2050 compared to
1990,” according to the draft conclusions dated March 1.  AAU Restrictions Opposed  Five nations, including the U.K. and  Germany , favor adding
the 25 percent milestone for 2020 to the text, while Poland, the
Czech Republic and  Romania  object to the quantification of
emission-reduction levels, according to three government
officials, who declined to be identified, citing policy.  “The proposed formulation could be seen as an invitation
from the council for the commission to present legislation to
implement those milestones,” said the Polish official. “I
don’t see this as a right moment in the middle of a financial
and economic crisis.”  Poland will also object to restrictions on United Nations
emissions rights after 2012, the official said. The presidency
proposed that EU nations support limits on the carry-over of
surplus Assigned Amount Units, issued to developed country
governments under the 1997  Kyoto Protocol , after its initial
period ends next year, according to the draft document.  ‘ETS is Challenged’  The restrictions would also include limits on sales and the
use of revenue from excess AAUs, the draft conclusions showed.  The option of temporarily withholding carbon permits from
the EU emissions trading system, a measure that would curb
supply and prop up emission prices, isn’t on the agenda of
today’s meeting, according to an EU presidency official, who
declined to be identified, citing policy.  “We definitely share the view of many member states that
the ETS is challenged and the carbon price is too low to work as
intended,” the official said. “When we’re not putting this
subject on the table for tomorrow it’s because we think it’d be
even more difficult for us to reach consensus on the long-term
perspective if we mix those two debates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  