-- EU Urges Hungary to Expand Budget Cuts on Wider Fiscal-Deficit Estimate
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-03-09T11:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/eu-urges-hungary-to-expand-budget-cuts-on-wider-fiscal-deficit-estimate.html
The European Commission, which
proposed penalizing  Hungary  for  budget  overruns, raised its
estimate for the country’s shortfall for this year and 2013 and
is urging the Cabinet to implement further budget cuts.  The deficit may be 3 percent of gross domestic product this
year, compared with a 2.75 percent January forecast and the
government’s 2.5 percent target, according to a  document  posted
on the European Union’s website. For 2013, the commission sees a
3.6 percent gap, compared with a 3.25 percent January forecast
and the Cabinet’s 2.2 percent target. Budapest-based news
website Portfolio first published the information.  The European Union’s executive arm last month proposed
suspending 495 million euros ($655 million) in development
subsidies to press Hungary to narrow its budget deficit in a
sustainable way. EU finance ministers will in “all certainty”
approve the proposal this month,  Peter Szijjarto , Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban ’s spokesman, said March 5, adding that Hungary
would take the necessary measures to avoid losing the grants.  The threat puts pressure on Orban to reach an agreement
with international lenders on financial aid even as the
suspension of funds is “unlikely,” Pasquale Diana and Jaroslaw Strzalkowski,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  economists in  London , said Feb. 27.  The commission said March 7 that Hungary failed to resolve
disputes blocking the start of talks on an EU and  International
Monetary Fund  loan four months after Orban requested financial
aid. Orban sought IMF help in November as the forint fell to a
record and Hungary’s sovereign credit grade was cut to junk.  ‘Take Steps’  The commission’s working paper, dated March 6, underpins a
proposal adopted the same day giving Hungary six months to
“take steps to correct its excessive deficit in a sustainable
and credible manner by 2012.” EU rules specify that governments
keep the annual  budget deficit  below 3 percent. The proposal
will be discussed by EU finance ministers on March 13.  The commission on Feb. 23 cut its estimate for Hungary’s
gross domestic product. The economy will contract 0.1 percent
this year instead of an earlier projection for 0.5 percent
growth, it said. Next year, the economy may grow 1.6 percent.  The government sees economic performance ranging between
stagnation and 0.5 percent growth this year,  Mihaly Varga ,
Orban’s chief of staff, said Feb. 20.  ‘Overall Weakening’  “The growth outlook deteriorated over the course of 2011
due to the overall weakening of the international environment,
which played out over several channels, as well as to the
further contraction in domestic demand linked also to policy
uncertainties,” the commission document said.  This year’s deficit estimate of 3 percent takes into
account 0.9 percent of GDP worth of revenue expected from
extraordinary industry taxes that the government has pledged to
end after 2012. Hungary’s budget deficit reached 50 percent of
the annual target in the first two months of this year, the
 Economy Ministry  said March 7.  The 2013 forecast doesn’t take into account a government
plan for further spending cuts of 0.4 percent of GDP, announced
last month, because they “have not been sufficiently
substantiated yet,” the working paper said.  The commission paper recommends a full implementation of
the government’s multiyear economic overhaul plan as well as
“means-testing” the universal family tax allowance or benefits
program. A value-based residential property tax and “enhancing
the progressive nature of the flat income tax scheme” may boost
revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  