-- Euro-Area Finance Chiefs Free Greek Aid as Debt Swap Paves Way for Rescue
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2012-03-10T00:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/euro-area-finance-chiefs-free-greek-aid-as-debt-swap-paves-way-for-rescue.html
Euro-area finance ministers freed
up part of  Greece ’s second rescue package, setting the stage for
the entire 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) bailout to proceed
after investors agreed to take losses on the nation’s debt.  Greece won final approval yesterday of 35.5 billion euros
in public funds and an endorsement of its debt swap with private
creditors, which includes the use of so-called collective action
clauses. The decision allows the bond swap to close this month
as planned with as much as 30 billion euros in public
sweeteners.  The finance chiefs are scheduled to meet in Brussels on
March 12 to review the Greek aid program. They’ll also discuss
 Portugal ’s current aid package,  Spain ’s financing outlook and a
European Central Bank Executive Board vacancy. German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the group will make a decision
on releasing the bulk of Greece’s second rescue.  Greece “has fulfilled the preconditions, but the harder
part is still ahead: it must prove that the program can be met,
return to economic growth and regain solvency,” Estonian
Finance Minister  Jurgen Ligi  said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  The debt exchange has played a central role in the euro
area’s efforts to contain the sovereign debt crisis. To secure
the next aid package, Greece needed to complete the swap and
commit to making structural changes to its economy.  ‘Restricted Default’  Greece’s long-term foreign and local currency issuer
default ratings were downgraded to “Restricted Default” from
“C,”  Fitch Ratings  said yesterday. The decision followed the
Greek government’s announcement, endorsed by the euro area
ministers, that investors with 95.7 percent of Greece’s
privately held bonds will participate in the swap after
collective action clauses are triggered.  The Greek Cabinet later yesterday approved use of the
clauses to impose losses on all holders of Greek-law bonds
involved in the exchange.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-region finance chiefs, said Greece has “the
necessary conditions” in place to launch the procedures
required for final approval of the rescue. He welcomed a report
from European and International Monetary Fund officials on
Greece’s efforts.  IMF Contribution  IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday she
plans to recommend a 28 billion euro ($36.7 billion)
contribution to the Greek rescue. That amount, which includes
9.7 billion euros that remained from a previous support package
approved in May 2010, is subject to approval by the Washington-
based agency’s executive board.  In addition to the money for the sweeteners, European
ministers also released 5.5 billion euros for Greek interest
payments and said Greece was on track to win the rest of its
bailout funds. The debt swap aims to reduce Greece’s debt burden
by more than 100 billion euros and lower debt to 120.5 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020.  The second rescue package may not cure Greece’s long-term
debt woes, said  Charles Wyplosz , director of the Geneva-based
International Center for Money and  Banking Studies .  “We still don’t have a solution for Greece, so there will
be a harder default to come,” Wyplosz said. “Greece can’t grow
with this kind of debt so something more has to give.”  Reaching Target  The Greek government said it planned to reach its target
for the debt restructuring, with investors holding 95.7 percent
of eligible bonds taking part. The government’s figure includes
using the clauses to enforce participation, a move that may
trigger insurance payouts under rules governing credit-default
swap contracts.  In the exchange, investors will receive new bonds with a
face value of 31.5 percent of the old ones together with notes
from the European Financial Stability Facility. The new debt is
governed by  English law  and comes with warrants that will
provide extra income in years when Greek economic growth exceeds
thresholds. The net present value loss for investors is more
than 70 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  