-- Euro-Area Allies See Greek Swap as Historic Chance to Reform
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-03-09T09:53:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/euro-area-allies-see-greek-swap-as-historic-chance-to-reform.html
Germany  said  Greece  has a “historic
chance” to fix its economy after securing a debt-reducing bond
swap that fellow euro-area governments declared a success.  Germany, France and Italy, the three biggest economies in
the 17-member euro region, hailed the exchange after the results
were announced in Athens today. Germany, the biggest country
contributor to bailouts during the debt crisis and which led
calls for the private sector to take writedowns in Greece, said
the Greeks must now grasp the opportunity to reform.  The swap is “a big step on the road to stabilization” and
Greece “has been given a historic chance,” Germany’s Finance
Ministry said in a statement. Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
said Greece must now overhaul its economy, saying in a separate
statement that the country “has it in its own hands to fulfill
the conditions for standing on its own feet again.”  Two years after triggering  Europe ’s debt crisis, the Greek
government said it met its target in the biggest sovereign
restructuring in history. Euro-area governments were waiting for
the outcome before deciding on a 130 billion-euro second
financial rescue for Greece. Finance ministers have set a
conference call for 2 p.m. Berlin time.  The debt restructuring is “good news” and meets “all the
objectives we set ourselves,” French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said on RTL Radio today after Greece said it reached a
95.7 percent participation rate among holders of eligible bonds.  Italian Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said
Greece’s planned use of collective action clauses to force
holdouts to take part in the swap won’t necessarily constitute a
so-called  credit event .  If the swap triggered credit default swaps “it is not
taking anyone by surprise,” Grilli said in an interview with
Bloomberg News. “It is already priced in.” In any case, the
bond swap can be called “a success,” Grilli said. “It has
been a long trail.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  