-- European Stocks Decline as Best Annual Start Since 1998 Seen as Overdone
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-03-10T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-enel-peugeot-salzgitter-lead-decline.html
European stocks  fell this week as
investors speculated the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index’s best start to
a year since 1998 has overshot the outlook for the economy.  Enel SpA sank to a record low as  Italy ’s largest utility
cut its dividend target to reduce debt. PSA Peugeot Citroen sank
7.8 percent after Europe’s second-biggest carmaker announced a 1
billion-euro ($1.3 billion) rights offer. Salzgitter AG lost 7
percent after the steelmaker said it was“impossible” to
provide an earnings forecast.  The benchmark  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  slid 0.7 percent to 265.44 this
past week, the biggest drop since Feb. 10. The gauge rose for
the past three days as  Greece  persuaded most bondholders to
accept a debt exchange, rebounding from the biggest two-day drop
since November earlier in the week. The index had climbed 9.3
percent from the start of the year through March 2 as the
 European Central Bank  lent the region’s lenders more than 1
trillion euros and U.S. data topped forecasts.  “The force of the move into the new year really took the
market into extended overbought conditions; technically it
looked like there was a need for some consolidation,” said  Mike Lenhoff , chief strategist at Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd. in
London. “We could see more of a consolidation phase going
forward, but the fundamental picture is still looking more
supportive than before.”  Lowest Since January  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  dropped 3.3 percent in the first two days of
the week, sliding to the lowest level since January, as  China 
cut its forecast for economic growth this year to 7.5 percent
from 8 percent. Data in the euro area showed manufacturing and
services shrank more than estimated and fourth-quarter gross
domestic product contracted 0.3 percent.  In contrast, U.S. employers boosted payrolls more than
forecast in February, indicating companies are growing more
optimistic about the expansion in the world’s largest economy.
The jobless rate held at 8.3 percent.  “The sharp decline in equity markets earlier this week
begs the question whether a liquidity-fueled rally has ended and
the gravitational pull of weaker economic prospects will take
hold,” said Rupert Caldecott, chief investment officer for
global  asset allocation  at Dalton Strategic Partnership LLP in
London. “After a sharp and relatively smooth advance in
equities over the past three months, and a consequent decline in
investor risk measures, a pause and adjustment is not so
surprising.”  Banks Sink  Banks posted the largest losses among the 19 industry
groups in the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  as lenders from Lisbon-based Banco
Espirito Santo SA to Barclays Plc in London fell more than 6
percent. Food and drink companies posted the biggest advance.  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  and  France ’s CAC 40 both
lost 0.4 percent, while  Germany ’s DAX declined 0.6 percent.  Greece’s  ASE Index (ASE)  rose 0.4 percent as the country pushed
through the biggest sovereign restructuring in history after
cajoling private creditors to forgive more than 100 billion
($132 billion) of debt.  Enel dropped 9.6 percent in Milan after cutting dividend
goal by a third to reduce debt as recessions in its biggest
markets weighed on revenue. The 2012 payout will be at least 40
percent of ordinary net income, down from a previous target of
60 percent.  Peugeot sank 7.8 percent after it announced a rights offer
and said it won’t pay a dividend for 2011.  Salzgitter Slides  Salzgitter (SZG)  dropped 7 percent after the steelmaker said it
was “impossible” to provide an earnings forecast because the
euro area’s debt crisis remains a major risk.  Red Electrica Corp. SA, operator of  Spain ’s electricity
network, slumped 8.6 percent, the most since August, after the
national energy regulator said the country should cut the cost
of the regulated power market.  Bourbon SA, owner of the biggest fleet of supply and crew
ships for the oil industry, fell 11 percent, the largest decline
since September, amid concern about financing new vessels. Net
debt rose to 1.96 billion euros at the end of last year with 620
million euros due in less than a year.  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  slipped 3 percent after the company’s outlook
prompted analysts to cut profit targets. France’s largest
publisher posted a 29 percent drop in adjusted net income and
said earnings will be little changed this year.  Q-Cells SE sank 22 percent after the solar-cell maker
reported a loss that exceeded sales in the fourth quarter and
forecast further negative results in 2012.  Admiral Advances  Admiral Group Plc (ADM)  paced advancing shares as the U.K.’s
second-biggest motor insurer said bodily injury claims declined
in the fourth quarter. The stock jumped 9.4 percent for a fourth
week of gains.  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. surged 8.7
percent, the most since October, after doubling its dividend and
forecasting earnings will climb.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  rallied 4.5 percent after
the owner of Europe’s oldest independent bourse agreed to buy a
majority stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. for 463 million euros
as it looks to expand its post-trade services.  Misys Plc surged 7.9 percent after CVC Capital Partners
Ltd. and ValueAct Capital, Misys’s largest shareholder, said
they are working on a joint cash offer. The Financial Times
reported speculation the companies may offer 325 pence a share.  Temenos Group AG won more time to respond to the competing
private equity bids from the U.K. Takeover Panel, extending a
deadline for a merger with Misys. The Swiss company lost 9
percent this week.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  advanced 9.7 percent after
Vodafone Group Plc, the world’s largest mobile-phone operator,
won more time to bid for the company. Tata Communications Ltd.
is in talks with three lenders to help finance a possible rival
offer, a person familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  