-- Teva Pharmaceutical Seeks to Intervene in Plan B Lawsuit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-09T23:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/teva-pharmaceutical-seeks-to-intervene-in-plan-b-lawsuit.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
sought to intervene in a lawsuit between the Center for
Reproductive Rights and the U.S. government over emergency
contraceptives, saying loosening sales restrictions on generics
could threaten its marketing rights for Plan B One-Step.  Last month, U.S. District Judge Edward Korman in  Brooklyn ,
New York, ordered the government to explain why he shouldn’t
direct the  Food and Drug Administration  to make the drugs
available to girls under age 17 without a prescription. Teva
said in its filing today that loosening the age limits on over-
the-counter sales of generic drugs similar to its own would
threaten its three-year exclusivity period for unrestricted OTC
sales.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , earned that
exclusivity by submitting a drug application “containing the
clinical studies referenced in the court’s Feb. 16 show-cause
order,” Teva wrote.  The FDA issued a ruling in December blocking unrestricted
access to generic copies of the emergency contraceptive,
affirming a move a week earlier requiring girls under age 17 to
have a prescription for the brand-name drug. The Manhattan-based
center had sued the agency, saying it failed to take up the
issue.  Kate Bernyk, a spokeswoman for the Center for Reproductive
Rights in New York, didn’t have an immediate comment on Teva’s
filing.  Overrode Decision  The FDA originally said it would approve brand-name Plan B
One-Step as the first over-the-counter emergency contraceptive.
U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius on
Dec. 7 ordered FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  to reject
Teva’s application to make the drug available to girls under 17
without a prescription. Sebelius’s intervention was the first
time HHS overrode an FDA staff decision.  On Dec. 12, the FDA maintained its policy for two-dose
generic versions from makers such as  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) 
of Parsippany,  New Jersey , and  Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  of Allegan,  Michigan .  “We conclude that FDA needs additional data to support a
switch of Plan B for women under 17 years of age,” the agency
wrote. “In the absence of such data, FDA declines to initiate a
rulemaking to switch Plan B” to an over-the-counter product for
those consumers.  Pharmacy Counters  Plan B One-Step and the generics are currently kept behind
pharmacy counters and are sold without prescription only to
women 17 and older. Younger girls may obtain the drug with a
doctor’s order. Plan B One-Step reduces pregnancy risk if taken
within three days of sex. The original brand-name Plan B at
issue in the lawsuit is no longer made.  Korman said at a December hearing there was no difference
between the brand-name and generic drugs except the former
requires one pill and the latter requires two.  In its filing, Teva said its interests aren’t aligned with
either the center, which seeks to eliminate age restrictions on
any of the drugs, or the government, which seeks to defend all
such limits.  The case is Tummino v. Hamburg, 05-cv-366, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 