-- Ex-GE Manager Claims Insanity in Atlanta Killing of Former JPMorgan Banker
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-03-09T21:24:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/ex-ge-manager-claims-insanity-in-atlanta-killing-of-former-jpmorgan-banker.html
Hemy Neuman, a GE Energy manager,
put on a fake beard, drove a rented minivan to a suburban
Atlanta day care center and shot an ex- JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
banker dropping off his son, defense lawyers said.  Neuman’s lawyers have told jurors in Georgia state court in
Decatur that their client was temporarily insane and unable to
stop himself from killing Russell Sneiderman, 36, the husband of
a female subordinate at GE. Prosecutors in the trial, which has
drawn intense local attention, contend Neuman was aware he was
committing murder in front of the Dunwoody Prep preschool.  According to testimony this week by Adriana Flores, a
forensic psychologist, Neuman was sexually obsessed with
Sneiderman’s wife, Andrea, 35. He believed he was acting on
orders from an angel with the voice of singer Olivia Newton John
and a demon who sounded like Barry White, Flores said.  Neuman, 49, is charged with premeditated murder and
possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony.
DeKalb County District Attorney Bob James has said he will seek
a life sentence without parole. Neuman’s lawyers finished
presenting witnesses yesterday.  A psychiatrist testifying today for the prosecution, Pamela
Crawford, told the jury that some of Neuman’s symptoms, such as
a memory lapse, were “consistent with lying.”  For example, he couldn’t remember whether he had sexual
intercourse with Andrea Sneiderman or fabricated it, she said.  Trip Described  In a video-recorded interview played in court, Neuman told
Crawford about a trip the couple took to  South Carolina .  He remembered their “having fun” hunting for a bottle of
wine at 9 p.m., he said. If the psychiatrist had asked during
the trip whether the couple had sex, he “would have said yes,”
Crawford told the jury.  During the interviews, he wasn’t so sure but said they had
been “intimate,” Crawford testified. Aside from that, he
showed a “tremendous memory,” she said.  She said Neuman never thought to discuss the angel and
demon, who he said started visiting him when he was a child in
an Israeli boarding school, until he spoke to his defense
attorney for this case, Bob Rubin.  “It was detailed -- it was methodical,” Crawford said of
the killing. Planning and committing the crime “would not be
consistent with someone being acutely manic,” she said.  “Based on my findings and the statute, the defendant would
be criminally responsible for murder,” she said.  Affair Suspected  According to a Sept. 16, 2011, search warrant, police had
cause to believe Neuman was having an extramarital affair with
Andrea Sneiderman, which may have provided the motive for the
November 2010 killing, they said.  In an affidavit submitted to secure another warrant,
detectives said they would seek anything showing Neuman and
Andrea Sneiderman might have collaborated in the crime. She
hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing.  Neuman told police detectives in a recorded interview shown
in court that, before the killing, he supervised 5,000 workers
at the  General Electric Co. (GE)  unit’s quality systems division in
Atlanta. Andrea Sneiderman worked in software systems support.  The prosecution may be the highest profile case in the
Atlanta area since 1982 when Wayne Williams, suspected of 29
child murders, was convicted of killing two adults.  It has become a local attraction. A handful of members of
the  Red Hat Society , an international women’s group with 40,000
chapters dedicated to fun and fulfillment, according to its
website, stopped at the trial last week on their way to tour the
state Capitol in Atlanta.  Murder, Sex, Insanity  “You have murder, you have sex, you have insanity,” said
Roy  Peter Clark , a media analyst at the Poynter Institute in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . “You have a day care center, you have a
disguise, you have the intersection of normal upper middle class
life with some of the most destructive elements of society.”  Those factors have made “otherwise responsible citizens
sit up and take notice,” he said of the trial.  Flores, the defense witness, testified that Neuman told her
that angels and demons guided his actions.  “He did not have the capacity to know right from wrong”
when he shot Sneiderman, said Flores. She said she diagnosed him
as bipolar and psychotic and found him delusional.  Neuman hasn’t testified during the trial. He sat as another
defense forensic psychiatrist, Tracey Marks, described the
affair that Neuman believed he had with Sneiderman. Marks said
the belief was a sign of mania.  Evidence of Planning  Prosecutors have called witnesses in an effort to prove the
defendant planned the murder.  Jan DaSilva, who sold Neuman the gun allegedly used in the
shooting, testified the defendant told him, “Don’t ever have a
mistress.”  Witnesses to the shooting included a chiropractor, Craig
Kuhlmeir and his wife, Aliyah Stotter. After the disguised
assailant shot Sneiderman, he returned to the van and sped off,
they testified. In court, they identified Neuman as the shooter.  The shooter’s haste and use of a disguise indicated that
Neuman knew he was committing a crime, prosecutors argued.  Police in Dunwoody arrested Neuman after determining he had
rented a silver Kia Sedona matching the one seen at the location
of the crime, the day before the killing, according to court
papers.  Andrea Sneiderman testified earlier that she didn’t have an
affair with Neuman. She didn’t return calls seeking comment on
the trial this week. Seth Kirschenbaum, her lawyer, didn’t
return a call seeking comment yesterday on the case.  In the police interview played in court, Neuman recalled
attending the burial of Russell Sneiderman, including casting a
handful of dirt on the grave.  E-Mail Exchanges  Marks, the defense psychiatrist, said Andrea Sneiderman in
e-mails pulled Neuman in emotionally and then pushed him away.
She would complain about her husband’s being an absentee father
to their two children and encourage Neuman to discuss her
problems, Marks said.  Sneiderman said in the e-mails that she regretted some
things they did during out-of-town trips, Marks said. In her
testimony at the trial, she said that referred to holding hands.  Such exchanges led the emotionally fragile Neuman to become
delusional and believe he was the father of Sneiderman’s
children and that he should protect them, Marks said.  On the day of the shooting, Neuman knew right from wrong
“globally,” while being delusional in thinking that killing
Russell Sneiderman was the best way to protect the children,
according to Marks.  Neuman Called Sick  “Mr. Neuman is sick,” Doug Peters, his defense lawyer,
said in court.  Howard Masto and Kenneth Darling, spokesmen for  GE Energy ,
didn’t respond to voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on
the case yesterday after regular business hours.  The burden is on the defense to prove insanity, said
Charles Patrick Ewing, a law school professor at the  State
University of New York  at Buffalo. Fewer than 1 percent of
criminal cases involve a temporary insanity defense, and no more
than one-third of such defenses prevail, he said.  The legal definition of insanity also differs from the
medical definition of mentally ill. A schizophrenic wouldn’t be
found legally insane if he was aware that what he was doing was
wrong, said Ewing, the author of “Insanity: Murder, Madness,
and the Law.”  “Any advance planning or fleeing a crime scene undermines
an insanity defense,” he said.  “I tell my students you have to be crazy to plead
insanity,” he said. “If you win, you face being locked up for
life.”  The case is State v. Neuman, 11CR1364-5, Georgia Superior
Court, DeKalb County (Decatur)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta
at   lviele@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 