-- Ex-Treasury Head Summers Says Euro Area Past Worst, Needs Growth
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-03-09T10:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/ex-treasury-head-summers-says-euro-area-past-worst-needs-growth.html
Members of the euro area must push
for greater economic growth now they have overcome the worst of
the region’s debt crisis, former U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Lawrence Summers  said.  “You can’t really claim there is a viable growth model for
Europe,” Summers, director of the National Economic Council
under President Barack Obama until last year, said at a
conference in Paris today. “We have walked back from the brink
of financial catastrophe, but it’s only a limited accomplishment
to say we don’t need to worry anymore about banks failing and
nations collapsing.”  Greece  took another step toward winning a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) second bailout after the Greek government said
today that investors with 95.7 percent of the country’s
privately held bonds will participate in the biggest sovereign-
debt restructuring in history.  European leaders can’t assume their economies are “self-
correcting” and government efforts to boost growth are needed,
said Summers, who has returned to Harvard University’s Kennedy
School of Government.  “ Germany  remains committed to its economic model and sees
it as one others should follow, but it’s one based on export-led
growth,” he said. With peripheral euro countries facing a
recession, “it’s clear they will be having more exporting than
importing and so it’s hard to see where the import demand is
going to come from.”  Summers said he “congratulates” European Central Bank
 Mario Draghi  for his “courageous” bank lending expansion and
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  “for the progress Italy is
making.” Italian 10-year bond yields are about 4.7 percent now,
after rising above 7 percent earlier this year.  The greater risk facing Europe right now is “stagnation
and division,” not the extra ECB bank lending that has
concerned Germany’s Bundesbank, Summers said.  “All the dangers are on the side of too little stimulus
and not too much stimulus,” he said, referring to both the U.S.
and  Europe , adding the pace of U.S. growth is “insufficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  