-- Express Scripts-Medco Deal Critics Asked by FTC to Suggest Possible Fixes
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/express-scripts-medco-deal-opponents-are-asked-for-possible-fixes-by-ftc.html
Two pharmacy groups opposing
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s proposed acquisition of  Medco Health
Solutions Inc. (MHS)  said they were asked by the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission to suggest ways to revise the deal so it wouldn’t
harm competition.  “We have responded to their questions about additional
ways to address these concerns,” the National Community
Pharmacists Association and the National Association of Chain
Drug Stores said in a joint statement.  FTC Chairman Jon Leibowitz has been seeking ways to ensure
that the transaction, which would create the largest U.S.
manager of pharmacy benefits, wouldn’t drive up prices and
reduce pharmacy services, said a person familiar with the
review.  The FTC’s request to opponents of the deal may signal the
agency is leaning toward approving it with conditions, said
Jeffrey Schmidt, former director of the FTC’s Bureau of
Competition.  “It doesn’t make any sense asking for remedies unless you
thought remedies may be appropriate,” said Schmidt, a  New York- 
based partner at the law firm Linklaters LLP, who isn’t involved
in the investigation.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  The FTC plans by the end of this month to complete an
antitrust review of the proposed $29.1 billion acquisition, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly and declined
to be identified.  Express Scripts  agreed in July to buy Medco.  New Competitors  Increased competition from  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) ’s
pharmacy benefit manager unit, OptumRx, is making approval of
the Express Scripts-Medco deal more likely, the person said.  Agency officials are discussing whether the FTC should
require St. Louis-based Express Scripts to sell some of its
specialty pharmacies to gain approval of the deal with  Franklin
Lakes , New Jersey-based Medco, the person said.  Specialty pharmacies sell treatments for ailments such as
cancer and HIV that often are injected or infused and usually
require cooling or other special handling.  About 31 percent of specialty drugs sold in the U.S. in
2010 passed through pharmacies owned by Express Scripts or
Medco, according to Adam Fein, founder and president of Pembroke
Consulting Inc. in Philadelphia.  Under the merger agreement, Express Scripts and Medco had
said they were willing to sell one mail-order pharmacy unit and
one specialty pharmacy if needed to win regulatory approval.  First Half of 2012  Express Scripts isn’t willing to sell its entire specialty
business, said spokesman  Brian Henry , who declined to comment on
potential remedies. Henry said the company expects the merger to
be completed in the first half of the year.  Chrissy Kopple, a spokeswoman for the chain-drug store
association, and Kevin Schweers, spokesman for the community
pharmacists group, declined to provide the organizations’
recommendations.  In their joint statement, the groups, both based in
Alexandria,  Virginia , said they would prefer that the FTC
challenge the deal in court.  “NACDS and NCPA continue to be steadfastly opposed to the
merger,” the groups said in the statement.  Pharmacy-benefits managers like Express Scripts and Medco
negotiate prices with drugmakers for health-plan sponsors,
manage worker claims and track patients’ use of medicines. Their
profits are tied to cutting their clients’ drug costs.  Consumer Savings  Such companies save health-plan sponsors and consumers as
much as $87 billion in annual prescription-drug costs, Compass
Lexecon, an economic consulting firm in  Washington , said in a
December report funded by Express Scripts and Medco.  At a Dec. 6 hearing of the Senate Judiciary antitrust
subcommittee, Express Scripts Chief Executive Officer George Paz
said the company would use its increased size after the
acquisition to bargain for better prices from drugmakers and
pharmacies.  A combined Express-Medco would handle 34 percent of
prescriptions in the U.S. this year, Pembroke’s Fein said.  That share will shrink to 29 percent next year because
UnitedHealth Group of Minnetonka,  Minnesota , the biggest U.S.
health plan by sales, switched from Medco to its own pharmacy
benefits unit, OptumRx, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  