-- Exxon CEO Says Government Has Role in Safe Oil, Gas Development
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-03-09T19:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/exxon-ceo-says-government-has-role-in-safe-oil-gas-development.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S.
oil company, said state and federal governments will play an
important role in the safe and efficient development of  North
American (PAL)  crude and natural-gas resources that are transforming
the continent’s energy supplies.  Development of petroleum sources in the U.S. and  Canada 
from shale-gas formations, tight-oil reservoirs, oil sands and
deep-water projects will help shape projects globally, Chief
Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  said today at CERAWeek, a
Houston conference held by IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates.  “Our industry has not and cannot achieve these results
alone, however,” Tillerson said. “Government has an
indispensable role in this quest.”  Policies related to access, taxes and regulations can have
“profound implications” on the industry’s ability to develop
new resources and “share the enormous economic benefits they
promise,” Tillerson said.  New technologies  such as hydraulic
fracturing have allowed the industry to tap previously
unavailable resources, he said.  The industry is working to develop  Canadian oil sands ,
Tillerson said. In 2010, unconventional resources contributed
more than $76 billion to the U.S. gross domestic product, he
said.  Gas demand is expected to rise by 60 percent by 2040,
Tillerson said, and gas will satisfy more than 25 percent of
global energy needs, Tillerson said.  Energy’s Role  Policy makers with various political backgrounds are
recognizing that energy is essential to growth, Tillerson said,
citing President  Barack Obama ’s call to develop every available
source of U.S. energy. Some American and Canadian citizens have
questions about new unconventional development, Tillerson said.  Exxon has advocated disclosure of fluids used in fracturing
in the U.S., working with other companies and state regulatory
agencies as they set up the FracFocus website, Tillerson said.
That allows companies to voluntarily submit fluid data on
drilling, he said.  “We will be calling on our government and industry
partners to implement in  Europe  the same level of openness and
accountability that FracFocus has delivered in the  United
States ,” Tillerson said.  Tillerson said the recent decision that went against
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline was “a product of
political calculations in  Washington .” That project would have
benefited both the U.S. and Canada by linking  oil-sands  output
with refining operations, he said.  Multiple Agencies  Regulation once gave U.S. businesses rules on how to get
things done, Tillerson said, while now the process involves
multiple and duplicative agencies that can be an obstacle.  “It has become the tool of opponents of development and
special interest groups,” Tillerson said.  The Canadian approach to regulation is “very rigorous,”
while being defined and enabling issues to be worked through
during a process, Tillerson said.  Government can help speed up technological innovations by
supporting research, he said. It should let markets operate
openly, not picking energy winners and losers through subsidies,
mandates and punitive taxes, he said.  “Government is most effective when it acts as a research
catalyst, not as a venture capitalist,” Tillerson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  