-- MF Global Holdings Officers Will Get Bonuses If Court Approves
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/mf-global-executives-who-oversaw-company-may-get-bonuses-if-court-approves.html
The  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) 
executives who oversaw the company before it failed last year
should get bonuses this year if a  bankruptcy court  approves,
said Frank Piantidosi, an adviser working with the trustee,
 Louis Freeh . A senator objected to Freeh in a letter.  The compensation packages are still being prepared, and
would apply to Chief Operating Officer  Bradley Abelow , General
Counsel Laurie Ferber and Chief Financial Officer Henri J. Steenkamp, Piantidosi of Freeh Group International Solutions LLC
said in an e-mail.  “The value that Brad, Henri and Laurie bring by helping to
liquidate and recover assets for the estate outweighs the cost
to retain them,” Piantidosi said. It would cost more to replace
them with outside consultants less familiar with MF Global’s
operations, he said.  U.S. Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, asked
Freeh to deny any bonuses and focus on recovering customer
funds; “While Minnesota farmers and ranchers still have not
been able to recover all of their missing funds, MF Global
executives may be getting hundreds of thousands of dollars in
bonuses,” Klobuchar said in a statement posted on her website.
“That is simply unacceptable.”  MF Global Holdings, once run by former New Jersey
Democratic Governor  Jon Corzine , filed the eighth-largest U.S.
bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after getting margin calls and bank
demands for money at its operating unit, MF Global Inc. While
the holding company is returning funds to creditors under Freeh
in a Chapter 11 bankruptcy, the operating unit is retuning funds
to customers under a separate trustee, James Giddens, appointed
under the Securities Investor Protection Corp.  Giddens’s Staff  Giddens’s staff currently consists of about 70 former MF
Global employees, none of whom are executives or get bonuses,
said  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for Giddens. The brokerage
estate, which is entirely separate from that of the holding
company, has cut staff week by week as it comes closer to
completing its work and expects to have 50 people left by next
month, he said. Giddens, who is making his own investigation of
the brokerage’s assets, has estimated a $1.6 billion shortfall
between what has been identified, and what customers are owed.  The bonus amounts for the three executives would be less
than they made prior to the bankruptcy, said Diana DeSocio, an
MF Global spokeswoman. She declined to comment on how much they
might be and said Freeh will separately seek court permission to
pay another 21 staff working on the estate. The staff are
assisting Freeh with identifying assets, and fulfilling the
company’s duty to report to regulators and tax authorities, she
said. The bonuses were reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  Assisting Freeh  Members of Freeh Group International, a consulting firm,
and Freeh Sporkin & Sullivan LLP, a  law firm , are both assisting
Freeh.  Klobuchar said in her letter to Freeh that the same
executives were at the helm of the company when it collapsed,
and that issuing bonuses sends the “wrong message to customers
already skeptical of the bankruptcy process.” Klobuchar serves
on the Senate Agriculture Committee.  MF Global Holdings filed bankruptcy after a $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations led to margin calls. Its bankruptcy filing
listed assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  