-- Facebook’s Sandberg Details Lack of Progress for Women at Top
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-03-10T16:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/facebook-s-sandberg-details-lack-of-progress-for-women-at-top.html
Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook Inc.’s
chief operating officer, said the past decade has seen little or
no gain for women in top government or executive positions.  “Women in the U.S. became 50 percent of college graduates
in 1981,” Sandberg, 42, said at the Women in the World
conference in  New York . “In every industry, women have steadily
made progress in the past 30 years -- except at the top, where,
essentially, over the last 10 years, there hasn’t been
progress.”  Sandberg  has called  gender inequality “this generation’s
central moral problem,” citing the disparate amount of women
with power both globally and in the U.S. The number of  Fortune
500  companies run by women fell to a dozen last year from 15 in
2010, according to the magazine’s rankings. In the U.S Congress,
women hold just 89, or 17 percent, of 535 voting seats,  data
from  the Congressional Research Service show.  Sandberg led a panel yesterday at the  conference  hosted by
 Newsweek  and the Daily Beast that included Jill Abramson, 57,
who replaced Bill Keller as the New York Times’ executive editor
in September, and  Gloria Steinem , the 77-year-old activist who
spurred the contemporary women’s rights movement when she
started Ms. Magazine 40 years ago. Cheryl Mills, counselor and
chief of staff for Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , was also
on the panel.  Abramson, the first female editor of the Times in its 160-
year history, said she has been “obsessing” over how to ensure
that young female editors or copy editors at the newspaper “get
known.” Almost 40 percent of senior editors and managers in the
newsroom are women, she said.  ‘Sometimes Stalled Progress’  “Things have certainly changed, but it’s been progress --
and not constant, and sometimes stalled progress,” Abramson
said about women advancing to leadership roles.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  Chief Executive Officer Muhtar Kent created a
Women’s Leadership Council at the Atlanta-based company that
advises senior management “on how to hire more women, how to
mentor more women, develop them and promote them and retain
them,” he said in a separate session at the conference today.
The company also started an initiative to empower five million
women outside the company by 2020, he said.  The CEO, who’s led the world’s largest soft-drink maker
since July 2008, said three years ago, there was “a huge
mismatch” between the amount of women at the company and the as
much as 70 percent of women who buy Coca-Cola products.  “Women are so important in their communities in which they
serve, but we don’t have the same numbers we should have in the
company, so that’s why we started working on this,” he said.  Periods of Resistance  Steinem, who said men still don’t have a lot of experience
seeing women in power, said change will come when organizations
recognize that parenting is a shared responsibility between
mothers and fathers.  “We are, among modern democracies, the worst in the world
for making it work for parents,” Steinem said. “We’re not just
talking about integrating things the way they are, we’re talking
about transforming them. And because women are half the
population, we have to transform them in order to live full
human lives.”  Steinem is the subject of an HBO documentary released in
August, “Gloria: In Her Own Words,” and is working on a book
about her more than 30 years as a feminist organizer, “Road to
the Heart: America As if Everyone Mattered.”  In social-justice movements, “there are two periods of
resistance, one is at the beginning, when nobody is allowed in,
and the second is when you reach critical mass, and the group
previously in power begins to imagine they’re not just including
you as an employee, but you might be their boss,” she said.  Compensation Levels  Women make up 19.3 percent of national legislative seats
worldwide and account for 42.1 percent of spots in the
legislatures of  Sweden ,  Iceland ,  Finland , Denmark and  Norway ,
according to the Congressional Research Service report. The
Inter-Parliamentary Union ranks the U.S. 69th globally for
legislative female representation.  Newsweek Editor-in-Chief Tina Brown, who organized the
third annual conference, said at the event that Sandberg is “an
aggressive advocate” for female executives in Silicon Valley.  Facebook Valuation  Sandberg is the best-paid senior executive of  Menlo Park ,
 California-based Facebook , receiving $30.9 million in
compensation last year. She may own up to 1.7 percent of the
company after its initial public offering this year, which may
be the largest for an  Internet company  on record. At the top end
of the valuation range expected for the offering, her stake may
be worth $1.7 billion.  She was one of six co-chairs of the World Economic  Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland  this year, where she led a panel on “Women
as the Way Forward.” A mother of two, she’s also a director on
the boards of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)   While Sandberg is a prominent advocate of  gender equality ,
giving a  TED talk  on the subject in 2010 and making it the focal
point of her commencement speech at Barnard College last year,
the social-media company where she is the public face has a
seven-member, all-male  board .  Just 11.3 percent of the Fortune 500 had male-only boards
last year, according to Catalyst, a New York-based nonprofit
that researches women and business issues.  A Catalyst survey of Fortune 500 companies found that those
with three or more female directors outperformed those with
fewer between 2005 and 2009, achieving on average 43 percent
better returns on equity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  