-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Executives to See Pay Cuts in 2012
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-03-09T20:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/fannie-mae-and-freddie-mac-executives-will-see-pay-cuts-in-2012.html
Top executives at  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and
 Freddie Mac  will receive reduced compensation as their regulator
continues to cut pay and bonuses at the government-owned finance
companies.  The 2012 pay program for the companies eliminates bonuses
and establishes a target for chief executive officer pay at
$500,000, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  announced today.
With the changes, total compensation for top executives has been
reduced by nearly 75 percent since the companies were taken
under government control in 2008.  The number of senior executives has been reduced from 91 in
2008 to 70, the FHFA reported.  FHFA Acting Director Edward J. DeMarco began reducing pay
at the mortgage companies after they were seized in 2008 amid
mounting losses from failing home loans.  The companies rely on taxpayer aid for survival, drawing
almost $190 billion so far.  As the size of their bailout has grown, pay at the mortgage
companies, which own or guarantee almost half of all U.S. home
loans, has become a point of criticism, particularly from
members of Congress.  Last month, the  U.S. Senate  moved to ban executive bonuses
at Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , voting 96-3 to approve a measure
from Republican  John McCain  of  Arizona  and Democrat John Rockefeller of  West Virginia . The measure was introduced after
the FHFA approved nearly $13 million in bonuses to 10
executives.  ‘Long-Overdue Change’  In the House, where the Financial Services Committee has
passed a similar measure, committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus 
praised the FHFA announcement, calling it a “long-overdue
change.”  “The taxpayer funded bailout of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
is the biggest bailout in history,” the Alabama Republican said
in a written statement. “The lavish compensation packages and
million dollar bonuses that have been given to top executives of
these two failed companies are an outrage to the taxpayers whose
assistance is the only thing keeping  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
afloat.”  CEOs Michael J. Williams of Fannie Mae and Charles Haldeman Jr. at Freddie Mac have drawn particular criticism. In 2011,
Williams was paid $5,258,500 and Haldeman $3,798,500.  Both have announced plans to leave the companies this year.
The search for replacements is emphasizing the public-service
aspects of the chief executive job in addition to experience,
DeMarco said.  New Job Description  The chief executive will be “more akin to that of
government service than that of a corporate chieftain,” DeMarco
said.  The compensation levels were released as part of a broader
strategic plan to reduce costs and risk at the companies, which
package and sell mortgages to investors, and charge fees to
guarantee the loans’ principal and interest. The plan calls for
the companies to set uniform fees that are tied to the level of
risk that the mortgages will go into default.  By October, FHFA also wants to begin a program to sell
high-risk slivers of mortgage bonds without that guarantee as a
way to share losses from defaults.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  