-- Fed Said to Balk at Bank Payouts Over Loan-Loss Estimates
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-03-09T23:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/fed-said-to-balk-at-banks-dividend-plans-amid-higher-loan-loss-estimates.html
The Federal Reserve is pushing back
against some banks’ proposals to pay dividends and repurchase
shares, after concluding that the lenders are underestimating
the potential for losses on  consumer debt  in a severe economic
slump, according to two people with knowledge of the situation.  Executives and Fed examiners have been wrangling in recent
weeks over the central bank’s stress-test process as the
March 15 deadline for results approaches. The Fed hasn’t yet
given banks a ruling on their proposed payouts or told firms how
much higher its estimates are for losses on  mortgage loans  and
credit cards, the people said. Examiners are still fine-tuning
calculations, which may change.  “If the Fed fights back and disagrees and is more
aggressive in their stance on cards and mortgages, it would mean
banks wouldn’t be able to pay out as much,” missing investors’
expectations, said  Glenn Schorr , a senior bank analyst for
Nomura Securities in  New York . Investors expect banks will pay
out 50 percent to 60 percent of earnings this year, he said.  The exams may bolster confidence in the nation’s largest
banks by demonstrating they can handle a deeper downturn or a
“market shock” after a year in which financial markets were
battered by prolonged economic weakness and the European debt
crisis. Thirty-one lenders are undergoing tests and submitting
capital plans that the Fed must approve before they can boost
payouts and share buybacks.  The Fed’s 25 economic variables in the tests include a
13 percent jobless rate and a 20 percent slump in  home prices .  Divergence  During the tests, the Fed has generally predicted banks
would suffer greater losses than what firms estimated in capital
plans that they submitted in January, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the results aren’t public. The
difference was generally low -- about 5 percent to 10 percent --
when the Fed estimated losses from trading, exposure to  Europe ’s
sovereign debt crisis, commercial lending and other non-consumer
risks, according to one person.  The divergence was greater when estimating losses linked to
consumers -- especially on mortgage-linked holdings and credit-
card loans -- where the Fed’s projections have in some cases
been almost double those of the banks, according to the person.  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Consumer Concern  “They’re very worried about the consumer,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner for the  Federal Reserve  Bank of
Philadelphia and analyst for FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
Virginia. Consumers have been stretched thin in recent years and
are vulnerable to economic pressures, he said. “If we go into
another recession, a lot of risk officers feel this is where the
damage will be done.”  Banks may be forced to raise capital if the Fed determines
they lack adequate reserves and can’t earn enough to maintain a
minimum capital ratio of 5 percent under the Fed’s most adverse
economic scenario, according to the two people. The Fed is
gauging how much capital banks have on hand to withstand a
severe recession and measuring firms’ abilities to generate
earnings to cover future losses, the people said.  “If you don’t make a lot of money, we don’t think the
Fed’s going to give you a blessing to return capital to
shareholders,” Miller said.  Bank of America  Bank of America Corp. ’s performance in the stress test may
be hurt most among the four biggest U.S. lenders if Fed’s
estimates for consumer-loan losses is greater than the financial
industry’s, Schorr and Miller said. The bank, ranked second by
assets in the U.S. behind  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , didn’t ask to
raise its dividend or buy back stock in its capital request to
the Fed, Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told analysts
in a Jan. 19 conference call.  “We didn’t ask for anything in the stress test,” Moynihan
said at a March 8 conference in New York. “The key is to just
get ourselves in the right position as we exit this year.” To
help shore up the company’s  capital base , Moynihan sold
$33 billion in assets and announced 30,000 job cuts last year.  Larry Di Rita, a spokesman for the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company, declined to comment.  “Bank of America would get the double-whammy of having a
large credit-card business but also the largest mortgage
exposure and also have not yet fully built back up their capital
and reserves,” Schorr said. “The only saving grace is they’re
not asking for a dividend or buyback.”  Failure’s Fallout  Any bank that fails a stress test may be barred from
returning capital to shareholders and forced to revise its
capital plan, which could include “actions to improve its
capital adequacy,” the Fed said in a Nov. 22 description of the
stress exams.  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  and  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  are among
regional lenders that may have difficulty passing the stress
tests, said Miller and Brian Foran, an analyst at Nomura. Both
have mortgage portfolios concentrated in  Florida , where home
prices have fallen 49 percent since the start of the crisis.  “The reason those guys have the most exposure is because
of where they are,” Foran said. “Florida is going to have a
lot of underwater real estate.”  SunTrust, based in Atlanta, and KeyCorp, based in
 Cleveland , are among banks that may find their plans to boost
payouts curtailed after the stress tests, Miller said.  “Both of them have been out there saying that they’re
going to pass this stress test and will return capital to
shareholders,” Miller said. “We think that capital return will
probably be disappointing.”  Mel Campbell, a spokesman for Birmingham, Alabama-based
Regions, and  Michael McCoy  at SunTrust declined to comment.
David Reavis, a spokesman for  KeyCorp (KEY) , didn’t respond to
messages seeking comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.com ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 