-- TFL Said to Seek Final Bids End of April Amid Strategic Interest
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-09T13:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/tfl-said-to-seek-final-bids-end-of-april-amid-strategic-interest.html
TFL Holding GmbH’s creditors will
seek second-round bids for the German leather-chemicals supplier
at the end of April to give time for suitors in  Asia  to evaluate
the company and fine-tune offers, three people familiar with the
situation said.  The asset has attracted interest from private equity as
well as manufacturers seeking to enter the leather-chemical
industry, said the people, who declined to be identified because
details are private. Rival suppliers  BASF SE (BAS) ,  Clariant AG (CLN)  and
 Lanxess AG (LXS)  are not in the process, the people said.  Efforts to consolidate among European suppliers of leather
chemicals have been hampered by low valuations. BASF abandoned
the sale of its leather and textile unit in March after offers
fell short of the company’s valuation. Competition from low-cost
producers in Asia is coinciding with a slowdown in demand in
some markets for leather bags and shoes. TFL may fetch bids of
as much as $264 million, other people with knowledge of the
situation have said.  Officials at TFL, BASF and Lanxess declined to comment.
Spokespeople at Clariant weren’t immediately available.  The deadline for submitting binding bids may slip to
accommodate more recent entrants to the sale process who still
need time to review the company and its debt situation, the
people said.  Stahl Holdings BV, owned by Paris-based buyout firm  Wendel
SA (MF) , is also a competitor of TFL’s. Spokeswoman Odila Sibrijns
wasn’t immediately available to comment.  TFL, which stands for Together For Leather, is being sold
on behalf of creditors seeking debt repayments taken on under
the ownership of private equity firm Odewald & Cie. Andreas
Ziegenhagen is the trustee overseeing the sale, advised by
Leonardo & Co. Odewald bought TFL, which has annual sales of
about 240 million euros, from Permira Advisers LLP in 2003 for
an undisclosed price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  