-- For Change.org, a Better World Is Clicks Away: Jonathan Alter
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-03-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/for-change-org-better-world-is-clicks-away-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
Everyone remembers how fast  EBay (EBAY) ,
Facebook, YouTube and other websites that have changed our world
grew.  It’s almost six years since Twitter was founded. What’s the
next web tool poised for explosive growth? It may be  Change.org ,
which boasts almost 10 million active users and is adding more
than a million users a month. The big question is not whether
its investors and about 100 employees will get rich off social
entrepreneurship. It’s whether Change.org will change the world.  That URL went through several lame incarnations in recent
years before becoming, in its own words, “a social action
platform that empowers anyone, anywhere, to start, join and win
campaigns for social change.” The site is neutral -- think
YouTube -- and hosts about 10,000 campaigns a month from more
than 150 countries. Some of them are sponsored by organizations
such as  Amnesty International  and the  Humane Society  that pay
the site to host their petitions; most, however, are homegrown
efforts focused on local issues.  So far, the online petitions have garnered anywhere from a
few dozen signatures to more than a million. The biggest -- with
more than 1.3 million signatures -- is one calling for passage
of Caylee’s Law, named after Caylee Anthony, which would make it
a felony for parents or guardians not to notify law enforcement
of a missing child within 24 hours.  Power Shift  Like Twitter, Change.org has the potential to reorder power
relationships in a hugely beneficial way.  In a brilliant forthcoming book, “ Why Nations Fail ,” MIT
economist Daron Acemoglu and Harvard political scientist  James
Robinson  analyze hundreds of years of world history to explain
that the fate of nations is determined not by culture, weather
or geography (look at the differences between North and South
Korea) but by the strength of political and economic
institutions.  Those countries with “inclusive” institutions that respond
to the will of the masses, not just the elites, succeed. Those
with “extractive” businesses and governments that use crony
capitalism (or crony socialism) to stifle competition and
exploit others, fail. Thus Nogales,  Arizona , is prosperous and
Nogales,  Mexico , just across the border is poverty stricken. The
authors argue that even economically successful regimes such as
 China ’s will founder if they don’t open up.  So with all the bad news in the world, it helps to
understand that what President  George H.W. Bush  called “a
thousand points of light” are growing almost exponentially, and
not only in the huge expansion of “changemakers” ( Ashoka 
Foundation founder William Drayton rightly prefers that to the
word “nonprofits”) that Bush cited.  Just as we learned that it takes only one terrorist to
shake the world, we now know that it takes only one changemaker
to begin fixing things, large and small. Technology now allows
that person to nudge the world even if they lack the charisma of
 Lech Walesa  or  Mahatma Gandhi .  It could be Molly Katchpole, a recent college graduate
working two jobs who was upset about a $5 debit-card fee tacked
on by Bank of America. After 300,000 signatures on Change.org
and some ensuing media attention, the bank cried uncle. Verizon
abandoned an online payment fee in 24 hours. Now AT&T executives
are resisting protests over their new policy of slowing down
data speeds for those who bought unlimited data plans. Good luck
with that one, fellas.  Better Storytelling  The site’s petitions have helped to achieve a variety of
goals. After Change.org campaigns, a judge ordered shackles
removed from a 13-year-old suspect, the National Park Service
reversed its position and reinstated a ban on plastic bottles in
the Grand Canyon, Amazon.com pulled whale and dolphin meat
products from its site, and scores of individuals have averted
deportation, been reinstated in jobs or avoided foreclosure.
When women in  Saudi Arabia  protested U.S. Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton’s refusal to speak up for their right to drive
on Change.org, they contributed to Clinton reversing her
position.  I’m especially intrigued by the site’s potential to
reinvigorate investigative reporting by making it seem less
futile. After a “This American Life” story on public radio,
250,000 people used Change.org to register their objections to
the working conditions at Apple’s Chinese suppliers. The company
went on to announce new transparency guidelines.  There’s no magic threshold of signatures that brings
victory. A young man started a campaign to get Blue Cross and
Blue Shield to continue insuring his father, who had come out of
a coma, for the course of his recovery. More than 180,000 have
supported his cause; the effort hasn’t attained its goal so far.  It may not be long before the power balance between
shareholders and consumers shifts further. The site, which hopes
to have 25 million users by next year, plans to integrate with
social media so that campaigns relating to brands will
automatically post on, say, the company’s Facebook wall.  Obviously, if every consumer petition led to changes that
severely cut profits, the economy (including the well-being of
the petitioners) would suffer. But we’re a long way from mob
rule of our institutions. In fact, Acemoglu and Robinson (who
don’t mention Change.org in the book) argue that the U.S. is in
danger of becoming more extractive.  The way forward is through better storytelling. Online
campaigns work best when they have narratives behind them --
plucky stories of average people crowd-sourcing their way to
power, as Katchpole did against Bank of America.  One big question is whether crowd-sourced advertiser
boycotts may be in the offing, perhaps against billionaires
trying to hijack the U.S. political system. Will people start
successful campaigns against Brawny Towels (the Koch brothers)
and the Sands and Venetian casinos ( Sheldon Adelson )?  Of course, ordinary people may care a lot more about the
environmental messages on the website of the animated movie  “The
Lorax”  (the target of a successful campaign launched by fourth-
graders) than they do about super-PACs. But that could change in
a flash on Change.org. “Every week brings some totally new use
of this,” says Benjamin Joffe-Walt, the site’s communication
director. “We have no idea where the whole thing is going.”  Joffe-Walt says the mission of Change.org is to be “the
most empowering organization in the world.” Don’t bet against
it.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 