-- Gazprom Neft Falls as NIS to Explore Geothermal Power in Serbia
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-03-09T20:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/gazprom-neft-falls-as-nis-to-explore-geothermal-power-in-serbia.html
OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the crude-
producing arm of Russia’s natural-gas exporter, fell in U.S.
trading as an agreement by majority-owned  Naftna Industrija
Srbije AD (NIIS)  to develop a new power plant raised concern capital
expenditure will increase.  American depositary receipts of Moscow-based Gazprom Neft
dropped 1.6 percent to $26.72 at 2:58 p.m. in  New York  and were
the second-biggest decliners on the  Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index (RUS14BN) 
of Russian companies listed in the U.S. They earlier fell as
much as 3.3 percent, the biggest intraday drop since Nov. 17.  NIS, the dominant  oil company  in  Serbia , signed a
cooperation agreement with the government of the northern
 Vojvodina  province and two Hungarian companies to develop a
power plant using geothermal energy and to supply local heating
plants from geothermal wells, the Belgrade-based company said in
a  statement  on its  website .  “Because Gazprom Neft has been generating quite a lot of
 cash flow , maybe the market is concerned they will start wasting
some of that cash flow on capital expenditure that is considered
either unnecessary or uncertain,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of
Russian shares at CF Global Trading in London, said by phone.
“Geothermal power in Serbia, that doesn’t sound like the kind
of thing they should be in. There may be question marks from
investors, why they’re moving in this direction.”  Gazprom Neft, which had $1.97 billion of free  cash  flow
last year, acquired the rights to 72 of 78 geothermal wells in
Vojvodina when it bought a majority stake in NIS from the
Serbian government in 2009.  Russia’s markets were closed yesterday and today for a
public holiday and local trading will resume on March 11, a
Sunday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko at  kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  