-- Germany to Install Record Solar Panels This Year, DIHK Says
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-03-09T11:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/germany-to-install-record-solar-panels-this-year-dihk-says.html
Germany  will probably install a
record amount of solar panels this year even as the world’s
biggest market for the industry plans to cut subsidies,
according to the DIHK national industry and trade chambers.  The DIHK expects 8 gigawatts of installations this year,
which would result in subsidy costs of 20 billion euros ($26
billion) in the next two decades, Martin Wansleben, managing
director, said by e-mail today. Germany added 7.5 gigawatts last
year, double the government’s target. More will be installed
this year as module prices drop to levels ensuring favorable
returns even with lower subsidies, he said.  “The competitiveness of small and midsized companies will
suffer as a result” as consumers finance the federal subsidies
via their power bill, Wansleben said.  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government is seeking to reduce
the annual pace of solar installations by half after incentives
for the industry pushed capacity past government targets.
Lawmakers in the Bundestag  debated today planned cuts of as
much as 29 percent to aid for the solar industry starting next
month.  The government earlier this week decided to postpone the
subsidy cuts for rooftop units by about three weeks to April 1
and give developers of larger ground-mounted  power plants  until
June 30 to complete their projects after protests from the
industry that the plans threaten tens of thousands of jobs. It
plans to lower subsidies further every month from May.  Opposition politicians have warned that the subsidy cuts
will depress installation levels and threaten domestic
manufacturers including  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and Conergy AG, which are
already struggling with rising competition from  China , where the
world’s three largest panel-makers are based.  Revised Forecast  “This government doesn’t want the energy transformation,”
Baerbel Hoehn, a lawmaker with the opposition  Green Party , said
today in the Bundestag, the lower house of parliament. “It
wants to keep the market open for the big utilities.”  Bloomberg New Energy Finance revised upward its German
installation forecast for the year to 5 gigawatts to 7 gigawatts
after the delay to subsidy cuts became public, with possible
first-half additions of 5 gigawatts.  “The postponement of the tariff cuts yet again in Germany
will result in a strong surge in installations in the first half
of 2012, as the returns at present tariffs remain favorable,”
said Martin Simonek, an analyst at London-based BNEF. “The
writing is on the wall for utility-scale PV in Germany and even
for commercial systems. However, the residential segment should
be fine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  