-- Germany Should Bolster Chancellor’s Drive for More Europe: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-09T00:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/germany-should-bolster-chancellor-s-drive-for-more-europe-view.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
spent the past two years trying to convince financial markets
that the single currency is good for  Europe  and is here to stay.  Stock-price gains and falling bond yields in 2012 would
suggest she has succeeded, at least temporarily, in doing that.
Now she just needs to do a better job of convincing her fellow
Germans.  Merkel may have managed to secure parliamentary approval
for Greece’s  second bailout  of 130 billion euros ($170 billion)
last month, but she hasn’t done enough to educate the electorate
on the benefits that the euro has brought to Europe’s biggest
economy over the past decade. As Angela Cullen reports in the
April issue of Bloomberg Markets magazine, repeated bailouts for
the euro area’s indebted countries have left  Germany ’s taxpayers
bewildered at the prospect of having to subsidize their less-
fortunate neighbors on a permanent basis. This wouldn’t be the
case if the country of 82 million people got behind Merkel’s
drive for “more Europe, not less Europe.”  Corporations have been the euro’s primary defenders in
Germany. It’s easy to see why: Total exports exceeded 1 trillion
euros for the first time last year, thanks in large part to a
currency that is much cheaper than an independent deutsche mark
would be. As Chief Financial Officer Joerg Schneider of  Munich
Re , the world’s largest reinsurer, has said, “We haven’t
pointed out enough that the euro is a massive export-support
instrument for Germany.” Clearly that message hasn’t found much
traction with an electorate that still yearns for the old
currency: Every second German wants the deutsche mark back,
according to a survey conducted in September by Focus magazine.  Statistics show the benefits reaped by Germans under the
euro. Exports have more than doubled in the past decade compared
with an increase of about 68 percent in the 10 years before the
euro’s introduction in 1999. With the help of labor reforms
under former Chancellor  Gerhard Schroeder , unemployment is now
6.8 percent compared with more than 10 percent when Germany gave
up the deutsche mark. Even though the fiscal burden may increase
to pay for bailouts, the top rate of tax paid by most Germans on
their personal income has dropped by more than 10 percentage
points under the euro. Bottom line: more money for Germans.  The nation’s taxpayers should note that abandoning the euro
may cost them more than staying in and providing bailout money.
If Germany left the euro, the cost would be as much as 8,000
euros for every German adult and child in the first year and
about 4,500 euros a person every year after that, UBS AG
economists  said  last year. By contrast, the cost of bailing out
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  entirely would be about 1,000 euros
per German -- in one single hit -- if those countries defaulted,
bondholders took a 50 percent “haircut” and the euro area
purchased all outstanding debt of the three nations.  Chancellor Merkel must appeal to Germans’ pocketbooks to
garner the support she needs to rescue the euro. She also has to
win over renegade elements within her Christian Democratic Union
party, and heal the rift that has emerged with her Free Democrat
coalition partners, to move the process forward. Her failure to
secure a “chancellor majority” in the Greek bailout vote and
the resignation of German President  Christian Wulff  amid an
investigation that may lead to corruption charges have left her
government politically vulnerable. She has until May 25 -- when
the Bundestag is scheduled to vote on the European Union’s
fiscal pact on tighter budget controls -- to muster support for
her debt-management strategy and the establishment of the
European Stability Mechanism as a permanent rescue fund.  We hope that the price of that support will not be the
introduction of a financial-transaction tax, which the German
opposition is calling for as a way to pay for the stimulus that
euro-area economies need. Such a tax will not only fail to
reduce volatility in financial markets, but will also end up
raising costs for retail investors and consumers.  At the same time, the chancellor -- and Europe -- can ill
afford to see Germany reject the fiscal pact, an idea that was
German-inspired. If Merkel manages to convince her government
and the German public that the euro is worth saving, her chances
of another term as chancellor will be much improved when
national elections come next year.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 