-- German Stocks Rise for Third Day as Greek Bondholders Sign Up to Debt Swap
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-03-09T16:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/german-stocks-rise-for-third-day-as-greek-bondholders-sign-up-to-debt-swap.html
German (SXXP)  stocks gained for a third day
after most private creditors agreed to a Greek debt swap and
German exports advanced more than analysts forecast.  Linde AG added 5.6 percent after the supplier of industrial
gases predicted an increase in earnings and sales this year.
 Metro AG (MEO) , the biggest German retailer, advanced after saying it
will merge the two units of its cash and carry unit into one
management board.  Merck KGaA (MRK) , the maker of the Victrelis
hepatitis C drug, climbed 3.2 percent as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) 
recommended buying the shares.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  rose 45.67, or 0.7 percent, to 6880.21 at the
close in  Frankfurt  after rallying the most in two months
yesterday. The index is heading for its second weekly decline in
2012. The broader HDAX Index also added 0.7 percent today.  “The very strong and positive result provides a major
opportunity now for  Greece  to move ahead with its economic
reform program,”  Josef Ackermann  , chairman of the  Institute of
International Finance , who is also chief executive officer of
Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “These are
important steps towards resolving the Greek debt crisis.”  The DAX has  rallied 17 percent  so far this year as the
 European Central Bank  lent regional financial institutions more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) for three years and U.S.
economic reports topped estimates.  U.S. Jobs  “The Greek debt swap marks the end of lower risks spurring
a climb in share prices,” said Witold Bahrke, a senior
strategist at PFA Pension A/S in Copenhagen, where he helps
manage $55 billion. “Investors look more to the real economy
again.”  A Labor Department report showed that the  U.S. economy 
added more jobs in February than forecast. The 227,000 increase
in payrolls followed a revised 284,000 gain in January, the
release showed. Job growth over the last six months was the
strongest since 2006. The median projection of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a 210,000 increase in the
workforce in February. The  unemployment rate  held at 8.3
percent.  Today is the third anniversary of the beginning of a  bull
market  in U.S. stocks that followed the housing crisis in 2008.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has more than doubled from its
13-year low on March 9, 2009, while the DAX has jumped 86
percent.  Greece said bondholders owning 85.8 percent of Greek-law
bonds agreed to the debt swap, enabling it to proceed with the
transaction. The government said it will trigger an option
forcing more investors to join, increasing the participation to
95.7 percent.  German Exports  German exports rebounded in January as the global economy
showed signs of recovery. Exports, adjusted for work days and
seasonal changes, increased 2.3 percent from December, when they
dropped a revised 4.4 percent, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists forecast a gain of 2 percent,
the median of 13 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed.
Imports increased 2.4 percent after declining 3.9 percent.  Linde AG (LIN)  rose 5.6 percent to 133.05 euros after saying
earnings and sales will increase this year as demand in  Asia  and
liquid-and cylinder-gas orders helped the world’s  second-biggest 
maker of industrial gases post higher-than-expected profit.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization jumped 8.6 percent to 847 million euros in the
fourth quarter, the Munich-based company said today. Analysts
predicted 808.3 million euros. Linde proposed a dividend of 2.50
euros a share, an increase of 14 percent.  Metro Gains       Metro (MEO)  rose 3.2 percent to 28.21 euros. The retailer, based
in Dusseldorf, will merge the two units of its cash and carry
unit into one management board to be led by Frans Muller as the
company restructures “to be able to respond faster to the
economic changes in our 30 countries,” Olaf Koch , Metro’s
chief executive officer, said in an e-mailed statement after the
market closed yesterday.  Merck gained 3.7 percent to 78.60 euros after Deutsche Bank
raised its rating on the stock to buy from neutral.  Fresenius Medical Care AG dropped 1.9 percent to 51.05
euros after the  German (SXXP)  dialysis provider said Chief Executive
Officer Ben Lipps will retire at the end of the year, and Rice Powell, who runs Fresenius’ North American unit, will replace
him.  Lipps, 71, has worked in the Fresenius dialysis division
since 1985. He became CEO and chairman of the management board
in 1999, when Fresenius Medical Care’s annual sales were $3.8
billion. Revenue totaled $12.8 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  