-- GM’s Buyers Reject ‘Obamamobile’ Volt as Campaign Heats Up: Cars
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/gm-s-buyers-snub-obamamobile-volt-as-campaign-gets-hot.html
Pity the  Chevy Volt . Ever since it
became known that the plug-in hybrid car’s batteries had burst
into flames after government crash tests, the Volt has become
the whipping boy of Republican politicians.  Conservatives have equated  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Volt with
everything from government bailouts to radical left-wing
environmentalism.  “Although we loaded the Volt with state-of-the-art safety
features, we did not engineer the Volt to be a political
punching bag,” GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said
during a Congressional hearing on the Volt in January. “And
that, sadly, is what the Volt has become.”  Republican presidential hopeful  Newt Gingrich  faulted the
Volt for its lack of space for a gun rack. Front-runner  Mitt Romney  called it “an idea whose time has not come.” American
Tradition Partnership Inc., a conservative group, referred to
Volts as “exploding Obamamobiles.”  Akerson said all the trash talk about the Volt has been
pinching sales. Obama’s challengers, though, see it as an
effective way to resonate with their voters. Republicans buy
Silverado pickups and other Chevrolets in greater numbers than
Democrats do, said Art Spinella, who studies new-vehicle buyers
as president of CNW Marketing Research in Bandon,  Oregon .  While Chevy customers tend to lean conservative, less than
14 percent of Volt buyers so far this year identify themselves
as Republicans while about 53 percent call themselves Democrats,
according to CNW survey of 1,416 people. Buyers of the Chevrolet
brand as a whole were 37 percent Republican, 22 percent Democrat
and 41 percent independent.  Disappointing Sales  Politics aside, Volt sales have been a source of
disappointment for GM. The Environmental Protection Agency gave
it a 95 mpg rating for city driving, less than half the 230 mpg
rating GM had anticipated in 2009. After the battery fires
became public in November, 2011 sales fell short of Akerson’s
goal and following slow sales in January and February, GM
decided to stop making the cars for five weeks.  While the government’s investigation found the Volt to be
as safe as other vehicles, they are complicated and expensive
for a small car at nearly $40,000 before a federal tax credit.
 Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf electric car missed its sales targets
last year, too, raising questions about the size of the market
for technology-laden fuel-efficient vehicle.  Republican Bashing  It’s impossible to know to what degree political rhetoric
is hurting Volt sales, but Akerson isn’t alone in believing the
numbers would look better without the Republican bashing.
Chevrolet dealers in the U.S. sold 7,671 Volts last year,
missing GM’s target of 10,000. About 1,600 Volts were sold in
the first two months of the year, a pace that doesn’t match
Akerson’s plans to deliver 45,000 in the U.S. this year. At
least part of that gap is a result of attacks on the campaign
trail, Spinella said.  Buyers from the political center to the right, “will not
buy a car that has anything at all that they perceive being
associated with the administration,” Spinella said.  While the Volt accounted for less than 0.1 percent of the
world’s largest automaker’s sales last year, it is getting
heightened attention because “it’s a hallmark car,” Akerson
told reporters in  San Francisco  this week.  After the announcement last week that work would stop for
five weeks at the Detroit-Hamtramck where the Volt is made,
Reince Priebus, chairman of the  Republican National Committee ,
posted on Twitter about it with the hashtag “#ObamaonEmpty.”  The  Volt , introduced a month before Obama said he would run
for president, can go more than 30 miles on electricity before
its gasoline engine kicks in and powers a generator to recharge
the battery. The car has a range of 379 miles with both electric
and gasoline power combined.  Lutz Outraged  Bob Lutz , the former vice chairman at General Motors who
helped develop the Volt, said he’s angered that the car has
become politicized.  “I don’t mind criticizing Obama, I don’t mind criticizing
the Democrats and, you know me, I think global warming is a huge
hoax perpetrated by the global political left,” Lutz said.
“But when it comes to starting to tell outright lies to advance
your political purposes and damage an American company that is
greatly on its way back, hurt American employment in Hamtramck,
 Michigan , I just think it’s totally outrageous.”  Lutz, a Republican, said he voted for former U.S. Senator
 Rick Santorum  in the Michigan Republican primary in part because
former Massachusetts Governor Romney wrote an opinion piece in
the New York Times in 2008 headlined “Let Detroit Go Bankrupt”
about his opposition to a GM bailout.  Obama’s Role  After President  George W. Bush  extended emergency loans to
GM’s predecessor, Obama’s administration managed its $50 billion
bailout. The U.S. still holds 32 percent of the  GM shares , which
have gained 26 percent this year after falling 45 percent in
2011.  Obama has embraced the Volt’s fuel-saving technology and
said it’s his choice for a new car once he’s no longer president.  “It was nice,” he told a United Auto Workers audience on
Feb. 28 about sitting in one. “I’ll bet it drives real good.
And five years from now when I’m not president anymore, I’ll buy
one and drive it myself.”  Representative Mike Kelly, a Republican from  Pennsylvania ,
who owns a Chevrolet dealership in Butler, said he doesn’t sell
the Volt at his store because it’s too expensive for his
customers, who would be better served with a cheaper Cruze.
While it may be an engineering marvel, it’s too far out for his
customers, he said.  “It’s still just not a viable alternative to the market
that I serve in western Pennsylvania,” he said. “I just don’t
have people coming in to buy that car.”  Social Issues  The Volt not only personifies the bailout for Republican
candidates, it also plays to other controversial issues such as
class and environment. On the campaign trail, for example,
Gingrich, the former U.S. House speaker, has peppered his stump
speech with comments about the Volt, including during a stop Feb.
17 caught by C-Span.  “The average family that buys it earns $170,000 a year and
this is Obama’s idea of populism and in his new budget he wants
to increase the amount given to every Volt buyer to $10,000,
which is an amount which would allow a lot of people to buy a
decent secondhand car but it wouldn’t be an Obama car,”
Gingrich said to cheers in Peachtree City,  Georgia . “But here’s
my point to folks: You can’t put a gun rack in a Volt.”  “So let’s be clear what this election is all about,”
Gingrich continued. “We believe in the right to bear arms and
we like to bear the arms in our trucks.”  The Volt “can do a lot of things,” including tote a gun
rack, responded Selim Bingol, vice president of GM’s global
communications, on a company blog. “But if you are looking for
a vehicle for your next hunting trip, it may not be your first
choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in  Detroit  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  