-- Gold Bulls Strengthen as Wagers Hit $131 Billion
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-03-09T18:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/gold-bulls-strengthening-as-bullion-wagers-reach-131-billion-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bullish in
four months after investors accumulated more metal than ever and
 hedge funds  raised bets on gains to a five-month high.  Sixteen of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices
to gain next week and one was neutral, the highest proportion
since Nov. 11. Investors increased their holdings in exchange-
traded products backed by bullion for seven consecutive weeks
and now hold 2,407 metric tons valued at $131 billion, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Demand for gold is strengthening as European leaders seek
to contain the region’s debt crisis and governments from the
U.S. to the U.K. keep interest rates at all-time lows to shore
up growth. The Federal Reserve and Bank of England have bought
debt and the  European Central Bank  offered unlimited three-year
loans to the region’s lenders, actions that spurred some
investors to buy gold as protection against inflation.  “Record-high ETP holdings show both institutional demand
and hedge-fund demand is robust,” said Mark O’Byrne, the
executive director of Dublin-based GoldCore Ltd., a brokerage
that sells and stores everything from quarter-ounce British
Sovereigns to 400-ounce bars. “People are concerned about
inflationary implications of quantitative easing, zero-percent
 interest rates  policy and global currency debasement.”  Bank of America  Gold rose 9.3 percent to $1,711.90 an ounce this year on
the Comex in New York, heading for a 12th annual advance. That
compares with a 9.5 percent jump in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge of 24 commodities and a 10 percent appreciation in the
MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities. Treasuries fell 0.5
percent, a Bank of America Corp.  index (MXWD)  shows.  Hedge funds and other money managers increased bets on
higher prices by 10 percent to 197,552 futures and options in
the week ended Feb. 28, the highest level since Sept. 6,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. The CFTC will
publish the latest data later today.  The most-traded options on March 7 were  call options  giving
owners the right to buy gold at $1,900 and $1,850 an ounce by
April 25, data from the Comex show. The most widely held
contract confers the right to buy at $2,200 by July 26.  The economy of the 17-nation euro region may shrink 0.1
percent in 2012, compared with a previous forecast for 0.3
percent growth, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday.
Inflation will probably breach the bank’s 2 percent limit this
year, he said in  Frankfurt . Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  lowered
the country’s annual growth target to 7.5 percent, the lowest
since 2004, in a state-of-the-nation speech on March 5.  Benchmark Rate  The ECB left interest rates at a record 1 percent yesterday
and the  Bank of England  also held its benchmark rate at an all-
time low of 0.5 percent. In January, the Fed extended its pledge
to keep its benchmark rate for overnight loan between banks at
almost zero at least through late 2014.  Gold futures tumbled 4.3 percent on Feb. 29 after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  failed to signal in testimony to
Congress that the central bank will take new steps to boost
liquidity. The metal dropped below its 200-day moving average on
March 6 for the first time since mid-January. That’s a sign for
some investors who study charts of trading patterns and prices
to predict trends that a rout has further to go.  “Gold is going to struggle a bit in the next couple of
weeks,” said Walter de Wet, the head of commodities research at
Standard Bank Plc in  London . “If gold goes to $1,720 and
higher, we’ll start to see physical appetite waning. Gold is
also going to find it difficult to rally just yet from an
investment perspective, with all the talk around no more
quantitative easing from the Fed.”  Warren Buffett  Warren Buffett , the third-richest person in the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, said last month in his annual letter to
shareholders that investors should avoid gold because its uses
are limited and it doesn’t have the potential of farmland or
companies to produce new wealth.  Supply is “very tight and tightening” and mine costs are
rising, Randgold Resources Ltd. Chief Executive Officer  Mark
Bristow  said in an interview in Toronto on March 7. Price swings
will likely increase this year, with gold trading from $1,500 to
$2,000, said the executive, whose company mines gold in  Africa .
The futures reached a record $1,923.70 in September.  Fifteen of 27 traders and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
expect copper to advance next week. The metal for delivery in
three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark contract,
rose 12 percent to $8,500 a ton this year after declining 21
percent last year.  Raw Sugar  Thirteen of 17 people surveyed expect raw sugar to fall
next week. The commodity gained 1.4 percent this year to 23.63
cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Twelve of 26 people surveyed anticipate lower corn prices
next week, while 14 of 26 said soybeans will drop. Corn fell 0.6
percent to $6.425 a bushel this year as soybeans gained 11
percent to $13.355 a bushel.  “There are a lot of risks out there,” Jason Schenker, the
president of Prestige Economics LLC in Austin,  Texas , said in a
Bloomberg Television interview March 7. “Gold is an inflation
hedge, it’s a risk hedge. Think of it as one of the major
reserve currencies, but it’s not subject to a default.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  