-- Goldman Sachs Raises Conflicts to a High Art: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-03-09T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/goldman-sachs-raises-conflicts-to-a-high-art-jonathan-weil.html
Right after a Delaware state judge
issued his ruling last week in a shareholder lawsuit contesting
Kinder Morgan Inc.’s purchase of  El Paso Corp. (EP) , the public
finger-wagging aimed at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  began.  Goldman, some pundits wrote, had emerged as the biggest
loser of the bunch. The bank’s conflicts of interest in advising
El Paso on the deal had been castigated by an esteemed jurist as
breathtakingly over the top. Once again, Goldman had sullied its
precious reputation. And so on, critics said.  While it’s always fun to fantasize about Goldman losing at
anything, one gnawing question stands out: What exactly did the
company lose? The answer is nothing, as far as I can tell.
Actually, it won big.  Consider these facts: El Paso’s board knew that Goldman
owned a  19 percent  stake in  Kinder Morgan  worth about $4 billion
when the companies’ buyout talks began last year. The directors
knew Goldman controlled two seats on Kinder Morgan’s board. They
were aware that Goldman had every incentive to maximize its own
investment and fleece El Paso’s shareholders. Yet they turned to
Goldman anyway for advice on responding to Kinder Morgan’s
takeover overtures.  El Paso probably could have gotten a better price from
Kinder Morgan had its representatives, including Goldman, been
more faithful and less conflicted, Delaware Chancery Court Judge
Leo Strine said. The difficult question he faced was whether to
do anything about it. He decided he shouldn’t, concluding that
any remedy he tried to fashion would do more harm than good.  Done Deal  He didn’t block the proposed $21.1 billion transaction
between the two Houston-based pipeline operators. The sale will
 go through . Goldman, the world’s top-ranked takeover adviser
based on deals announced last year, still gets its $20 million
fee from El Paso. In all likelihood, nothing about this episode
will stop anyone else from hiring Goldman in the future. Plus,
Strine said it’s doubtful Goldman could be held liable for any
damages, based on the facts known so far.  Maybe Goldman’s reputation did take a hit. Yet after so
many scandals the past few years, including the company’s $550
million fraud-claim settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in 2010, you have to wonder if this new one matters.  Nobody was fooled last year when Goldman’s chairman and
chief executive officer,  Lloyd Blankfein , made a spectacle of
unveiling a new set of fluffy  business principles  pledging to
put clients’ interests  first . It’s not the principle that counts
in this business. It’s the money. And on this occasion, Goldman
got a sweet deal.  Nothing was left to chance, it seems. Steve Daniel, the
lead Goldman banker advising El Paso, personally owned $340,000
of stock in Kinder Morgan. This point wasn’t disclosed to El
Paso, although it’s hard to imagine its directors would have
cared much. They already knew he was horribly conflicted,
because of his employer’s $4 billion stake in Kinder Morgan.
What would their complaint have been? That he was really, really
conflicted?  Not surprisingly, Goldman’s analyses of El Paso’s options
pointed toward accepting Kinder Morgan’s offer. Goldman
supposedly set up a “Chinese wall” to keep its bankers
conflict-free. And a second bank,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , was brought in
to advise El Paso. The judge said the wall wasn’t effective,
though. (As if these things ever are.) Goldman made sure the
terms were set so that Morgan Stanley got paid only if Kinder
Morgan bought the company, Strine wrote.  A deal benefitting Kinder Morgan may have been what some of
El Paso’s bosses wanted. As Strine explained, El Paso’s CEO and
chairman, Douglas Foshee, didn’t tell his board that he and
other El Paso managers wanted to buy back El Paso’s energy
exploration-and-production business from Kinder Morgan for
themselves, after the deal was negotiated.  Warped Incentives  Foshee’s incentive was to limit the sale price that El Paso
got, not maximize it. “Not forcing Kinder Morgan to pay the
highest price possible for El Paso was more optimal than
exhausting its wallet, because that would tend to cause Kinder
Morgan to demand a higher price for the E&P assets,” Strine
wrote. The board had given Foshee sole responsibility for
negotiating the company’s sale from the outset. As for Kinder
Morgan, it drove a hard bargain, as it was entitled to do.  So what did Goldman do wrong? Its bankers seem to have
behaved like sharks. Guess what? Investment bankers are sharks.
Goldman’s reputation was reinforced, not damaged.  If El Paso’s shareholders dislike the deal, they can vote
against it. The vast majority won’t. There is no competing
bidder, because El Paso’s board didn’t seek one. What El Paso
shareholders lost was the possibility that another company might
have offered a higher premium than Kinder Morgan did. There’s no
way to know if anybody would have.  While the conflicts here may have been extreme, managers
and buyout advisers at big companies pull similar escapades all
the time, skimming corporate resources for themselves at the
expense of passive shareholders. (Foshee stands to receive about
$90 million once the sale is completed.) There usually isn’t
much outsiders can do about it, which is something everyone
should understand before they buy stock in a public company.  As for the notion that Goldman lost? Come on. It was paid
$20 million for advising a client in a deal where Goldman itself
was on the other side. What’s amazing is that El Paso let
Goldman pull this off.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  