-- JPMorgan Buys Emission Credits From Kenya Water Filters
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-09T17:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/gold-standard-wins-voluntary-co2-credits-for-kenya-water-filters.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  bought
voluntary emission credits from a first-of-its-kind project that
distributed water filters in  Kenya , said ClimateCare, which is
helping market the  Gold Standard Foundation  credits.  Vestergaard Frandsen SA,  the Lausanne, Switzerland-based
provider of health and emergency services, earned about 1.4
million metric tons of credits in its first tranche, an
unspecified portion of which were bought by JPMorgan, Edward Hanrahan, chief executive officer of ClimateCare, said in a
phone interview from London.  Credits have been sold at a price of more than 8.75 euros
($11.48) a ton, Hanrahan said, declining to be specific. That’s
more than double the price of United Nations Certified Emission
Reduction credits for December, which dropped 8.5 percent to
4.01 euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  as of
3:44 p.m. local time.  The LifeStraw Carbon For Water program distributed 877,505
water filters in Kenya’s western province, curbing the need to
boil water for drinking, a process that produced  greenhouse
gases  and caused deforestation, Gold Standard  said today  by e-
mail. The behavioral change is expected to produce more than two
million tons of emission reductions annually, according to
Vestergaard Frandsen’s website.  The Gold Standard, a voluntary offset standard that
emphasizes sustainable development, put together a methodology
for the LifeStraw project that includes a calculation of
suppressed demand.  Suppressed Demand  Suppressed demand calculates CO2 emission reductions in
poor areas against a benchmark that represents so-called minimum
service levels for heat, water and light. These levels measure
an acceptable standard of living, which many communities have
not yet achieved. This means that projects that include a
calculation for suppressed demand may earn more credits than the
actual reductions they achieve.  Without including the notion of suppressed demand in
methodologies used to calculate how many credits should be
created,  emissions trading  can encourage growth in greenhouse
gases, Adrian Rimmer, Gold Standard’s CEO, said by phone.  “There’s a perverse incentive to go on a high-carbon
growth pattern and then decarbonize,” he said.  Under the project, more than 4 million people get clean
drinking water without burning wood because each household has a
filter used by about 5 people.  “You can use carbon finance to make a difference to
people’s lives,” Rimmer said.  Applying Suppressed Demand  The Clean Development Mechanism, the biggest UN offsetting
market, is assessing the notion of suppressed demand.  “The Gold Standard is working with the German government
to explore ways of applying suppressed demand to expand access
to carbon finance in  Africa  and other poor regions that have
historically been excluded from its benefits,” according to the
statement.  CDM credits can be used by factories and power stations in
the European Union carbon market. The EU has banned some credits
after CDM Watch, the environmental lobby group, claimed in 2010
that they were “bogus.”  ClimateCare, which was sold by JPMorgan last year in a
 management buyout , still helps manage the New York bank’s
portfolio of voluntary credits, Hanrahan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  