-- Disney, McDonald’s, Oracle, PepsiCo: U.S. Equity Preview
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-03-12T13:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/google-michael-kors-new-frontier-u-s-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in U.S. trading tomorrow. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and prices are as of 8:45 a.m. in  New York .  Ann Inc. (ANN)  : The women’s clothing retailer is poised
to rise to the mid-$30s in the next 12 to 18 months if its Ann
Taylor revenue recovers and margins improve, Barron’s reported,
citing Marshall Kaplan of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.  CBS Corp. (CBS)  : Profit for the owner of the most-
watched  broadcast network  will climb by $180 million this year,
helped by political advertising, Chief Executive Officer Les
Moonves said at a conference.  Glencore International Plc (GLCNF)  (GLCNF US) surged 30.9 percent
to $8.31. The largest publicly traded commodities trader made a
3.5 billion-pound ($5.49 billion) bid for  Viterra Inc. (VT)  ,  Canada ’s largest grain handler, The Sunday Telegraph
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  : The Web search engine owner
increased its share of the U.S. market to 66.4 percent in
February, according to comScore.  Harman International Industries Inc. (HAR)   increased 1.1
percent to $48.55. The maker of audio equipment for cars and
homes is poised to rise 20 percent as more drivers equip their
vehicles with satellite navigation displays and voice-
controllable communication devices, Barron’s reported.  Masimo Corp. (MASI)  : The maker of medical devices said
it acquired Spire Semiconductor LLC to speed up development and
reduce costs. The financial terms weren’t disclosed.  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  : Shares of the world’s largest
restaurant chain may be overpriced, Barron’s reported in its
“The Trader” column.  Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS)  (KORS US) fell 3.6 percent to
$47.80. The luxury-goods maker and retailer named for the
designer who founded it filed for a secondary offering of 25
million shares.  New Frontier Media Inc. (NOOF)  : The Boulder, Colorado-
based adult entertainment company confirmed it received an
unsolicited buyout offer from Longkloof Ltd. at $1.35 a share.
New Frontier rose 17 percent to $1.32 on March 9 after Longkloof
said it made the offer.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   fell 1.6 percent to $29.65. The
world’s second-largest software maker was cut to hold from buy
at Jefferies Group Inc., citing “greater challenges” to its
engineered systems strategy.  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)   increased 18.9 percent
to $4.40. The drugmaker, which is developing obesity treatments,
was raised to buy from neutral at Bank of America Corp.  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  (PEP US) increased 0.8 percent to $63.65. The
world’s largest snack-food maker said that former executive
 Brian Cornell  rejoined the company as chief executive officer of
the Americas foods division. Current Americas foods CEO John
Compton was promoted to president of the company.  Varian Medical Systems Inc. (VAR)  : The maker of
radiation equipment used to treat cancer was raised to buy from
above average at Caris & Co.  Velti Plc (VELT)  (VELT US) increased 16 percent to $11.41. The
mobile phone marketing company reported fourth-quarter revenue
of $87.1 million, beating the average analyst estimate of $81.7
million.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  : The largest U.S. entertainment
company by market value was raised to buy from neutral at Janney
Montgomery Scott.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  