-- Greek Swap Will Raise All Euro-Region Debt Costs, Armstrong Says
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-03-09T11:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/greek-swap-will-raise-all-euro-region-debt-costs-armstrong-says.html
Greece ’s decision to force losses on
some bondholders will drive up borrowing costs for all European
nations, according to Armstrong Investment Managers LLP.  “The market will demand a risk premium for all euro-zone
bonds, even from Germany, following today’s restructuring,”
 Patrick Armstrong , a managing partner at the London-based  money
manager  that oversees about $350 million, said today in an e-
mailed response to questions. “Over the long-term this will
lead to higher borrowing costs for everyone, as a risk-free rate
does not exist.”  Greece said today it will achieve a 95.7 percent
participation rate in its debt exchange after activating so-
called collective action clauses to force losses on investors.
The swap is intended to prevent the nation from missing a debt
payment by reducing 206 billion euros ($273 billion) of
privately held Greek debt by more than 50 percent. It will be
the biggest restructuring in history.  Armstrong holds a “small amount” of  Greek notes  due March
20 and will be forced to participate in the swap by the CACs, he
said.  German  10-year yields  were little changed at 1.80 percent
at 10:42 a.m. London time, after falling to 1.77 percent on
March 7, the lowest since Jan. 16. The rate on similar-maturity
French bonds fell three basis points to 2.87 percent. Spanish
10-year bond yields were 10 basis points lower at 4.96 percent.  “Euro ministers have repeatedly said Greece is a one off,
and private-sector involvement will not happen anywhere else,”
Armstrong said. “We believe their rhetoric will prove worthless
should the euro-zone economy take a turn for the worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 