-- Greece Pushes Bondholders Into Record Debt Swap
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-03-09T17:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/greece-debt-swap-tops-95-level-to-trigger-forced-bondholder-participation.html
Greece  pushed through the biggest
sovereign restructuring in history after getting private
investors to forgive more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion)
of debt, opening the way for a second bailout.  Euro-region finance ministers agreed on a conference call
that with the swap Greece had met the terms for a 130 billion-
euro rescue package designed to prevent a collapse of the
economy. Ministers freed up 35.5 billion euros in payments and
interest for bondholders, with a decision on the balance of the
bailout funds to be made at a March 12 meeting in Brussels.  “It would be a big mistake to think we are out of the
woods,” German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
reporters in Berlin after the call today. “We have a chance of
making it. And we have to seize that opportunity.”  Stocks rose while the euro fell after the government in
 Athens  said it will trigger an option forcing some investors to
take part in the exchange. Officials from the International
Swaps and Derivatives Association called a meeting today to
consider a “potential  credit event ” relating to Greece, while
 Fitch Ratings  cut the nation’s long-term foreign and local
currency issuer default ratings to “Restricted Default.”  Participation Rate  Investors with 95.7 percent of Greece’s privately held
bonds will participate in the swap after so-called collective
action clauses are triggered, the  Finance Ministry  said.
Bondholders tendered 152 billion euros of Greek-law bonds, or
85.8 percent, and 20 billion euros of foreign-law debt. Greece
extended its offer to holders of non-Greek law bonds to March
23, after which sweeteners will no longer be available.  The result was “very strong and positive,” said  Josef Ackermann , chairman of the Washington-based Institute of
International Finance, which led negotiations with the Greek
government on behalf of private bondholders. “These are
important steps towards resolving the Greek debt crisis,
addressing the overall fiscal and sovereign debt problems in the
euro area, and restoring financial stability.”  The goal of the exchange was to reduce the 206 billion
euros of privately-held Greek debt by 53.5 percent. The swap
dwarfs  Argentina ’s 2005 restructuring, previously the largest,
when that nation sought to exchange $81.8 billion of sovereign
debt.  CDS Contracts  Even with the restructuring almost completed, Greece faces
hurdles. Europe’s most indebted nation will be saddled with
borrowings equivalent to 120.5 percent of gross domestic product
by 2020 under current targets. The Greek government must
continue to meet the terms laid down by its international
creditors to receive aid payments at three-monthly intervals.
Elections in April or May might still upend adherence to the
measures demanded.  Greek GDP was 7.5 percent lower in the fourth quarter than
a year earlier, the Hellenic Statistical Authority said today.
The economy is mired in a fifth year of recession.  Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said that
participation “surpassed expectations” and the Cabinet
approved plans to activate the collective action clauses that
had been retroactively added to the bonds. Forcing bondholders
to participate may trigger $3 billion of insurance payouts under
rules governing credit-default swap contracts.  “This is a dangerous precedent,”  John Wraith , fixed-
income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television. For Greece, “yes, it is
probably necessary, but it is just another hurdle crossed rather
than some sort of solution.”  ‘Sanctity Lessened’  The euro weakened for the first time in three days,
dropping 1.3 percent to $1.3105 as of 6:07 p.m. in Berlin. The
Stoxx  Europe  600 Index gained 0.5 percent to 265.44.  For bond investors, “the rules have been changed here,”
 Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The sanctity of
their contracts is certainly lessened. Bondholders have that to
look forward to going into the future.”  The writedown is a key element in European leaders’ efforts
to turn the tide against the crisis that first emerged in Greece
in late 2009, then forced Ireland and  Portugal  to follow Greece
in requiring bailouts.  Germany and  France , Europe’s two biggest economies that
have steered the euro-area’s response to the crisis, welcomed
the debt-swap take-up. The swap was a “great success” and
“good news,” and “hits all the objectives we set ourselves,”
French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said on RTL Radio.  Merkel ‘Pleased’  Chancellor Angela Merkel  is “pleased” about the “high
level of participation of private creditors,” Steffen Seibert,
her chief spokesman, said in Berlin. It is “an encouraging
result that will help put Greece on a path to stability. What’s
important now is for Greece to seize the opportunity offered by
this debt swap, meaning it implements the agreed programs.”  Greece’s largest banks, most of the country’s pension funds
and more than 30 European banks and insurers including BNP
Paribas SA and  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , had said they would agree to the
offer before it closed yesterday at 10 p.m. Athens time.  In the exchange, investors will receive new bonds with a
face value of 31.5 percent of the old ones together with notes
from the European Financial Stability Facility. The new debt is
governed by  English law  and comes with warrants that will
provide extra income in years when Greek economic growth exceeds
thresholds. The net present value loss for investors is more
than 70 percent.  “Despite all the justified happiness about this issue we
have to note that Greece is only buying time,”  Michael Kemmer ,
general manager of the BdB Association of German banks, said in
an interview with Deutschlandfunk radio. “This is an important
step -- the private sector showed solidarity. That’s good, but
the work has only just begun.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  