-- Greek Credit Swaps Payouts to Be Expedited After Trigger Ruling
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-10T00:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/greek-debt-deal-might-trigger-3-billion-of-default-swaps-under-isda-rules.html
A committee of credit-default swaps
traders will expedite an auction to settle about $3 billion of
contracts tied to  Greece  after the nation took steps to force
investors to participate in the biggest sovereign-debt
restructuring in history.  Traders will hold the auction March 19 to “maximize” the
number of bonds that can be used to set payout amounts, the New
York-based International Swaps and Derivatives Association said
on the committee’s  website  yesterday. Auctions, which set a
recovery value on the underlying bonds, typically are held about
a month after credit events are triggered.  The viability of credit swaps as a hedge for about $257
billion of government debt was questioned after ISDA rejected a
request on March 1 to declare whether the swaps were triggered
because the restructuring effectively subordinated private
investors to the  European Central Bank . Banks,  hedge funds  and
institutional investors use swaps to protect against losses or
to speculate on creditworthiness.  “It’s important to keep investor confidence in this
instrument as it will affect the ability of sovereigns to issue
bonds,” according to Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, who said the decision
will “restore confidence” in the market. “If you want to
attract investor demand, you have to offer them an instrument
that will allow them to hedge exposure, and CDS is the best
instrument for that.”  Collective Action  Greece’s use of collective action clauses, or CACs, in its
debt restructuring triggers payouts on the contracts, ISDA’s
determinations committee said in a statement yesterday. Before
the ruling, the cost of five-year Greek swaps rose to a record
$7.68 million upfront and $100,000 annually to insure $10
million of debt.  Investors with 95.7 percent of Greece’s privately held
bonds will participate in the swap after the CACs are triggered,
the  Finance Ministry  said. Bondholders tendered 152 billion
euros ($199.5 billion) of Greek-law bonds, or 85.8 percent, and
20 billion euros of foreign-law debt. Greece extended its offer
to holders of non-Greek law bonds to March 23, after which
sweeteners will no longer be available.  ‘Preliminary List’  “ISDA has already been working with members to put
together a preliminary list” of bonds that can be used in the
auction, ISDA General Counsel David Geen said on a conference
call with reporters yesterday.  The committee is considering “the range of obligations
that are either currently outstanding or may be outstanding once
some of these exchanges occur,” ISDA Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Pickel  said on the call.  In a restructuring credit event, investors have the right
to choose whether to settle their contracts.  Policy makers including former ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  opposed payouts on Greek swaps on concern traders would
be encouraged to bet against failing nations and worsen the
region’s debt crisis.  A swaps trigger “raises the question of which country is
next and which banks are most exposed,”  Hank Calenti , a bank
analysts at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in a note.
“Less than six months ago we had the head of the ECB exhorting
that there must be no credit event on Greece.”  Swaps Stigma  While policy makers had hoped to achieve debt
sustainability in  Europe ’s most indebted nations without
triggering default swaps, political determination to avoid the
stigma of a credit event waned as Greece struggled to meet the
terms of its bailout.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the nation to selective
default on Feb. 27 after the government retroactively inserted
CACs into bond terms. Moody’s Investors Service, which
downgraded the nation’s sovereign rating to its lowest level of
C on March 2, said today it considers the nation to have
defaulted.  Greece reached its target for participation in the debt
restructuring after using CACs to force the hand of holdouts.  “I’ve been surprised throughout at the strong desire not
to trigger CDS,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , a fixed-income analyst
at Investec Bank Plc in London. “This should be good for anyone
seeking protection elsewhere, such as Spain or  Italy .”  ISDA’s Geen said the determination should resolve concerns
that credit swaps aren’t effective hedges.  Issue ‘Moot’  “That issue, of course, is moot at this point,” he said,
“but we think it’s a fair question.” ISDA definitions contain
“a number of conditions that must be met before a credit event
can occur, which are important to balance the interests of the
buyer and the seller,” he said.  Credit-default swaps on Greece cover $3.16 billion of debt,
down from about $6 billion last year, according to the
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. That compares with a swaps
payout of $5.2 billion on Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  The actual payout on Greece will be “much smaller” than
the net amount reported by DTCC, Pickel said. A gross $68.9
billion of contracts were outstanding as of March 2 before
accounting for offsetting trades.  While there were concerns at the time about a daisy chain
of losses if counterparties failed to meet their commitments,
the settlement of swaps guaranteeing debt of Lehman, as well as
 Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , were “orderly” and caused no major
disruptions for the market, according to regulators.  Restructuring Events  Swaps on western European governments can pay out on a
credit event triggered by failure to pay, restructuring or a
moratorium on payments. A restructuring event can be caused by a
reduction in principal or interest, postponement or deferral of
payments or a change in the ranking or currency of obligations,
according to ISDA rules. Any of these changes must result from
deterioration in creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors
and be binding on all holders.  The determinations committee which decides whether a credit
event has occurred consists of representatives from 15 dealers
and investors. The group, which includes  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Pacific Investment Management Co. and Morgan Stanley, rules
after a request is made by a market participant.  The trigger is “a better outcome for markets,” said Jason Brady, a managing director at Thornburg Investment Management
Inc., which oversees about $81 billion from  Santa Fe ,  New
Mexico . “It means people got what they expected. Yeah, Greece
defaulted. We’re not changing that fact at all; why make other
parts of the market say something different just because you
don’t like that part of the market?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  