-- Greece’s New Bonds Yield More Than Portugal’s on Growth, Repayment Concern
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-03-09T20:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/greek-psi-bonds-due-february-2024-bid-price-21-5-cents-offered-at-22-64.html
Greek government bonds due to be
issued after the nation’s debt swap is completed were priced at
less than 30 percent of face amount, signaling concern the
country will struggle to repay its revised obligations.  While the debt swap is “a big step forward, it’s not
totally out of the woods yet,” said Mohit Kumar, the head of
European fixed-income strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .
“There is a premium still demanded for  Greece .”  Greece’s economy shrank 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter
from the same period in 2010, the Athens-based Hellenic
Statistical Authority said today. The contraction, based on non-
seasonally adjusted data, was wider than a Feb. 14 preliminary
estimate of a 7 percent contraction, the authority said.  The 2 percent bonds maturing in February 2023 were bid at
25.5 cents on the euro at 4:25 p.m. London time, BNP Paribas SA
data on Bloomberg showed. They were offered at 26 cents,
according to Jefferies Group Inc. That left the yield on the
securities bid at 19.7 percent and offered at 19.42 percent, the
data showed. Portuguese securities maturing in October 2023
yielded less than 14 percent.  The so-called gray market for the new Greek debt is trading
actively as prices have risen about 7 cents on the dollar to
yield about 15 percent to 20 percent, according to a person
familiar with the trades who declined to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to discuss the transactions.  “The market will price” Greek bonds “at a premium to
 Portugal ,” said Kumar.  ‘Feeling its Way’  The bids shown by BNP Paribas rose from less than 20 cents
on the euro at the start of the day.  “The market is feeling its way and you get a feel for what
it’s worth by trading it,” said  Steven Major , global head of
fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “There’s
an argument that holders got a fairly good deal in the end based
on where the market was priced. But this is deeply distressed
debt, like trading high-yield securities.”  Greece said today it will achieve a 95.7 percent
participation rate in its debt exchange after activating so-
called collective action clauses to force losses on investors.
It will be the biggest restructuring in history.  Bondholders tendered 152 billion euros ($199 billion) of
Greek-law bonds, or 85.8 percent, and 20 billion euros of
foreign-law debt. Greece extended its offer to holders of non-
Greek law bonds to March 23, after which sweeteners will no
longer be available.  Second Default  “The debt-swap results show that international markets see
the prospects the Greek economy has to regain a sustainable
fiscal situation,” Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
told lawmakers in  Athens  in comments televised live on state-run
Vouli TV. Participation “surpassed expectations,” he said.  Greece’s use of collective action clauses forcing investors
to take losses under the nation’s debt restructuring will
trigger payouts on $3 billion of default insurance, the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association said. A total
4,323 credit-default swap contracts can now be settled after
ISDA’s determinations committee ruled the use of CACs is a
restructuring credit event.  Markets are pricing a second default for Greece,  Bill
Gross , co-chief investment officer at Pacific Investment
Management Co., said in a radio interview with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt on “ Bloomberg Surveillance .”  ‘Material Risks’  Greek bonds that will mature in February 2042 after the
debt swap, the longest-dated of the securities, were bid at
22.25 cents on the euro and offered at 24.75 according to BNP
Paribas prices.  The price of existing Greek notes due on March 20 rose to
27.97 percent of face value. Prices on Greek bonds under
international law ranged from 82.75 cents to 5 cents.  Yields reflect “material risks” stemming from the
implementation of the debt swap as the nation faces an election
and seeks to comply with terms of its bailout and debt-reduction
programs, New York-based Morgan Stanley said yesterday in a
research report.  The market may receive as much as 65 billion euros of new
Greek bonds with an average maturity that’s increased to 20
years from seven years, Morgan Stanley strategists Paolo Batori
and Robert Tancsa and economist Daniele Antonucci wrote in the
report. Absent “surprises,” the securities may stabilize at
about 25 cents, they wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Dobson  in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  