-- Gross Says Greece Weakens Bond Contract Sanctity: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-09T20:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/gross-says-sanctity-of-bond-contracts-is-diminished-by-greece-s-debt-swap.html
The “sanctity” of bondholders’
contracts has been diminished by  Greece ’s pushing through the
biggest sovereign restructuring in history, according to  Bill Gross  of Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The rules have been changed here,” Gross, co-chief
investment officer at Pimco, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “The
sanctity of their contracts is certainly lessened. Bondholders
have that to look forward to going into the future.”  Greece drove through its debt swap after cajoling private
investors to forgive more than 100 billion euros ($132 billion)
of debt, opening the way for a second rescue package. The
subordination of private bondholders to government organizations
such as the  European Central Bank  may have added as much as 1
percentage point to bond yields, Gross said.  Greece’s use of collective action clauses forcing investors
to take losses under the nation’s debt restructuring will
trigger payouts on $3 billion of default insurance, the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association said. A total
4,323 credit-default swap contracts can now be settled after
ISDA’s determinations committee ruled the use of CACs is a
restructuring credit event.  Pimco, based in  Newport Beach ,  California , is a member of
the ISDA committee.  ‘Full-Nelson’  “I would suggest overwhelmingly that the CDS is going to
be triggered,” Gross, the founder of Pimco and manager of the
world’ biggest bond fund, said before the ISDA decision. “It’s
sort of like a half-nelson or even a full-nelson in wrestling
terms being applied to bondholders under Greek law. They’re all
being forced to go along.”  Yields on Greece’s new bonds may climb to as high as 20
percent amid “material risks” stemming from implementation of
terms for the biggest sovereign restructuring in history, Morgan
Stanley said yesterday in a report.  Traders are offering to buy and sell the potential new
bonds at yields on 11-year securities of 22 percent, according
to a person yesterday familiar with the prices who declined to
be identified because he wasn’t authorized to comment. Pimco has
said that the firm doesn’t own any Greek debt.  “I’m not forecasting a second default but the markets
certainly are,” Gross said. “Markets expect another one down
the road.”  Gray Market  The so-called gray market for the new Greek debt is trading
actively as prices have risen about 7 cents on the dollar to
yield about 15 percent to 20 percent, according to a person
familiar with the trades who declined to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to discuss the transactions.  In the U.S., employers boosted payrolls more than forecast
in February, capping the best six-month streak of job growth
since 2006. The jobless rate held at 8.3 percent. The 227,000
increase in payrolls followed a revised 284,000 gain in January
that was bigger than first estimated, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington .  “It’s a good number, not just the headline but also the
revision,” Mohamed El-Erian, who shares the title of chief
investment officer with Gross, said today in an “In the Loop”
interview with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television. “It’s
indicative of a healing process. We’re not yet at escape
velocity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  