-- Gross Reduces Treasuries for First Time in Year From Fund
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-03-09T22:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/gross-cuts-total-return-fund-s-treasury-holdings-for-first-time-in-a-year.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., cut
holdings of Treasuries last month for the first time since
eliminating the securities from his portfolio in February 2011.  Gross reduce the proportion of U.S. government securities
in Pimco’s $252 billion Total Return Fund to 37 percent of
assets, from 38 percent in January, according to a report on the
company’s  website . He raised mortgages to 52 from 50 percent,
the highest level since June 2009. Pimco doesn’t comment
directly on monthly changes in its portfolio holdings.  U.S. government-backed mortgage bonds have returned 0.59
percentage point more than similar-duration Treasuries this
year through yesterday, according to Barclays Capital index
data. Mortgages have gained in part on speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may expand purchases of the securities as part of its
stimulus measures to keep the economic recovery going.  “We like mortgages at the moment,” Gross, co-chief
investment officer and founder of  Newport Beach , California-
based Pimco said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “‘Mortgages are a
potential source of Fed purchasing going forward.”  In January, Gross raised the fund’s U.S. government and
Treasury holdings to the highest level since July 2010 after
missing a market rally by eliminating the securities from the
portfolio last year.  Fund Assets  The Total Return Fund attracted $835 million of investor
deposits in February as performance rebounded. The new money
marked a second month of assets going into the fund, after three
straight months of redemptions, according to data compiled by
Chicago-based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Investors pulled about $3 billion
from the fund in the three months ended Dec. 31, bringing
withdrawals last year to $5 billion, Morningstar said.  Gross’s  fund  has returned 6.34 percent in the past year,
beating 45 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 2.91 percent this year, beating 96 percent
of its peers.  Meanwhile, Treasuries have lost 0.5 percent in 2012 as of
yesterday, compared with a return of 9.8 percent last year, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master index shows.  Pimco increased holdings of emerging-market debt to 10
percent in February from 9 percent the previous month and
reduced bonds of non-U.S. developed nations to 7 percent from 11
percent.  Playing Defense  Gross pared the  Total Return Fund (PTTRX) ’s net cash-and-equivalent
position to negative 31 percent, from negative 35 percent in
January. It can have a so-called negative position by using
derivatives, futures or by shorting.  He recommended last month that investors should embrace a
defensive strategy because of the limits of zero-bound  interest
rates  and systemic debt risk in global financial markets.  Emphasize income, de-emphasize derivative structures that
are fully valued and be willing to accept returns lower than
historical averages, Gross wrote in his monthly investment
outlook posted on the company’s website on Feb. 28.  “The offensively oriented investment world that we have
grown so used to over the past three decades is being
stonewalled by a zero-bound goal-line stand,” he wrote.
“Investment defense is coming of age.”  Pimco’s government and Treasury debt category includes fund
holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures and inflation-
protected securities.  The firm, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.36 trillion of assets as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  