-- Payroll Growth Means Fed is Right to Stay on Hold: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-09T19:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/growth-in-payrolls-means-federal-reserve-is-right-to-stay-the-course-view.html
Today’s employment figures are
welcome evidence that a real economic recovery is under way in
the U.S.  That doesn’t mean there aren’t risks in the outlook at home
and abroad. There’s still a lot of ground to make up and some
difficult restructuring to complete. (Of the 8.8 million jobs
lost since 2008, about 3.5 million have been recovered.) But the
recovery looks firmer, and that’s good.  The economy added 227,000 jobs in February, according to
the new  report . That was a bit more than already-optimistic
market analysts had expected. (The Bloomberg consensus forecast
had called for a rise of 210,000.) Better still, the strong
figures for December and January were revised upward, by 20,000
and 41,000 respectively, so the average monthly increase in
payrolls over the three months was 245,000.By the standards of
previous recoveries, that’s respectable but hardly spectacular.  The headline  unemployment  rate was unchanged at 8.3
percent. That’s less disappointing than you might think.
Increasing numbers of people who had dropped out of the labor
market began looking for work again last month, which raises
measured unemployment. So long as hiring is strong enough to
draw discouraged workers back into the hunt, the headline
 unemployment rate  will understate the rate of healing in the
economy.  And it is hugely desirable that discouraged workers return
to the labor force. If they don’t, the unemployment rate will
fall faster, but the economy’s ability to support higher  living
standards  will be permanently impaired -- as though a part of
its stock of capital had been destroyed.  Where does the report leave monetary policy? In recent
congressional  testimony ,  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  sounded a note of caution about the improving labor
market. Jobs are growing faster than you would expect, he said,
given the relatively sluggish expansion in output. How this
apparent anomaly will be resolved remains to be seen, but the
latest confirmation of strength in the labor market makes it
unlikely that the jobs recovery will turn out to have been an
illusion.  With unemployment still much  higher  than it should be and
 labor-force  participation (despite the recent improvement) too
low, it’s far too soon to think of tightening monetary policy.
In fact, with inflation well suppressed and short-term interest
rates at zero, a case can be made for further unorthodox
loosening, something the Fed has discussed and is keeping under
consideration.  But the Fed’s policy-making committee was divided on this
before the new jobs numbers, and the firming labor market will
make inflation hawks even more reluctant to give way.  Fears of rising inflation seem exaggerated now, but they
shouldn’t be dismissed. The great unknowns as the recovery
proceeds are whether this exceptionally severe recession has
damaged the economy’s long-term productive potential, and how
far the structure of the economy needs to change as spare
capacity runs down. The bigger the permanent loss of capacity,
and the greater the needed realignment of the economy (making
it, for instance, less dependent than in the past on investment
in housing), the sooner rising demand will hit supply-side
buffers.  Before that happens, the focus will need to shift to
preventing inflation. Some Fed governors were already
questioning the recent commitment to keep  interest rates  very
low until the end of 2014 -- a promise that constitutes
unorthodox monetary loosening in its own right.  Higher labor-force participation, as shown in February’s
jobs numbers, should ease their concerns by signaling extra
space for non-inflationary growth, but it probably won’t. While
the Fed is divided, it will be reluctant to act one way or the
other. At some point, that could be dangerous. For the moment,
given the uncertainties, a holding pattern for monetary policy
looks wise.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 