-- Gundlach’s DoubeLine Total Return Leads in Fund Deposits
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-03-09T20:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/gundlach-s-doubleline-bond-fund-led-in-deposits-last-month-after-2011-gain.html
Jeffrey Gundlach ’s $20.9 billion
 DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund (DBLTX) , which outperformed 99 percent
of rivals last year, attracted more money than any other U.S.
mutual fund in February.  Gundlach’s fund, which invests in mortgages, pulled in a
net $2.43 billion, according to data from Chicago-based
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Five  index funds  managed by Vanguard Group Inc.
ranked among the month’s 10 best-selling funds.  “Most investors loaded up on credit last year and
underweighted U.S. government bonds,” Gundlach said today in a
telephone interview, explaining his 2011 performance. “We did
the opposite.”  Gundlach’s flagship fund has grown rapidly since it was
created by Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP in April
2010, four months after he was ousted as investment chief at TCW
Group Inc., which is also based in  Los Angeles . The fund has
quadrupled in size over the past year, driven by investment
gains and rising contributions from investors.  “Gundlach did well last year when other fixed-income
managers stumbled,” Geoff Bobroff, a mutual fund consultant in
East Greenwich, Rhode Island, said in a phone interview. “The
halo continues to follow him.”  DoubleLine Total Return gained 2.7 percent this year
through yesterday, beating 96 percent of competitors, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Last year the fund returned 9.5
percent.  The $54.7 billion  Vanguard Total Bond Market II Index Fund (VTBNX) 
won $2.07 billion in deposits in February, second-most among
U.S. mutual funds, Morningstar data show. The $164 billion
Vanguard Total Stock Market Index Fund ranked third in new cash
with $1.3 billion.  Appetite for Indexing  “Investors continue to have a healthy appetite for index
products,”  John Woerth , a spokesman for Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based  Vanguard Group , said in an e-mail.  Vanguard attracted $5.66 billion to its U.S exchange-traded
funds in February, more than any competitor, according to
Boston-based State Street Corp. Of the $1.8 trillion Vanguard
manages, about 58 percent is in index products, a mix of mutual
funds and ETFs, Woerth said. Most ETFs track indexes and trade
throughout the day like stocks.  Several high-profile bond managers failed to keep pace with
their peers in 2011 as investors looking for safety piled into
U.S. Treasuries. Bill Gross’s $252 billion  Pimco Total Return
Fund (PTTRX) , the world’s biggest mutual fund, returned 4.2 percent last
year, trailing 69 percent of rivals, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The $21 billion  Loomis Sayles Bond Fund (LSBDX) , run by
 Dan Fuss , gained 3.8 percent, worse than 68 percent of similar
funds.  Mortgage-Backed Securities  Gundlach, 52, bought long-duration mortgage-backed
securities last year that performed much like Treasuries, he
said. Treasuries returned 9.8 percent in 2011, according to the
Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. Treasury Master Index.  Investors have noticed Gundlach’s record. Over the past six
months his largest fund won more than $9 billion in deposits;
investors pulled more than $600 million from Gross’s fund over
the same stretch, Morningstar data show.  DoubleLine Total Return’s gains this year have come mainly
from its investments in non-agency mortgage-backed securities,
Gundlach said. Pimco Total Return is up 2.9 percent in 2012;
Loomis Sayles Bond has returned 6.3 percent.  DoubleLine Capital LP has amassed about $29 billion in
assets in a blend of mutual funds, separate accounts and  hedge
funds . Gundlach, chief executive officer of the firm, said with
existing personnel DoubleLine could manage as much as $50
billion.  “At some point we will have to decide if that is our
limit,” Gundlach said. “Eventually we could reach a point
where we may have to think about shutting down some
strategies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  