-- Iceland Foods CEO Walker Purchases U.K. Frozen Food Chain for $2.3 Billion
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-03-09T17:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/iceland-foods-ceo-walker-acquires-u-k-supermarket-chain-for-2-3-billion.html
Iceland Foods Ltd. Chief Executive
Officer  Malcolm Walker  teamed up with investors including DFS
Furniture founder Graham Kirkham to acquire the budget U.K.
supermarket chain from its Icelandic owners for 1.45 billion
pounds ($2.3 billion) after fending off rival bids.  The CEO, who started the chain in 1970, and the investors
will buy the 77 percent stake held by  Landsbanki Islands hf  and
Glitnir Bank hf, according to a statement today. Walker and
senior managers will own 43 percent of the equity, and will take
operational and board control. Kirkham, South African private-
equity firm Brait SE and Dubai-based retailer Landmark Group
Ltd. will hold the remaining 57 percent.  Landsbanki and Glitnir have been seeking a buyer for their
stake in the Deeside, Wales-based retailer since last year,
having gained control in 2009 after the collapse of Baugur Group
hf. Bain Capital LLC and BC Partners Ltd. had also submitted
offers for Iceland, a person familiar with the matter said last
month. Walker had the right to match the highest bid.  “I am utterly delighted that we have been able to conclude
a deal,” Walker said in the statement. Iceland has been “one
of the U.K.’s best performing food-retailers” since the current
senior management team returned in 2005, he said.  Credit Suisse Group AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Holdings
Plc, Nomura and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc provided 860
million pounds in a so-called all-senior debt package. Walker,
who will become Iceland chairman as part of the deal, is also
receiving a 250 million-pound vendor loan note.  Enterprise Value  Former managing director Andy Pritchard will retire and
won’t participate in the buyout.  The transaction values all of Iceland Foods’ equity at 1.55
billion pounds, and gives the company an enterprise value, or
the sum of its equity and net debt, of 1.45 billion pounds.  Iceland’s sales growth was faster than that of the U.K.
grocery market in the last three months, according to Kantar
Worldpanel data. The owner of more than 700 stores has a 2.1
percent share of U.K. supermarket spending.  Iceland increased sales by 5.9 percent to 2.4 billion
pounds in the financial year ended March 25, while pretax profit
rose 15 percent to 155.5 million pounds.  Walker’s team was advised by Rothschild. Deutsche Bank,
HSBC and Nomura also provided financial advisory services in
connection with the transaction. Bank of America Merrill Lynch
and UBS AG managed the sale of Iceland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  