-- IDB to Lend $1.1 Billion a Year for ‘Climate-Friendly’ Projects
-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-09T20:32:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/idb-to-lend-1-1-billion-a-year-for-climate-friendly-projects.html
The Inter-American Development Bank (ITAD) 
may loan as much as $1.1 billion a year for “climate-friendly”
projects in Latin America through 2015 as renewable-energy
developers struggle to find financing.  The loans would spur investments in as much as $10 billion
of publicly and privately funded ventures aimed at cutting
greenhouse-gas emissions, including renewable energy, Jean-Marc
Daniel Aboussouan, infrastructure chief for the Washington-based
lender, said today in an e-mail.  The IDB plans to direct a quarter of its future lending to
projects that combat climate change or that will help countries
deal with its effects, as part of a $70 billion capital raise
 approved  last month. The funds will be particularly helpful in
countries where cheap commercial credit for renewable-energy
developers is scarce, he said.  “Part of our role is to fill the gap” left over from the
2008 financial crisis, Aboussouan said. “Long-term financing
options today are much reduced compared to a couple of years
ago.”  The IDB, which lends to 26 countries in  Latin America  and
the Caribbean, furnished about $11 billion of loans last year,
up from about $7 billion before 2008, Arnaldo Vieira de
Carvalho, lead senior energy specialist at the energy division
of the IDB, said in a telephone interview from  Washington .  The 25 percent target is aligned with nations’ efforts to
diversify their  energy supply  and will lead to more funds
directed to renewable-energy projects, especially wind farms
which are growing in popularity, he said.  “Many of the countries in our region have gone through
legal and regulatory reforms to promote renewable energy.”
Aboussouan said.  Historically, about 40 percent of IDB energy-infrastructure
loans have gone to large hydroelectric dams, 20 percent to rural
electrification, 20 percent to transmission lines and the
remainder to other power projects, Vieira de Carvalho said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in  Sao Paulo  at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  