-- IFG Rises After Approach for Trustee Business: Dublin Mover
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-03-09T10:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/ifg-rises-after-approach-for-trustee-business-dublin-mover.html
IFG Group Plc (IFG)  rose the most in more
in than 10 months after saying it received an unsolicited
approach for its International Corporate Trustee Services
division.  IFG  gained  as much as 25 cents to 1.5 euros, the biggest
intraday gain for the Dublin-based financial services provider
since May 4, and was trading up 10 cents as of 10:00 a.m. The
stock rose 5.5 percent yesterday.  “This announcement is made in light of recent share price
movements,” IFG said in a statement today, without naming the
potential bidder. “It should be carefully noted that the
approach is recent, at an initial stage and is subject to
significant conditionality and caveats.”  IFG said in September that talks on a takeover bid for the
entire company with private equity investors Bregal Capital LLP
concluded without a bid after a deal at 1.8 euros a share became
difficult. IFG, which provides financial advice and administers
personal pensions programs, said in November earnings are “on
track” as a whole after a strong performance in the first half.  The International division contributed 35 percent of IFG’s
operating profits in the first half, at about 4.2 million pounds
($6.6 million), with revenue of 16.6 million pounds, according
to figures from Dublin-based stockbroker Davy.  Davy estimates on a full-year basis that profit at the
business will fall to 8.5 million pounds from 9.5 million pounds
a year earlier, as activity levels fall, according to a note
today.  “Although activity levels in the industry generally have
been impacted by a global slowdown, it is an attractive business
with a high level of recurring income,”  Emer Lang , an analyst
with Davy said.  The approach may or may not advance and there is no
assurance of a formal offer, IFG said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  