-- Tiger Woods Trails Leaders Scott, Dufner by Six Shots at Cadillac Golf
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/tiger-woods-trails-leaders-scott-dufner-by-six-shots-at-cadillac-golf.html
Adam Scott  and  Jason Dufner  share a
two-stroke lead and Tiger Woods trails by six shots going into
round two of the Cadillac Championship, the second World Golf
Championships event of the year.  Scott and Dufner are 6 under par after a blustery opening
day at the TPC Blue Monster Course at Doral,  Florida . Thomas Bjorn and Charl Schwartzel are 4 under, one ahead of a group of
eight players that includes U.S. PGA champion Keegan Bradley and
Steve Stricker.  Woods, who has won the title six times, began with an eagle
before carding four bogeys and two birdies to end alongside  Phil Mickelson  and eight others at level par.  “The wind was blowing putts around and it made for a very
challenging round,” Woods told reporters yesterday. “I played
some really solid golf and just couldn’t quite make enough
birdies.”  In three tournaments on the U.S.  PGA Tour  this year, Woods
has finished in ties for 15th and 17th place and as runner-up to
Rory McIlroy at the Honda Classic on March 4 after he shot an 8-
under 62 in the final round. Woods hasn’t won on the PGA Tour
since September 2009.  There’s no halfway cut at the Cadillac Championship, which
features 74 players -- including all of the top 50 players in
the  Official World Golf Ranking .  McIlroy, who replaced  Luke Donald  as world No. 1 with his
win at the Honda Classic, is 1 over, Donald is 2 under and Lee Westwood, who’s ranked third, is 4 over. The three played
together yesterday.  “It was a bit of a struggle,” McIlroy told reporters. “I
felt a little flat out there.”  Garcia’s Blowout  Sergio Garcia , who was playing with Woods, was 5 under
after 12 holes. He then ended his round with five straight
bogeys and a triple-bogey seven on the last hole to finish at 3
over par.  Defending champion  Nick Watney  is 1 under after a round
that contained five birdies and four bogeys.  Donald Trump  said he plans to spend more than $200 million
on renovating Doral’s 700-room hotel and four golf courses after
he completes his $150 million purchase of the resort out of
bankruptcy in June.  “It needs a lot of work, it’s a little bit tired,” Trump
told reporters yesterday. “It’s a tremendous location, 800
acres right smack in the middle of Miami, and we’ll look to make
this one of the great places anywhere in the world for golf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 