-- IMF’s Lagarde Says U.S. Growth Outlook May Be Revised Upward
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-03-09T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/imf-s-lagarde-says-u-s-growth-outlook-may-be-revised-upward.html
The  International Monetary Fund  may
raise its growth forecast for the U.S. on signs the recovery is
picking up, managing director  Christine Lagarde  said.  Lagarde said today the fund will be releasing new forecasts
in about a month. “I wouldn’t be surprised if it was upward
compared with our previous forecast of 1.8” percent for 2012,
she said in an interview on the “Charlie Rose” show broadcast
on PBS and Bloomberg Television.  “The monetary policy is doing everything it can to actually
support the economy and encourage investment,” Lagarde said.
The  Federal Reserve  has given “security and certainty about
 interest rates  for the next few years, which is really ideal
when you are in an investing position.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded more than forecast in the fourth
quarter as companies rebuilt inventories in anticipation of
growing demand. Gross domestic product climbed at a revised 3
percent annual rate, the most since the second quarter of 2010,
Commerce Department figures showed last week.  Consumer
confidence  improved last week to a four-year high as personal
finances were bolstered by a resilient stock market, faster job
growth and rising wages.  Still, Lagarde said the U.S. needs to overcome some
challenges. “There are the long-term issues of the deficit and
the debt and you have the short term issue of housing in
particular that really needs to be addressed and which is a
concern for the current administration,” Lagarde said.  Greek Debt Swap  On the Greek debt swap, she said, “as we speak, it looks
like the numbers will be promising.”  Private investors agreed to swap about 85 percent of their
Greek  government bonds  for new securities in the biggest
sovereign debt restructuring in history, according to a banker
briefed on the results.  “The real risk of an acute crisis has been for the moment
removed,” Lagarde said. Greek authorities have to make “sure
that expenses are kept under control and the revenues are
increased.”  Lagarde said the euro region will not split up “or the
euro will become irrelevant.” She said leaders still need to
build a firewall to contain the crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  