-- Linde Predicts 2012 Gain After Quarterly Profit Beat Estimates
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-03-09T06:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/linde-predicts-2012-gain-after-quarterly-profit-beat-estimates.html
Linde AG (LIN)  predicted an increase in
earnings and sales this year after demand in Asia and liquid-
and cylinder-gas orders helped the world’s second-biggest maker
of industrial gases report higher-than-expected profit.  Operating profit, or earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization rose 8.6 percent to 847 million
euros ($1.12 billion) in the fourth quarter, the Munich-based
company said today in a statement. Analysts had predicted 808.3
million euros, according to a Bloomberg survey. Linde will
propose an annual dividend of 2.5 euros a share, it said today.  Linde’s forecast echoes that of larger rival  Air Liquide
SA (AI) , which last month predicted higher annual profit as it boosts
investment in  China , Russia and the  Middle East . Linde Chief
Executive Officer Wolfgang Reitzle is accelerating growth with
the acquisition of  Air Products & Chemicals Inc. (APD) ’s home care
business, which it’s buying for $752 million.  “The group believes that global megatrends, energy and the
environment, health and healthcare and the emerging economies
will provide good opportunities so that it will be able to
continue to achieve sustainable, profitable growth,” the
company said in the statement.  Quarterly sales rose 3.3 percent to 3.58 billion euros,
missing a 3.60 billion-euro estimate. Net income gained 3.6
percent to 318 million euros, beating the 289.1 million-euro
estimate of the Bloomberg survey.  Linde is sticking to a goal to cut costs by as much as 800
million euros by 2012 as it buys more goods in low-cost
countries and reduces the number of gas-production plants it
offers. The company also reiterated a target for operating
profit of at least 4 billion euros in 2014, it said today.  Linde’s purchase of the home-care business, which supplies
oxygen to patients, will almost double the German company’s
sales from this product area, positioning it among  Europe ’s top
suppliers of home-care respiratory products, Linde said in
January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  