-- India’s Central Bank Cuts Reserve Ratio as Cash Squeeze Threatens Economy
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-03-10T05:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/india-s-central-bank-cuts-reserve-ratio-as-cash-squeeze-threatens-economy.html
India ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut the amount of deposits lenders need to set aside as reserves
to ease a cash squeeze in the banking system that threatens to
deepen an economic slowdown.  The  Reserve Bank  of India reduced the  cash reserve ratio  to
4.75 percent from 5.5 percent, according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday. The move, the first such action outside a
policy meeting since July 2010, will add 480 billion rupees
($9.6 billion) into lenders, it said. The bank last reduced the
ratio by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, on Jan. 24.  The unscheduled step before a March 15 policy review
underscores the RBI’s concern that a shortage of cash in the
banking system will hurt the economy, forecast to expand at the
slowest pace in three years in the fiscal period ending March
31. Asian nations including China and the  Philippines  have eased
monetary policy to spur growth amid  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “The strong and surprise action by the RBI is aimed at
ensuring that the rapid deterioration in growth momentum is
arrested,” said Shubhada Rao, chief economist at  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES) 
in Mumbai. “The CRR cut will help alleviate the stress in the
banking system and guide the liquidity deficit to lower
levels.”  Lenders borrowed an average 1.33 trillion rupees a day from
the Reserve Bank so far this month, according to central bank
data. That’s more than double the 600 billion-rupee limit
favored by the monetary authority and signals a shortage of
funds.  ‘Comfort Level’  The reduction in the  cash reserve ratio , which was
announced after markets closed yesterday, is effective from
March 10, according to the statement. The central bank lowered
the ratio to its lowest level since 2004 in anticipation of
companies withdrawing money from the system to pay taxes by a
March 15 deadline.  “The liquidity deficit is expected to increase
significantly during the second week of March due to advance tax
outflows,” the central bank said in the statement. “Thus, the
overall deficit in the system persists above the comfort level
of the Reserve Bank.”  The rupee strengthened 0.9 percent to 49.8550 per dollar at
the close in Mumbai yesterday. It has rebounded about 6.5
percent so far in 2012 after sliding 16 percent last year, the
worst fall in  Asia . The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  advanced 2.1
percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021
rose four basis points to 8.29 percent.  Cash availability with Indian lenders dropped after the
central bank bought rupees to stem the decline in the currency,
and companies borrowed to finance imports, said  Roy Paul , a
deputy general manager at  Federal Bank Ltd. (FB)  in Mumbai.  BRIC Nations  Economic expansion in India is already waning after the
central bank raised  interest rates  by 3.75 percentage points
between March 2010 and October 2011 to tame the fastest
inflation among BRIC nations that include Brazil, Russia and
China. India’s gross domestic product rose 6.1 percent in the
final quarter of 2011 from the year earlier period. That’s the
weakest expansion since the first quarter of 2009.  To ease the liquidity shortage in the banking system, the
Reserve Bank has also injected about 1.2 trillion rupees this
fiscal year purchasing  government bonds , the central bank said.  China  reduced the amount of cash that banks must set aside
as reserves by half a percentage point to 20.5 percent from Feb.
24. The Philippines central bank lowered the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4 percent on March 1.  “The current liquidity situation is hurting economic
growth and that explains the emergency move,” said Vivek Rajpal, a Mumbai-based fixed-income strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “The stressful liquidity condition is not healthy
for expanding credit needs of the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  