-- Mining Grab Fuels Biggest South Africa Stock Outflows Since ’08
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-03-09T15:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/mining-grab-fuels-biggest-s-africa-stock-outflows-since-08-1-.html
Foreign investors are selling South
African  equities  at the fastest pace in four years, even as they
buy stocks in the biggest emerging markets, on concern policy
makers will seek a larger share of the nation’s mining profits.  International investors sold 7.9 billion rand ($933
million) of South African equities in the first two months of
this year, on track for the biggest first-quarter outflow since
2008. Developing-country equity mutual funds lured $20.6 billion
in the same period, the best start to a year since 2006, said
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm  EPFR Global .  A study commissioned by President  Jacob Zuma ’s ruling
African National Congress party proposed increasing taxes on the
mining industry last month, while the party’s youth wing has
lobbied for a government takeover of gold and platinum mines to
boost employment in Africa’s biggest economy. Raw-materials
producers posted the biggest declines among 10 industries in the
 MSCI South Africa Index (MXZA)  this year as  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  retreated.  “We are not getting our share” of foreign investment,
said Ian Cruickshanks, the Johannesburg-based head of treasury
strategic research at Nedbank Group Ltd., South Africa’s fourth-
largest bank. “The threat of nationalization has a heck of a
lot to do with that.”  The MSCI South Africa Index has climbed 4.9 percent this
year as of March 8, compared with a 15 percent gain in the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   BRICS Laggard  Slower economic growth than in  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and
 China  also is reducing investor demand for South African
equities, Michael Power, a global strategist at Investec Asset
Management in  Cape Town , said in a Feb. 23 phone interview.  South Africa’s economy will probably expand 2.7 percent
this year, the  Finance Ministry  said last week, less than the
3.4 percent estimated in October. China, the biggest emerging
economy, set a long-term growth target of 7.5 percent on March
5. India may expand 7 percent this year, compared with 3.3
percent in Russia and 3 percent in Brazil, according to the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund .  “Investors are seeing growth opportunities elsewhere in
the world, in high-beta markets, and are using South Africa to
fund that,” Power said.  Impala Platinum, the world’s biggest producer of the metal,
has retreated 6.2 percent in Johannesburg trading this year. The
Illovo-based company has  85 percent of its assets  in South
Africa and the remainder in neighboring  Zimbabwe .  AngloGold
Ashanti  has lost 12 percent. The world’s third-largest gold
producer has 22 percent of its assets in South Africa.  Relative Value  This year’s 3.3 percent drop in the MSCI South Africa
mining index has left it valued at 2.2 times net assets,
compared with 1.8 times for MSCI’s gauge of global mining
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The South
Africa measure’s 21 percent premium over the global index is the
 smallest  since July, the data show.  Mine ownership will be discussed at a party policy
conference in June, Enoch Godongwana, the head of the ANC’s
economic policy committee, told reporters in Johannesburg on
March 5. South Africa is the world’s biggest producer of
platinum, chrome and manganese and commodities account for 64
percent of exports from the $388 billion economy.  The ANC study proposed the introduction of a “resources
rent tax” on all mining operations once they earn returns
greater than about 15 percent annually and advised the
government to consider working with labor unions to exert
greater control over key mining companies. At the same time, it
said nationalization of mines would lead to “economic
disaster” and cause foreign investors to flee.  Youth Wing  Seizing mines wouldn’t be a “smart strategy” for South
 Africa  and changes to taxes or ownership will only be made after
extensive consultation with the industry, Trevor Manuel, the
country’s planning minister, told the Mining Indaba conference
in Cape Town on Feb. 6.  The ANC youth wing, which helped Zuma defeat former
President Thabo Mbeki for the leadership of the party, will keep
pushing for nationalization, Ronald Lamola, deputy president of
the group, told reporters in Johannesburg on March 5.  The youth wing says government control of mining companies
will create jobs in a country where 53 percent of blacks between
the ages of 15 and 24 are unemployed, compared with a jobless
rate of 14 percent for white  South Africans  in the same age
group, according to figures compiled by Johannesburg-based
recruitment company  Adcorp Holdings Ltd.   Zimbabwe Intervention  “It is clearly important this year to resolve once and for
all, in the right way, the lingering uncertainty created by the
nationalization debate,” Godfrey Gomwe, executive director for
the South African unit of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) , a London-based
mining company, said in a Feb. 7 speech in Cape Town.
“Nationalization does not work.”  Zambia’s government took over copper mines owned by Anglo
American in the early 1970s. Production plunged over the next
three decades because of underinvestment and most of the assets
were sold back to the company in 2000 for $90 million.  Government intervention this year in Zimbabwe, on the
northern border of South Africa, has helped drag down Impala
Platinum’s  shares . The nation proposed higher taxes and is
forcing Impala Platinum to sell 51 percent of its Zimplats unit
to black Zimbabweans under new laws covering foreign-owned
companies.  “What’s happening in Zimbabwe is adding fuel to the
fire,” said Nedbank Group’ Cruickshanks.  Rand Weakness  Foreign purchases of South African assets are needed to
help fund the country’s current-account deficit, which is
expected to swell to 4.3 percent of gross domestic product this
year, according to estimates released by the National Treasury
on Feb. 22. Foreign investors have bought a net 11 billion rand
of bonds in the first two months, offsetting equity outflows,
according to the JSE.  “Poor equity flows are a concern, and it does raise the
risk of currency weakness, unless other forms of financing are
found,”  Leon Myburgh , Citigroup Inc.’s sub-Saharan Africa
strategist, said in e-mailed comments from Johannesburg.  The rand weakened for the first time in three days,
slipping 0.7 percent to 7.5352 against the dollar at 4:48 p.m.
in Johannesburg. The yield on the nation’s 77 billion rand of
6.75 percent bonds due 2021 rose two basis point, or 0.02
percentage point, to 7.838 percent, ending a three-day decline.  More Attractive Markets  While stock investors pulled out of  South Africa , they
bought a net $7.3 billion of Indian equities this year through
March 1 and purchased $1.4 billion of Brazilian shares,
according to data compiled by the countries’ market regulators
and exchange operators. Russia attracted $1.2 billion through
Feb. 29, the Micex Stock Exchange said. Stock investment in
China, the biggest emerging market, is restricted by the
qualified foreign institutional investor, or QFII, program.  “There have been more attractive opportunities elsewhere
and I sense that many key equity investors are underweight South
Africa,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura Plc in
 London , said in an e-mail. “The inflow story has not been felt
here at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  