-- India to Review Cotton-Export Ban as China Seeks Withdrawal
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-03-09T06:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/ministers-to-review-cotton-export-ban-today-as-growers-china-seek-repeal.html
A panel of Indian ministers will
review a ban on cotton exports today amid speculation that the
suspension may be eased after protests from farmers, traders and
China, the country’s biggest customer.  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  is scheduled to head the
meeting this evening in  New Delhi  that will also be attended by
Commerce and Textiles Minister Anand Sharma and Agriculture
Minister  Sharad Pawar . Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  ordered an
“urgent” review of the curbs imposed on March 5, his office
said in a statement two days later.  India, the second-largest cotton shipper after the U.S., is
under pressure to repeal the ban after Pawar said the curbs will
hurt planting prospects and an industry group in China said the
step damaged international trade. The South Asian nation was
forced to ease a similar ban on exports in May 2010 after
protests from traders and buyers.  “The government may allow some shipments to go ahead as up
to 2.5 million bales of cotton have been registered for
exports,” SMC Investments & Advisors Ltd. said in an e-mailed
report today.  India  suspended exports to secure local supplies after
sales surged to about 9.5 million bales of 170 kilograms each,
more than the surplus of 8.4 million bales estimated by the
government. Traders had registered to ship 12 million bales, the
country’s textiles ministry said.  Backing Ban  The ban drove prices up by the daily limit on March 5, and
as much as 2.2 percent the next day to 94.24 cents, the highest
level since Feb. 17. The May-delivery contract climbed 0.5
percent to 90 cents on ICE Futures U.S. at 11:55 a.m. in Mumbai.  Cotton Association of India, representing the country’s
growers, ginners, traders and exporter, expects the ban to be
scrapped, President Dhiren Sheth said in a phone interview.  The
Confederation of Indian Textile Industry backed the ban, saying
continued exports would have lowered the stockpiles for next
season to below desirable levels.  The prohibition damages international trade, the  China 
Cotton Association said yesterday. The association, supervised
by China’s Ministry of Civil Affairs, “hopes that the Indian
government revokes the incorrect policy,” it said. The
Liverpool, U.K.-based  International Cotton Association , which
handles contract arbitration, has said the prohibition will
“have a major, detrimental impact” on global trade.  India is set to supply 17 percent of global exports in
2011-2012, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. The
Chinese association is the country’s  biggest trade group  for the
fiber and has farmers, cooperatives and users as members,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ; 