-- Grilli Says Financial Markets Priced in Possible Trigger of Greek Swaps
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2012-03-09T11:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/minister-grilli-says-greece-s-use-of-cacs-is-not-necessarily-credit-event.html
The possible triggering of $3
billion of credit default swaps on Greek bonds after the
country’s debt exchange won’t roil financial markets,  Italy ’s
deputy finance minister  Vittorio Grilli  said.  “I think it’s in the market already,” Grilli said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television in Rome today. “It is not
that it will be taking anyone by surprise. So I think a lot of
these events are already priced in.”  The Greek government said today it reached its target for
the debt restructuring, with investors holding 95.7 percent of
eligible bonds taking part. The government used collective
action clauses to force the participation of some investors, a
move that may trigger insurance payouts under rules governing
credit-default swap contracts.  The International Swaps & Derivatives Association’s
determinations committee meets at 1 p.m. in  London  today to
decide whether the use of CACs is a  credit event  that will
trigger the swaps.  Grilli, who initiated the talks with Greek creditors on the
swap last year when he served as head of the European Union’s
Economic and Finance Committee, said it wasn’t certain the ISDA
would rule that the swaps should pay out.  “We have been struggling to understand exactly what CACs
imply for credit or non-credit events and I am not sure,” he
said.  Debt Reduction  The exchange aims to reduce  Greece ’s total debt to 120.5
percent of gross domestic product by 2020 and was one of the
conditions for a second EU-led bailout for Greece worth 130
billion euros ($172 billion). Euro-region finance chiefs are
holding a phone call today to review whether the swap is
successful enough to warrant proceeding with the new bailout.  Grilli, who hosted talks with creditors last year in  Rome 
and Brussels, called the debt exchange “a long trip.”  “In the end, I think it’s been very successful,” he said.  The Greek swap won’t be used as a template to reduce the
debt of other nations where fallout from the region’s fiscal
crisis has boosted financing costs, Grilli said.  In the case of Italy, “I can tell you, no,” he said. “I
think the strong message has always been that Greece is a case
apart -- is a case of its own, and it’s no precedent for
anything else.”  Italy Overhaul  Grilli gave up his position as head of the Economic and
Finance Committee on being appointed deputy finance minister
when  Mario Monti  came to power in November. He has played a key
role in advancing Monti’s overhaul of the Italian economy, which
includes 20 billion euros of austerity measures to balance the
budget next year.  The government has passed three legislative packages since
November and is set to complete changes to labor-market rules
this month. The administration is rushing to adopt and implement
the measures before elections due next year, and Grilli said it
was unlikely a new government would seek to undo the changes.  “The political parties knew that these were necessary
things, but there was not sufficient bipartisan cooperation so
this is the change,” he said. “This government has had a wide
bipartisan support to put in place things that everyone knows
were necessary and I don’t think whoever comes into power will
have any incentive” to undo them.  Grilli said the government hasn’t abandoned its strategy of
trying to lengthen the maturity of its outstanding debt, the
second-biggest in  Europe , by selling bonds with maturities of
more than 10 years.  “Here we want to be tactical,” he said. “Our strategy
has always been to lengthen our average maturity and duration
but given the fragility of the markets, we don’t want to go
against the wind. The strategic objective to keep our debt long
is still there but we have to be tactical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Tweed in Rome at  dtweed@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  