-- ISDA Determinations Committee to Meet Today on Greece’s Debt Exchange
-- B y   C h r i s   P e t e r s o n   a n d   S h e l l e y   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-09T07:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/isda-panel-to-meet-today-to-decide-if-greece-swap-constitutes-credit-event.html
The  International Swaps and
Derivatives Association  said its determinations committee will
meet today to consider a “potential  credit event ” relating to
Greece.  The committee will meet at 1 p.m. Greenwich Mean Time to
determine whether a credit event has occurred, according to a
statement posted on ISDA’s website today.  Greece’s government said it reached its target in the
biggest sovereign restructuring in history, with a 95.7 percent
participation rate among investors after it received approval to
activate collective action clauses. Bondholders tendered 152
billion euros ($201 billion) of Greek-law bonds, or 85.8
percent, after the government offered to swap their holdings for
new securities under the debt exchange.  Twenty billion euros of foreign-law bonds were also
tendered, according to an e-mailed statement from the Greek
Finance Ministry. Greece aimed to cut its 206 billion euros of
eligible debt by about 100 billion euros.  ISDA said last week that credit-default swaps on Greek
bonds hadn’t been triggered by the  European Central Bank ’s
exchange of Greek bonds for new securities exempt from losses
taken by private investors. Under ISDA rules the use of
collective action clauses should trigger the swaps.  The volume of contracts on Greece has tumbled, with the net
amount of debt protected representing less than one percent of
the nation’s bonds and loans outstanding. Swaps on Greece now
cover $3.16 billion, down from about $5.56 billion a year ago,
according to the  Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.  That compares
with contracts covering $22.7 billion of Italian government debt
and $22.5 billion of France’s debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Peterson  in London at 
 cpeterson@bloomberg.net ;
Shelley Smith in  Hong Kong  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  