-- Ivory Coast Farmers Become Weather Watchers to Manage Climate
-- B y   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r
-- 2012-03-09T11:18:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/ivory-coast-farmers-become-weather-watchers-to-manage-climate.html
Farmers in  Ivory Coast , the world’s
biggest cocoa producer, are learning to monitor new climate
change-affected patterns in weather and rainfall in a bid to
increase output of crops.  “The weather data are essential in decision making and the
trainings aim to boost the productivity of our agriculture,”
Daouada Konate, head of the National Meteorological Service,
said March 7 at a session held at Bingerville, a town near the
commercial capital, Abidjan.  Farmers of all crops, including cocoa and locally eaten
staples such as cassava and corn, are being trained in the
program that will help them learn to match planting times with
weather patterns. The service, along with the National Rural
Development Agency, will run programs in the western cocoa town
of Gagnoa, the central town of Bouake, and in Korhogo in the
north.  Output of cocoa in Ivory Coast and neighboring  Ghana , which
together account for 51 percent of global production, may
decline as rising temperatures lead to less rainfall and more
intense dry seasons, according to Colombia-based International
Center for Tropical Agriculture.  “The periods and length of the rain and dry seasons tend
to change from what we used to know,” said Bernard Dje Kouakou,
an Ivorian agrometeorologist. “Farmers have lost their
reference points and it affects their productivity and output.”  Rainy Season  Judith Adjadjro, 23, works on her parents’ cassava farm in
a village near Bingerville. “I remember seeing my mother
planting seeds when we thought the rainy season was about to
start, but the rain really came weeks later,” she said.
“Knowing better on weather and rainfall data will help us
better produce.”  Output of food crops like corn, rice, sorghum and millet
are the most affected by the farmers’ lack of knowledge on
weather data and their inability to adapt to  climate change ,
said Sidiki Cisse, general director of the Abidjan-based
National Rural Development Agency.  About 200 farmers will be trained during the program that
will finish at the end of March, he said. Some farmers will be
given meters to collect and measure rainfall amounts to send to
the meteorological service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olivier Monnier in Abidjan at 
 omonnier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  