-- Job Growth Headed for Strongest Run in U.S. Since 2006
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/job-growth-probably-headed-for-best-run-since-2006-will-firm-u-s-spending.html
Employers probably took on more than
200,000 workers in February for a third straight month,
indicating an improving labor market will support the U.S.
expansion, economists said before a report today.  Payrolls increased by 210,000 after rising 243,000 in
January, according to the median projection of 94 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Such a gain would cap the strongest
six-month hiring stretch since 2006. The jobless rate probably
held at an almost three-year low of 8.3 percent.  More jobs will bolster the wages that drive consumer
spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.
The latest pickup in employment may not be convincing enough for
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who last week said the
labor market remains “far from normal” and repeated  interest
rates  are likely to stay low at least through the end of 2014.  “ Job creation  at this pace means the expansion is much
more likely to handle any new headwinds,” said  Chris Rupkey ,
chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in New York. “The Fed is still cautious because economic growth
has been disappointing.”  The Labor Department’s report is due at 8:30 a.m. in
Washington. Payroll estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from increases of 125,000 to 275,000. The January gain was the
biggest since last April, when employers took on 251,000 more
workers.  The projected increase in February payrolls marks the best
six-month stretch of job growth since the period ended June
2006, more than a year before the recession began.  Recent data showing the expansion will be sustained has
also lifted share prices.     The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
has climbed 8.6 percent this year through yesterday.  Company Payrolls  Companies are forecast to expand payrolls by 225,000, after
a 257,000 gain in January that was also the biggest in nine
months, according to the survey median. Factory payrolls are
projected to rise by 24,000 after a 50,000 gain.  “There is hiring going on,” Richard Fearon, chief
financial officer at Eaton Corp., said at a March 6 industrial
conference in  New York . The Cleveland-based maker of circuit
breakers and truck transmissions will “definitely need more
manpower to serve” growing demand for tractor-trailers and for
the equipment used in construction and hydraulics, he said.  Since August, the  unemployment  rate has dropped 0.8
percentage point. It was last below 8.3 percent in January 2009,
when 7.8 percent of the  labor force  was jobless.  Dismissals have also waned, a sign companies may be more
confident about the economic outlook. Applications for jobless
claims averaged 355,000 over the past four weeks, close to the
lowest level in four years. Five months ago they averaged more
than 400,000, Labor Department data show.  Income Gains  Payroll gains are translating into growing incomes, laying
the groundwork for a pickup in household spending. Wages and
salaries in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 grew a
combined $197.3 billion, the most since the six months ended
March 2007, according to revised Commerce Department figures
last week.  Wage increases will help Americans weather gasoline prices
that have  increased  by almost 50 cents this year through March
7, to $3.76 a gallon, according to data from AAA, the nation’s
largest auto club.  Nonetheless,  consumer confidence  climbed to a four-year
high last week, showing an improving labor market and rising
stock prices are outweighing the negative effects of higher fuel
costs.  Even with “positive developments” in the job market,
Bernanke told lawmakers last week the “modest and uneven”
expansion needs the support of monetary policy. The central bank
said in January that economic conditions are likely to warrant
low interest rates at least through late 2014.  Growth Pickup  The Commerce Department last week reported the economy grew
at a 3 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter after a 1.8
percent gain in the prior three months.  “The  unemployment rate  remains elevated, long-term
unemployment is still near record levels and the number of
persons working part time for economic reasons is very high,”
Bernanke said during a Feb. 29 testimony to Congress. Fed policy
makers judge “that sustaining a highly accommodative stance for
monetary policy is consistent with promoting both objectives”
for stable prices and maximum employment, he said.  The so-called  underemployment  rate, which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time job and those who want
work but have given up looking, was 15.1 percent in January.  A report from the Commerce Department at 8:30 a.m. may show
the trade deficit widened to $49 billion in January, the biggest
gap in seven months, according to economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  