-- Jolie Uses Doctor’s Story to Highlight Plight of Women in War-Torn Somalia
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/jolie-uses-doctor-s-story-to-highlight-plight-of-women-in-war-torn-somalia.html
To  Angelina Jolie , the struggles of
a Somali doctor serve as a reminder to the rest of the world
about the fragile state of security in the African country.  The actress and United Nations goodwill ambassador told the
story of Dr. Hawa Abdi, whose farm has been a haven for those
fleeing war and hunger. Some of Dr. Abdi’s land may be
confiscated as soon as today by local rebels, Jolie said.
Somalia has had no effective central government since the
downfall of dictator Mohamed Siad Barre two decades ago.  “Somalia has known only violence, more than two decades of
murder, rape, kidnapping, disease and most recently famine,”
Jolie, 36, said at the Women in the World conference in  New
York . “One million Somalis have died and nearly 1.5 million
have been internally displaced.”  Jolie, who won an Academy Award in 2000 for Best Supporting
Actress in “Girl, Interrupted,” made her debut as a director
last year with “In the Land of Blood and Honey,” a film about
the war that tore apart the former Yugoslavia. In her work as a
UN ambassador Jolie has visited with refugees worldwide,
including those fleeing violence in  Syria  and famine in  Africa .  The event’s opening night yesterday highlighted some of the
challenges facing women and governments worldwide. A
representative of the U.K.’s Forced Marriage Unit said more than
500 British girls are forced into wedlock each year and a
similar number of women, mostly between the ages of 16 and 20,
call a helpline every month seeking to avoid being pushed into
marriage by their families, often abroad. The U.K. is debating
whether to criminalize forced marriages.  Sandberg, von Furstenberg  The three-day conference is being held in the David H. Koch
Theater at  Lincoln Center . Facebook Chief Operating Officer
 Sheryl Sandberg , fashion designer Diane von Furstenberg,
Rockefeller Foundation President Judith Rodin and others opened
the event with readings composed by women from countries such as
Bahrain, Vietnam and  Afghanistan .  Former U.S. Secretary of State  Madeleine Albright  said the
world needs more women in positions of power to help resolve
conflicts. Women already in government and business leadership
roles have a responsibility to further that cause, she said.  “There’s a special place in hell for women who don’t help
each other,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  