-- Kingfisher Air Shunned as Cash Crunch Disrupts India Flights
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-03-09T10:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/kingfisher-air-passenger-says-never-again-as-cash-crunch-disrupts-flights.html
Anurag Chadha had one thing to say
after flight disruptions at billionaire Vijay Mallya’s
 Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  curtailed his holiday plans.  “I will never fly Kingfisher again,” Chadha said
yesterday morning at Mumbai airport after arriving on a  Jet
Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN)  flight from Kolkata. Chadha, who works for
a management consultancy in Mumbai, had been due to fly back a
day earlier with Kingfisher. Instead, he said he canceled the
trip after repeated delays and spent the night in a hotel.  Kingfisher flights were disrupted late March 7 after
 Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  suspended fuel deliveries because of
overdue payments. Supplies resumed yesterday, a national
holiday. The Bangalore-based company was also kicked out of the
International Air Transport Association clearing system for
airlines and settlement systems with travel and cargo agents
this week after missing payments and cash requirements.  The carrier has plunged to  fifth  from second in Indian
market share since October as flight cuts, service disruptions
and unpaid pilots’ wages deter travelers. The carrier flew 35
percent fewer passengers in December than June, compared with
increases for Jet’s main unit and budget carriers IndiGo and
 SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET) , based on the latest  data  from the regulator.  “Everyday something new goes wrong with Kingfisher,” said
Tushar Ray, an information-technology consultant for a mobile-
phone company, after arriving yesterday in Mumbai from
Bhubaneshwar on an IndiGo flight. “I would rather take any
other airline.”  Cheapest Ticket  Ray said he would pay as much as 1,000 rupees ($20) more
for an alternative to a Kingfisher ticket. A frequent traveler
to the  Middle East , he usually looks for the cheapest fare, he
said. Chadha, who had his holiday spoiled, said his employer had
stopped using Kingfisher because of the disruptions.  Flights continue to operate normally, Prakash Mirpuri, a
spokesman at Kingfisher, said in a statement today. Five flights
from Mumbai were delayed on March 7 and one to  Singapore  was
canceled, according to Mumbai International Airport Ltd.
spokesman Mannik Nangia.  The airline said in its statement that it is working to
regain access to bank accounts frozen by tax authorities. This
was the reason for the “temporary” disruption in payments and
cash deposit requirements of IATA systems, it said. The carrier,
which was also suspended earlier this year, can rejoin when it
meets requirements, IATA said in a statement today.  Price Wars  Kingfisher has been seeking new funds and investment since
at least November when it cut 12 percent of flights and shut a
budget unit in a bid to end losses. The carrier has been
unprofitable for more than 10 straight quarters because of price
wars, competition from state-backed  Air India  and fuel costs.  The airline further pared services to 175 flights a day
last month as less than half of its 64 planes are in operation,
E.K. Bharat Bhushan, the head of the Directorate General of
Civil Aviation, said Feb. 21, after a meeting with the carrier’s
management.  The carrier filled 70.2 percent of seats in January, the
lowest amount among seven airlines tracked by the regulator. It
also had the biggest decline in  load factor  from December, with
an 8.1 percentage-point drop.  Management has also asked pilots not to walk out because of
late salaries. It pledged to make payments as soon as possible,
according to a March 4 statement.  Work Without Pay  “I’m quite worried about the fact that the pilots haven’t
been paid,” said Eva Santi Sharma, a Canadian-born therapist
and painter, as she waited yesterday in Mumbai for a flight to
Goa that had been delayed from the previous day. “How can they
work without pay?”  The carrier has plunged 49 percent in the past year in
Mumbai trading. The stock  fell  0.2 percent to 21 rupees, the
lowest since Jan. 10, at close of trading in the city today. Its
loss in the quarter ended Dec. 31 widened to 4.44 billion rupees
from 2.54 billion rupees a year earlier.  “Once airlines nosedive, it takes too long for them to
come back up,” said P.C.K. Ravindran, chairman of Kochi, south
India-based Institute of Applied Aviation Management, and an
adviser on aviation projects. “It’s a million-dollar question
when they’ll be able to revive.”  Mallya, who has built a $1 billion fortune, according to
 Forbes , on the back of brewing  India ’s most popular beer, is
looking to premium services to help retain customers. The
carrier shuttered its budget unit to focus on most lucrative
full-fare passengers.  ‘Good Service’  “The service is good,” Deepak Nair, a doctor at medical
college in Indore,  Madhya Pradesh , said yesterday at Mumbai
Airport, while waiting for a connecting flight to Kochi. He said
he would have taken his trip with Kingfisher if he hadn’t had to
travel urgently because of his wife giving birth.  “If I didn’t have to rush, I would choose Kingfisher,” he
said. “It’s only because of the cancellations that I decided to
buy a Jet ticket.”  Sharma, the therapist and painter, said she thought that
the cash crunch had affected service standards, as she tried to
find out information about her delayed flight to Goa. That had
contributed to her trying out GoAir and Jet recently, she said.  “I used to be very happy with Kingfisher,” she said. “If
Kingfisher is having problems, they should take care of the
remaining passengers who chose to fly with them, rather than
treat them so badly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in  New Delhi  at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 