-- Nardelli Leaves Cerberus Capital Post to Focus on Own Firm
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-03-09T22:29:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/nardelli-leaves-cerberus-capital-post-to-focus-on-his-own-investment-firm.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP said
 Robert Nardelli  will leave his post as head of its operations
and advisory business and become an adviser to  Stephen Feinberg ,
the firm’s founder and chief executive officer.  “I desired to make this transition to a role as Senior
Advisor in order to devote attention to XLR-8 LLC, my investment
and consulting company,” Nardelli, the former CEO of Chrysler
LLC and  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , said in a statement today.  Nardelli will also step down as CEO of Freedom Group Inc.,
a Cerberus-owned maker of firearms and ammunition, Freedom Group
said in a separate statement. He was named to the post in
September 2010 as the Madison, North Carolina-based gunmaker
searched for a permanent CEO. George Kollitides, a former
Cerberus managing director who led the Freedom Group deal, will
be the interim chief executive.  Nardelli, 63, was ousted as head of Atlanta-based Home
Depot in 2007 amid criticism of his pay and the company’s
lagging performance. He ran Chrysler for Cerberus until 2009,
when the carmaker filed for bankruptcy after one of the worst
sales slumps in decades.  The son of a  General Electric Co. (GE)  engineer, Nardelli
started his career loading GE televisions into boxes while still
in college. He eventually rose to be CEO of the company’s power
systems business and became one of three people vying to succeed
 Jack Welch  as GE’s chief executive. He left for Home Depot in
2000 after it was announced that  Jeffrey Immelt  was getting the
top job.  Nardelli, who joined New York-based Cerberus in 2007, will
be replaced by Chan Galbato, a “longtime Nardelli protégé,”
the firm said in the statement. Cerberus Operating and Advisory
Company oversees the management and operations of companies
owned by the buyout firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  