-- New York Times CEO Robinson’s Exit Compensation Package Tops $23 Million
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-03-09T22:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/new-york-times-s-robinson-s-exit-package-tops-23-million.html
Janet Robinson, the  New York  Times
Co. chief executive officer who was pushed out in December,
received an exit package, including  stock options  and retirement
benefits, of $23.7 million.  Robinson gets pension and supplemental retirement income
valued at $11.4 million, performance awards of $5.39 million,
restricted stock units worth $1.07 million and stock options
worth $694,164, according to the company’s  proxy statement  filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission today. She will also
earn $4.5 million in consulting fees for this year.  Robinson’s exit, which costs Times Co. more than the
company earned in the  past four years , marks an end to a period
during which the publisher’s sales and earnings slumped amid
intensifying online competition.  Times Co. (NYT)  stock plunged more
than 80 percent during Robinson’s tenure as CEO, which began in
December 2004.  The departure of Robinson, 61, also leaves a leadership
vacuum at Times Co., publisher of the namesake newspaper. The
company, based in New York, faces falling print-advertising
revenue, profit squeezed by pension costs, and pressure from
members of the Ochs-Sulzberger family to restore a dividend once
worth more than $20 million annually.  Bloomberg News reported in January Robinson would receive
more than $21 million as part of her exit package. Chairman
Arthur Sulzberger Jr. is acting CEO during the interim.  Family Control  The payout to Robinson is equal to about 2.4 percent of the
company’s market value of $981.9 million, and exceeds the
approximately $3 million the company earned in net income over
the past four years. Not included in Robinson’s exit package is
her salary of $1 million for 2011, when Times Co. reported a
loss $39.7 million.  The company also nominated Steven B. Green to the board,
replacing Lynn Dolnick, a member of the Ochs-Sulzberger family
that controls the board with 90 percent of Class B shares. Green
is married to Chairman Sulzberger’s sister Cynthia Fox
Sulzberger. Separately, Sulzberger’s son, Arthur Gregg, a
reporter at the newspaper, was recently appointed as an editor
on the metro desk, following a path once cut by his father.  The company, also owner of the Boston Globe and About.com,
has looked to expand its Internet business amid declining print
ad sales. Times Co. now charges readers to access news articles
on New York Times, Boston Globe and International Herald
Tribune’s websites, a move that bolstered digital advertising
and lifted the total paying online subscribers for all those
publications to 406,000 as of the end of the year.  Union Pressure  Times Co. began offering buyout packages in October to
eliminate 20 newsroom positions at its namesake newspaper and is
also pushing for a pension freeze for some New York Times
employees, a move that rankled the union members in the
newsroom,  Newspaper Guild  of New York President Bill O’Meara has
said.  The Guild, representing almost 1,100 employees at the New
York Times, said the company sought to re-open negotiations a
day after Robinson’s departure was announced. Robinson’s exit
package doesn’t sit well with newsroom employees, O’Meara has
said. Even with a pension freeze for currently employed Guild
members, O’Meara estimates Times Co. would still have to pay
about $20 million to $25 million each year to retirees to honor
prior obligations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  