-- New Jersey Tax Cut Will Be Passed Before July, Christie Predicts
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/new-jersey-tax-cut-will-be-passed-before-july-christie-predicts.html
New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie ,
the Republican whose state has the nation’s highest taxes,
predicted he and Democrats who control the Legislature will work
out lower levies before July 1.  Christie, who’s midway through his first term, is calling
for a 10 percent income-tax cut over 36 months, which he’s said
is possible now that the state’s “fiscal house is in order.”  “We’ll bring them along,” Christie said yesterday of
legislative Democrats. His remarks at a town-hall meeting in
Florence were punctuated by a shouting match with a man opposed
to the merger of Rutgers University law school with Rowan
University. The man, who identified himself as William Brown, a
34-year-old Rutgers law student, was ejected by police.  New Jersey led the U.S. in combined state and local tax
burden in 2009, according to the Washington-based  Tax
Foundation . The state also has the highest property-tax bills,
an average $7,759 in 2011.  In a radio interview, Senate President Steve Sweeney, 52, a
West Deptford Democrat, said Christie’s projection of 7.3
percent revenue growth, the underpinning of the governor’s
proposed spending plan for 2013, is unrealistic.  “I’m not accepting the revenue projections,” Sweeney said
yesterday on the “David Paterson Show,” hosted by the former
New York governor on WOR AM. “My plan’s based on a 5 percent
increase, which is more realistic.”  Sweeney has called for giving middle-income residents a 10
percent property-tax credit on their tax returns. Assembly
Democrats propose doubling the credit to 20 percent.  ‘Pretty Close’  A day earlier, Christie, 49, said he and Sweeney were
“pretty close” on a tax-cut plan. He also dismissed the
Assembly Democrats’ proposal as “dead.”  New Jersey ’s revenue collections jumped 20 percent last
month, narrowing the state’s shortfall from budget projections.  February revenue was 9.5 percent above forecasts, Treasurer
Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff said yesterday in a statement. For the
first eight months of this fiscal year, collections were up 4.3
percent from the same period of 2011, and are running 1.7
percent below projections.  Christie on Feb. 21 introduced a $32.1 billion spending
plan for the fiscal year that starts July 1. The plan counts on
the biggest revenue increase since before the recession began in
December 2007.  New Jersey must have a budget in place by July 1.  The governor’s proposal is structurally unbalanced because
it is built on “optimistic” economic-growth projections,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb. 24 report. The budget also
depends on using $288 million of reserves and increases the
state’s reliance on one-time revenue to $1.6 billion, S&P said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Florence, New Jersey at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  