-- Newton’s Pidcock Buys China Mobile Shares in Top-Performing Fund
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/newton-s-pidcock-buys-china-mobile-shares-in-top-performing-fund.html
Newton Investment Management Ltd.’s
Jason Pidcock bought  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  shares last month, while
keeping a defensive stance on bets related to the world’s
second-largest economy, the top-performing  fund manager  said.  Pidcock, who manages the 1.4 billion-pound ($2.2 billion)
Asian equities  fund  that has beaten 98 percent of its peers in
the past five years, also bought  HTC Corp. (2498)  as it fell in
December and January below NT$500. He will keep a “fairly
defensive” stance on bets related to the Chinese economy as it
grows at 5 percent to 7 percent a year, he said in a phone
interview from London.  Wen Jiabao ,  China ’s premier, cut the country’s economic
growth target for 2012 to 7.5 percent this week, down from 8
percent over the past seven years, as the euro area’s sovereign-
debt crisis and sluggish U.S. recovery limit demand for goods
from the world’s largest exporter.  “Even if they achieve 7.5 percent growth this year, that
will hit profitability in sectors with leverage like property
and banks,” Pidcock said in the interview. Newton has about 47
billion pounds in assets under management. “We are a little
more cautious on China than most people and our direct exposure
is fairly defensive.”  China Mobile’s Dividend  China Mobile pays a dividend yield of 3.9 percent and
trades at 10.6 times  estimated earnings  for this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s payout to investors
may increase at least 10 percent every year and dividend growth
may climb at a faster pace than earnings, Pidcock said. The
fund’s purchase of China Mobile’s shares added to its overweight
position in telecommunications stocks.  The fund has an underweight stance on banks, meaning that
it holds fewer of their shares than are represented in benchmark
measures. Its biggest position is in  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. Ltd. (2330) , which reached its highest price since
2000 last month.  The fund has more of its assets in Australia -- 27 percent
-- than any other country. Pidcock holds Telstra Corp.,
 Transurban Group (TCL) ,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ,
 IOOF Holdings Ltd. (IFL)  and  AMP Ltd. (AMP)  He also has stakes in  Coca-Cola
Amatil Ltd. (CCL) , Sydney Airport,  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  and  APA
Group. (APA)   Pidcock’s fund has gained 9.4 percent this year, less than
the  11 percent climb  on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund has beaten its peers
over one and five years, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  