-- Nigerian President Blames Boko Haram for Killing U.K., Italy Hostages
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-03-09T09:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/nigeria-blames-boko-haram-for-killing-european-hostages-in-rescue-attempt.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
accused the militant Islamist group Boko Haram of killing a
British and an Italian hostage yesterday during a failed attempt
by U.K. and Nigerian forces to rescue them.  The hostages, Chris McManus, a British citizen, and Franco
Lamolinara, an Italian, were killed “by their Boko Haram
captors before they could be rescued by a joint security raid on
the kidnappers’ hideout” in the northern state of Sokoto,
Jonathan’s office said in a statement late yesterday from Abuja,
the capital.  Authorities in  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s top oil producer, blame
Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin,” for
a surge in gun and bomb attacks in the country’s mainly Muslim
north that have claimed hundreds of lives since 2009.  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday that he
authorized a rescue attempt and that in the course of the
operation both men died. The hostages were kidnapped in May
2011.  Cameron called his Italian counterpart,  Mario Monti ,
afterwards to inform him of the outcome.  “After months of not knowing where they were being held,
we received credible information about their location,” Cameron
said in a statement. “A window of opportunity arose to secure
their release. We also had reason to believe that their lives
were under imminent and growing danger. The early indications
are clear that both men were murdered by their captors, before
they could be rescued.”  Monti called Jonathan to ask him to provide  Italy  with a
“detailed account” of the circumstances that led to the deaths
of the hostages, according to a statement from his office in
Rome. The Italian government said Nigerian troops took the lead
in the mission, with U.K. personnel in support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  