-- Nobel-Winning Gbowee Tells American Women to Get Angry (1))
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-03-10T15:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/nobel-winning-gbowee-tells-american-women-to-get-angry-1-.html
Nobel Prize  winner Leymah Gbowee,
who once used a sex strike to help force peace talks in Liberia,
said American women must “get up” if they want to shape the
nation’s fiscal and social priorities.  “As long as we continue to engage from a position of
weakness, they will never respect us,” Gbowee said of men,
speaking yesterday at the third annual Women in the World
conference. “It is time for women to stop being politely angry.
It’s time for us to get up.”  Gbowee, 40, helped end a 14-year war in Liberia in part
through tactics such as encouraging women to withhold sex until
men agreed to negotiate peace. She shared the 2011 Nobel Prize
with Liberian President Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf and Yemen’s
Tawakkul Karman for their “non-violent struggle for the safety
of women and for  women’s rights  to full participation in peace-
building work,” the Norwegian Nobel Committee said in October.  Newsweek  Editor-in-Chief Tina Brown, who conceived the
women’s  conference  hosted by Newsweek and the Daily Beast in  New
York  to inspire creative solutions to world problems, quipped
that the U.S. could have used a dose of Gbowee’s tactics, which
included sit-ins, in last year’s debate over raising the
nation’s debt ceiling. The political stalemate helped prompt the
first downgrade of the nation’s credit rating.  Where Are the Women?  Gbowee said those events left her “wondering where are the
angry American women?” She wonders the same about women’s
voices defending access to contraception.  “I was watching the men talk about your reproductive
issues and saying ‘Why are these women not angry?’” asked the
mother of  six , who leads the Ghana-based Women Peace and
Security Network  Africa .  Gbowee arrived in Monrovia at 17 and trained as a trauma
counselor for child soldiers from Liberian President Charles Taylor’s army. She’s featured in “Pray the Devil Back to
Hell,” a documentary about how Liberian women took on warlords
in the civil war, and authored the book “Mighty Be Our Powers:
How Sisterhood, Prayer, and Sex Changed a Nation at War.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Rodham Clinton , actress  Angelina
Jolie  and Facebook Inc. Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg
are also attending the women’s conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon L. Lynch at 
 sllynch@bloomberg.net  