-- Nordstrom to Institute Free Shipping for All In-Store Purchases
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-03-09T14:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/nordstrom-to-offer-free-shipping-for-in-store-buys.html
Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  will offer free
shipping permanently on all purchases at its more than 100
namesake department stores starting next week, increasing
competitive pressure on its rivals.  The move comes about six months after the Seattle-based
retailer became the first department-store chain to add standard
free shipping and returns on online orders. The company also is
testing same-day delivery at a flat rate of $10 for online
orders of any size.  Free shipping has become a weapon in retailers’ fight for
market share as the pace of U.S. consumer spending continues to
trail its 2010 peak. While Nordstrom said it has benefited from
its initiative, rivals that have partially matched the efforts
have said free shipping has hurt profitability.  “To be a leader you have to read the tea leaves, and
free shipping is definitely the way things are going,”  Liz Dunn , a New York-based analyst with  Macquarie Group (MQG) , said in a
telephone interview. “Although investors worry that free
shipping is a cost, ultimately the growth opportunity in sales
far surpasses that.”  Dunn rates the shares neutral.  Nordstrom previously granted free shipping for store
purchases of $25 or more, items not on hand, website orders
totaling $200 or more and during occasional promotions.  “Shipping costs are something that have been known to stop
customers in their tracks,” Jamie Nordstrom, president for e-
commerce, said in a telephone interview from  Seattle  yesterday.
“We have tried to break down those barriers as much as we
can.”  Nordstrom was little changed at 9:40 a.m. in  New York . The
 shares  rose 17 percent last year.  Boosted Revenue  Adding free shipping has boosted revenue by converting more
website visits into sales and increasing the number of units
sold, said Nordstrom, 39.  “This definitely makes economic sense for Nordstrom,” he
said.  Nordstrom has an advantage because its inventory is
integrated across its channels, making fulfilling orders more
efficient, he said.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and other competitors are still
working to integrate theirs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net . 