-- Norway’s Krone Slumps Against Euro as Minister Voices Concern: Oslo Mover
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-03-09T13:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/norway-krone-slumps-as-trade-minister-voices-concern-oslo-mover.html
Norway’s krone sank against the euro
and the dollar after Trade Minister Trond Giske said he’s
“concerned” its strength will hurt exporters as officials in
the Nordic country talk down the currency from a nine-year high.  “It is our concern because the export industries are
hurting from the strong krone,” Giske said in an interview in
Oslo today. “We are following the situation closely.”  The krone reached a nine-year high earlier this month after
emerging as a haven from  Europe ’s debt crisis. It slumped 0.5
percent against the euro to trade at 7.4588 by 1:13 p.m. local
time and 1 percent versus the dollar. It was the worst
performing major currency against the euro and the greenback.  The government and central bank have stepped up verbal
interventions over the past weeks to limit the krone’s
appreciation. The strength, alongside weaker demand, has
prompted some exporters to announce job cuts, including Norske
Skogindustrier ASA, the world’s second-largest maker of
newsprint, and Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, a Norwegian maker of
solar energy components.  “Those exporters that are both hurting from the strong
krone and falling markets in Europe, those are the ones we are
most worried about,” Giske said. A special task group within
his ministry is monitoring the situation, he said.  The currency is the fourth best performing major currency
against the euro and the dollar so far this year, gaining 3.8
percent against the single currency and 5.9 percent against
dollar.  Important Variable  The krone is “strong”, central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said in a speech last week, adding that it was “an
important variable” when setting  interest rates .  The central bank in December lowered its main rate by half
a percentage point to 1.75 percent, its biggest cut since May
2009, to avoid excessive krone gains and guard against the
fallout of Europe’s debt crisis. In September, Olsen warned the
bank had measures to keep the krone in check after a surge
risked pushing down inflation and hurting exporters. Policy
makers will meet next week to decide on interest rates.  “The risk of a further significant appreciation of the
krone that could reduce growth and inflation suggests that the
key policy rate should be kept low,” Bjoern Roger Wilhelmsen,
chief currency strategist at Swedbank First Securities in Oslo
said in a note. Wilhelmsen expects the bank to keep rates
unchanged next week.  The government is meeting this weekend for its  2013 budget 
conference where they will discuss fiscal spending for next
year. Giske called for a “moderate budget expansion” as one of
the “answers” for keeping the krone in check.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  