-- Post-Fukushima U.S. Nuclear Reactor Rules Questioned Over Cost, Adequacy
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-10T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/nrc-requires-reactor-blackout-plans-in-first-fukushima-rules.html
The first rules for U.S. reactors
imposed in response to last year’s nuclear disaster in  Japan  are
fueling a debate over the adequacy and cost of the measures.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission yesterday approved
three orders to improve safety at the nation’s 104 operating
reactors, issued following a triple meltdown at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, which occurred a year ago
this weekend.  While the NRC’s orders “are necessary to address the major
gaps in the nuclear power safety net,” they “do not go far
enough,”  Jim Riccio , a nuclear-energy analyst in Washington for
anti-nuclear group Greenpeace USA, said in an e-mail.  The rules include a requirement for nuclear plants owned by
companies such as  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  and  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  to have a plan
to indefinitely survive blackouts. Reactor owners also must have
adequate instruments to monitor spent-fuel cooling pools.
Another order calls for older reactors with  General Electric
Co (GE) .-design containment structures similar to those that failed
at Fukushima to have sturdier venting systems to prevent damage
to reactor cores.  ‘Reasonable Cost’  One question for regulators: “As we put additional
regulatory structures in place, are we getting some compensatory
safety enhancements for a reasonable cost?”  Dale Klein , a
former NRC chairman, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The new the rules, which must be implemented by 2016, are
exempt from an agency cost-benefit analysis, though future
regulations may not be. A potential requirement for some reactor
containments to have “filtered” vents to prevent radiation
leaks may not be as cost effective as additional pumps and
safety valves, said Klein.  The nuclear industry has already begun to implement a plan
to install commercial-grade gear, including portable pumps and
generators at plants to provide an additional layer of safety.  “The industry is trying to do it on the cheap and not have
safety-grade equipment but who knows if the commercial-grade
will function in the midst of a meltdown,” Riccio said.  Regulators should also require reactor owners to remove
radioactive waste from cooling pools and place in ``dry cask''
storage containers, he said.  Effective Immediately  “The commission has taken a significant step forward on
our post-Fukushima efforts,” NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  said
in a statement yesterday. The orders take effect immediately,
and the agency is also weighing a dozen recommendations from a
 task force  to prevent a disaster similar to Fukushima from
occurring at U.S. plants.  Jaczko, who wants all rules resulting from the disaster to
be implemented by 2016, has said it’s “not acceptable” for
reviews of seismic risks at plants to be completed in the latter
half of the decade, which the NRC staff has proposed. Industry
officials have said there aren’t enough technical resources to
complete the assessments by Jaczko’s deadline.  The five commissioners are scheduled to testify on the
orders March 15 at a hearing of the Senate Environment & Public
Works Committee, led by Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California
Democrat who faults the agency for taking too long to develop
new safety rules.  Reactor owners have agreed, as part of an industry plan, to
begin installing emergency equipment at  power plants . Companies
will order the gear or have contracts in place by the end of the
month, according to a March 6 statement from the  Nuclear Energy
Institute .  The order on equipment for blackouts calls for a phased-in
approach, with power plants initially using portable equipment
to keep reactors cool during an electric failure, supplemented
by gear that can be shipped in “to sustain those functions
indefinitely.”  Speed Progress  The Nuclear Energy Institute, a Washington-based industry
group, offered a plan in December that NRC officials said helped
to speed the regulatory process. The industry may spend as much
as $100 million to buy and install emergency equipment,
including pumps and generators, at power plants. Reactor owners
have already ordered or acquired more than 300 pieces of
commercial-grade gear, according to the industry group.  The industry’s plan is “reasonable” and contains no
“hidden agenda” to try to stave off more expensive regulations
later, said Klein, the former NRC chairman.  “We need the NRC to be an industry watchdog, not an
industry lapdog,” Representative  Edward Markey  of
 Massachusetts , the top Democrat on the House Natural Resources
Committee, said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  