-- Obama Calls Russia’s Putin After March 4 Presidential Vote
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-03-10T00:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/obama-calls-russia-s-putin-after-march-4-presidential-vote.html
President  Barack Obama  called
 Vladimir Putin  today and congratulated the Russian leader on his
victory in March 4’s presidential election, according to a White
House statement.  “The two leaders outlined areas for future cooperation,
including strengthening trade and investment relations,”
according to the statement. They “agreed to continue
discussions on areas where the United States and Russia have
differed, including Syria and missile defense.”  Obama called Putin earlier today from Air Force One as he
traveled to Prince George County in southern Virginia for a
speech, spokesman Josh Earnest said.  U.S.-Russian relations will be based on U.S. interests when
Putin succeeds President Dmitry Medvedev, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday.  “It’s not a personality-based policy,” Carney said. “Our
policy towards  Russia  is based on our interests and not on
personalities.”  Obama retooled relations with Russia, pushing a diplomatic
“reset” button that Carney said “produced benefits” for U.S.
national security and commercial interests.  “President Obama and President-elect Putin agreed that the
successful reset in relations should be built upon during the
coming years,” according to the White House statement.  The U.S. will work with Russia “where we agree on
issues,” Carney said.  Putin won the election with about 64 percent of the vote,
according to the official tally, in a victory that international
observers criticized as unfair.  Putin, 59, has held power in Russia for 12 years, including
the last four as prime minister. He was elected president in
2000 and 2004;  term limits  prevented him from seeking a third
consecutive term in that office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Prince George County, Virginia at
   kandersen7@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  