-- Obama Rallies Support for Health Law Ahead of Supreme Court Case
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-03-09T20:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/obama-rallies-support-for-health-care-overhaul-ahead-of-supreme-court-case.html
Before  Supreme Court  justices weigh
the fate of the 2010 health-care overhaul this month, the White
House is helping to coordinate efforts to showcase the law’s
most popular provisions and blunt relentless Republican attacks.  Dozens of consumer, church and public health groups plan
events including a prayer vigil to rally support for the health-
care overhaul as the Supreme Court holds arguments on the
measure March 26 to 28. About 100 supporters met at the White
House on March 7 to discuss a coordinated response, according to
an administration official who declined to speak on the record
because he wasn’t authorized to discuss the gathering.  The public remains divided on the merits of the law almost
two years after President  Barack Obama  signed it. Though many
provisions don’t take effect until 2014, the events are designed
to shed light on parts of law already benefiting voters.  It’s a “significant teaching opportunity,” said  Ron Pollack , executive director of Families USA, a consumer advocacy
group in Washington. “There has been so much mythology created,
not least of which by the Republican candidates for president
who simply repeat the mantra ‘Repeal Obamacare,’” he said.  The court is considering a challenge brought by 26 states
to the law’s mandate that most American buy health coverage and
its expansion of the Medicaid program for the poor.  Proponents plan to showcase rules in the law allowing
dependents age 26 and under to stay on their parents’ health
plans and barring insurers from making coverage decisions
against people with preexisting conditions.  One opponent of the law has already said it will bus people
from as far as  Michigan  to rally against the measure. Americans
For Prosperity, a nonprofit supporting Republican candidates and
policies, will hold a “Hands Off My Health Care Rally” in a
park near the court on the second day of arguments.  Other Gatherings  Nick Papas, a White House spokesman, confirmed the meeting
took place and declined to identify the groups that attended the
meeting or provide other details. The White House has hosted
previous gatherings of supporters of the health-care law,
Pollack said.  The groups were brought to the White House so the
administration could get “a full picture” of the activities
planned during court arguments and the law’s second anniversary
on March 23, said Ethan Rome, executive director of the advocacy
group Health Care for America Now in  Washington .  “It is helpful for them to get a full sense of the depth
and breadth of what the health care reform community is doing.”  Families USA, Rome’s group and others including the United
Methodist Church were already planning a series of events during
the Supreme Court arguments.  At about 11 a.m. on the first day of the arguments, the
Methodist church is arranging for faith leaders of different
denominations to circle the court in a prayer vigil.  Families USA will set up a “radio row” in a building
owned by the Methodist church across the street from the court,
where 24 talk show hosts will broadcast during the arguments.  Another event will feature a tent in which doctors, nurses
and patients will discuss how they’ve been helped by the law,
Pollack said.  FreedomWorks, an activist group led by former House
Republican Leader  Dick Armey , is encouraging its members to come
to Washington for rallies associated with the hearing and also
visit lawmakers to “remind them of the importance of repealing
Obamacare,” said Brendan Steinhauser, director of federal and
state campaigns for the group.  Rome predicted a “judicial battle royale of epic
proportions” during court arguments. “There’s not any
precedent for this,” he said.  A Gallup  poll  of 1,040 adults conducted Feb. 20 and 21
found 72 percent of respondents believe a central provision in
the law mandating that most Americans buy health coverage or pay
a fine is unconstitutional. Among people who identified
themselves as independents, 33 percent said the law won’t make a
difference in their lives while 35 percent said it will make
things worse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  