-- Obama: Job Growth Points to ‘Better Days’
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-03-09T18:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/obama-says-u-s-job-growth-pointing-toward-better-days-ahead-.html
President  Barack Obama  said today’s
Labor Department report on U.S. job growth shows progress, while
more must be done to bolster the economy.  “The economy is getting stronger,” Obama said at Rolls-
Royce Holdings Plc.’s Crosspointe facility in Prince George
County, Virginia. “It gives me confidence there are better days
ahead.”  The country must continue to work so that “everybody who
wants a good job can find one,” Obama said.  The Labor Department today reported that employers in the
U.S. boosted payrolls by 227,000 in February, more than
forecast, while the  unemployment rate  held at 8.3 percent. Job
growth over the last six months was the strongest since 2006.
The median projection of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 210,000 increase in February employment.  “This facility is part of the evidence of what’s going on
all across the country,” Obama told approximately 1,460 workers
and community leaders at the  Virginia  plant.  Obama is seeking to build on positive election-year
economic news as data showing increases in homebuilding and  car
sales  and decreases in jobless claims have beaten forecasts.  “When we harness our own ingenuity, our own technology”
the U.S. can free the nation from dependence on foreign oil and
rising gas prices, he said.  The U.S. auto industry was revived by the bailout led by
his administration and is building “better,” more fuel-
efficient cars, Obama said. U.S. manufacturers are adding jobs
for the first time since the 1990s, he said.  ‘Can’t Go Back’  “We can’t go back to the same policies that got us into
this mess, we can’t go back to an economy that was weakened by
outsourcing, and bad debts and phony financial profits,” he
said.  The administration announced a $1 billion investment,
already allocated in Obama’s 2013 budget, to be used to
establish as many as 15 manufacturing hubs nationwide and a $45
million commitment of existing funds from the Defense, Energy
and Commerce departments and the  National Science Foundation  for
a competitive program that will help support research and
advanced manufacturing equipment development.  In the 2008 election, Obama became the first Democratic
presidential candidate to win in Virginia since  Lyndon Johnson 
in 1964.  Aircraft Parts Manufacturing  The Rolls-Royce campus of more than 1,000 acres -- the
largest Rolls-Royce site by area in North America and employing
150 people -- manufactures precision-engineered engine discs and
other parts for aircraft, including  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner.  London-based Rolls-Royce is planning to add 140 jobs at
Crosspointe, according to a White House fact sheet.  Obama has made 13 visits to Virginia since filing for re-
election in April, most of them to the northern Virginia suburbs
of Washington, where Democratic voters turned out in large
numbers to support him in 2008.  Virginia’s Republican Governor Bob McDonnell greeted Obama
and gave the president a golf glove with the state tourism
slogan, “Virginia is for Lovers.” Obama “was very impressed
that I knew he wore a left-handed glove,” McDonnell said.  Rolls-Royce  North America  Chief Executive Officer James Guyette led the president on a tour of the facility. Commerce
Secretary  John Bryson  joined Obama on the visit.  Later today, the president will travel to Houston, where he
will attend two fundraisers -- one small high-dollar event and
one larger event for smaller contributors. His re-election
campaign expects to raise at least a combined $2.8 million,
according to a campaign official who spoke on the condition of
anonymity.  Gold in Hills  Obama has visited  Texas , a Republican stronghold, twice
since filing for re-election in April, including four
fundraisers in  Dallas  and Austin. Obama lost Texas by 11
percentage points in 2008 to his Republican opponent, Arizona
Senator  John McCain .  Sherri Greenberg, director of the Center for Politics and
Governance at the LBJ School of Public Affairs at the  University
of Texas  at Austin, said Obama keeps returning to Texas because
of its fundraising opportunities, not because he thinks he can
win the state in November.  “Let’s not forget, as we say, ‘There’s gold in them thar
hills!’” she said in an interview. “This has been good
fundraising territory for the president; there’s real and deep
support for him here among givers and big givers.”  “There may not be a lot of Democratic votes in Texas, but
there’s lots of Democratic money,” said  Mark McKinnon , a
Republican Party strategist who worked for  George W. Bush , the
former president and Texas governor, as well as for several
Texas Democratic politicians.  Campaign Fundraising  Through Jan. 31 Obama has raised $140 million, compared
with about $64 million for the top fundraiser among the
Republican candidates, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  Greenberg said she doesn’t think “anyone’s under any
illusions” about whether Texas is a “red state or a blue
state.”  Obama will deliver remarks at Minute Maid Park, home of the
Houston Astros baseball team, to more than 600 people who paid
at least $500. Later he will attend a reception at the home of
Anthony Chase, chairman and chief executive officer of
ChaseSource LP, a Houston-based staffing company, with about 70
people who paid $35,800 each. The reception at Chase’s River
Oaks home is co-hosted by his wife, Dina Alsowayel, who is
associate director of women’s studies at the  University of
Houston .  Chase resigned as the director and deputy chairman of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas in 2008 to campaign for Obama.
The U.S. central bank prohibits directors from participating in
partisan politics.  Changing Demographics  Democrats look at the changing demographics, such as the
growing Hispanic population in Texas, and see an opportunity,
Greenberg said.  “It’s one thing for the demographics to change, it’s one
thing for Hispanics to achieve a majority, it’s another thing to
register to vote, and it’s another thing to actually show up at
the polls,” Greenberg said.  Employment (NFSETX)  in Texas has risen almost 2 percent,  personal
income  has increased about 11 percent and home prices have
fallen about 2.5 percent since Obama took office, according to
the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States Index, which uses
data on employment, real estate, taxes and local stocks to track
the direction of state economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in  Washington  at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  