-- Obama’s Re-Election Case Bolstered by February Employment Report
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-03-09T19:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/obama-s-re-election-case-bolstered-as-jobs-data-point-to-stronger-economy.html
A surge in new jobs last month that
held the U.S. unemployment rate to 8.3 percent highlights a
strengthening economy that bolsters President  Barack Obama  as he
approaches the November election .  The jobs report “is another plus for the president,” said
Stu Rothenberg, editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political
Report in Washington.  “These numbers suggest the economy is moving in the right
direction,” he said. “It’s likely to make people more
optimistic, and that’s always, always good for an incumbent
president.”  Employers added 227,000 jobs in February, more than
forecast, the Labor Department reported today in Washington. The
median projection of economists in a Bloomberg News survey
called for a 210,000 increase. Job growth was revised upward for
the prior two months.  The  unemployment rate  held steady after dropping for five
consecutive months from 9.1 percent in August.  “For voters who are used to an unemployment rate that
starts with a 9, this looks like progress,” said  Dan Schnur , a
campaign adviser to Republican presidential candidate  John McCain ’s first bid for the White House in 2000. “It might not
be a huge victory for Obama’s re-election campaign. But it’s not
going to be a significant drag on him either.”  ‘Better Days Ahead’  Obama said the jobs report shows “the economy is getting
stronger” in a speech today to workers at a  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RYCEY)  factory in Prince George County,  Virginia , that
manufactures jet engine parts. “It gives me confidence there
are better days ahead.”  Rick Santorum , a former Pennsylvania senator seeking the
 Republican Party ’s 2012 presidential nomination, said today the
economy is recovering “in spite of” the Democratic Obama
administration’s policies.  “Certainly a quarter of a million jobs, roughly, being
added is a positive step forward,” Santorum said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  The administration “has consistently seen, you know, bad
job reports because of bad policies that have led to those job
reports,” he said. “And eventually, you know, the economy does
recover, in spite of the headwinds that this administration has
put in its place.”  Gasoline Prices  The strengthening economy is beginning to translate into
greater public optimism, even with recent increases in  gasoline
prices .  Consumer confidence  climbed to a four-year high last week,
according to the Bloomberg  Consumer Comfort Index (COMFCOMF) . For a fifth
straight week, half of those surveyed also rated their personal
finances as positive, bolstered by a resilient stock market,
faster job growth and rising wages.  The Commerce Department last week reported that the economy
grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the final quarter of 2011, up
from a 1.8 percent gain the prior three months.  A pickup in economic growth during an election year is
helpful to an incumbent president such as Obama, said
Christopher Wlezien, a political science professor at  Temple
University  in Philadelphia and co-author with Robert Erikson of
the forthcoming book “The Timeline of Presidential Elections.”  “It matters more and more as time goes by. It probably
matters more now than it did three months ago,” he said.  Slow Improvement Forecast  While potential threats loom -- such as further gasoline
price increases, a war in the  Middle East  or a worsening of the
European debt crisis -- most private forecasts anticipate slow
improvement in the unemployment rate in the months before
Election Day, Nov. 6.  “Over the last several months, the economy has gone from
being a net negative for Obama to probably something close to a
wash,” said Schnur, director of the Unruh Institute of Politics
at the University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles ,
interviewed before the release of the jobs report.  The trajectory of the economy is typically much more
important in presidential elections than the actual unemployment
rate, Wlezien said.  “The point is really are we getting better or are we
getting worse and how fast is it changing,” Wlezien said.
“Whether the unemployment rate is 6 percent or 9 percent
matters less.”  Reagan’s Victory  For example, there was not much difference between the 7.5
percent unemployment rate when President  Jimmy Carter  lost re-
election in November 1980 and the 7.2 percent rate four years
later when President  Ronald Reagan  won re-election by a
landslide, he said.  The distinction was the trend lines as each president went
before voters. Under Reagan, unemployment had dropped 1.3
percentage points during the 12 months before the election;
under Carter, joblessness had risen 1.6 percentage points over
the same time period.  The median projection for unemployment during the final
quarter of the year is 8.1 percent, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of 75 economists conducted Feb. 3 to Feb. 9.  Joel Prakken , senior managing director of Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC in  St. Louis , who is among those projecting the 8.1
percent jobless rate, said a drop below 8 percent by the
election is “within the margin of error” of the forecast. That
would break a psychological barrier and further boost public
confidence, he said.  Monthly Surprises  “I wouldn’t discount the possibility,” Prakken said.
“It’s surprised many how quickly the unemployment rate has
fallen. If we just got one or two more monthly surprises, it
could be below 8 percent before the election.”  Unemployment rates are difficult to project as the economy
recovers from recession because of the way the indicator is
computed, Prakken said. Only people actively seeking work are
counted as unemployed. As an economy improves, workers who had
given up looking for a job typically resume seeking one and
consequently add to the number of people counted as unemployed.  The economy needs to add 125,000 jobs per month to keep up
with  population growth , Prakken said. Employment growth must be
higher if discouraged workers pour back into the job market, as
happened in February.  The labor force participation rate, the share of working-
age people who either have a job or are seeking one, rose in
February to 63.9 percent from 63.7 percent.  Underemployment Drops  The so-called  underemployment rate , which includes part-
time workers who’d prefer a full-time position and people who
want work but have given up looking, decreased to a three-year
low of 14.9 percent from 15.1 percent.  The slow-growth scenario that most forecasters anticipate
sets the stage for a “classic glass-half-full, glass-half-empty
argument” between the political parties over the jobless rate
during the summer, Schnur said.  Republican front-runner Mitt Romney previewed just such a
critique on the night of the Super Tuesday Republican primaries
on March 6, arguing that 8.3 percent unemployment may be the
best the Obama administration can achieve, yet the country “can
do better” than an 8 percent rate.  The White House has focused on the progress made since
Obama took office in January 2009. The U.S. lost 818,000 jobs
that month.  “We’re picking up from a relatively slow growth rate,”
Prakken said. “It’s good news for the president but it’s still
pretty dicey.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  