-- Oil-Tanker Rates Gain for Fourth Session as Ship Supply Shrinks
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-03-09T17:28:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/oil-tanker-rates-gain-for-fourth-session-as-ship-supply-shrinks.html
Charter rates to hire the largest
crude tankers to ship Middle East oil to  Asia  rose for a fourth
session as a vessel surplus shrank.  Hire costs  for very large crude carriers, each able to
transport 2 million barrels, on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-
Japan voyage gained 0.8 percent to 55.93 industry-standard
Worldscale points today, according to the London-based  Baltic
Exchange . That’s the longest winning streak since Feb. 20, the
data show.  The number of ships available to load in the  Persian Gulf 
until the end of March decreased by four to 38, while demand
should keep freight rates “steady,” according to Kevin Sy, a
Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at Marex Spectron
Group. As many as 17 cargoes may be available until the end of
the month, he said in an e-mailed report today.  Daily income for VLCCs  on the route gained 3.2 percent to
$17,980, according to the exchange. Returns have gained 50
percent since March 5 and are up 46 percent from the beginning
of the year, the data show.  The assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed at reducing
fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense. Owners can boost
returns by slowing ships on return journeys after unloading of
cargoes.  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, gained 0.4 percent to
$732.73 a metric ton, the highest level since at least October
2008, data compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide show.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
increased 0.7 percent to 818, the highest since Jan. 30, the
bourse data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  