-- Oil Price Distant From 1980s Agony When U.S. Income Adjusted
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-03-09T19:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/oil-price-distant-from-1980s-agony-when-u-s-income-adjusted.html
Oil at $110 a barrel is taking only
half as big a bite out of Americans’ pocketbooks as it did in
1981, the last time Iranian shipments were disrupted.  The cost of a barrel of crude in the U.S., adjusted for
total disposable income, was $107.92 in January of this year,
compared with a peak of $213.44 in the same month in 1981,
according to data compiled by  Bloomberg (.OILINCM)  and the Energy and
Commerce Departments. Oil consumption was 4.8 percent of income
in 2010, compared with 9.7 percent in 1981, the data showed.  For all the concern over the fallout from sanctions against
 Iran  and the prospect of gasoline topping $4 a gallon in a U.S.
election year, the distress caused by rising oil prices is being
mitigated by improved household purchasing power, a
strengthening economy and America’s growing energy independence.  “The threshold to withstand the run-up in energy prices is
higher than most people think,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior
U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York, in
a phone interview March 6. “We can tolerate fuel at $4. Job
growth is stronger and incomes are looking very decent. The
economy is on firmer footing.”  Gross domestic product grew at a 3 percent annual rate in
the fourth quarter of 2011, the most since 2010, while
 unemployment  held at a three-year low of 8.3 percent in
February, raising the likelihood consumers will boost spending.  Oil futures for April delivery rose 82 cents, or 0.8
percent, to settle at $107.40 a barrel on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, bringing the 2012 gain to 8.7 percent. The
price exceeded $110 on March 1 for the first time since May 4.  Fighting Inflation  When adjusted prices reached an all-time high 31 years ago,
Iran had stopped crude shipments following the seizure of the
U.S. embassy in Tehran and the standoff over the fate of 52
American hostages. To fight accelerating inflation, Federal
Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  allowed the federal funds rate to
rise to 22 percent in July 1981, helping push the economy back
into a recession that started that month and lasted 16 months.  Oil is rising again as Iran threatens to close the  Strait
of Hormuz , the transit point for about 20 percent of global
crude cargoes, following the European Union’s Jan. 23 pledge of
an oil embargo starting July 1 to pressure the Islamic republic
to not build a nuclear weapon.  Concern that a surge in energy prices will push the U.S.
into a recession is premature, according to Neal Soss, chief
economist at Credit Suisse in New York.  Less Usage  “Higher gas prices don’t help, but before you get really
nervous you need to see them go much higher,” he said on March
7 in a phone interview. “The economy will continue to grow
through the year.”  Declining fuel use compared with past decades may also be
helping Americans cope with increased prices at the pump.
Household consumption of energy as a share of total spending was
5.6 percent this year, down from 8.9 percent in 1980, according
to Riccadonna of Deutsche Bank.  The U.S. has reversed a two-decade-long decline in energy
independence, increasing the proportion of demand met from
domestic sources over the last six years to an estimated 81
percent through the first 10 months of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from the Energy Department. That’s the
highest level since 1992.  Domestic oil output is the highest in eight years. The U.S.
is producing so much natural gas that, where the government
warned four years ago of a critical need to boost imports, it
now may approve an export terminal.  Gasoline Prices  Retail gasoline  rose to $3.793 a gallon in the week ended
March 5, the highest level at this time of the year in records
going back to 1990, according to the Energy Department. Futures
on the Nymex have advanced 23 percent this year, settling at
$3.314 a gallon yesterday. Prices may average $4 a gallon this
summer and as much as $5 in some East Coast areas,  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group, an energy-consulting firm
in Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said in an interview.  Confidence as measured by the Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort
Index (COMFCOMF)  was minus 36.7 in the week ended March 4, the highest
since April 2008, up from minus 38.8 in the prior period,
according to figures released yesterday. Auto sales in February
accelerated to a 15.03 million annual rate, the fastest in four
years, from 14.13 million in January, according to Ward’s
Automotive Group.  Payrolls Grow  The U.S. has added more than 200,000 jobs for three
consecutive months. A report today showed payrolls rose by
227,000 in February, exceeding the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News and following a 284,000 gain the
prior month.  A modest increase in the hours worked and payroll growth at
the recent pace would mean nominal disposable income grows by
almost $500 billion this year, according to Soss of Credit
Suisse.  While employment and the economy have dominated the
presidential election campaign,  exit poll s show fuel bills are
an increasing concern for voters. In  Ohio ’s March 6 presidential
primary, 93 percent of Republican primary voters said gasoline
prices were “a factor” in their vote, with 74 percent saying
they were “an important factor.”  ‘No Quick Fixes’  “Higher gas prices are like a tax straight out of your
paycheck,” President  Barack Obama  told an audience at a Daimler
Trucks North America plant in Mount Holly, North Carolina March
7. “You and I both know there are no quick fixes to this.”  Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  of  Georgia  promised in a
Feb. 22 Republican presidential debate that as president he
would pursue an energy program including drilling in the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge so “every American can look forward to
$2.50 per gallon gasoline.” Fellow candidate  Mitt Romney  said
Obama “has tried to slow the growth of oil and gas production
in this country, and coal production” in a March 1 speech in
Fargo,  North Dakota .  Bloomberg’s numbers use the Energy Department’s  monthly
average price  that refineries pay for imported oil, adjusted to
reflect data on  disposable income  from the Commerce Department’s
 Bureau of Economic Analysis .  Even taking into account population growth, oil is cheaper
today than it was three decades ago. Adjusted for per capita
disposable income, prices peaked at $156 in January 1981.  Income Factor  “The income factor does play a role” in absorbing rising
oil prices, said  Sander Cohan , a principal at Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “The reaction to
higher energy prices is always a move toward efficiency.”  Unadjusted nominal import prices started to rise in 1979 to
peak at $39 a barrel in February 1981, more than doubling from
the $14.9 level of December 1978.  The Iranian Revolution, which began in late 1978, resulted
in a drop in Iran’s oil production of 3.9 million barrels per
day from 1978 to 1981, according to  the Energy Department .
That’s about 6.4 percent of 1981’s world oil production,
standing at 60.6 million barrels a day, department data showed.  Production dropped further during the  Iran-Iraq War , which
started in 1980. By the following year output from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries declined to 22.8
million barrels per day, 7 million barrels below its level for
1978, according to the department.  This year’s rise in global oil costs “is likely to push up
inflation temporarily while reducing consumers’ purchasing
power,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in semi-annual
testimony to Congress on March 1. He also said policy makers
expect inflation will remain “subdued.”  Gasoline’s gains are pinching Americans’ pockets just as
the economy is gaining momentum, according to Neil Dutta, an
economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York. The increase in
fuel costs may trim as much as half a percentage point from U.S.
economic growth, he said.  “The gas price story is damping growth prospects,” he
said. “The economy is in a better place than last year, but it
isn’t materially better. The increase in energy prices is a
significant headwind.”  -- With assistance from Mike Dorning, Roger Runningen, Craig
Torres and  Carlos Torres  in  Washington  and Edward Klump in
Houston. Editors: Philip Revzin, Justin Carrigan  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  