-- Old Mutual Will Pay Down More Debt Than Planned This Year; Stock Advances
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-03-09T15:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/old-mutual-declares-final-dividend-of-3-5-pence-per-share-for-full-year.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) , the U.K.’s  third-
largest  insurer by market value, said it will pay down more debt
than planned this year as it posted full-year profit that beat
analyst estimates.  Adjusted operating profit climbed 9 percent to 17.5 pence a
share, beating the 16.5 pence estimate of 13 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Old Mutual will pay down 1.7 billion pounds ($2.7
billion) of debt by the end of this year, exceeding its 1.5
billion-pound target, following the sale of its Nordic unit, the
insurer said in a statement today.  Old Mutual, recovering from two years of net losses linked
to hedging failures in 2008 and writedowns of investments, has
sold 2.3 billion pounds of assets since March 2010 to cut debt.
The company, which is  Africa ’s largest insurer, sold its U.S.
life insurance unit in 2010, and agreed to sell its Nordic unit
to Skandia Liv in December. The company is also considering an
initial public offering of its U.S. asset management unit.  “This is an upbeat statement,” said  Marcus Barnard , an
analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in  London  with a buy rating on
the stock. “The company has successfully de-geared and
refocused the group following the sale of Nordic, focusing the
business and putting it in a better position for the future.”  The shares rose 0.4 percent to 19.30 rand at the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg trading. The stock, which has gained 28
percent in the past 12 months, is the best performer on the
five-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Life Assurance Index (JLFEA)  this year.  Final Dividend  The insurer will pay a final dividend of 3.5 pence, up 21
percent from the year earlier. Old Mutual also expects to meet
its 15 percent goal for return on equity, a measure of
profitability, it said.  “We have exposure to fast growing  emerging markets , which
we expect to continue to perform well in 2012, and specialist,
low-risk businesses in  Europe  where we also anticipate growth
albeit in tougher market conditions,” Chief Executive Officer
Julian Roberts said in a statement.  Old Mutual’s full-year operating profit after tax for the
year through December was 855 million pounds, compared with 765
million pounds a year earlier. That missed analyst estimates
after the company excluded income from its Nordic business from
the figures.  “The exclusion of Nordic from the IFRS operating profit
could give the initial impression of an earnings miss, but
adding this back operating profit is in line with
expectations,” Barnard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  