-- London Stock Exchange Surges After Agreeing to Buy Stake in LCH.Clearnet
-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-03-09T16:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/london-stock-exchange-to-acquire-majority-of-lch-clearnet-for-1-billion.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
rallied the most in more than eight months after agreeing to buy
a majority stake in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. for 463 million
euros ($613 million) to expand its post-trade services.  Shares in the owner of  Europe ’s oldest independent bourse
climbed 8.9 percent to 977.50 pence at 12:08 p.m. in  London 
trading, the biggest increase since June 30, valuing the
exchange at 2.65 billion pounds ($4.2 billion).  LCH.Clearnet shareholders will receive 19 euros a share in
cash plus 1 euro a share from a special dividend for a stake of
as much as 60 percent, LSE said in a statement today. The offer
values the world’s biggest swaps clearinghouse at 813 million
euros, according to the statement. LCH.Clearnet shareholders,
which include banks and brokers that use its services, will
retain ownership of at least 40 percent of the company.  “LSE’s proposal for a majority acquisition maintains a
shareholding position for current users, which gives them a
stake and a say, and should also ease any potential antitrust
concerns,” said Stefan Goetz, head of the financial
institutions group at  Societe Generale ’s investment bank, one of
LSE’s advisers on the deal.  That arrangement could also support the combined business.
“All of the major banks will remain shareholders post deal,
which is likely to make them inclined to continue to provide LCH
with business,”  James Hamilton , an analyst at Numis Securities
Ltd. in London, wrote in a report today.  Central Counterparties  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default. The
businesses have become more attractive as regulators globally
seek more central clearing of derivatives.  LSE had been in talks with the London-based clearinghouse
for more than six months. LCH.Clearnet had also attracted
interest from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and NYSE Euronext, which
planned to bid in partnership with Markit Group Ltd.  The deal promises to be transformational for LSE as well as
the market-infrastructure industry, Goetz said. “LSE is
diversifying further into post-trade services, the fastest-
growing part of the value chain, and the scale advantages from
the transaction will also provide cost synergies,” he said.  Exchange operators from New York to  Frankfurt  and  Singapore 
have sought takeovers to augment equity businesses after
regulation and automated trading eroded profit. Nasdaq OMX is
the majority owner of International Derivatives Clearing Group
LLC, which opened in January 2009 for interest-rate swap
futures. Deutsche Boerse AG in Frankfurt owns Eurex Clearing.  NYSE-Fixnetix  NYSE Euronext, the operator of the  New York  Stock Exchange,
last month agreed to buy 25 percent of London-based Fixnetix, a
provider of trading services, for 17.5 million pounds. The deal
came two weeks after its takeover by Deutsche Boerse AG was
blocked by European regulators.  The U.S. Dodd-Frank Act mandates that most interest-rate,
credit-default and other swaps be processed by central
counterparties and traded on exchanges or similar systems,
taking business from the Wall Street banks that pioneered the
transactions. All over-the-counter trades will be reported to
regulators, while dealers and their biggest clients will face
higher  capital requirements  to access the market. In Europe,
regulators are also mandating more clearing of OTC derivatives.  The stake purchase in LCH.Cleartnet “gives us access to
global clearing opportunities,” LSE Chief Executive Officer
 Xavier Rolet  said on a conference call today. “This empowers
the group to offer new products to innovate and provide a more
competitive environment for listed derivatives.”  New Entrants  LCH.Clearnet, whose SwapClear service began clearing
interest-rate swaps traded between banks in 1999, has seen its
market share in equities eroded by new entrants. Its biggest
customers, such as  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and the London Metal Exchange,
are considering clearing their own trades and two chief
executives have departed in less than six years.  LSE scrapped its bid for TMX Group Inc., owner of the
Toronto Stock Exchange, in June after failing to win support
from TMX shareholders. Analysts said at the time the failure
made the U.K. exchange a takeover target for rivals such as
Nasdaq OMX.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  