-- Drive to Ban ‘Pink Slime’ in School Lunches Gains Momentum
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-03-09T20:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/online-push-to-ban-pink-slime-in-school-lunches-gains-momentum.html
An online effort to ban beef
containing an additive known as “pink slime” from the federal
school lunch program has garnered almost 19,000 supporters in
less than four days.  About 6 percent, or 7 million pounds, of the beef purchased
by the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  for the program this year
contains the product, made of beef trim and treated with
ammonium hydroxide to kill possible pathogens such as E. coli.
There is no concern about safety risks associated with the
product, Dirk Fillpot, USDA spokesman, said in a statement.  McDonald’s Corp., (MCD)  the world’s largest restaurant chain,
Burger King Holdings Inc. and Yum! Brands Inc.’s Taco Bell have
stopped using the substance. McDonald’s dropped the ingredient
to be “consistent with our global beef supply chain,”
according to a statement from the  Oak Brook , Illinois-based
company.  “This is like the slaughter house sweepings,” said
Bettina Elias Siegel, of Houston, who started the online
petition on her blog  The Lunch Tray . “Fast food chains have
stopped using it because people vote with their dollars, but
kids in cafeterias are captive to what’s served there.”  Siegel said sentiment about the product is built around the
belief it’s made from inferior parts and may harbor pathogens.  The USDA, which administers the school lunch program,
strengthened ground-beef safety standards in recent years and
only allows products the agency is confident don’t pose risks,
Fillpot said.  Pink Slime  Pink slime treated with ammonia is sold by Beef Products
Inc., a Dakota Dunes, South Dakota-based manufacturer, and also
known as lean finely textured beef.  The lean beef produced from trim is used in hamburger,
sausage and ground beef and is treated with a process also used
in foods such as cheeses and chocolates, according to a March 8
statement from the manufacturer.  Media reports create a “troubling and inaccurate
picture,” according to a March 8 statement by J. Patrick Boyle,
president of the  American Meat Institute , a trade group
representing meatpackers including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and  JBS
Swift & Co. (JBSS3)   The treatment process, which involves ammonium hydroxide
gas, is used in many food products to destroy bacteria,
according to the statement.  “Boneless lean beef trimmings is a safe, wholesome and
nutritious form of beef that is made by separating lean beef
from fat,” Boyle said. The product recovers lean meat that
would otherwise be wasted, he said.  The pinkish, semi-solid substance is made from trimmings,
which are smaller pieces of fat that contains bits of beef,
according to the meat producers’ trade group.  The trimmings are heated up and spun to separate out the
meat, much like cream out of milk. Ammonia and water is used in
processing to control harmful bacteria by raising pH levels,
according to the group. Another variation uses citric acid.  If the small bits were not separated out and used, about
1.5 million additional head of cattle would have to be
slaughtered each year to meet demand, according to the meat
industry.  “I will never apologize for using more of the animal.
That’s the right thing to do,” said Janet Riley, a spokeswoman
for the meat institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  