-- Monsanto, Dow Gene-Modified Crops to Get Faster U.S. Reviews
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-03-09T19:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/monsanto-dow-modified-crops-to-get-expedited-reviews-by-u-s-.html
Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) 
will get speedier government reviews for some of their newest
genetically modified crops under a plan to cut approval times in
half, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said.  Monsanto soybeans that tolerate applications of the
herbicide dicamba and a Dow soybean engineered to tolerate 2,4-D
are among a dozen petitions that will get the faster reviews,
the USDA  said  on its website. The agency plans to decide whether
to approve the crops in 13 to 16 months after public comment
begins, down from a current average of 3 years.  The move to speed biotech approvals comes as seed-makers
develop new technologies aimed at slowing the spread of so-
called superweeds that are no longer killed by Monsanto’s
Roundup herbicide. Half of the 12 plants designated for faster
review by the USDA are herbicide-tolerant crops made by
Monsanto, Dow, DuPont Co.,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and BASF AG.  “Farmers needs technology right now to help them with
issues such as weed resistance,” Kenda Resler-Friend, a
spokeswoman for Midland, Michigan-based Dow, said today in a
telephone interview. “The USDA realizes that the longer farmers
have to wait, the longer the weeds are going to get a head
start.”  Weeds that resist glyphosate, the active ingredient in
Roundup, or that are hard to control surged 25 percent last year
to infest 60 million acres, Antonio Galindez, president of Dow
AgroSciences, said in a March 7 presentation.  Addressing Concerns Early  The USDA now will take public comment on seed developers’
petitions for deregulation at the start of the review process so
concerns can be addressed early, helping to get new technologies
on the market sooner, Michael Gregoire, a USDA deputy
administrator, said last month. The timing for publication of
the first 12 seed-makers’ petitions under the new process isn’t
clear, R. Andre Bell, an agency spokesman, said today.  Dow soybeans engineered to tolerate applications of three
herbicides, including 2,4-D, fall under the new system, while
earlier petitions for approval of soybeans that tolerate 2,4-D
and one other herbicide and for 2,4-D-tolerant corn remain under
the old paradigm. Dow is counting on at least $1 billion of
profit from 2,4-D and crops that tolerate it, known as the
Enlist system, as farmers try to control superweeds.  Crops engineered to tolerate 2,4-D have come under attack
by activists partly because the chemical is one of the two
herbicides comprising  Agent Orange . Dow’s Resler-Friend said it
was 2,4,5-T, the other chemical in the defoliant used during the
 Vietnam war , that was a health concern and it hasn’t been
produced in 25 years.  Older Herbacides  Some weed scientists are concerned that older herbicides
such as 2,4-D and dicamba can volatilize in summer heat and
drift onto neighbors’ fields and gardens.  Monsanto and BASF are developing a version of dicamba with
reduced volatility, Daniel Pepitone, a BASF spokesman said
today. Dow’s Resler-Friend said its formulation of 2,4-D with
choline, which is pending regulatory approval, has “near zero”
volatility and a 90 percent reduction in wind-carried drift.  Other petitions to get faster USDA review include a higher
yielding soybean from Monsanto, a cold-tolerant eucalyptus tree
from  ArborGen Inc. (ARBR) , a non-browning apple from Okanagan Specialty
Fruits and a blight-resistant peanut from  Virginia Tech .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  