-- Monster Says Strategic Review Remarks Got Positive Feedback
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-09T21:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/monster-ceo-says-his-remarks-about-strategic-review-got-positive-feedback.html
Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  Chief
Executive Officer Sal Iannuzzi said his remarks last week about
the online-recruiting service’s pursuit of strategic
alternatives have received “positive attention” and the
business model isn’t in danger.  “We will continue to take all appropriate measures to
maximize  shareholder value , but it is imperative that you
understand our business model is not in jeopardy,” he wrote in
a memo obtained by Bloomberg News today. “We have made the
investments and delivered the products to our customers that
will allow us to thrive for years to come.”  Monster this week hired bankers to review its strategy
after losing market share to sites such as  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  Tobey Sommer, an analyst at SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in
Nashville, has said selling itself may be one option and a buyer
would benefit if the U.S. starts to add lower-paying jobs.  Iannuzzi earlier this year said he would cut 400 jobs, or
about 7 percent of New York-based Monster’s workforce, after the
European economic crisis led users to visit the job-search site
less often.  Monster’s shares jumped more than 15 percent the day
Iannuzzi first made the remarks and gained 5.8 percent to $9.11
today at the close in  New York . They’ve tumbled 40 percent in
the past 12 months.  A takeover could generate as much as $100 million in cost
savings, mostly from general and administrative, corporate and
marketing expenses, Sommer said this month.  Monster hired Stone Key Partners LLC and  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch to review its strategy, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in  San Francisco  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  