-- Monti Pushes Ahead on High-Speed Rail Project as Protests Mount
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   F l a v i a   R o t o n d i
-- 2012-03-09T06:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/monti-pushes-ahead-on-high-speed-rail-project-as-protests-mount.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government is pushing ahead with its share of an 8.2 billion-
euro ($10.9 billion) high-speed train line linking Italy and
 France , defying opponents who have demonstrated across the
country.  A government panel in Rome will today decide whether to
free up 20 million euros in funds to compensate residents of the
Piedmont region and in particular the Val di Susa, an Alpine
valley near the Italian-French border that has been at the
center of violent protests against the rail project.  “The northern part of Italy is highly developed, but it’s
also isolated from the rest of Europe by the Alps,” Gian Maria Gros-Pietro, professor at Luiss University and former chairman
of toll-road company Atlantia SpA, said in an interview.
“Tunnels under the Alps are crucial for the development not
only of  Italy , but also for the central part of Europe, which is
the richest region for industry.”  The high-speed TAV rail line will link Turin, the capital
of Piedmont and home to automaker Fiat SpA, to the French city
of Lyon through a 57-kilometer tunnel running under the Alps.
The TAV will cut travel time from Paris to Milan from seven
hours to about four hours and reduce truck traffic by around
600,000 vehicles a year, Monti said last week.  The project will also employ about 6,000 people at a time
when Italy’s jobless rate of 9.2 percent is at the highest in
more than a decade and Monti is trying to overhaul its  labor
laws  to encourage hiring and boost growth, according to the
government’s  website .  ‘No-TAV’ Movement  Building a high-speed rail tunnel will “destroy all the
ground waters, not only those in the valley but also on the
French mountainsides,” Nicoletta Dosio, a retired professor and
leader of the “No-TAV” movement, said in an interview March 8.
Dosio has been fighting against the project since it was
approved at the European Union’s 1990 summit.  Environmentalists who oppose the plan also say the tunnel
will create pollution and put valley residents’ health at risk,
as asbestos locked inside the mountains could be released by
drilling the tunnel.  “We won’t give up,” Dosio said. “The alternative would
be the death of this place and of our society.”  High-speed rail opponents have blocked highways and
demonstrated throughout the region, as well as in Rome and
Milan. Several policemen were injured in recent clashes with
protesters and some journalists covering the demonstrations were
attacked and robbed. A No-TAV activist was hospitalized last
week after being electrocuted and falling off a high-tension
wire during a protest.  Monti Committed  Monti said last week his government remains committed to
the project and that no form of violence will be tolerated. “Do
we want to let our peninsula drift serenely, cut off from
 Europe ?” Monti said at a press conference March 2. Giving up on
infrastructure projects like high-speed rail would make it
“very difficult for the Italian economy to recover, be
competitive and create new jobs,” he said.  The Monti government, in power since November, has pushed
through a 20 billion-euro austerity plan and other measures to
spur growth and jumpstart an economy that has lagged below the
EU average for more than a decade.  The rail line will create a “physical link with Europe,”
fundamental for future generations, Monti said last week. Still,
environmentalists remain convinced the project will weigh on
public finances without bringing economic benefits.  “This will have a huge impact on our public finances, in a
period of economic crisis,” Vittorio Cogliati Dezza, chairman
of environmental group Legambiente, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview March 7. “The project won’t help the
country, it won’t help the area.”  Even protesters who back Monti’s economic policies say the
prime minister has made a mistake on TAV. “We love him,” No-
TAV leader Alberto Perino said in a speech near Turin last week.
“But he better avoid a test of strength with us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  