-- Morgan Stanley Executive in Stab Case Faces Tested Bias Law
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-03-09T14:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/morgan-stanley-s-jennings-faces-tested-hate-crime-law-in-cab-stabbing-case.html
The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  executive accused
of assaulting a New York cab driver is charged with violating a
Connecticut hate-crime law that has been used to convict one man
for uttering a racial epithet and another for shouting a gay
slur while threatening to set a man on fire.  William Bryan Jennings, 45, arrived today at Connecticut
Superior Court in Stamford where he is expected to enter a plea.
He is accused of calling the Egyptian-born driver, Mohamed
Ammar, 44, an expletive and saying “I’m going to kill you. You
should go back to your country” during a dispute over a fare.
The hate-crime law brings the same five-year maximum sentence as
the assault charge.  “You can’t punish somebody merely through speech, but you
can punish him when he’s threatening to beat people up,” Martin
B. Margulies, a professor at Quinnipiac University School of Law
in Hamden,  Connecticut , said in a phone interview.  Jennings, who served as the bank’s bond-underwriting chief
in the U.S. before he was placed on leave, was charged Feb. 29
in the December incident. He’s accused of attacking Ammar with a
2 1/2-inch blade at the end of a 40-mile ride from New York to
the banker’s Darien home.  The Connecticut hate-crime statute, signed into law in
2000, makes it a felony to cause or threaten physical damage to
a person or to property with a specific intent to intimidate or
harass a person “because of the actual or perceived race,
religion, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation or gender
identity or expression of such other person.”  No Threat  Jennings’s lawyer, Eugene J. Riccio, declined to comment on
the bias charge. Jennings denied threatening to kill Ammar or
telling him to go back to his country, according to the banker’s
statement to the police.  The state hate-crime law “is one of the very few crimes
where motive enters into the definition of the offense,”
Margulies said. “The test is whether you perceive your victim
to belong to certain ethnicity.”  In Connecticut, there were 243 arrests and 33 convictions
under the hate-crime statute from 2007 to 2011, according to
Rhonda Stearley-Hebert, a spokeswoman for the State Judicial
Branch office.  In 2010, an appeals panel upheld the jury conviction of a
man who used anti-gay slurs when he tried to set another man on
fire as they drank in a wooded area in Willimantic. The victim,
Scott Beattie, had taken off at least some of his clothes and
had earlier been drinking with a gay man, according to the
decision.  Already Home  “The jury reasonably could have determined that the
defendant had the requisite specific intent to intimidate or to
harass Beattie on the basis of Beattie’s actual or perceived
sexual orientation,” the court wrote.  In 2007, a Connecticut appeals panel found that the hate-
crime law wasn’t unconstitutionally too broad or vague as
applied to a defendant convicted of violating it. The court said
the law protects against “true threats.”  In a 2003 incident in  Stamford  High School’s parking lot
that gave rise to that case, a white man used a racial epithet
and said, “This is a white man’s neighborhood” to a black man
while making two fists.  In the case of Jennings, who had attended a bank holiday
party at a Manhattan hotel before hailing Ammar’s cab, the
incident began when he refused to pay the agreed-upon $204 fare
when they arrived in the driveway of his $3.4 million home,
Ammar said.  Jennings said “he did not feel like paying” because he
was already home, Ammar said. The banker offered to pay $50,
Ammar said, while Jennings told police the driver demanded $294
and that he offered to pay $160.  Fight Ensued  Ammar said after the banker refused to pay, he backed out
of the driveway to seek a police officer. Ammar said he had
tried to call 911 but was hampered by poor cellular reception in
the wealthy Fairfield County suburb. A fight ensued as they
drove through Darien. That was when Jennings made the threats
and allegedly cut Ammar, according to the police report, filed
in state court in Stamford.  Jennings said the driver cut his hand trying to grab the
knife from him, which he said he wielded because he feared he
was being abducted, possibly back to the city. Ammar denied he
tried to take Jennings back to  New York .  The banker, who eventually fled the cab and turned himself
in two weeks later after a vacation in  Florida , was charged with
second-degree assault, theft of services and intimidation by
bias or bigotry. The charge for not paying the cab fare is a
misdemeanor with a maximum three-month sentence.  Higher Penalty  Michael Lawlor, undersecretary in the state Office of
Policy and Management, co-sponsored the hate-crime bill when he
was a state representative. The law assigns a higher penalty to
assault or vandalism that is motivated by hatred, he said in a
phone interview.  “It’s not a crime to hate people,” he said. “You can
hate people all you want.”  He said the state would have to prove beyond a reasonable
doubt as to why Jennings allegedly picked this victim.  “If it was just over the cab fare, then it would not be a
hate crime,” Lawlor said. “If they were doing it and claiming
self-defense, that’s another law, too.”  Racial Slurs  Max Simmons, a criminal-defense and civil-rights lawyer in
 New Haven , said in a phone interview he could recall only one
client being charged with it, a case that was dropped for
reasons unrelated to the alleged racial slurs used.  “It has to be a pretty clear-cut case,” Simmons said.
“There’s always a First Amendment challenge lurking in the
background of a statute like that.”  Under the hate-crime law, Ammar would also be able to sue
Jennings for damages. In May 2011, in a lawsuit in the same
court as Jennings’s criminal case, such a claim was allowed to
go forward against a Greenwich police officer. In that case, a
black man who worked as a livery driver said he was racially
profiled when he was stopped while driving a client’s Mercedes.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut (Stamford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich at Connecticut Superior Court in Stamford at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 John Dillon  at Connecticut Superior Court in Stamford at
   jdillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 