-- Morgan Stanley’s Jennings Pleads Not Guilty in Taxi Stabbing
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/morgan-stanley-s-jennings-pleads-not-guilty-in-n-y-cab-driver-stabbing.html
William Bryan Jennings, the  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  U.S. bond-underwriting chief accused of stabbing a New
York cab driver over a fare, pleaded not guilty to assault and
hate-crime charges based on the man’s Middle Eastern descent.  Jennings’s lawyer, Eugene J. Riccio, entered the plea on
his client’s behalf yesterday before Connecticut Superior Court
Judge Robert L. Genuario in  Stamford . Jennings wore a blue suit,
white shirt and patterned tie to the proceeding, which lasted
less than a minute. He and Riccio left the courthouse without
speaking to reporters and drove away in a pickup truck. His next
court date is April 12.  Jennings, 45, is accused of attacking the driver, Mohamed
Ammar, on Dec. 22 with a 2 1/2-inch blade and using racial slurs
after a 40-mile ride from New York to the banker’s Darien,
 Connecticut , home. The hate-crime count brings the same five-
year maximum prison sentence as the assault charge.  Jennings, who had attended a bank holiday party at a
boutique hotel in Manhattan before hailing the cab, refused to
pay the $204 fare upon arriving in his driveway, the driver
said. Jennings said “he did not feel like paying” because he
was already home, Ammar, 44, told police. The banker offered to
pay $50, he said. Jennings told police Ammar demanded $294 and
he offered to pay $160.  Call to 911  Ammar, a native of  Egypt , said that after the banker
refused to pay, he backed out of the driveway of the $3.4
million home to seek a police officer. Ammar said he had tried
to call 911 but was hampered by poor mobile reception in the
wealthy Fairfield County suburb.  The banker called him an expletive and said, “I’m going to
kill you. You should go back to your country,” according to the
police report. A fight ensued as they drove through Darien, and
Jennings allegedly cut Ammar, police said.  Jennings said the driver cut his hand trying to grab the
knife from him, which he said he wielded because he feared he
was being abducted, possibly back to the city. Ammar denied he
tried to take Jennings back to  New York .  The banker, who eventually fled the cab and turned himself
in two weeks later after a vacation in  Florida , was charged with
second-degree assault, theft of services and intimidation by
bias or bigotry. Freed on $9,500 bond, he faces as long as 10
years and three months in prison. He was charged Feb. 29.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, said March 2 that Jennings has been put on leave.  Rate Book  Ammar told police that before they left for Connecticut, he
showed Jennings the New York City  Taxi & Limousine Commission’s 
rate book listing the fare at $204. Jennings said they didn’t
discuss the fare and he assumed the cost would be $125 to $150,
which is what Morgan Stanley’s car service charged, according to
police. He had never taken a yellow cab home before, he said.  Jennings flagged Ammar down in front of Ink48, a hotel on
 Manhattan ’s West Side, sometime before 11 p.m. after the banker
said his car service didn’t appear, according to the report.  The banker appeared “drunk,” the driver said, according
to court documents. Jennings said he drank “two or three Coors
Lights” at a charity event he hosted before the party and
“several more beers” at the party itself, according to his
police statement. He told police he wasn’t “highly
intoxicated,” according to the police report.  Jennings fell asleep during the trip, the driver said.
Jennings never gave him his address and instead the driver woke
him up as they neared the house.  Passenger Flees  After Jennings refused to pay and Ammar drove off with his
passenger still in the car, Jennings pulled the knife and began
stabbing him through the open partition that divided the front
and rear of the cab, Ammar said. Ammar said he tried to defend
himself by using his right hand to block the opening, and then
pulled over and dialed 911 again, as Jennings got out and fled,
police said.  Jennings said he never stabbed Ammar, according to his
police statement. He showed the driver he had a knife after they
pulled away from his house and Ammar cut himself in trying to
grab it away, he told police.  Jennings never threatened to kill Ammar or told him to go
back to his country, according to the banker’s police statement.  The Connecticut hate-crime statute, signed into law in
2000, makes it a felony to cause or threaten physical damage to
a person or to property with a specific intent to intimidate or
harass a person “because of the actual or perceived race,
religion, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation or gender
identity or expression of such other person.”  In Connecticut, there were 243 arrests and 33 convictions
under the statute from 2007 to 2011, according to Rhonda
Stearley-Hebert, a spokeswoman for the State Judicial Branch
office. Under the law, Ammar would also be able to sue Jennings
for damages.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut (Stamford).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
 John Dillon  at Connecticut Superior Court
in Stamford at   jdillon@snet.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 