-- Motiva to Switch Heating Oil Tanks to Diesel in New Jersey
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-09T06:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/motiva-to-switch-heating-oil-tanks-to-diesel-in-new-jersey-1-.html
Motiva Enterprises LLC will convert
its high-sulfur diesel heating oil storage at the Sewaren
terminal in  New Jersey  to ultra-low-sulfur  diesel  to accommodate
new environmental regulations in  New York .  Tanks for heating oil with a maximum of 2,000 parts
per million sulfur will now store ultra-low-sulfur diesel of 15
ppm, a limit effective July 1 in New York. The Sewaren terminal,
a delivery point for contracts traded on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , will receive the less polluting fuel by ship and
pipeline, according to a company statement.  “Motiva’s Sewaren Terminal is strategically located to
serve distillate, gasoline and ethanol suppliers and consumers
in the northeast,” Ralph Otis, the terminal’s manager, said in
the e-mailed statement.  CME Group Inc. (CME)  said in July that it will stop heating-oil
futures contracts on Nymex beyond April 2013 and start a
contract for ultra-low-sulfur diesel in response to New York’s
15-ppm standard. The contract will be used for hedging both
heating oil and diesel for transportation, the Chicago-based
company said at the time.  The 5-million-barrel Sewaren oil products terminal is also
converting two heating oil tanks to B100 biodiesel to supply
multiple blends, Motiva said. The company expects to finish the
conversion to ultra-low-sulfur diesel in the second quarter of
this year and finish the conversion to biodiesel in the third
quarter, the statement shows.  Houston-based Motiva is a joint venture of  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Saudi Arabian Oil Co. Kayla Macke, a Motiva
spokeswoman in Houston, declined to provide the terminal’s
heating oil storage capacity, saying it is proprietary
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  