-- Motorola Sees $5 Billion Emergency Airwaves Market
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-03-12T15:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/motorola-solutions-sees-5-billion-market-in-emergency-airwaves.html
(Corrects full-year sales outlook in sixth paragraph of
story published March 9.)  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , a supplier
of walkie-talkies to firefighters and police, sees a sales
opportunity in U.S. airwaves being opened for use by emergency
workers, Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  said.  “It’s a $5 billion market and we’re well-positioned to
pursue” the so-called D Block spectrum during the next five
years, Brown said in a telephone interview today. “We expect to
win more than we lose.”  Congress allocated the D Block for use by police and
firefighters last month and dedicated $7 billion to design and
build a nationwide digital network for emergency workers.
Motorola Solutions in the past 18 months already won municipal
contracts to build and supply digital emergency networks in
 California ,  Texas  and Mississippi on other spectrum, and those
will begin to generate “material” revenue in 2014, Brown said.  The company, based in Schaumburg,  Illinois , wants to use
its expertise in building walkie-talkies and emergency networks
into more business as local governments overhaul older analog
safety networks and switch to faster digital LTE, or long-term
evolution, technology.  Motorola Solutions’ revenue from governments last year
climbed 6.1 percent to $5.36 billion, while sales of bar-code
scanners and other radio-based equipment to retailers increased
11 percent to $2.85 billion.  Total  sales  for 2011 gained 7.7 percent to $8.2 billion.
The company expects revenue growth of 5 percent this year, which
may rise to as much as 8 percent annually in 2013 and 2014, said
Chief Financial Officer Ed Fitzpatrick, who also participated in
the interview.  Stock Buyback  The company has completed $2.5 billion of a planned
$3 billion  share buyback  and will continue to return money to
stockholders through repurchases or dividends, Fitzpatrick said.
As part of the buyback, Motorola Solutions last month purchased
$1.17 billion of shares from billionaire investor  Carl Icahn .  Motorola Solutions was formed in January 2011 from the
former Motorola Inc., after four years of pressure from Icahn.
Motorola Inc.’s mobile-phone business at that time was spun off
as  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  In August,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed
to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion.  Motorola Solutions fell 2 percent to $50.74 at the close in
 New York . Since Jan. 3, 2011, the day before the split, the
 shares  have gained 36 percent while Motorola Mobility has risen
31 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  