-- OTP of Hungary Posts Fourth-Quarter Loss on Loan Repayments and Writedowns
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-09T17:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/otp-of-hungary-posts-fourth-quarter-loss-on-loan-repayments-and-writedowns.html
OTP Bank (OTP)  Nyrt., Hungary’s largest
lender, reported its first quarterly loss in three years on a
foreign-currency loan repayment plan, goodwill writedowns at
foreign units and a special bank tax.  The fourth-quarter net loss of 25.8 billion forint ($116
million) compares with a net income of 17.4 billion forint a
year earlier, OTP said in a statement to the Budapest Stock
Exchange today. Net income adjusted for one-time items was 30.2
billion forint, down 6 percent from a year earlier.  OTP, which has  subsidiaries  in nine countries in central
and eastern  Europe , increasingly relies on foreign units to
boost profit after domestic operations were hurt by government
measures. The bank targets a “stable” revenue margin in 2012
as consumption loans are set to jump more than 10 percent in
Russia and Ukraine and bad-loan growth slows, OTP said.  “The profit contribution of foreign subsidiaries will
gradually increase as our core operations will drop,” OTP
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Laszlo Bencsik told reporters
today. “We very firmly believe that the trend of declining
lending will turn around this year and we see a dynamic increase
in deposits.”  OTP set aside 28 billion forint for dividend payment, which
translates into a payout of 100 forint per share, Bencsik said
during a conference call today. The final decision on the
dividend proposal has still to be made by the board, he said.  Hungary ’s government levied an extra tax on financial
institutions and allowed foreign-currency mortgage holders to
repay their loans at discount exchange rates, forcing banks to
swallow losses.  Repayment Losses  OTP booked an after-tax loss of 31.2 billion forint in the
fourth quarter on the repayment plan and sees a further 2
billion-forint loss being accounted in the first quarter of
2012. The lender’s total pretax losses from the plan is 65.4
billion forint as clients repaid almost 20 percent of the
lender’s total mortgage stock.  OTP, which paid 7.2 billion forint in a special bank levy
in the last quarter of 2011, booked 17.7 billion forint in
goodwill writedowns at its Serbian, Croatian and Montenegrin
subsidiaries.  “Adjusted for one-time factors, the quarterly results
aren’t bad,” Zoltan Reczey, an analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz
Zrt. in Budapest, said in a telephone interview today. The
trends underlying the main profit figure, “which is scary at
first glance,” aren’t altogether negative, he said.  Shares rose 3.4 percent to close at 3,824 forint, boosting
this year’s advance to 18.8 percent, compared with a 10.8
percent increase in the benchmark  BUX index  in the period.  IMF, EU Willingness  OTP’s  pricing  depends on market perceptions of Hungary’s
willingness to reach an agreement with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union on financial assistance
because of “concern” the government may be playing for time,
Reczey said.  Such a deal would be “positive” for OTP, Bencsik said.
“The bank’s management,” and Chairman Sandor Csanyi
“personally, is convinced of the government’s commitment to
reach an agreement.”  The government and commercial lenders agreed on a plan in
December to temporarily fix the exchange-rate on foreign-
currency mortgages to ease the burden on households after the
forint weakened, boosting repayment obligations.  “I wouldn’t rule out the possibility that more than 90
percent of our clients will use this program,” Bencsik said.
“I see no reason why they shouldn’t.”  The bank, which has 130,000 foreign-currency mortgages at
the moment, will see its interest income decline as a result of
the plan, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  