-- OTP Gains Most in 6 Weeks on Outlook, Greek Swap: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-03-09T16:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/otp-bank-gains-second-day-on-growth-outlook-greek-debt-swap-1-.html
OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, rose the most in six weeks after forecasting credit
growth at its Ukrainian and Russian units and as the completion
of  Greece ’s debt swap boosted demand for riskier assets.  The shares climbed 3.4 percent to 3,824 forint by the close
in Budapest, paring the decline this week to 5.2 percent, the
worst performance on a closing basis since the five days through
Jan. 6. The benchmark BUX stock  index  advanced 1.2 percent to
18,803.43, trimming this week’s fall to 2.6 percent.  OTP, which reported a fourth-quarter net loss as a result
of a foreign-currency loan repayment plan, expects consumer
loans to grow more than 10 percent in Ukraine and  Russia  this
year, it said in a presentation distributed to reporters today.  “OTP expressed a positive outlook for this year,
unfortunately mostly based on foreign units,” Levente Blaho and
Adam Keszeg, analysts at  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  in
Budapest, wrote in a research report today.  Emerging-market stocks climbed as Greece said 95.7 percent
of bondholders will participate in a debt swap after it
triggered an option to force investors into taking part.  OTP fell to the lowest in almost two months on March 7 on
speculation restarting of Hungary’s talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union will face more delays. The
stock added to gains today after Roland Natran, a deputy state
secretary at the  Economy Ministry , told Gazdasagi Radio Hungary
is making progress toward starting bailout talks.  “Adjusted for one-time factors, the quarterly results
aren’t bad,” Zoltan Reczey, an analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz
Zrt. in Budapest, said in a telephone interview today. “OTP’s
pricing will depend to a large extent on what the market expects
regarding the IMF deal.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net  