-- Paulson Urges Analysts to Back His Plan to Break Up Hartf
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-03-09T23:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/paulson-urges-analysts-to-support-his-plan-to-break-up-hartford-financial.html
John Paulson , who controls the
biggest stake of  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) , held a
call with analysts covering the insurer as he increases pressure
on Chief Executive Officer  Liam McGee  to break up the company.  Paulson urged equity analysts including Andrew Kligerman of
UBS AG and Randy Binner of FBR Capital Markets to back his plan,
which would split Hartford’s life-insurance unit from property-
casualty operations. The billionaire hedge fund manager, whose
Paulson & Co. owns more than 8 percent of Hartford, said on
today’s call that McGee has “no excuse” for waiting.  Paulson challenged McGee in February to consider a split to
boost the stock. The insurer based in Hartford, Connecticut, is
the third-worst performer in the 24-stock  KBW Insurance Index (KIX) 
over the last two years. McGee, who repaid a U.S. bailout in
March 2010, has struggled to regain the level of profitability
achieved before the 2008 and 2009 financial slump.  Shannon Lapierre , a spokeswoman for Hartford, declined to
comment. She referred to a Feb. 14 statement in which Hartford
said it recognized potential benefits to a split and planned to
continue talking to Paulson.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for
Paulson, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  Hartford should announce its intention to split the two
main businesses in a transaction that may take a year and a half
to complete, Paulson said.  McGee and Paulson clashed last month on a conference call
hosted by the insurer to discuss fourth-quarter earnings with
analysts and investors. McGee told Paulson that while he had
“an incredible sense of urgency” to make changes that would
boost the stock price, a split probably wouldn’t create value
for shareholders. Hartford cited its credit ratings and
regulatory approvals among the challenges to a split.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 