-- Pawlenty Says He Expects Romney to Win Nomination (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-03-09T22:22:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/pawlenty-says-he-expects-romney-to-win-nomination-transcript-.html
Former Minnesota Governor  Tim
Pawlenty , a co-chairman of Mitt Romney’s presidential campaign,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend, that he’s confident
the former Massachusetts governor is well on his way to winning
the  Republican Party ’s nomination.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: Welcome back. Former Minnesota Governor Tim
Pawlenty is a national co-chair of the Romney campaign and joins
us now from  Minneapolis . Governor, thank you. Let me start off
by asking you about the jobs report that came out this morning,
a pretty good one, fastest six-month growth since 2006. Looks
like the economy’s on the way back, right?  TIM PAWLENTY: Well, you can’t look at any one just piece of
data and make a broad conclusion, but there are some positive
signs in the economy, and obviously as Americans we hope that
this economy gets up and going, but 8.3 percent, Al, in
unemployment is still way too high, and it could have come down
faster. It could have been prevented from going so high, had
 Barack Obama  done the right things in the first place.  HUNT: Let me ask you this, Governor. I’ve looked at the
Santorum and the Romney tax and budget plans. The budget plans
are more vague. But when I look at them, they seem to be
strikingly similar - a few differences on taxes, but there
really is not a dime’s worth or at least a quarter’s worth of
difference between Santorum and Romney on economics, is there?  PAWLENTY: Well, there are some essential differences in
their plans, Al. For your viewers, they might not want to get
into all the minutiae of it, but I think for people who are
interested in the details of  tax policy , there are meaningful
differences.  And one difference is that Mitt Romney has a 20 percent
across-the-board rate cut on taxes. He wants to eliminate
 capital gains  and interest and dividends taxation on middle-
income people. He wants to bring down the corporate rate.  There are some similarities there, but there is a big
difference beyond that, and it’s this. Mitt Romney’s actually
done this stuff. He was an entrepreneur. He was somebody who
invested in businesses, grew businesses, provided jobs. And with
all due respect to Rick, he spent his entire adult life in
 Washington , D.C., or in parasitic relationship with it, and if
the problem is Washington, D.C., we shouldn’t send somebody
who’s part of that culture for their whole life to try to fix
it.  HUNT: Well, let me ask about your candidate. He won - he
won in  Ohio . And certainly the delegate math looks good. But as
my colleague,  Julie Davis , wrote, the math is good, but the
chemistry looks awful, that basically he’s not connecting with
voters that you need to win in November. What does Governor
Romney need to do to turn this around or at least change this
perception?  PAWLENTY: Well, I would like to push back on that, if I
could, in a friendly way, Al. If you look at the last Gallup
poll, it had Mitt Romney defeating, beating, leading Barack
Obama, and Republicans are most interested in beating Barack
Obama. He’s the strongest and best candidate to do that. The
other candidates don’t even come close on that measure.  So this notion that somehow Mitt isn’t connecting or isn’t
doing well compared to  Rick Santorum  or  Newt Gingrich  or anyone
else, it just isn’t objectively true. He’s won the most states,
raised the most money, he’s got three times as many delegates as
any other candidate, and then the media looks at it - not you -
and say, gosh, he’s just not doing very well. Yeah, he is. It’s
- it’s a battle. It’s not going to be a coronation. But he’s
doing quite well.  HUNT: Well, just one more particular there. Again, Ohio.
Voters asked, who identifies more with average folks? Santorum
wins by about 10 points. Voters making under $100,000 a year,
Santorum won handily. Now, those are the kind of Reagan - ex-
 Reagan Democrats  that you have to win in the fall.  PAWLENTY: Well, but you need other things to win in the
fall. And, again, look at the objective, which is how do you
beat Barack Obama?  Mitt Romney ’s ahead, and it’s early yet. So
are there some groups that Mitt needs to do better with? Of
course. One of them is the individuals who make less than
$100,000 or $75,000 or below. There’s no question about that.  But it’s only March. He’s the strongest candidate in the
field. He’s the strongest against Barack Obama. He’s got the
best record. He’s actually done this stuff, not just talked
about it as a legislator.  HUNT: You don’t think maybe taking the blue jeans off and
being more his real self might make him more authentic to those
voters?  PAWLENTY: Well, you know, I know Mitt. He and I became
governors at the same time in 2003. I’ve traveled with him. I
know his wife, Ann, and his family. They’re very gracious
people. They’re wonderful people. They’re kind people. He’s
successful and strong. Everybody’s got their own strengths and
weaknesses.  So is he perfect? No. But compared to the other candidates
in this field, including the president, he’s by far best
situated to be president, has got the best record, and I think,
frankly, would do the best job.  HUNT: One more particular. There was a poll out this week
that showed among Latinos that President Obama would beat
Governor Romney 70 to 14.  Jeb Bush  has said that the party,
including Mitt Romney, are making a mistake by not - by being
too - perceived as being too anti-immigrant. Can you pivot on
this? Can you try to appeal more to Hispanics in a general
election?  PAWLENTY: Well, the Hispanic population, Latino population
in our country is growing rapidly. That’s a constituency that
Republicans need to appeal to, along with independents and other
groups, as well, but you can’t change your core values and
principles, one of which is the rule of law. And we need to have
a nation that - where people of all backgrounds respect and
abide by the law. And we need to make sure that that’s a core
principle.  And so Mitt is saying, let’s make sure we enforce the law.
I don’t think that’s an unreasonable proposition. I don’t think
most Americans think that’s unreasonable. But tone matters in
this discussion, and I think he’s somebody who can convey a tone
of understanding the challenge and the concern, but also being
strong when he says we’re a nation that is premised on the rule
of law, you can’t have wide swaths of the country openly
ignoring the law or snickering at it, because it leads to a
corrosion of that core value, that core perspective. And you’ve
got to be able to synthesize those two. And I think he can, but
obviously Republicans have work to do in that regard.  HUNT: And how do you think your candidate’s going to do in
Alabama and  Mississippi  over the next week or two?  PAWLENTY: Well, those states are more challenging for him,
Al, no question about it. And you look at Newt Gingrich, for
example. It’s his backyard. He’s a home state person in  Georgia ,
and obviously somebody from that region. So he’s got built-in
strength there.  Mitt I think will get his share of support, but I think
those states will certainly be more challenging for him than
some of the others that we’ve seen so far.  HUNT: Would it be bad news for your campaign if Newt
Gingrich in a week or so dropped out and you had to go one-on-
one against Rick Santorum? And how likely is that?  PAWLENTY: Well, I know a lot of - well, first of all, I
don’t think - it’s not our place to tell people - their
candidates when to drop out or not. But people always assume
that somehow Newt and Rick are splitting this so-called non-
Romney vote, and if one of them dropped out, that could bode ill
for Mitt’s chances.  There’s been some subsequent analysis that shows that may
not be true at all, but we can’t control that anyhow, and Mitt
is doing very well. I think he’s going to be the nominee. And it
doesn’t look like your scenario is going to play out, because
Newt doesn’t - it doesn’t look like he’s going to drop out
anyhow.  HUNT: Tim Pawlenty, you -  PAWLENTY: I think Mitt Romney is going to be the nominee -
I think Mitt’s going to be the nominee either way.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610708.1204164.2.1.99.7.25>#
 