-- Pelosi Says Birth Control Clash Gives Women Platform for Change
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-03-10T16:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/pelosi-says-birth-control-clash-gives-women-platform-for-change.html
The debate over access to  birth
control  should drive women to get more involved in politics,
U.S. House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  said yesterday.  ‘I believe they have just gone too far and we can do
something about it more easily now,’’ Pelosi said at the third
annual Women in the World  conference  in  New York , hosted by
Newsweek and the Daily Beast. “We have to take the opportunity
to make the change that is necessary so nobody has to fight this
fight again.”  Pelosi, 71, recounted the recent political clash over
President  Barack Obama ’s mandate that health insurers pay for
women’s birth control, saying she was shocked when a sole woman
witness was barred from testifying as part of a congressional
panel on the policy. This is the time for women to “free
themselves of what the status quo is,” she said, and to get
more involved in politics, the military, business and
entrepreneurial endeavors.  The witness, Georgetown University law student Sandra
Fluke, later testified in front of House Democrats, drawing
disparaging comments from radio talk-show host  Rush Limbaugh 
after she spoke in favor of the Obama administration’s policy.  The birth-control provision, part of the 2010 Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act, didn’t include an exemption
for religious groups who opposed it on moral grounds. The Obama
administration sought to address those concerns last month by
allowing such employers to opt out of paying for birth control
and instead compelling insurance companies to offer it free to
insured employees of those institutions.  Blunt’s Amendment  Roy Blunt , a Republican U.S. Senator from  Missouri ,
challenged the policy with an amendment that was voted down in
the Senate last week 51-48. Republicans said Blunt’s proposal
was needed to protect religious freedom and rights of conscience
under the Constitution. Catholic doctrine forbids the use of
artificial birth control, and church leaders said its affiliated
hospitals and colleges should be able to refuse contraception
coverage to their employees.  Pelosi, a Catholic, called on women to recognize the
benefits in Obama’s health-care law, which will come before the
 Supreme Court  later this month under a challenge brought by 26
states to its mandate that Americans buy health coverage.  “Women have so much to gain on this,” Pelosi said.
“Women are discriminated against in terms of price, access,
rescinding policies if you get sicker,” she said. “The law was
passed as a bill that said never again would being a woman be a
pre-existing medical condition.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  