-- Perry Vows to Replace U.S. Funds That May Be Cut Off Over Abortion-Aid Ban
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-09T22:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/perry-defies-obama-on-funding-texas-women-s-health-care-except-abortions.html
Governor  Rick Perry  pledged to
replace almost $30 million in federal funds for a family-
planning program for low-income women in Texas that may be cut
off because of a state ban on aid to abortion providers.  “I will not allow these services to be denied by your
administration’s political agenda and opposition to enacted
Texas law,” Perry, a Republican, said yesterday in a letter
addressed to President  Barack Obama , a Democrat. “The federal
government should not be in the business of protecting abortion
providers at the expense of the health of Texas women.”  The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services advised
Texas officials that a waiver for the Women’s Health Program
won’t be extended, Perry said in the letter. A statement
yesterday from Perry’s office said the cutoff would result from
the state ban on abortion funding. The $33 million program
provides services to more than 100,000 women.  Nicholas Papas, a White House spokesman, didn’t have an
immediate comment on Perry’s letter.  The law blocking abortion providers or their affiliates
from receiving state aid, including for family-planning services
supported by the federal program, was passed in 2005. The
prohibition on funding affiliate organizations wasn’t strictly
enforced, with abortion provider  Planned Parenthood  setting up
clinics that serve 44 percent of the women enrolled in the
program, Stephanie Goodman, a spokeswoman for the state’s Health
and Human Services Commission, said today by telephone.  Ordered Out  Tom Suehs, the health commission chief, effectively ordered
Planned Parenthood affiliates out of the program last week. More
than 2,500 other clinics that don’t provide abortion services
are well positioned to serve women who now go to those that were
cut off, Goodman said.  Kathleen Sebelius , the U.S. Health and Human Services
secretary, plans to cut off funds for the program between May
and September, the  Associated Press  reported on the
Statesman.com website. She told the news service that she will
let the state know of the decision today.  Perry’s willingness to replace federal funds to maintain
care contrasts with a $73 million cut in aid to programs set up
for low-income women under the state budget enacted last year,
said Sarah Wheat, co-chief executive officer of Planned
Parenthood of Austin. More than two dozen Texas clinics that
provide women’s health services have closed as a result of
reduced government support, she said.  Provider Shortage  “Most people in health care know there is a shortage of
providers willing to serve low-income patients,” Wheat said.
The federal government reimburses Planned Parenthood clinics
$63, typically after about 45 days, for a “well woman”
examination that includes tests for cancer, hypertension and
other ills, she said.  Obama, who is seeking a second term, and Perry, who
unsuccessfully sought his party’s nomination to challenge the
president in November, lack good political reasons to
compromise, said Judith Baer, who teaches politics at  Texas A&M
University  in  College Station . Her books include studies of
 women’s rights .  “This is a clear case of federal preemption in that when
federal and state law conflict, the federal law prevails,” said
Baer, who volunteers at a Planned Parenthood clinic. “This is
going to be very bad for poor women in Texas.”  State Not Preempted  In a letter last month to state Senator Robert Deuell,
Attorney General  Greg Abbott  said his analysis of state and
federal laws, as well as recent court rulings, shows that the
state statute isn’t preempted by Medicaid rules under the so-
called supremacy clause.  Perry angered women’s health activists last year by signing
a bill that requires pregnant women to undergo a sonogram
examination at least 24 hours before having an abortion. Doctors
are required to offer the patient the chance to see the sonogram
image and hear the fetal heartbeat.  Perry, who describes himself as pro-life, hasn’t said where
he’ll get the money to replace the federal funds for the Women’s
Health Program, Frazier said. By spending $30 million on the
program, which includes providing contraceptives, the state will
help avert unwanted births to Medicaid recipients, Goodman said.  Annual Medicaid spending in  Texas  is about $25 billion,
Goodman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  