-- Peter Beutel, Energy Analyst Who Appeared on TV, Dies at 56
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-03-09T21:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/peter-beutel-connecticut-energy-analyst-who-appeared-on-tv-dies-at-56.html
Peter Beutel , an analyst and editor
of the Daily Energy Hedger newsletter, who often appeared on
CNBC, Bloomberg Television and Fox News, has died. He was 56.  Beutel died yesterday of a heart attack at his home in  New
Canaan , Connecticut, his mother, Gail Beutel, said. His father,
Bill Beutel, was the anchorman for New York’s WABC-TV for more
than 30 years and died in 2006.  He was president of  Cameron Hanover , an energy research and
risk management company he founded in 1994. Based in New Canaan,
it provides fundamental and technical analysis of crude oil,
natural gas and other energy markets, and published the Daily
Energy Hedger.  In his 2005 book, “Surviving Energy Prices,” Beutel
recounts the history of oil trading since about 1850, when
people relied on coal for heat and whale oil for light. Crude
“was an alternative source of energy, like wind power and solar
energy are today,” he wrote.  “In the last 20 years, rampant price fluctuations have
forced everyone buying, selling or using oil to reconsider the
way they do business,” Beutel wrote. “The world keeps
changing, and there’s nothing new in that.”  Peter C. Beutel was born on July 22, 1955. His father, in
addition to anchoring news at WABC, was the first host of “AM
America,” which eventually became ABC’s nationally televised
“Good Morning America” program.  From E.F. Hutton  The younger Beutel graduated from  Dartmouth College  in
Hanover,  New Hampshire , in 1977, 24 years after his father had
done so.  Peter Beutel began working on  Wall Street  at E.F. Hutton in
1979, according to  Cameron Hanover ’s  website . His career took
him to Gill & Duffus, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and Merrill
Lynch & Co., where he worked prior to starting Cameron Hanover.  “Peter was a great friend and business partner,” said
Vince Lanci, managing partner and a partner with Beutel at FMX
Connect LLC, a Stamford, Connecticut-based commodity information
provider. “He was an oil analyst for more than 30 years, going
back to the days of E.F. Hutton. He will be sorely missed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  