-- TPG Buyout Firm is Said to Seek Buyers for Hospital Chain Iasis Healthcare
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-03-09T21:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/tpg-is-said-to-explore-iasis-healthcare-sale-for-as-much-as-2-4-billion.html
TPG Capital, the  Texas  buyout firm
started by  David Bonderman  two decades ago, is exploring the
sale of  Iasis (IAS)  Healthcare Corp. and enlisted  Bank of America
Corp.  to find buyers, said people familiar with the process.  TPG is seeking as much as eight times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or about $2.4
billion, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
as the negotiations are private. TPG probably will sell the
company to another private equity firm as few industry
competitors have expressed interest, the people said.  The buyout firm may struggle to get the price it wants,
said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst with CRT Capital Group in
Stamford,  Connecticut . Hospital values have suffered as
investors fret over whether the U.S. Supreme Court will overturn
the 2010 health-care law, which party will win the White House
and Congress this year and how much they’ll cut health-care
spending to close the federal  budget deficit , she said.  “Between reform and the election and the deficit, it’s
kind of a triple whammy,” Skolnick said by telephone. “Finding
someone who wants to be involved in the hospital sector may not
be easy.”  Private-equity firms, with their longer-term view, may be
more willing to step in, Skolnick said. If the health-care law
survives, it’s likely to extend insurance to millions of
Americans starting in 2014, a potential windfall for any
hospital company, she said.  20 Hospitals  The winning bidder would gain control of a Franklin,
Tennessee-based chain that operates almost 20 hospitals in
states such as Arizona, Texas,  Florida  and Utah. Revenue at
Iasis, founded more than a dozen years ago, climbed to $2.8
billion in its latest year, with almost three-fourths coming
from acute care.  Private equity firms are facing pressure from clients to
sell investments and return capital after fears of global
recession stymied so-called exits in the second half of 2011.
Private equity firms have made more than 12,500 investments
since 2002 yet have realized fewer than 3,500, researcher
PitchBook Data Inc. said in a report last month.  TPG, based in  Fort Worth , Texas, and its partners acquired
Iasis for about $1.4 billion in 2004. TPG spokeswoman  Lisa Baker 
declined to comment. The firm’s health-care investments also
include Healthscope Ltd., an Australian operator of private
hospitals, and IMS Health Inc., which provides prescription data
to drugmakers and analysts. Bank of America’s John Yiannacopoulos declined to comment.  Iasis’s sales in the first quarter ended Dec. 31 rose 1.5
percent to $623.7 million, according to a statement last month.
That fell short of expectations from KDP Investment Advisors
Inc. as Medicaid rate reductions in some states ate into sales,
particularly in  Arizona .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  