-- Portland Gasoline Strengthens as ConocoPhillips Shuts Units
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-03-09T23:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/portland-gasoline-strengthens-as-conocophillips-shuts-units.html
Gasoline in the U.S. Northwest
jumped to the highest level against futures in nine days after
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  began shutting units at the  Ferndale (CPFWCRUD)  oil refinery
in Washington state for planned maintenance.  Everything except the boilers and flare at the plant will
be shut for work, according to the notice that Houston-based
ConocoPhillips filed with state regulators.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland (MOGHD87P) ,  Oregon ,
jumped 11.5 cents to a discount of 2 cents a gallon against
gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
4:25 p.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the narrowest discount since Feb. 27.  The turnaround at Ferndale, initially scheduled to begin
earlier this month, was delayed after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 234,000-barrel-a-
day  Cherry Point (BPFECRUD)  plant was forced shut by a fire Feb. 17, two
people familiar with the plans said March 2. London-based BP is
performing work and repairs at Cherry Point that will last into
April, the company said Feb. 29.  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  fell 2 cents to a premium of 15.5
cents a gallon against Nymex gasoline futures, the lowest level
since March 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The same
fuel in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  also fell 2 cents to a 12.5-cent premium
against futures.  California Inventories  California  gasoline inventories rose for the first time in
three weeks, by 976,000 barrels to 7.98 million, for the week
ended March 2, the state Energy Commission said. Demand for the
fuel dropped 6.8 percent on the U.S. West Coast last week from a
year ago, according to  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ’s SpendingPulse report.  Alon USA Energy Inc. (ALJ)  said the company will return its
California refineries to service in the second quarter of this
year after signing an agreement to buy crude oil for the plants
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s J. Aron & Co. unit.  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s 170,000-barrel-a-day  Golden Eagle (TEMTCRUD)  refinery
near Martinez, California, was also starting units this week and
last week following planned maintenance, according to notices
filed with Contra Costa County regulators.  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD) 
slipped 0.5 cent to a 19.5-cent premium against Nymex heating
oil futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco (DIEISCAD)  rose 0.25 cent to a
premium of 15.25 cents versus futures.  Jet fuel  in  Los Angeles  fell for the second day, by 0.25
cent to a premium of 14.75 cents, against heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  