-- Quest Software Rises Above $23-a-Share Offer by Insight
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-03-09T21:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/quest-software-to-go-private-in-2-billion-deal-with-venture-firm-insight.html
Quest Software Inc. (QSFT)  rose above the
$23-a-share offer from Insight Venture Partners to take the
technology company private, signaling investors may anticipate
higher bids.  Quest Software, based in  Aliso Viejo ,  California , advanced
24 percent to $24.07 at the close after saying in a statement
that it agreed to be taken private in a deal valued at about $2
billion. The offer is 19 percent higher than Quest Software’s
closing price yesterday.  The data protection provider is remaking itself by
acquiring small software companies and Insight’s conservative
offer price may draw higher bids, said Brian Freed, an analyst
at Wunderlich Securities in Denver. The deal, the third-biggest
purchase of an applications-software business in five years, has
a lower premium than the average of more than 1,000 similar U.S.
transactions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a good probability that you would see another
offer come that could result in another deal or a kiss from
Insight that ends it,” said Freed, who recommends holding the
stock. “Right now, it’s a pretty attractive purchase price for
Insight.”  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the third-largest maker of personal computers,
has been expanding in enterprise-software solutions and could be
an appropriate buyer, Freed said. Dell last month acquired
AppAssure Software Inc., which provides data-protection
solutions similar to Quest, he said.  Dell Synergies  David Frink , a Dell spokesman, said the company doesn’t
comment on merger and acquisition speculation.  Quest Software said it would solicit other bids for 60
days. The company could get offers close to its 52-week high of
$26.93, Freed said. The agreement includes a break-up fee of
$4.2 million for ending the deal during the so-called go-shop
period for a higher bidder.  Quest Software’s shares had slumped 28 percent in the 12
months through yesterday.  Insight Venture is  paying  a premium of about 13 percent to
Quest’s average 20-day stock price. That compares to an average
premium of 17 percent on more than 1,000 applications-software
acquisitions in the past five years, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  New CEO  Quest Software, which on Feb. 14 appointed Executive
Chairman Vinny Smith as chief executive officer, said he will
stay on as CEO. He succeeded Doug Garn, who had led the company
since October 2008.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is Quest Sofware’s financial adviser, while
Potter Anderson & Corroon LLP is providing legal counsel. They
provided advice to a special committee to the company’s board,
which negotiated and recommended the deal, the company said.
Insight Venture’s legal adviser is  Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP (1179L) .  The executive advisory board of New York-based Insight
Venture, a venture-capital firm specializing in software and
Internet businesses, includes former U.S. Treasury Secretary
Robert Rubin and  Stephen Friedman , chairman of Stone Point
Capital LLC and former chairman of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  