-- Treasuries Fall as U.S. Payrolls Exceed Forecast, Dim Fed Easing Prospects
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-03-09T22:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/treasuries-drop-a-third-straight-day-as-u-s-adds-more-jobs-than-forecast.html
Treasuries fell as U.S. payrolls
increased by more than 200,000 for a third straight month,
adding to speculation the  Federal Reserve  will avoid more
monetary stimulus as the recovery builds momentum.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes  reached  the highest in a
week as demand for the relative safety of U.S. debt was also
damped after the Greek government said it reached its target in
the biggest sovereign restructuring in history. The agreement
triggered credit-default swaps, a derivatives trade group
determined. Interest-rate swap spreads indicate increasing
demand for yields higher than those on Treasuries.  “The data definitely shows strengthening in the economy,
and three straight months of very solid job numbers shows that
there is some consistency, which weighs on Treasuries,” said
 Carl Lantz , head of interest-rate strategy in New York at Credit
Suisse Group AG, one of 21 primary dealers that trade directly
with the Fed. “The market will need more to break us out of the
range we’ve been in for several months as we still have a long
way to go.”  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year notes rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 2.03 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The price of the 2
percent securities due in February 2022 decreased 1/8, or $1.25
per $1,000 face amount, to 99 3/4.  The benchmark yields reached as high as 2.06 percent, the
most since March 1. Ten-year yields are up five basis points
 this week . They reached a record low 1.67 percent in September.  Gain in Payrolls  The 227,000 increase in payrolls followed a revised 284,000
gain in January that was bigger than first estimated, Labor
Department figures showed today. Job growth over the past six
months was the strongest since 2006. The median projection of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 210,000 rise
in February employment. The jobless rate stayed at 8.3 percent.  The  difference  between the two-year swap rate and the yield
on  U.S. debt  of a similar maturity touched 23.9 basis points
today, the lowest in almost seven months.  U.S. government bonds have lost 0.5 percent this year,
while corporate debt has returned 3.2 percent, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The 10-year note yields have been in a range of 1.79
percent to 2.09 percent this year amid  Europe ’s sovereign-debt
crisis and the Fed’s policy of keeping borrowing rates at record
lows to spur growth.  ‘Flock Back’  “Any dip in yields and buyers flock back to Treasuries,”
said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist in New York at
BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer. “If the events of this week
can’t take us out of the range, it’s unclear what will, and it
underscores how strong the demand for Treasuries has been.”  Greece  said today it has a 95.7 percent participation rate
among investors after it received approval to activate so-called
collective action clauses. The use of the clauses will trigger
payouts on $3 billion of default insurance, the International
Swaps & Derivatives Association said.  A total of 4,323 credit-default swap contracts can now be
settled after ISDA’s determinations committee ruled the use of
CACs is a restructuring credit event. Before the ruling, Greek
swaps rose to a record $7.68 million in advance and $100,000
annually to insure $10 million of debt for five years.  The decision was unanimous, New York-based ISDA said today
in a statement distributed by  Business Wire . An auction to set
the size of the payouts will be held March 19.  ‘Turn the Page’  “You want to turn the page on these guys, but it’s
unbelievable,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader in New York at
Societe Generale SA, a primary dealer. “You can’t believe it’s
the end of the problems for Europe.”  The payrolls report and Greece’s restructuring agreement
came as the U.S. government prepared to sell $32 billion of
three-year notes, $21 billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of
30-year bonds next week. The auctions will take place over three
days starting March 12.  “Eventually the siren song of a steeper yield curve and
better compensation for duration will pull people out the
curve,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government-bond strategist
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , at RBS Securities Inc., a primary
dealer. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see very good auctions
related to that next week if we can hold these higher levels.”  Ten-year note yields climbed as much as 13 basis points on
Feb. 3, the biggest intraday jump since Nov. 10, as January’s
unemployment rate unexpectedly decreased and payrolls grew more
than forecast.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Open Market Committee , which sets  interest-rate 
policy, meets March 13 amid speculation that improvements in
economic data have reduced the likelihood it will initiate a
third round of asset purchases under quantitative easing.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25, after the
FOMC’s last meeting, that policy makers were considering
additional asset purchases to boost growth. The central bank
also extended a pledge to keep the benchmark interest rate at
almost zero through at least late 2014.  Policy makers were “prepared to provide further monetary
accommodation if employment is not making sufficient progress
towards our assessment of its maximum level, or if inflation
shows signs of moving further below its mandate-consistent
rate,” Bernanke said at a news conference. Bond buying is “an
option that’s certainly on the table,” he said.  Bernanke Testimony  In congressional testimony last week, Bernanke refrained
from indicating that the central bank would boost stimulus. The
Commerce Department on Feb. 29 raised its estimate for U.S.
economic growth for the fourth quarter to 3 percent, from 2.8
percent, and the Conference Board’s gauge of confidence among
consumers climbed in February to the highest level in a year.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of
quantitative easing from December 2008 until June 2011 to spur
the economy. In September it announced it would buy $400 billion
of longer-term U.S. securities through June while selling an
equal amount of shorter-term debt in its holdings to lower
borrowing costs. The central bank’s  target rate  for overnight
bank lending has been zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  