-- Republican Turnout Lags Behind 2008 and 2000 White House Races
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/republican-turnout-lags-behind-2008-and-2000-white-house-races.html
Dissatisfaction with the Republican
presidential candidates contributed to lower voter turnout in
this year’s early primary contests, compared with participation
in 2008 and 2000, a new study suggests.  Of the 13 states that have held Republican primaries so
far, 8 had lower turnouts than four years ago, the  Bipartisan
Policy Center  and American University’s Center for the Study of
the American Electorate in  Washington  reported yesterday.  The problem for Republicans “lies not with the process but
rather with their candidates,” Curtis Gans, the director of the
 Center for the Study of the American Electorate , wrote in a
commentary accompanying the findings.  Just 20 percent of Republicans have a strongly favorable
opinion about front-runner Mitt Romney,  Frank Newport , editor-
in-chief of the Gallup Poll in Princeton,  New Jersey , wrote on
the organization’s website on March 6.  The five states with a higher turnout than 2008 all allow
independents, Democrats or both groups to vote in Republican
primaries. In those five states --  South Carolina , Vermont,
 Michigan , Ohio and  New Hampshire  -- turnout was lower this year
than in 2000, when  George W. Bush  defeated John McCain for the
Republican nomination.  Bush was unopposed for renomination in 2004, and McCain won
the 2008 nomination over Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor.  Non-Binding Contest  Also contributing to this year’s lower turnout was the non-
binding nature of Missouri’s Feb. 7 primary, which didn’t
allocate national convention delegates to candidates. In
Virginia, the March 6 primary included only Romney and U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas  because former U.S. Senator
Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania and former U.S. House Speaker Newt Gingrich failed to qualify for the ballot.  The lower turnout may carry over into the general election
against President Barack Obama even if Republicans move to unite
against him in November, the report suggested.  “The divisions within the party, the lack of enthusiasm
with the primary candidates by a large element of the party and
the comparatively low turnout may signal a turnout decline in
this year’s election,” the report said.  About 7.85 million people voted in the first 13 primaries
this year, or 11.5 percent of the voting-age population of 68.1
million in those states. The study didn’t include states that
held caucuses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  