-- Income Gap Widest in Republican-Leaning States
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2012-03-09T18:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/rich-poor-gap-widest-in-republican-leaning-states-census-shows.html
Income inequality  in the U.S. is
most prevalent across a large swath of counties ranging from the
Deep South to the Appalachian Mountains, according to a Census
Bureau  report  released yesterday.  Six of the 10 counties with the highest income disparity
were in Texas, Louisiana, Georgia,  South Carolina  and
 Mississippi , all states with Republican governors that usually
back the party’s presidential candidates.  The report, covering the years 2006-2010, highlights the
paradox of the wealth gap as a political issue between voters in
so-called red states that tend to vote Republican and blue
states that lean Democratic. A  2007 study  found that while
inequality is more evident in poor states such as Mississippi,
voters there largely favor Republican candidates. In wealthier
states, they’re more likely to back the other major party.  “In a Democratic state like  New York , rich people are a
little more conservative than the poor people, but they’re
socially liberal,” Andrew Gelman, a Columbia University
political scientist and statistician who led that study, said in
a telephone interview. “In a state like Texas, the rich aren’t
really that conflicted.”  Still, the gap was also pronounced in large urban areas
such as New York County, or Manhattan, which had the highest
level of income disparity of any major population center in the
U.S. and was third overall. The inequality wasn’t as evident in
the Midwest and was least pronounced in less-populous areas such
as Loving County, Texas, and fast-growing suburbs like Kendall
County,  Illinois , near  Chicago .  Inequality Tapering Off  More than one-third of Americans live in counties that rank
among the highest for income inequality, the Census Bureau said.  The bureau said income inequality has risen  18 percent 
since 1967, with half the growth occurring during the 1980s. It
climbed every year between 1998 and 2006 before dropping the
following year, and has been rising since.  “More recently, the growth in income inequality has
tapered off,” Adam Bee, the author, wrote in the report, based
on data from the American Community Survey, an annual poll of 3
million households that collects demographic, social and
economic information.  The annual survey uses a so-called Gini coefficient to
measure income inequality within any geographical region. A Gini
of 0 indicates complete equality, where all households have the
same amount of income; a Gini of 1 means one household has all
the income. The index ranged from 0.207 in Loving County to
0.645 in East Carroll Parish,  Louisiana .  Nationwide, the Gini index in 2010 was 0.467. The median
Gini for U.S. counties was 0.43. New York County, home to the
nation’s largest city, had a Gini of 0.601, slightly less than
that of  Nicaragua .  The nation’s three most-populous counties -- Los Angeles
County, Cook County, Illinois, and Harris County, Texas -- were
also among the highest urban areas in income inequality.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in New York at   fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan in  Washington  at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net . 