-- Rinehart Loses Final Bid to Keep Fortune Dispute Secret
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-09T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/rinehart-loses-final-bid-to-keep-dispute-over-fortune-secret.html
Gina Rinehart,  Asia ’s richest
woman, is accused by three of her children of abusing her role
as trustee of a multibillion-dollar family fund. Her youngest
daughter said the claims showed the greed of her siblings.  “I have no doubt that one day soon my brother and sisters
will regret putting money before family,” Rinehart’s daughter
Ginia said in a statement yesterday after  Australia ’s top court
refused a request by her mother for a hearing to keep details of
a lawsuit by her other children private.  Hope Rinehart Welker, Bianca Rinehart and  John Hancock  sued
their mother in Australian state court in September seeking to
have her removed as trustee of the Hope Margaret Hancock Trust.
Gina Rinehart has a net worth of $20.3 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index, with most of the fortune held in
Hancock Prospecting Pty.  The Hope Margaret Hancock Trust was created by Rinehart’s
father  Lang Hancock  for the benefit of his grandchildren. The
trust holds almost a quarter of Hancock Prospecting and receives
dividends from the company, some of which are distributed to the
children, according to lawyers who argued the case since
September in closed hearings.  A two-judge panel of the High Court of Australia yesterday
upheld an appeal court ruling allowing documents in the lawsuit
and arguments made in court to be publicly accessible.  ‘Close Public Scrutiny’  “The proper conduct of trustees requires close public
scrutiny,” Chief Justice Robert French said in Sydney yesterday
in dismissing Rinehart’s request for a hearing.  Australian court procedures require non-parties to a
lawsuit to apply for access to the documents and a judge
generally must approve the request.  That process won’t be finished until March 12, according to
the New South Wales Supreme Court clerk’s office, and the
documents weren’t available yesterday.  The family has long sought to keep disagreements out of the
public spotlight and agreed on a 2006 pact that required any
disputes over the trust be settled in confidential mediation or
arbitration.  After the children filed the lawsuit Sept. 5, Rinehart, 58,
won a court order prohibiting the publication of any details of
the dispute.  The ban was opposed by several Australian publications,
including  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ) , which sought to have it set aside.
Sandy Dawson, who represented the media outlets, argued that
courts in Australia have consistently ruled that public interest
requires an open justice system.  ‘Embarrassing Details’  New South Wales Supreme Court Judge Paul Brereton allowed
the children’s lawsuit to proceed in state court in an Oct. 7
ruling, and allowed publication of rulings which revealed some
details of the dispute. He kept a ban on the publication of
evidence filed in the case and argued in court, pending appeal.  The only things remaining covered by the publication ban
are “embarrassing details of allegations of serious
misconduct,” Andrew Bell, the plaintiffs’ lawyer, told the  High
Court  panel. “We don’t take any pleasure in that.”  He said the children wish to be free of restraints that
aren’t imposed on anyone else involved in litigation.  The children enjoyed “very privileged lives,” including
private schooling, private tutors, extensive holidays overseas,
designer clothes and expensive jewelry, Rinehart’s lawyer Paul
McCann said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. Each of the
eldest children also received multimillion-dollar homes with
water views in addition to the income from the trust, he said.  Iron Ore Prices  The children “have not seen fit to follow sound advice
from family friends that if they are not happy they should go
out and earn for themselves,” McCann said.  Rinehart became Asia’s richest woman and Australia’s
richest person on surging  iron ore  prices and exports.  She inherited iron ore mining assets from her father and
has an agreement with Rio Tinto Group under which she collects
royalties on properties in  Western Australia  mined by Rio.
Rinehart agreed in August to sell coal projects in Queensland to
GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd. for $2.2 billion.  Rinehart’s wealth has more than doubled in the past year,
as soaring demand for coal and iron ore from  China  has made her
mining assets more valuable.  Ginia, 25, said in her statement yesterday that she was
proud to be the daughter of a strong business leader, role model
and loving mother.  Rinehart had sought to have the documents sealed on safety
concerns ahead of yesterday’s High Court hearing.  Safety Concerns  “Mrs. Rinehart has genuine concerns for the safety of her
children, her grandchildren and herself, arising from the
worldwide media coverage of her wealth,” McCann wrote in a Feb.
1 application to have a new publication ban imposed.  Her daughter, Hope, also expressed safety concerns. “I
don’t think you understand what it means now that the whole
world thinks you’re going to be wealthier than  Bill Gates ,”
Hope wrote in a July 30 e-mail, referring to the Microsoft Corp.
chairman, the second-wealthiest person in the world. “It means
we all need bodyguards and very safe homes!! Especially the
children who are small and easily targeted for kidnap.”  Hope, who lives in  New York , at the time sought financial
assistance from her mother to pay for a cook, a housekeeper and
a bodyguard.  The e-mails were released Feb. 2 after New South Wales
Judge Michael Ball refused to impose a new publication ban.  Rinehart had also urged Hope and Bianca in the e-mails to
drop the lawsuit.  ‘Fishing Trip’  “Any prolonging of this unnecessary and irresponsible
action and ‘fishing trip’ and lawyer feast will cause continuing
media attention and greater jeopardy for the safety of you and
your children and family,” Rinehart wrote to Hope.  Rinehart last year bought a 10 percent stake in  Ten Network
Holdings Ltd. (TEN) , Australia’s third-biggest television broadcaster.
She also gained a seat on the board of Ten.  She also has a 12.6 percent stake, through Hancock
Prospecting, in Fairfax, the publisher of the Sydney Morning
Herald and the Australian Financial Review.  According to the Financial Review, she has sought a seat on
the board of Fairfax, although no decision on the request has
yet been made.  The case is: Rinehart v. Welker. S11/2012. High Court of
Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  