-- Trinity Mirror Is Denied U.K. Top Court Appeal Over Murder Story
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-03-09T11:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/trinity-mirror-is-denied-u-k-top-court-appeal-over-murder-story.html
Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI)  can’t appeal to
the U.K.  Supreme Court  to overturn a ruling that its  Daily
Mirror  tabloid and News Corp.’s Sun were in contempt of court
for casting unfair suspicion on a murder victim’s landlord.  Britain’s top court today refused to hear the appeal. Both
publishers were found in contempt in July 2011 over their
coverage of the murder of landscape architect Joanna Yeates and
the arrest of her landlord, Christopher Jefferies. Another man
was later charged and pleaded guilty to manslaughter.  “This was a very clear case of contempt,” the Supreme
Court said today in an e-mailed statement. News Corp. withdrew
its appeal application before the ruling, the court said.  A government media-ethics inquiry, triggered by the phone-
hacking scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct News of the World
tabloid, began by probing the relationship between the media and
the public and heard testimony from Jefferies.  Trinity Mirror and the News Corp. unit were fined 50,000
pounds ($78,900) and 18,000 pounds, respectively, for their
coverage after Yeates’s body was found on Christmas Day 2010.
Police, who said she had been strangled, arrested Jefferies five
days later.  Trinity Mirror spokesman Rich Ellis didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, declined to comment.  The U.K. attorney general found the Daily Mirror improperly
suggested Jefferies was a “sexually perverted voyeur” who
spied on tenants, that he was a friend of a convicted pedophile
and that police considered him a prime suspect for a 1974
murder, according to the July 2011 judgment.  A month after the body was found, Vincent Tabak was charged
with the murder and Jefferies was released from police bail,
according to the judgment. Tabak later admitted he was
responsible for killing Yeates and pleaded guilty to
manslaughter. He was found guilty of murder in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  