-- Romania May Enter Recession in First Quarter, Dragoi Says
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-03-09T12:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/romania-aims-to-meet-budget-deficit-target-of-1-9-of-gdp-1-.html
Romania’s economy may post its
second quarterly contraction and “enter a technical recession”
because of cold-weather disruptions, Finance Minister Bogdan Dragoi said.  The economy may shrink in the first quarter compared with
the previous three months of last year and will probably grow
1.5 percent from the same period a year earlier, Dragoi said
during his first conference in Bucharest since his appointment.  “The economic decline was prompted by a block in the
transfer of goods, but the demand for these goods is there and
will come back later in the year,” Dragoi said. “The bad
weather has also impacted budget revenue and we’ve seen a
decline there as well.”  Romania’s  economy , which exited the worst recession on
record last year, will probably face a growth slowdown this year
to as low as 1.5 percent as a potential Europe-wide recession
hurts exports from the eastern European country, home to Dacia
SA cars, Dragoi said. The European Union’s economy is facing its
second recession in less than three years after gross domestic
product contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter.  Six out of the 17 nations in the euro area are already in a
recession, and the region’s economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year according to European Commission forecasts.  Spain, Czech Republic  Spain ’s economy contracted 0.3 percent in the fourth
quarter of last year, while  Italy  shrank 0.7 percent. The Czech
economy also returned to recession for the first time since 2009
after its gross-domestic product contracted 0.1 percent in the
last quarter of 2011 amid government spending cuts.  Romania aims to meet its target of having a budget deficit
of 1.9 percent of GDP by the end of the year from 4.4 percent in
2011, even as the ministry is assessing “a multitude of
scenarios” to increase state wages or cut social security
contributions or both from June, Dragoi said.  A social contribution cut of about 5 percentage points
would cost 2.3 billion lei ($698 million) from June this year,
while wage increases of 16 percent needed to restore state
salaries to pre-austerity levels would cost 2 billion lei as of
June, he said.  The government may sell euro- or dollar-denominated bonds
on international markets in the second half of the year, after
raising $2.25 billion through bond sales on the U.S. market this
year, Dragoi said. The ministry seeks to raise 2.5 billion euros
($3.3 billion) this year through bond sales on foreign markets
this year.  “We are monitoring the markets all the time, because we
have the medium-term notes program that gives us the flexibility
to issue bonds any time,” Dragoi said. “But I am convinced
that we will sell bonds in the second half of this year, we’ll
just have to assess the market liquidity and appetite.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  