-- Romney Ads Appear in Academy Awards Coverage as He Targets Women
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/romney-ads-appear-in-academy-award-red-carpet-coverage-as-he-targets-women.html
In  Ohio ,  Mitt Romney  pitched his
candidacy to women voters watching Hollywood starlets sashaying
in floor-length gowns on the Academy Awards red carpet. In
Florida, his commercials ran during breaks at the U.S. Figure
Skating Championships and episodes of the soap opera “General
Hospital.”  The ads paid off, as women voters helped deliver Romney’s
one-point victory over  Rick Santorum  in Ohio and solidify the
former Massachusetts governor’s lead in the race for the
Republican presidential nomination.  “The sheer volume of it may feel like it’s being done with
a shotgun approach, but a good media buy is really more like a
thousand rifle shots with every one of them specifically
aimed,” said Todd Harris, a Republican media consultant who
worked in 2000 on Republican  John McCain ’s presidential campaign
and isn’t affiliated with a candidate this cycle. “It’s clear
that if you’re buying on Dr. Phil and the red carpet show and
things like that, you’re trying to talk to women.”  Romney, 64, and Restore Our Future, an independent
political action committee supporting him, accounted for 61
percent of the 84,755 Republican presidential broadcast ads that
aired in eight of the early primary states, according to data
compiled by New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG.  Almost All Negative  Other findings: Four of every five ads by the candidates
and super-PACs were negative in tone. Just 7.4 percent of the
entire ad load appeared in prime time -- some of the most
expensive and effective slots available on TV.  Texas Representative  Ron Paul  took second place in number
of spots and money spent on advertising by the candidates -- an
advantage that disappears when super-PACs supporting his rivals
are added in the count. Santorum, a former Pennsylvania U.S.
senator, and former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  were able
to more than double their ad presence thanks to super-PACs.  The CMAG data included broadcast television and national
cable ads purchased through March 5 by Romney, Paul, Santorum, 
Gingrich and their super-PAC backers in  Iowa ,  New Hampshire , 
South Carolina, Florida, Michigan,  Arizona ,  Georgia  and Ohio.  The Romney campaign alone spent an estimated $12.2 million
on broadcast TV ads through March 7, CMAG shows -- more than
four times the second-highest ad buyer, Paul.  Outside the Box  “It allows you to get outside the normal places people see
political ads if you’ve got that kind of money,” said Will
Feltus, vice president of research for National Media Inc.,
based in Alexandria, Virginia. Feltus was a Romney media
strategist during his 2008 Republican primary bid.  Romney aired ads during talk shows such as “The View” and
“Dr. Phil.” He had 508 spots during “The Young and the
Restless,” “General Hospital” and other soap operas. He placed
ads in entertainment shows -- ones that highlight fashion trends
like those seen on the red carpet -- more than 700 times. Those
kinds of shows attract female viewers, Feltus said.  The three-hour Academy Awards red carpet show attracted as
many as 24 million viewers, 64 percent of them women, according
to the information gathered by  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) , a media
information company based in  New York . “Dr. Phil” has about 4
million viewers nationwide, and three out of four people
watching are women, according to Nielsen.  Favored Dr. Phil  Dr. Phil McGraw’s talk show is one of the more popular
among Republican viewers, Feltus said, noting the host’s
Southern accent and family-values themes.  The strategy translated into exit polls showing Romney is
performing disproportionately well with women.  While men favored Santorum, 53, over Romney by 1 percentage
point in Ohio on Super Tuesday this week, women picked Romney
over Santorum by 3 percentage points, helping him eke out a
victory with 37.9 percent compared to 37.1 percent.  Romney dominated his competitors among women voters in
 Florida , which he won after fighting off a Gingrich resurgence
following the former speaker’s South Carolina victory. Fifty-two
percent of women chose Romney and 28 percent picked Gingrich --
a wider gulf than the 5-percentage-point difference separating
men who voted for Romney versus Gingrich.  “That’s part of the larger advantage Romney has,” said
Doug Heye, a Republican strategist based in  Washington . “It
manifests itself in Ohio or Florida, where he’s been able to
come back from a deficit in part by really ramping up
advertising.”  Other Factors  Women are watching more television than men, Feltus said,
so it could be that Romney’s success with women voters is a
reflection of his larger ad buys, not any specific targeting the
campaign is doing. Andrea Saul, Romney’s spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  Non-advertising factors also could be at play: Santorum has
risked alienating some women by voicing his religious objections
to the use of birth control and Gingrich, 68, has divorced two
wives after affairs with younger women.  As the contests move to Mississippi, Alabama and Kansas,
Romney is in place to continue his ad-war dominance even if he
doesn’t rack up as many delegates there as his competitors.  Romney and Restore Our Future had spent at least $1.6
million on broadcast network ads in those states through March
7, CMAG estimates. Winning Our Future, which supports Gingrich,
had spent an estimated $357,000. The pro-Santorum Red, White and
Blue Fund said yesterday it would invest at least $500,000 in
the two Southern states.  ‘Phenomenally One-Sided’  “When it comes to the ad war, this primary season is
phenomenally one-sided,” said  Ken Goldstein , president of CMAG.
“It’s not typical for one candidate to have such a huge
advantage.”  Santorum and Gingrich, the two candidates vying to become
the chief alternative to Romney, have complained about the
onslaught of ads attacking them.  The data bear that out: More than 96 percent, or 27,834, of
Restore Our Future’s 28,906 spots have been negative in tone,
according to CMAG. Meanwhile, the Red, White and Blue Fund and
pro-Gingrich Winning Our Future have been on the air a combined
14,866 times.  Florida saw the highest spot count of any primary so far.
Gingrich, coming off a win in the Jan. 21  South Carolina 
primary, benefited from a $5 million infusion of cash to Winning
Our Future from supporter  Sheldon Adelson , a casino billionaire.
The former Georgia congressman and Romney, and their respective
super-PACs, engaged in a localized ad-war. Romney won the Jan.
31 primary.  The Following Silence  “The thing you noticed was the silence afterward,” said
Cindy Graves, president of the Florida Federation of Republican
Women. She said she couldn’t recall any memorable ad. “It was
such a barrage. Just buckets and buckets of negative,” she
said.  It’s harder to reach Republicans than Democrats through
television ads, said Feltus. He researched voter TV habits as a
media strategist for  George W. Bush ’s 2004 re-election campaign,
letting the president identify specific targeted viewer groups.  Republican candidates should be aiming for prime time,
weekend air time and sports -- particularly collegiate sports,
Feltus said. An analysis of 2010 prime time programs showed that
“NCIS:  Los Angeles ,” a crime drama starring LL Cool J;
“Survivor,” a reality show in its 24th season; and the
“Biggest Loser,” a weight-loss-themed reality game show, are
among the best bets for reaching Republicans in prime time,
Feltus said.  Good Guys, Bad Guys  “Good-guy-bad-guy shows are big with Republicans,” Feltus
said. “NCIS is a perennial hit.”  Saturday college football and Sunday National Football
League games also are ideal Republican targets, he said.  Romney bought more football time than the other three
candidates, paying for 322 ad placements during games and their
pre- and post-game shows. Two spots Romney aired Jan. 22, before
and after the Baltimore Ravens against the New England Patriots
American Football Conference championship, were the costliest
slots that any of the four candidates bought, CMAG shows.
Costing at least $36,000 apiece, each was more than three times
what Santorum, Gingrich or Paul usually paid for a single spot.  Romney was on the air during college basketball, including
throughout the afternoon Jan. 28 on a Tallahassee Fox station
that carried Wake Forest at Clemson and Virginia Tech at
 Maryland . The candidates didn’t forget about so-called “NASCAR
dads”, airing 93 ads during races -- including the rain-delayed
Daytona 500 -- which was held the day before the Arizona and
 Michigan  primaries.  News Shows  In the heat of a primary campaign, when certain states
emerge unexpectedly as being important, it isn’t easy to plan
out a comprehensive television strategy, Feltus said.  Step one of a typical political advertising strategy is to
buy up time around the local news, which has a dedicated
viewership of likely voters, said Goldstein of CMAG.  Gingrich and Paul each aired about three-quarters of their
ads during news programs. Romney ran 65 percent of his ads
during the news, and Santorum invested 52 percent of his ad
purchases during such programs.  In total, 55,346 advertisements ran around news programs in
the early primary states. The three major networks, ABC, CBS and
NBC, each captured about 30 percent of the ad buys, with most of
the remaining spots airing on Fox and smaller amounts on the CW
and Univision, a Spanish-language channel.  Sinking so much money into news shows might not make the
most sense, Feltus said. “You’re reaching a limited group of
people over and over again -- people who are going to see your
spot 20 times in a week, which is too many times,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  