-- Rubin Says He Has Too Many Dollars 13 Years After Departing U.S. Treasury
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-09T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/rubin-has-too-many-dollars-13-years-after-leaving-u-s-treasury.html
Robert Rubin , who as  U.S. Treasury 
secretary in the 1990s promoted a stronger dollar, said he has
too much of his personal investments in the currency.  A “disproportionate amount” of his assets are in cash and
he “should be more allocated away from the dollar,” Rubin, 73,
said yesterday in a speech at the  TradeTech conference  in New
York. He said he also was “greatly overweighted” in private
equity and had investments in  hedge funds .  Rubin, who served in President  Bill Clinton ’s
administration between holding senior jobs at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , had a so-called strong-dollar
policy as Treasury secretary that successors followed. He said
yesterday that his support for Federal Reserve quantitative
easing has waned since the initial round, known as QE1.  “QE1 was a necessity, QE2 I sort of wondered about,” he
said. “QE3 would accomplish very little. Not only would it
expand the  money supply , it would undermine confidence that the
Fed would ultimately monetize our debt.”  The U.S. economic outlook is the “most uncertain and the
most complex” it’s been in the past half-century, Rubin said.
He cited concerns about the European sovereign-debt crisis, the
labor and housing markets, and stagnant mean wages. A lack of
change in U.S. income distribution “could undermine public
support for trade and market-based economics,” he said.  Rubin, who left the Treasury in 1999, collected more than
$150 million in pay from Citigroup in the decade that followed.
He took a part-time counselor role at merger-advisory boutique
Centerview Partners LLP in 2010 and stopped advising hedge funds
Taconic Capital Advisors LP and Farallon Capital Management LLC,
 Adam Miller , his spokesman, said at the time.  ‘Would Have Failed’  The role of Treasury secretary requires a knowledge of
markets and politics that’s hard to prepare for and he
“probably would have failed” if he’d gone into the job
straight from Goldman Sachs instead of serving first as director
of the National Economic Council, Rubin said. Whoever is elected
president in November may be tempted to pick a corporate chief
executive officer for the role even though CEOs of corporations
are accustomed to a hierarchical environment, he said.  Timothy F. Geithner , the current Treasury secretary, has
said he doesn’t expect to remain in office if President  Barack Obama  is re-elected. Geithner and his predecessors have stuck
with Rubin’s phrase that a “strong” dollar is in the nation’s
interest. The U.S. Dollar Index, which measures the currency
against those of six trading partners, retreated 22 percent
since the end of 1999 through yesterday.  Volcker Rule  The Volcker rule, which seeks to limit federally insured
banks from making bets with their own money, could stop big
institutions from providing liquidity to the market if it’s not
implemented well, Rubin said. While regulators need to allow
“large-scale intermediation” for markets to function properly,
they will struggle to define the difference between market-
making and proprietary trading, he said.  “I think I could spend the rest of my life trying to
define that distinction and I wouldn’t succeed at it,” he said.  Rubin said he’s visited  China  twice in the past six months
and has met with the man who will be its next president. While
the country has challenges adapting from an export-led economy,
growth in China probably will remain strong, he said.  “My overall conclusion is we should all hope for the
best,” he said. “It is absolutely prudent to prepare for the
worst.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  