-- Santorum Predicts Two-Man GOP Race With Romney After Southern Primaries
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/santorum-predicts-a-two-man-gop-race-with-romney-after-southern-primaries.html
Rick Santorum  suggested the
Republican presidential primary would soon become a two-man race
where he will measure up well to front-runner Mitt Romney.  “Hopefully after this Tuesday, this will be a two-person
race, and we can get down to business of deciding whether we
want a conservative or a moderate to go up against  Barack Obama ,” Santorum said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this weekend.  Santorum, 53, said he expects to win today’s Kansas
caucuses and finish first or second in the March 13 primaries in
Alabama and Mississippi, which would set up a head-to-head race
against Romney.  Though he shied away from directly calling on rival  Newt Gingrich  to drop out of the race, Santorum cited the former U.S.
House speaker’s defeats in recent primaries as a sign that his
opponent is losing momentum.  Gingrich, who won two primaries -- in  South Carolina  on
Jan. 21 and in his home state of Georgia on March 6 -- has
“finished third or fourth everywhere else, which has been a
consistent pattern,” said Santorum. “So we feel pretty good
that it’s now narrowing to a two-person race.”  Divided Romney Opposition  Top Santorum advisers have called for Gingrich to exit the
race and let the former Pennsylvania senator consolidate the
support of anti-Romney voters.  An American Research Group  poll  showed how Romney could
benefit as votes against him divide. The former speaker led
among likely voters in the  Mississippi  primary with 35 percent,
followed by Romney at 31 percent, Santorum at 20 percent and
U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  at 7 percent. The March 7-
8 survey had a 4 percentage-point margin of error.  In the interview, Santorum dismissed Romney’s economic
plans as “timid,” saying his proposals would make deeper cuts
in taxes and  government spending .  “We have a much, much more - much more bold plan, much
more oriented toward growth, and much more oriented towards
shrinking the size of government,” he said, speaking from the
USS Alabama.  Separately, former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty , a co-
chairman of the Romney campaign, expressed confidence that
Romney was well on his way to winning the nomination.  ‘Doing Very Well’  “People always assume that somehow Newt and Rick are
splitting this so-called non-Romney vote, and if one of them
dropped out, that could bode ill for Mitt’s chances,” he said
in another interview on “Political Capital.” “That may not be
true at all, but we can’t control that anyhow, and Mitt is doing
very well. I think he’s going to be the nominee.”  Pawlenty said Romney has better credentials for handling
the economy. “ Mitt Romney ’s actually done this stuff,” he said
of the co-founder of the private equity firm Bain Capital LLC.
“He was somebody who invested in businesses, grew businesses,
provided jobs.”  Still, Pawlenty said Romney faced “challenging” contests
in Alabama and Mississippi, where many Southern voters remain
skeptical of Romney’s conservative credentials.  Santorum worked to underscore those doubts in the
interview. When asked if he believed Romney’s pledge not to
raise taxes, Santorum pointed to his rival’s record, saying
Romney raised taxes and trailed in  job creation .  Raised Taxes  “I don’t know whether he pledged as governor of
 Massachusetts  not to raise taxes, but he did,” Santorum said.
“He raised it by, you know, close to $1 billion.”  The Center for a Responsible Federal Budget found that
Santorum would lower tax rates by eliminating almost every tax
benefit for individuals not related to charity, mortgage
interest, health care, retirement or children -- such as  tax
deductions  for municipal bonds and state and local property.  Santorum rejected the report, saying his plan wouldn’t
increase taxes on anybody.  “The idea that, you know, by simplifying the  tax code ,
that we’re going to now start including certain areas of income
that we haven’t included in the past are simply not something
that we proposed in any document that we’ve issued or any
statement I’ve made,” he said.  On jobs, Santorum said the Obama administration doesn’t
deserve credit for signs of an improving economy and a payroll
report today that represents a “step forward.”  “You have an administration that - that has consistently
seen, you know, bad job reports because of bad policies that
have led to those job reports,” he said. “Eventually, you
know, the economy does recover, in spite of the headwinds that
this administration has put in its place.”  Employers added 227,000 jobs in February, more than
forecast, the Labor Department reported in  Washington . That
growth held the U.S. unemployment rate steady at 8.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story: Lisa Lerer in Washington
at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  