-- Santorum Predicts 2-Man Race After Southern Races (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-03-09T22:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/santorum-predicts-2-man-race-after-southern-races-transcript-.html
Rick Santorum  said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend, that the Republican presidential primary
may soon become a two-man race where he will measure up well
against front-runner  Mitt Romney .  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with an interview with a leading
Republican presidential candidate and former senator, Rick
Santorum of  Pennsylvania , who is on the USS Alabama in Mobile.  Senator, thank you for being with us. And let’s start with
the jobless report.  RICK SANTORUM: Thanks, Al.  HUNT: It came out this morning, 227,000 jobs were added
last month. It’s the fastest six-month growth since 2006. Do you
think we can now say the economy is on the way back?  SANTORUM: Well, let’s hope so. I mean, it’s certainly had a
lot of headwinds that it’s had to confront, I would argue most
of them self-inflicted on the part of this administration.  HUNT: This is a good jobs report, then?  SANTORUM: Well, again, you know, I haven’t - I haven’t seen
all the details, but certainly a quarter of a million jobs,
roughly, being added is a positive step forward. And hopefully
that trend continues and we can - we can see this economy on the
rebound.  But I - again, you have an administration that - that has
consistently seen, you know, bad job reports because of bad
policies that have led to those job reports.  HUNT: Let’s turn to your tax proposals and  Governor
Romney ’s. I read them both. There are differences. You go to
zero for manufacturing. But when you look at them both, you both
want to slash taxes on income and investment. You both pledged
not to raise taxes. When it comes to fiscal policy, it appears
there really isn’t a dime’s or at least a quarter’s worth of
difference between you and Mitt Romney.  SANTORUM: Well, yeah, I would disagree with that. First
off, you know, we - he keeps six or eight. I go to two. He
basically keeps the Internal Revenue Code for individuals the
same. I don’t. I change it. We simplify the code to five
deductions when it comes to the deduction part of the  tax code .
Pretty much everything else, you know, is swept away, and we
have a very simple corporate tax. We eliminate basically the
corporate tax and replace it with a single rate, 17.5 percent,
which is half the current corporate tax, and make it basically a
net profits tax with one tax credit, which is for research and
development at 20 percent.  But it’s a very, very simple code, unlike Governor
Romney’s, which is timid, very small changes in the code. I
think, you know, 59 different little tinkers here and there, but
we have real fundamental changes -  HUNT: Do you think as president Mitt Romney would keep his
pledge not to raise taxes?  SANTORUM: Well, I don’t know whether he pledged as governor
of  Massachusetts  not to raise taxes, but he did. He raised it
by, you know, close to a billion dollars. You look at my - you
know, my 16 years in the House and the Senate, never once voted
to raise taxes and made a very strong commitment that that’s not
something that’s the problem in America. The problem is spending
when it comes to the fiscal problems of this country.  And, again, Governor Romney’s proposed about a half a
trillion dollars in cuts over - over the next 10 years, and
we’ve proposed $5 trillion over five. So I think we have a much,
much more - much more bold plan, much more oriented toward
growth, and much more oriented towards shrinking the size of
government, something that Governor Romney didn’t do, nor, as he
said, did he do anything about  job creation .  He talks about his job-creation credentials when he’s in
the private sector, but he never seems to mention the fact that
in the public sector, as governor, he was 47th out of 50 in
states in job creation in the state of Massachusetts, so -  HUNT: You - you mentioned you want to eliminate all taxes
on manufacturing.  Ronald Reagan  proposed to lower tax rates,
broaden the base, and said government should not pick winners
and losers, yet you do. Why was Governor Reagan - why was
President Reagan wrong?  SANTORUM: Well, I think, actually, by keeping the tax rates
the same on manufacturing as we do on other businesses here in
the country, we are picking winners and losers, because
manufacturers have to do something that most other businesses in
this country don’t have to do. They have to compete directly
with foreign entities for jobs being - being in this country.  And as you know, because of the government policies, our
competitive posture is simply not that strong vis-a-vis our nine
top trading partners. We’re 20 percent more expensive, excluding
labor costs, with our - compared to our nine top trading
partners, one of the reasons we find it hard to keep jobs here
in this country, you know, manufacturing jobs here.  HUNT: You would cut taxes by a great deal, but there would
be some offsets by eliminating some preferences. The Committee
for a Responsible Budget said your campaign has identified some,
that you would eliminate tax breaks for state and local and
property and income taxes, for the tax-exempt status of
municipal bonds, and tax breaks soldiers receive on benefits and
allowances. Would you eliminate all those?  SANTORUM: No, I - well, no, I - you know, this is funny. I
mean, I saw this report. They even mentioned about the build-up
of interest, you know, of income within life insurance policies.
This is just pulled out of the air by - by I don’t know who. I
mean, I’ve talked to all of my economic team. They all said
they’ve never had a conversation with anybody about this.  In fact, we sent out a statement yesterday that said - and
I don’t know where these folks came up with - with some of these
things that they’ve talked about. You know, we’ve provided a
detailed answer to that, and, again, it’s - this is - I’m sure -
you know, I’m sure I know where this is coming from, folks who
are - who are, you know, trying to say, wow, he’s going to
increase taxes here and increases taxes there.  No. We’re not going to increase taxes on any of those
things.  HUNT: In  Ohio , 54 percent of the voters said the economy
was the important issue. Mitt Romney beat you by 10 points among
those voters. He clearly says the economy and jobs are the
dominant issue. Do you think you would do better if you said
that was the dominant issue, rather than confusing it with
social issues, too? Or do you think the social issues are as
important as the economic issues?  SANTORUM: I don’t - well, again, it’s - the narrative the
media is painting is not the narrative that’s out here on the
campaign trail. I’m talking about, you know, fundamental
freedoms in this country and that they’re at stake, that we have
a government that’s overreaching, that is imposing its will on -
on the American businessperson and the American people, and that
government is - is at a critical tipping point, particularly
with the implementation of Obamacare.  I’m saying the economy is struggling because it has a yoke
of government, of regulation, of threatening to do more
regulation, of increasing taxation under Obamacare, and more on
the way being threatened by this president, and that’s the
reason this economy is struggling. I think Governor Romney
narrow-casts this issue. This is a broader issue than just the
economy.  HUNT: How do you expect to do against  Newt Gingrich  in
 Mississippi  and  Alabama ?  SANTORUM: Well, we feel good. I mean, we’ve got great
reaction here in Mobile last night. We had about 600 people in
event, and we’re doing a little event here that we threw
together here this morning to - we were going to head straight
out of town, but we decided to - we had a little extra cushion
in the schedule, so put a little event here on the USS Alabama,
talk a little bit more about national security, and now we’re
down here in the gulf, a little bit more about energy, and so we
hope to have a good day today, and feel good about what we’re
feeling and hearing in both Alabama and Mississippi.  HUNT: Are you going to win both Alabama and Mississippi?  SANTORUM: Well, I was just going to say, this weekend we
have  Kansas , and we feel like we’re going to have a huge win
there. And, in fact, I think the polling is so good that both
Governor Romney and Newt Gingrich have decided not to campaign
there. That’s a good sign.  And so with that wind coming up on Saturday going into
Alabama and Mississippi on - on Tuesday, we think we’re going to
have a little wind at our back. And, you know, our feeling is,
we finish first or second here, that’s exactly what we hope to
do. And hopefully after this Tuesday, this will be a two-person
race, and we can get down to business of deciding whether we
want a conservative or a moderate to go up against  Barack Obama 
-  HUNT: So you think after Tuesday Newt Gingrich is likely to
drop out?  SANTORUM: Well, I mean, obviously, you know, we’ve got to
hold up our end and do well here. And I think if we continue to
show, as we did on Super Tuesday, where we finished, you know,
first or second I think in almost every state, maybe one - I
think we came very close with Congressman Paul on a second place
in one of the states - but, you know, Congressman Gingrich
finished first in one state, his home, and finished third or
fourth everywhere else, which has been a consistent pattern.
He’s finished third or fourth in almost every state since  South
Carolina  - I mean, excuse me, since  Florida .  So we feel pretty good that it’s now narrowing to a two-
person race. We’ve been competitive. I think you’ve seen the
reports that we’ve been outspent overall about 10 to 1, but, you
know, that doesn’t matter. We’ve got the better message.  HUNT: OK.  SANTORUM: We’ve got the more - we’ve got the energy. We’ve
got the vision. And I think that’s going to win in the end.  HUNT: All right. Senator Santorum, thank you so much for
being with us.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP.  #<610778.5983423.2.1.99.7.25>#
 