-- Sarkozy Best Known, Least Like Europe Leader in BVA Poll
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-09T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/sarkozy-best-known-least-liked-european-leader-bva-poll-finds.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is
the best-known and least-liked of five European Union leaders
according an opinion poll in the region’s largest economies.  Of 4,217 people questioned in  France ,  Germany , Spain, the
U.K. and Italy, on average 93 percent knew Sarkozy, ahead of 92
percent for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, based on a poll by
BVA Opinion for  20 Minutes , the French free daily newspaper.  Sarkozy said yesterday he’ll quit politics if his re-
election bid fails in an interview on RMC Radio. The first round
of France’s presidential elections is April 22, with a run-off
on May 6.  “He’s the best-known head of state, shoulder to shoulder
with Angela Merkel,” BVA said in an e-mailed statement.
“However, if Sarkozy is thus the best-known, he is also the
least-appreciated head of state.”  On average in the five countries, Sarkozy received 33
percent positive opinions against 58 percent negative, according
to the pollster. Merkel on average was seen positively by 50
percent of those polled, while 41 percent had a negative view.  “Sarkozy is the only head of state to be unpopular in each
of the questioned countries,” BVA said. “Contrary to Nicolas
Sarkozy,  Angela Merkel  is the most popular of those heads of
state asked about.”  The U.K.’s  David Cameron  was known to 88 percent of those
questioned, followed by Italy’s  Mario Monti  with 74 percent and
Spain’s Mariano Rajoy with 63 percent recognition.  Of the respondents, on average 44 percent had a positive
opinion of Cameron and 42 percent a negative one, while for
Monti the score was 36 percent for both views. Spain’s Rajoy was
liked by 27 percent of those polled, while 34 percent on average
held a negative opinion.  BVA said it polled 1,017 French residents 15 years or older
as well as 800 each in Germany, the U.K.,  Italy  and Spain. The
poll was held from Feb. 20 through Feb. 29 via the Internet,
according to BVA, which didn’t provide a margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  