-- Saudi Princess Robbed of $16 Million Jewels Sues London Hotel
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-03-09T09:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/saudi-princess-robbed-of-16-million-jewels-sues-london-hotel.html
A Saudi Arabian princess and four
other royals sued hotel group  Wyndham Worldwide Corp. (WYN)  after
jewelry and cash worth a total of 10.2 million pounds ($16
million) was stolen during a 2010 visit to  London .  Princess Salwa Bint Nassir Bin Abdulrahman Al Thnayan
blamed Wyndham and the hotel’s owner, Blue Harbour 2 Ltd.,
saying security was inadequate and staff were “rude and
unhelpful,” according to a lawsuit filed in London.  The  Wyndham London Chelsea Harbour Hotel  said the valuables
should have been kept at a bank or in a safety deposit box at
its reception instead of in the room, in defense papers filed in
January. The hotel also questioned the link between the
claimants and the Saudi royal family and said they had to prove
the value of the lost items.  Saudi Arabia ’s royals have long been a magnet for thieves.
Several million pounds worth of jewelry was stolen in 2009 from
a Saudi princess staying at a resort in Sardinia, the  Daily
Telegraph   reported , while the theft of gems by a Thai national
working in a Saudi palace  soured  relations between the two
countries in the 1990s.  “London is a popular destination for affluent Saudi
Arabians including those of the princess’ status,” her lawyer
Andrew Dobson said in an e-mailed statement. “These jewels were
with her to wear and it was completely impractical for her to
visit a bank every time she wished to decide what jewelry she
was to wear each afternoon and evening.”  Access Key  Wyndham spokeswoman Christine Da Silva said the company
doesn’t comment on pending litigation. A call to the registered
phone number of Blue Harbour was referred to the hotel, which
didn’t respond to a request for comment.  The  Saudi Arabian embassy  in London said the theft was a
private matter and also declined to comment on the lawsuit.  A safe containing a jewelry collection worth about 10
million pounds was removed from the room along with a quantity
of cash, according to the lawsuit. They say the hotel gave an
access key to someone who wasn’t in the princess’s party, and
its security cameras weren’t working properly at the time.  The princess didn’t have insurance because she relied on
the hotel’s five-star status to protect her jewelry collection,
Dobson said.  The hotel’s lawyers said in defense papers there was a
clear notice on the safe warning guests they used it at their
own risk. The princess “was in the habit of losing keys” and
the hotel had to issue 144 new or duplicate keys during their
stay, according to the documents.  The other claimants are Princes Fahad Bin Khaled Al-Saud,
Faysal Bin Khaled Al-Saud and Mohammed Bin Khaled Bin Faisal Al-
Saud, and Princess Sara Bint Khaled Al-Saud.  The case is: H.H Princess Salwa Bint Nassir Bin Abdulrahman
Al Thnayan & Ors v. Blue Harbour 2 Limited & Anr,  High Court  of
Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division , HQ11X04326.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  