-- Sberbank Premium Grows in N.Y. on Profit Boost: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-03-09T00:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/sberbank-premium-swells-as-profit-makes-lender-top-pick-russia-overnight.html
OAO Sberbank (SBRCY)  rallied in New York to
trade at the biggest premium over Moscow stock in five weeks as
rising profit spurred Otkritie Financial Corp. and  Alfa Bank  to
name the lender their top Russian bank pick.  Sberbank American depositary receipts jumped 2.8 percent,
the most since Feb. 24, to $13.52 yesterday in New York, to
swell the premium above shares traded on Moscow’s Micex Index,
which was closed yesterday and remains shut today, to 24 cents,
the most since Jan. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US 14 Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies listed in the
U.S. added 1.6 percent to 111.96 yesterday.  The state-run lender,  Russia ’s biggest, said on March 7
that profit during January and February rose to 61.7 billion
rubles ($2.1 billion) from the same period last year. The
results spurred Otkritie analyst Vladimir Savov and Alfa’s Jason Hurwitz to list Sberbank as their top Russian banking stock in
e-mailed notes. Moscow-based Sberbank benefits from being a
distribution agent of Russia’s pensions, Hurwitz said.  Sberbank is “poised to gain even more going forward, as
the structural story remains unchanged,”  Luis Saenz , chief
executive officer of the U.S. unit of brokerage Otkritie said by
e-mail in New York. “The ruble is strengthening on the back of
high  oil prices  and profitability is high.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rallied 2.5 percent to $32.66 in New York
yesterday, the biggest one-day gain since Feb. 24. The ruble has
strengthened more than 9 percent versus the dollar this year,
the most of currencies from the biggest emerging nations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Cheapest Funding’  Sberbank’s pension deal “gives them the cheapest funding,
it gives them long-term funding,” Alfa Bank analyst Hurwitz
said by phone on March 7. “Five years ago they were a slow-
moving Soviet dinosaur, now they’ve used their size to heavily
invest in technology and we’re going to see over the next couple
of years how much that will help them as well.”  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s biggest gas producer, rose 1.8
percent in U.S. trading to $13.32 as a rally in Brent oil, the
oil type pricing for Russia’s Urals crude blend is derived,
encouraged investors to buy energy stocks.  Crude for April delivery climbed 0.4 percent to $106.58 on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, while Brent rose 1.1
percent to $125.44 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, gained 1
percent to $123.47, advancing for the second day.  “Gazprom is viewed by many investors as a pure Russia
proxy and with crude trading north of $125, exchange-traded
funds are going to be buying Russia because they want some kind
of hedge on oil price inflation,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of
Russian shares at CF Global Trading in  London , said by phone.  ‘Incredibly Cheap’  Gazprom’s Russian stock trades at  3.5 times  analysts’
earnings estimates, compared with 8.5 times for Petroleo
Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil and gas company.  “Gazprom is incredibly cheap on valuations,” Rimmer said.
“Most of the inflows that come into Russia in the near term are
going to be by ETFs and they are going to rush to buy the
biggest, cheapest stocks, like Gazprom.”  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s most popular Internet search engine,
rose 3.5 percent yesterday in New York to $23.95, the highest
price since Nov. 15. Technology stocks gained yesterday, with
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  advancing.  Polyus Gold, Russia’s largest producer of the metal,
advanced 3.9 percent to $3.50, the strongest level since Sept.
20. The mining company was the best performer on the Bloomberg
Russia-US 14 Index yesterday.  Gold Boost  “A rise in the gold price and commodities in general ahead
of the Greek debt swap has helped the stock’s rally today,”
Marco Casas, vice-president of equity sales at Otkritie in New
York, said by e-mail.  Gold jumped the most in two weeks and the U.S. currency
fell for a second day against the euro as a majority of
investors indicated they will participate in  Greece ’s debt swap.
Some investors buy precious metals to preserve value when the
U.S. currency declines.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24 raw materials rose
0.8 percent to 703.06 yesterday. Lead and copper gained after
German industrial production increased more than forecast and
the debt swap needed to prevent Greece from defaulting looked
like it may succeed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in  New York  at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  