-- Scene Last Night: Liam Neeson, Peter Rockefeller, Oysters
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-03-09T18:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/scene-last-night-liam-neeson-peter-rockefeller-oysters-helping-schools.html
Last night  Liam Neeson  attended the
Museum of the City of New York’s Winter Ball at the Plaza, with
guests including Peter Rockefeller, managing director at
Berkshire Capital Corp. and the grandson of  Nelson Rockefeller ,
former New York governor and U.S. vice president.  The event drew 500 guests and raised $250,000.  A saltier crowd had gathered at the  New York Yacht Club  for
a fundraiser for the  Urban Assembly New York Harbor School ,
including Brian McAllister, president of McAllister Towing &
Transportation Co., a tugboat company his family founded in
1864.  McAllister has hired several graduates of the school and
has high hopes for them.  “Someday they’ll own yachts like these,” he said,
pointing to the models on display at the  New York  Yacht Club.  The public high school on  Governors Island  puts students on
the water as part of a curriculum heavy on marine science. They
even grow oysters.  “There’s no way to get around it, it’s expensive,” said
Murray Fisher, co-founder of the school and president of the New
York Harbor Foundation, which supports the school by raising $1
million annually.  Harlem Prep  Earlier in the week, Harlem Prep Charter School set out to
raise its first $1 million, hosting a reception in the party
space of  Rouge Tomate .  The school opened six months ago with 270 students in
kindergarten through fifth grade, but it’s not exactly new.  A year ago, the school was called Harlem Day Charter
School, and it was failing. Then new management came in,
Democracy Prep Public Schools, and a turnaround was born. The
students and location -- in the public housing development Taino
Towers -- stayed the same. Pretty much everything else changed.  Douglas Snyder, the chairman of the board of Harlem Prep,
and the chief operating officer of Longbow Capital Partners LP,
outlined some of these changes to a crowd from firms such as
 Apollo Global Management (APO)  LLC,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Two
Sigma Investments LLC, and Chilton Investment Co.  Twenty new teachers are at the helm, leading longer class
days with concentrated instruction in reading and math, no
recess. Every teacher has a BlackBerry and a laptop to easily
communicate with parents. Classrooms are named after colleges
the teachers attended (Cornell, Brown, Harvard, Northwestern,
for example) to emphasize the school’s motto: “Work hard. Go to
college. Change the world!”  And perhaps most impressive is the focus on learning. The
time it takes to hand out a paper in class has been reduced to
22 seconds from 4 to 5 minutes.  “If you multiply those 4 to 5 minutes that were being
wasted, 10 times a day, that’s almost an hour a day that was
wasted on handing out papers instead of learning,” Snyder said.  Proof Point  He’d like Harlem Prep to become one of the highest-
performing schools in the city.  “It’s important we do so, because it’s a national proof
point that high-performing charter networks can take care of
lower-performing charter networks,” he said. “In the
maturation of any industry, it makes sense that those who do
things well, the winners in whatever line of business you’re in,
will take over the others and make them better.”  He’d like a hedge-fund or private-equity firm to adopt the
school.  “It would make sense for a company that does turnaround
efforts,” Snyder said. “It’s a natural pairing.”  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 