-- Scotland’s Home-Rule Push Uses Notional Economic Numbers Voters Can’t See
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/scotland-s-home-rule-push-uses-notional-economic-numbers-voters-can-t-see.html
Scotland ’s voters will have to
decide whether or not to quit the U.K. without knowing the
numbers behind the issues that define their economic future.  The share of North Sea  oil and gas revenue  and the amount
of U.K. public borrowing that an independent Scotland would
assume will determine the state of public finances and is
subject to haggling in the event of a “yes” in the referendum
planned for the fall of 2014. Based on figures reported this
week, Scotland would have a narrower  budget deficit  than the
U.K. with a geographical, or 90 percent, share of the oil, and a
per capita, or 8.4 percent, portion of the debt.  “The key issue is the oil settlements and the debt,”
Angus Armstrong, director of macroeconomic research at the
 National Institute of Economic and Social Research , said in an
interview. “Do they leave an independent Scotland vulnerable?
The debt is not even being talked about.”  Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  argues that the
prospects for the 144 billion-pound ($228 billion) economy will
improve if Scotland has full control over its finances and its
own membership of the European Union. While polls show only a
minority wants full independence, enough people are undecided
that the 57-year-old could pull it off after winning an
unprecedented majority in last year’s Scottish elections.  ‘Viable Economy’  Figures published by the Scottish government two days ago
show that Scotland’s  budget deficit , including infrastructure
investment, was 7.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2010-
2011 compared with 9.2 percent for the U.K. as a whole.  In euro terms, that budget deficit would make Scotland look
more like  France  than Greece. Oil revenue this year would be
about 10 billion pounds, while debt interest payments would be
about 4 billion pounds, based on reported government figures.  “The thing you have to get over is any misconception that
Scotland cannot be a viable economy because clearly it can
be,”  Michael Saunders , chief European economist at Citigroup
Inc. in London, said. “What they would make of that over time
is up to them. They could succeed, or they could stuff it up.”  Scotland’s smaller deficit means it is subsidizing the rest
of the U.K. rather than the other way round, Salmond said after
the  Government and Expenditure Revenue Scotland 2010-11 , or
GERS, published on March 7.  Spending per head has been higher north of the border for
decades, prompting complaints from some lawmakers that Scotland
is being subsidized by the rest of the U.K. The figures
published in GERS show that public expenditure in Scotland in
2010-2011 was 11,785 pounds per person, compared with 10,663
pounds a head for the U.K. as a whole, or more than 10 percent
higher. Until about 2008, spending per head was 14 percent more.  Scottish Surplus  “The GERS numbers show that apart from the crisis the
current account is running a small surplus of 1 billion pounds a
year and has been doing so for a number of years,” Andrew Hughes Hallett, a member of Salmond’s  Council of Economic
Advisers  and an economics professor at St Andrew’s University,
said in a telephone interview.  Most economists expect the oil revenue to be split on a
geographical basis, which would give Scotland about 10 billion
pounds of the 11.1 billion pounds estimated by the tax authority
for the fiscal year ending this month. The GERS figures show
that on that basis oil and gas accounted for 17 percent, or 25
billion pounds, of the Scottish economy in 2010-2011.  Dwindling Oil  The  Office for Budget Responsibility  cut its forecast in
November for North Sea oil and gas tax revenue between this
fiscal year and 2015-2016 by 23 percent to 47 billion pounds
compared with its forecast of 61 billion pounds for the same
period made eight months earlier.  Production fell 18 percent last year after tax rates were
increased, and output is on a declining trend. As a result the
Scottish deficit may exceed the U.K.’s from 2014-2015, John
McLaren, an economics professor at Glasgow University, said.  On the debt side, the U.K. government expects to spend 50
billion pounds on interest payments for the current financial
year, according to the 2011 budget. On a per capita basis and
assuming it could borrow on the same AAA-rated terms, Scotland’s
share would be about 4.2 billion pounds. In the last financial
year, it was 3.7 billion pounds, according to GERS.  “Frankly, if their sovereign rating was to be a little bit
lower than AAA, I don’t think that would be a very material
factor,” Saunders said. “They might lose it not necessarily
because of the country’s size, but simply because as a new
country inevitably they wouldn’t have a fiscal record.”  Keeping Pound  Salmond’s semi-autonomous government in Edinburgh has said
it would aim to keep the pound, though doesn’t rule out joining
the euro in future.  Up until 2008, Scotland was running a deficit of about 2.5
percent of GDP, within the 3 percent limit members of the  euro
zone  are supposed to adhere to. By 2016, the earliest Scotland
could become independent, the deficit should be substantially
lower than now, according to forecasts by the  Office for Budget
Responsibility  in  London .  “I don’t know as to whether they would qualify by then as
full core or not, but I suspect they would be around there,”
Saunders said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think they
would be a  Portugal  or Greece.”  Salmond could use the  Bank of England  as lender of last
resort and enter a fiscal stability pact to stop a future
Scottish government getting too indebted. U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron , who opposes independence, hasn’t said whether he
would countenance any of those options.  RBS Debt  The Scottish leadership has also said an independent
Scotland should not share responsibility for the 132 billion
pounds of impaired assets owned by Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , Britain’s biggest state-owned lender.  Whether it uses the pound or the euro, being part of either
currency would curtail the financial freedom the Scottish
government under Salmond is campaigning for, said  Ross Walker ,
an economist at Royal Bank of Scotland.  The debt crisis in the euro zone has shown monetary union
needs budgetary union or coordinated fiscal policies, Walker
said. Retaining the U.K. currency would therefore require
Scotland to run quite a tight fiscal policy, giving it only a
limited ability to borrow and sell bonds, he said.  “If you don’t have monetary sovereignty in what sense do
you have economic autonomy?” he said. “There’s not much of it
in  Greece  at the moment, or in Portugal, and it’s debatable
whether there is in Spain or  Italy  either.”  Shallower Slump  The Scottish economy had a  shallower  and shorter recession
than the rest of the U.K. following the global financial crisis,
though is rebounding more slowly, the Centre for Public Policy
for Regions at Glasgow University found.  At the end of the third quarter last year output in the
Scottish economy was 3.3 percent lower than before the
recession, compared with 3.9 percent for the U.K., the Scottish
government’s chief economist, Gary Gillespie, said in a  report 
on March 5. Scotland’s unemployment rate is higher at 8.6
percent, compared with the U.K. figure of 8.4 percent.  Between 1998, the first time when detailed data on the
performance of the Scottish economy became available, and 2010,
the Scottish economy lagged the U.K.  Gross value added, a measure of economic performance, rose
24 percent in the U.K. during the period compared with 20
percent in Scotland, according to Scottish government and Office
for National Statistics  data .  “Our conclusion is that the constraints that an
independent Scotland may face are likely to be more binding on
policy than they face with the explicit constraints of being
part of the U.K,” said Armstrong at the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  