-- Silvia Doesn’t See Robust U.S. Expansion Amid Stimulus Doubts
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-09T19:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/silvia-doesn-t-see-robust-u-s-expansion-amid-stimulus-doubts.html
The recent rebound in hiring doesn’t
mean the U.S. is experiencing a robust economic expansion, and
further stimulus measures wouldn’t remove obstacles to growth,
said  John Silvia , chief economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC.  “We have economic growth but not quite as strong as people
had expected or planned on,” the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based economist said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. “Having more stimulus
is counterproductive given people’s concerns about inflation and
the fiscal deficit.”  Employers in the U.S. boosted payrolls more than forecast
in February, capping the best six-month streak of job growth
since 2006, Labor Department figures showed today. Those numbers
mask an underlying stagnation in Americans’ incomes while a weak
housing market, constraints on  government spending  and
overleveraged consumers continue to weigh on the recovery,
Silvia said.  The  U.S. economy  must now resolve some mismatches, with
high demand for skilled service sector workers and low demand
for low-skilled manufacturing labor as production became
increasingly computerized, according to Silvia. That means the
 Federal Reserve  should assume the economy can withstand fewer
employment gains without stoking inflation, he said.  U.S. central bank officials see the natural rate of
unemployment at between 5.2 percent and 6 percent, and  San
Francisco  Fed President John Williams has been among policy
makers in favor of further easing if those labor gains don’t
materialize fast enough. The  jobless rate  held at 8.3 percent
last month after more workers sought employment, today’s
employment report showed.  The government can no longer rely on “cyclical” remedies
and must focus on the long-term goals of retraining displaced
workers for jobs in high-growth sectors and moving unemployed
Americans to areas with more jobs, Silvia said.  “It’s more of a structural problem,” he said. “There is
no quick solution to a financially driven recession.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  