-- Slovak Voters Return Fico to Power on Pledge of Social State
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k
-- 2012-03-11T15:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/slovakia-ex-premier-fico-set-to-win-elections-with-pledge-to-tax-the-rich.html
Slovak opposition leader  Robert Fico  said he would follow through with his vision of a social
state that increases subsidies for the poor while supporting
 Europe ’s fight against a debt crisis after winning elections.  Fico, who as premier from 2006 to 2010 oversaw Slovakia’s
2009 euro entry, won 44.4 percent in the balloting yesterday,
according to results from the electoral commission. Fico’s Smer
party will have 83 of parliament’s 150 seats and may become the
first party ever in Slovakia to form a government without a
coalition partner.  “We can realize a program of a social state, a program of
improving the public finances that won’t be at the cost of
people with low and middle incomes,” Fico told reporters in
Bratislava. “It’s also a pro-European program. The European
Union can lean on Smer in Slovakia.”  Worsening fiscal prospects, aggravated by the country’s
dependence on exports to the euro region, led Moody’s Investors
Service to cut Slovakia’s credit rating by one level to A1 and
impose a negative outlook. Iveta Radicova’s Cabinet fell in
October when a coalition party refused to back the euro area’s
enhanced rescue mechanism, causing the government to lose a
confidence vote. Fico agreed to help approve the European
Financial Stability Facility in exchange for early elections.  The extra  yield  investors demanded to hold a 10-year Slovak
government bond over German debt was 210 basis points, or 2.1
percentage points, on March 9, almost a four-month low,
according to generic bond indexes compiled by Bloomberg. The
spread on debt issues by  Poland , the biggest post-communist
economy in the EU, was 356 basis points.  ‘Stable Government’  President Ivan Gasparovic told reporters today at a news
conference that he would like to see a “stable government,”
which may include a partner, and will formally ask Smer to form
a Cabinet.  Fico is an advocate of a bigger government role in the
economy and he said that state investment projects help fuel
economic growth. He has said the previous administration ignored
the poor, pointing to data such as a 1.6 percent decline in real
wages last year.  His party pledged during the campaign to eliminate the
flat-tax system with a 19 percent rate that former Finance
Minister Ivan Miklos said had helped attract foreign investment
projects in the past decade, including factories by and  KIA
Motors Corp. (000270)   Tax Increases  Fico wants to raise the personal  tax rate  to 25 percent for
income exceeding 33,000 euros ($43,794) a year, increase the
corporate tax rate to 22 percent for companies with taxable
revenue of more than 30 million euros, and restore a dividend
tax, according to the Smer election program.  Smer takes power in a different environment compared with
Fico’s first government term six years ago, when the economy
grew 8.3 percent and expanded a record 10.5 percent in 2007. The
European Commission forecasts Slovak gross domestic product to
rise 1.2 percent this year.  The public-finance deficit narrowed to 4.6 percent of GDP
in 2011 from 8.1 percent a year earlier, helped by 3.3 percent
economic growth. The gap will be 4.9 percent this year and 5
percent in 2013, according to European Commission forecasts from
Nov. 10. Fico said his plan to raise revenue to offset any rise
in social spending will allow him to stick to Slovakia’s
commitment to reduce the gap to less than 3 percent in 2013.  Ruling Alone  Smer ruling alone “would probably bring consolidation
focused on sector-specific taxes combined with some spending
cuts,” Erste Group Bank AG said in a report on March 8. “Smer
would like to avoid raising the value-added tax or hurt low-to-
middle income workers, which make up a large base of their
voters.”  All four parties in the outgoing Cabinet reached the 5
percent threshold needed to gain entrance to parliament. In the
previous election in June 2010, the four grouped together to
form a government even though Fico also won the most votes.  Smer’s popularity was helped by the leak of a suspected
secret-service file, which suggested corruption ties between
businessmen and government officials during the 2002-2006 rule
of Mikulas Dzurinda, a foreign minister in the previous Cabinet.
His SDKU party received 6.1 percent, while the  Christian
Democrats  had 8.8 percent, the MOST-HID party 6.9 percent and
Freedom and Solidarity 5.9 percent.  Public discontent helped Ordinary People, a party
established last year, make it to parliament with 8.6 percent.
No other party won more than the 5 percent needed to gain
entrance to parliament.  “Fico is not so rough around the edges and he doesn’t have
as radical a vocabulary as a few years ago,” Grigori
Meseznikov, the head of the Institute for Public Affairs in
Bratislava, said by phone. “Slovakia is not at a significant
crossroad now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  