-- Slovak Ex-Premier Fico to Win Vote as Budget Pressure Mounts
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-03-09T15:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/slovak-ex-premier-fico-to-win-vote-as-budget-pressure-mounts-2-.html
Slovak former Premier  Robert Fico  is
poised to win elections after almost two years in opposition
amid pressure to cut the budget deficit to distance the country
from its ailing euro-area peers and avoid a rating downgrade.  Smer, the party led by Fico who as premier from 2006 to
2010 oversaw Slovakia’s 2009 euro entry, will take the most
votes in balloting tomorrow, according to opinion surveys.
Voting stations open at 7 a.m. in Bratislava and close at 10
p.m., when exit polls will be released. Official results will be
published through the night.  Former Premier  Iveta Radicova ’s government collapsed in
October when a junior coalition member refused to back the euro
area’s rescue mechanism, causing the administration to lose a
confidence vote in parliament. The row has slowed efforts to cut
the  budget deficit  and worsening fiscal prospects, aggravated by
the country’s dependence on exports to the euro region, led
Moody’s Investors Service to cut Slovakia’s credit rating by one
level to A1 and impose a negative outlook.  “The task for the new government will be to apply measures
ensuring that fiscal consolidation remains on the designed
path,”  Jaromir Sindel , Citigroup Inc. chief economist for  Czech
Republic  and Slovakia, said by phone on March 5. “If the trend
continues, it may spark a reprimand from the European Commission
as Slovakia probably won’t be on track to have a deficit of less
than 3 percent of gross domestic product next year.”  Smer would receive 39.7 percent in the March 10 vote,
giving it 75 seats in the 150-seat assembly, according to a poll
conducted Feb. 21-27 by Focus, a private company. The four
parties in the outgoing Cabinet would get a combined 27.6
percent.  State Influence  Fico is an advocate of more state influence in the economy.
He has criticized the current administration for ignoring the
poor, pointing to data such as a 1.6 percent decline in real
wages last year.  His party plans to dismantle the flat-tax system with a 19
percent rate that Finance Minister Ivan Miklos said had helped
attract foreign investment projects in the past decade,
including the  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  factory.  It proposes raising the personal  tax rate  to 25 percent for
income exceeding 33,000 euros ($43,794) a year, installing a
corporate tax rate of 22 percent for companies with taxable
revenue of more than 30 million euros, and restoring a dividend
tax, according to the election program.  “Ladies and gentlemen in luxury offices, I’m telling you,
you have record profits so you will pay record taxes!” Fico
told a rally of his supporters in Bratislava yesterday.  ‘No Doubt’  The extra  yield  investors demanded to hold a 10-year Slovak
government bond over German debt was 210 basis points, or 2.1
percentage points, at 4:22 p.m. in Bratislava, almost a four-
month low, according to generic bond indexes compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread on debt issues by  Poland , the biggest
post-communist economy in the European Union, was 356 basis
points.  The next government will have to focus on consolidating
 public finances  and preventing state debt increasing, Blanka
Kolenikova, a country analyst at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a
report yesterday saying there’s “no doubt” Smer will win.  “Despite significant improvements in 2011, when the
deficit dropped to a preliminary 4.6 percent of GDP from 7.7
percent in 2010, the next government will have to take more
steps toward reform, especially as GDP growth will be quite weak
in 2012,” she wrote. “The fact that the goal of cutting the
deficit to 3 percent by 2013 now seems unreachable was a key
justification for the recent downgrading by Moody’s and  Standard
& Poor’s , and we expect further downgrades if the next
government fails to take action.  Corruption Allegations  Smer’s popularity has also been helped by the leak of a
suspected secret-service file, which suggested corruption ties
between businessmen and government officials during the
2002-2006 rule of Mikulas Dzurinda, now a foreign minister.
Support for his SDKU party is hovering near the 5 percent
threshold to get into parliament and the number of undecided has
risen, polls show.  Public discontent over corruption may elevate new parties
to the assembly. Ordinary People and 99 Percent, both
established last year, would muster 6.7 percent and 5.2 percent,
respectively, according to the poll conducted on a sample of
1,036 respondents. No margin of error was given.  Frozen Out  A survey conducted by MVK, a Bratislava-based pollster, on
March. 3-5 on a sample of 1,036 showed Smer may get 73 deputies,
leaving open the possibility that a group of parties including
those from the previous governing coalition may be able to keep
Fico from taking power, just as they did in the last vote in
June 2010 when Smer won the most seats, 62, but couldn’t find
any partners to govern with. The MVK poll didn’t give a margin
of error.  The stability of such multi party government would be a
risk because of a need to include ‘‘unpredictable” new parties,
said Grigori Meseznikov, the head of the Institute for Public
Affairs in Bratislava.  “The most likely outcome may be Smer in a coalition with
one of the current ruling parties, probably the  Christian
Democrats ,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  