-- Solar Storm One More Natural Disaster We’re Not Ready For
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-09T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/solar-storms-one-more-natural-disaster-we-re-not-really-ready-for-view.html
On the eve of  daylight-saving time ,
came a solar storm that was expected to beat the daylights out
of the Earth’s magnetic field.  Earthlings braced for breakdowns in radio and satellite
communications and possible damage to electricity grids.  Nothing bad happened, as it turned out. Depending on a
 solar storm ’s magnetic orientation, it can be large and fast yet
still harmless. That’s what happened this time.  Do not rest easy. More and greater magnetic activity will
continue in the months ahead as we close in on the so-called
solar maximum in 2013, when activity in the  sun’s magnetic field 
reaches its 11-year peak.  So what can happen? A solar storm can burn out electronic
systems in satellites, cause airplanes flying over the poles to
lose radio communication with the ground and skew GPS data.
Worst of all, by shaking the earth’s magnetic field, it can send
a surge of power through electricity grids, overloading and
damaging transformers.  In March 1989, a brief fit by our friend the sun caused a
loss of power in the grid serving the entire Canadian province
of  Quebec  for nine hours, and damaged transformers in the U.K.
and  New Jersey .  So what can we do? For starters, we can strengthen our
ability to predict storms. The potential danger begins when a
cloud of charged particles bursts from the sun’s atmosphere.
Data from special  NASA satellites , including a pair that reveals
the 3-D structure of coronal mass ejections from the sun, let
scientists know when such clouds are headed our way. Then,
critically,  NASA ’s  Advanced Composition Explorer  probe, which
floats between the Earth and the sun a million miles away from
us, measures the speed and power of the storm as it streams
past.  Data from the ACE probe on the size of the storm is
crucial, because it enables scientists at the national Space
Weather Prediction Center to warn satellite operators and
airlines if they need to take precautions.  But ACE is now 15 years old, and no longer considered
dependable when buffeted by the kind of heavy magnetic storm
it’s meant to measure. The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration , which runs the space weather service, plans to
replace it with a new  Deep Space Climate Observatory , which
could be launched as early as 2014. Congress gave NOAA $30
million for DSCOVR this year, and President  Barack Obama  has
requested $27 million for 2013. It is essential that this be
approved.  We should also shore up our electric power grids.
Fortunately, technology exists to protect grids from magnetic
disturbances. Blocking devices -- in the form of capacitors or
resistors -- can be installed to prevent the kind of steady
currents induced by solar storms from entering the grid and
interrupting the regular alternating current. Few grids have
them, however.  It’s easy enough to understand why power companies might
not see a need. Solar storms with the strength to cause real
trouble are rare, occurring perhaps once or twice in a century.
But as power grids have grown ever larger, more interconnected
and more efficient, they have become all the  more vulnerable  to
big fluctuations in the magnetic field.  State public utility commissions should demand that grid
operators disclose what safeguards they have in place, and
require them to ensure that they can withstand the strongest
solar storms. Otherwise, we’ll all get burned.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 