-- Solar Suppliers Head for First Demand Drop as Subsidy Cut
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2012-03-09T08:07:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/solar-panel-sales-seen-dropping-first-time-in-decade-feeding-glut-energy.html
Fewer solar panels will be installed
this year as the first drop in more than a decade worsens a glut
of the unsold devices that’s already slashed margins at the top
five manufacturers, an analyst survey showed.  Homes and businesses will put up 24.8 gigawatts of solar
panels worldwide, according to the average of six forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg News. That’s equal to the power of about
20 nuclear reactors and down 10 percent from the 27.7 gigawatts
added last year. Installations have  grown  61 percent a year on
average since 1999, Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  The decline would be the first since  Germany  began offering
premium rates for solar power in 2004, opening the way for mass,
utility-scale installations. It will exacerbate price-cutting
and a surge in inventories that last year forced Solyndra LLC
into bankruptcy, prompted SunPower Corp. to seek a buyout and
gutted margins at top manufacturers led by Suntech Power
Holdings Co. and First Solar Inc.  “Overcapacity has been an overhang for this industry, and
with Germany tightening it doesn’t seem like it will ease,”
said Amir Rozwadowski, an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in
New York. “It’s difficult to assess where there’s a significant
push-out that would lead to accelerating demand, given the
anticipated decline in  Europe .”  Germany and  Italy , the biggest photovoltaic markets, cut
subsidies to curtail a boom last year, helping depress prices
for panels by more than  50 percent .  Supply Glut  The capacity of factories to produce photovoltaics may top
38 gigawatts this year, 53 percent more than the median demand
forecast, according to New Energy Finance estimates. The London-
based research company expects installations to slip this year
to 24.6 gigawatts.  That overcapacity dissolved margins of as much as 30
percent that the biggest solar manufacturers enjoyed two years
ago.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  said Feb. 23 its gross margin was 7.1
percent in the fourth quarter of 2011, down from 31 percent a
year earlier. Suntech, the world’s biggest solar company, said
its gross margin fell to 9.9 percent in the most recent quarter
from 17 percent.  The Bloomberg Large Solar Index tracking 17 manufacturers
lost 68 percent of its value last year, led by drops at Hanwha
SolarOne Co. and  Renesola Ltd. (SOLA)  of China and Conergy AG of
Germany. This year, the benchmark has gained 13 percent, led by
Renesola and Conergy.  China may double its installations this year, absorbing
some of the excess production, according to Suntech and Trina.
The two companies in January said they expect the nation to add
4 gigawatts to 5 gigawatts of panels this year compared with 2.2
gigawatts in 2011.  Chinese Demand  That’s led some manufacturers to forecast more deliveries.
Trina,  China ’s third-biggest panel maker, expects shipments to
increase by as much as 39 percent to 2.1 gigawatts this year.
Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. expects to deliver as much as
2.5 gigawatts of panels this year, up 56 percent from 2011.
Suntech said yesterday shipments may reach 2.5 gigawatts, a 19
percent increase.  New solar capacity grew 49 percent in 2011 and more than
doubled in 2010, according to New Energy Finance, which
estimates the industry’s slowest growth since it started keeping
records 13 years ago was a 5 percent gain in 2006.  Without government incentives, even record low prices for
solar panels may not be cheap enough to encourage solar farm
developers and homeowners to install them in the volumes needed
to work through the glut, said Rozwadowski, the most pessimistic
analyst in the survey. He expects installations to drop to 20.7
gigawatts.  Incentive to Install  In the U.S., subsidies are disappearing after Solyndra
filed for protection from creditors in September, triggering
criticism of President  Barack Obama , who approved government-
backed loans for the company.  While Obama wants to renew tax credits supporting renewable
energy, congressional Republicans have criticized support for
Solyndra and probed decision-making regarding the loans.  Germany, the biggest solar market, said Feb. 23 that it
will reduce the premium rates it pays for solar power on March
9, with more cuts set to come monthly starting in May.
Developers installed a record 7.5 gigawatts of panels there last
year, more than double the government’s target.  The most optimistic forecast, from Maxim Group LLC, calls
for 29.7 gigawatts of solar installations this year. That would
be a gain of 7.6 percent. Aaron Chew, a solar analyst at Maxim
in New York, said price declines aren’t enough to support a
surge in demand early this year.  Possibility for Gains  “It sucks the wind out of the argument that there is going
to be a first-quarter demand bubble,” Chew said. “Module
prices are probably going to go down this year. How good could
conditions be if pricing continues to drop?”  Some manufacturers are already planning for reduced demand
this year.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  said Feb. 28 that it’s halting four
production lines at its Frankfurt-Oder, Germany, plant for as
long as six months. Factory-utilization rates for the largest
thin-film solar producer will be 60 percent to 70 percent this
year, down from a December forecast of 80 percent, and 2012
production will be 1.5 gigawatts to 1.8 gigawatts of panels.  “Any reduction in demand right now anywhere is the last
thing manufacturers want,” said Shayle Kann, an analyst at GTM
Research in  Boston . “The less exposed you are right now to
Germany the better off you are.”  He expects 27.5 gigawatts of panels installed worldwide
this year, about the same as in 2011. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
estimates 20.8 gigawatts, while HSBC Holdings Plc forecasts 25.5
gigawatts.  Kann said the industry may be able to count on stronger
demand stimulated by the government in Beijing, which has “a
vested interest in making those companies thrive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  