-- Sonaecom Not in Talks to Merge With Zon Multimedia, CEO Says
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-03-09T13:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/sonaecom-chief-says-company-isn-t-in-talks-to-merge-with-zon-multimedia.html
Sonaecom SGPS SA (SNC) , owner of
Portugal’s smallest mobile-phone operator, wants to develop its
business alone and isn’t in talks to merge with  Zon Multimedia
SGPS SA (ZON) , Chief Executive Officer Angelo Pauperio said.  “There is nothing on the table,” Pauperio said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “No negotiations are taking
place” between Sonaecom, based near the city of Oporto, and Zon
about a possible merger, he said. “The circumstances have
dictated that we go about developing our business in an
autonomous way.”  Caixa Geral de Depositos SA , a state-owned Portuguese bank,
will sell its 11 percent stake in Zon, Portugal’s biggest pay-TV
company, Jornal de Negocios reported today, without saying how
it obtained the information. The bank may invite various
companies to present proposals to buy the stake, including
Sonaecom and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , according to Negocios.  Sonaecom rose 0.4 percent to 1.26 euros at 1:08 p.m. in
Lisbon. Zon rose as much as 6.6 percent, the biggest increase in
more than two months, and was 5.6 percent higher at 2.42 euros.  A merger between Sonaecom and Zon “makes sense,” Nuno Matias, an analyst at  Espirito Santo ’s investment bank, said in
an interview yesterday. Matias estimates savings of 330 million
euros ($436 million) from the possible merger.  Optimus Policy  Zon was spun off from  Portugal Telecom SGPS SA (PTC)  following
Sonaecom’s failed bid for the former national phone-operating
monopoly. Zon Chief Executive Officer  Rodrigo Costa  said on Jan.
12 that “we don’t spend time thinking about consolidations”
during day-to-day operations.  Sonaecom’s mobile unit Optimus will stick to a “very
aggressive” calling-rate policy to attract new customers and
gain market share, Pauperio said. Optimus controlled 21.2
percent of  Portugal ’s mobile-phone market in the third quarter
of last year, he said.  The company competes with Vodafone and Portugal Telecom’s
mobile unit TMN for mobile-phone customers in Portugal.  For financing, Sonaecom doesn’t have “needs that aren’t
covered until the end of 2012,” Pauperio said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  