-- South Sudan Has Foreign Exchange Reserves for 18 Months
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-10T00:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/south-sudan-has-18-month-foreign-exchange-reserve-machar-says.html
South  Sudan , which shut down its oil
industry in January, has enough foreign exchange reserves to
last 18 months and is exploring new ways to raise cash including
issuing bonds, Vice President  Riek Machar  said.  The African nation will post a  budget deficit  next year as
a result of lost oil revenue, Machar predicted in an interview
in  New York  today after visiting investors. To close the gap,
the country may seek commercial loans, sell bonds overseas and
truck at least a third of its oil production to ports in other
nations, he said.  South Sudan, which gained control of about 75 percent of
the previously united Sudan’s 490,000 barrels a day of output at
independence in July, completed a shutdown of production Jan.
28. It took the action after accusing Sudan of stealing its oil.
Sudan said it confiscated the crude to make up for unpaid fees.  The dispute over the fees  South Sudan  pays the neighboring
country to ship the crude via a pipeline to the  Red Sea  shows
few signs of being resolved anytime soon. Oil accounts for more
than 95 percent of the economy of South Sudan, according to the
government.  “We are not yet agreed,” Machar said. “There is no time
limit. We are still negotiating on this. We can’t pay $32 per
barrel as transit fees. That is one-third of the price of oil.”  The largest customer for the oil is  China , according to the
 International Energy Agency .  Peace Deal  A peace deal that ended a two-decade civil war required the
north and south to split oil revenue equally prior to the
south’s independence. Machar said that in spite of the spat over
oil and violence at the borders, he saw no reason for the two
nations to return to war.  ‘Yes, there is war across our borders, in Southern Kordofan
and  Blue Nile  and Darfur, but this is a matter of the North,’’
he said. “We have no involvement in it.”  The former head of the UN in Sudan, Mukesh Kapila, this
week called for international intervention to prevent
“genocide” in the Nuba mountains region where the Sudanese
government is fighting insurgents.  The Nuba Mountains are in Southern Kordofan, an oil-rich
state where fighting broke out in June between the government
and the rebel Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North. The
conflict has spread to neighboring Blue Nile state and forced
tens of thousands of people to flee into South Sudan.  Cattle Rustlers  Machar also downplayed unrest in South Sudan’s Jonglei
state and attributed violence there to cattle rustlers.  The violence there “is not directed against investors or
the government,” he said. “We are correcting that. We are
disarming the civilian population so the security situation is
stabilized.”  That contradicts the February assessment of the UN, whose
emergency relief coordinator,  Valerie Amos , told reporters Feb.
2 that she had seen a “terrible situation” on visiting the
area.  Lul Pout Riek, a Sudanese physician who oversees community
and public health in South Sudan, told a group in Los Angeles
March 8 that the average lifespan in the country is 40, the Los
Angeles Times reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  