-- South by Southwest Geekfest Veers From Social Media to Health
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-03-09T01:54:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/south-by-southwest-geekfest-veering-from-social-media-to-health-education.html
Social-media startups will need to
share the spotlight this year at South by Southwest Interactive,
the annual technology geekfest that catapulted Twitter Inc. to
stardom in 2007.  Rock Health , an incubator focused on health-care startups,
and WePay, an online payments provider, will showcase their
products and services at the four-day conference that starts
today in Austin,  Texas .  Edmodo Inc. , an educational social
network, is part of a new event focused on learning.  Dubbed “Woodstock for geeks,” South by Southwest is no
longer just about creating buzz for the latest social-networking
tools like Twitter and Foursquare Labs Inc. The 19-year-old
conference is expecting about 20,000 entrepreneurs, investors
and executives searching for the next big thing across the
technology landscape, seeking to bring industries such as health
care and education further into the digital realm.  “There are more and more applications for social and
mobile technologies in the health-care world,” said Lisa Suennen, a co-founder at San Francisco-based  venture capital 
firm Psilos Group, who is going to the conference for the first
time. “To the extent you can bring it into the hip and exciting
opportunity area is a wonderful thing.”  Suennen’s session -- “Why Invest in Health Tech?” -- is
one of at least 18 at the conference related to health care.
Other topics include wired hospitals, the use of social media by
pharmaceutical companies, and online therapy.  Interactive Education  In addition to the education conference, called  SXSWedu ,
there are 13 sessions focused on education at the interactive
conference, including panels on digital content and online
communities for kids. Eleven sessions are about financial
services and new forms of payments.  Bill Clerico, the co-founder of WePay, has attended South
by Southwest for the past two years just for fun. This year,
he’s participating in a session called “The Future of Money,”
and spending the rest of his time meeting with potential
business partners. His  Palo Alto , California-based startup is
taking on  EBay Inc.’s (EBAY)  PayPal unit by letting users buy things in
groups, helping event promoters sell tickets and enabling people
to accept donations via the Web.  “I’m meeting with storefront companies and event companies
to talk about how we can help power payments,” said Clerico,
whose four-year-old company has raised $10 million in venture
capital. “The company is mature enough that now I can go
looking for customers.”  Mobile Startups  South by Southwest is still known as the place for new
mobile and social apps, in the same way that the  Consumer
Electronics Show  in Las Vegas showcases next-generation
televisions and  Mobile World Congress  in Barcelona,  Spain , is
the home for wireless technologies. In 2010, mobile check-in
apps Foursquare and Gowalla Inc. were the standouts, and last
year the focus turned to group-messaging services GroupMe Inc.
and Beluga, which have both been acquired.  Mobile apps generating the most buzz heading into this
year’s conference are Highlight, Sonar and  Glancee , which use
consumers’ contacts and social-networking data to connect them
to relevant people in the vicinity.  That’s not why Halle Tecco is going. The founder of Rock
Health is looking for software developers who want to do more
than create the next mobile game or  Facebook Inc. (FB)  app. Her San
Francisco-based incubator is investing in new startups focused
on health technology.  Attracting Developers  “A lot of people that come to Rock Health would otherwise
go build the next Facebook,” said Tecco, 28, who worked at
 Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Apple Inc. before starting Rock Health. “We
hope we can convince them to go build the Facebook for health
care, because it’s an industry that has massive
inefficiencies.”  Education has gotten so popular that for the second year,
South by Southwest held a separate event that ran the three days
before the Interactive conference. SXSWedu attracted about 900
people last year and three times that this year, said Drew
Scheberle, a senior vice president at the Austin Chamber of
Commerce.  The education event brings entrepreneurs together with
policy leaders and educators to discuss innovation in the
industry. Nic Borg, chief executive officer of online-education
company Edmodo, says he wants to meet developers who are
interested in providing content to his site’s 6 million users,
mostly teachers and students. The  San Mateo , California-based
company announced at the conference that it’s opening up to
outside developers for the first time.  Providing a Bridge  “The idea is to capture the attention of a lot of really
talented developers, who haven’t typically focused on the
education space,” Borg said. “We’re trying to provide a bridge
between the education side and interactive side so that folks
see there’s a tremendous opportunity in the space.”  While education and health care may not get the attention
of the hottest social-networking apps, they do have some of the
most high-profile speakers.  Arne Duncan , the U.S. Secretary of
Education, gave a keynote at SXSWedu, and Aneesh Chopra, the
former U.S. chief technology officer, is taking part in the
interactive session on health-care investing.  Suennen of Psilos Group is presenting along with Chopra.
She says she is looking forward to seeing just how far health
care has come in the world of South by Southwest.  “I’m not sure if I’m groovy enough to be there,” Suennen
said. “I guess I’ll find out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  