-- Wal-Mart Wins South African Lawsuit Contesting Massmart Deal
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-03-09T15:12:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/south-africa-appeal-court-dismisses-case-against-wal-mart-s-massmart-deal.html
A South African appeal court
endorsed  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s purchase of a controlling stake
in Massmart Holdings Ltd., a deal the government challenged on
the grounds it may cause jobs cuts and hurt local manufacturers.  Judge Dennis Davis, president of the Competition Appeal
Court, handed down the decision at a hearing in Cape Town today.  “The evidence indicated that consumers will indeed benefit
from lower prices and that these lower prices may, in turn,
generate greater  job creation  than the job losses that may
result,” Davis said. “There was insufficient evidence to
conclude that the detrimental effects of the merger would
outweigh the clear benefits to consumers.”  Three government ministries and a retail workers’ union
contested a May 31 decision by  South Africa ’s Competition
Tribunal that authorized Wal-Mart to  buy  a 51 percent stake in
Johannesburg-based Massmart, South Africa’s biggest food and
general-goods wholesaler. Approval was subject to the companies
promising to refrain from firing employees for two years and
setting up a 100 million-rand ($13.3 million) fund to assist
local suppliers and manufacturers.  Legitimate Concerns  The court, which heard the case in October, ordered that
three experts should recommend to the appeal court the mandate
and conditions of the fund. The panel must conclude its work
within three months.  The study must determine “the best means by which South
African small- and medium-sized suppliers could participate in
Wal-Mart’s global value chain,” Davis said. “There were
legitimate concerns about the effect of the merger on small
producers and therefore consequent effects on employment.”  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, paid 16.5 billion
rand in mid-2011 for the stake in Massmart. The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based company said on June 26 that it would create
15,000 jobs in South Africa in five years and spend about 60
billion rand more on food or consumer goods in the same period,
most of which would go to local suppliers.  The government welcomed the court’s approach, saying its
concerns had been recognized and could be addressed by the
study. There was scope for different conditions to be imposed on
the takeover, it said.  Procedurally Flawed  “There is an innovative and quite interesting way forward
on this matter,” Economic Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel 
told reporters in  Cape Town . “The conditions that are applied
must ensure that we don’t have job losses in the supply chain.
That’s the focus for us. The size of the fund, the nature of any
other commitments that Wal-Mart is prepared to make, are simply
the tools to get to an outcome.”  At a hearing in October, the ministries called on the court
to refer the takeover back to the Competition Tribunal, arguing
that its hearings were procedurally flawed and failed to take
account of the potentially negative economic effects.  “It was reasonable for the government to think carefully
about this sort of deal,” Stephen Carrott, a retail analyst at
Macquarie First South Securities in Johannesburg, said by phone.
“The decision allows the company to move forward assuming this
is the end of it.”  The court also ordered Massmart to reinstate 503 workers
who were fired before the transaction.  ‘Respectfully Disagree’  The South African Catering and Allied Workers’ Union
welcomed the workers reinstatement and the decision to set up
the panel, spokesman Mike Abrahams told reporters.  While Wal-Mart and Massmart “respectfully disagree” with
the court on a link between the job cuts and the transaction,
the process to rehire the workers has started, Massmart
spokesman Brian Leroni said at the court.  “Wal-Mart and Massmart welcome the ruling,” he said.
“All three arms of the competition authority have now endorsed
the merger. The process has been rigorous. We welcome the idea
of a study as a good way to help us understand how to deploy
these funds.”  Massmart  shares  rose 0.2 percent to 172.92 rand at the
close in Johannesburg, giving the company a market value of 37.3
billion rand. The shares have gained 23 percent over the past 12
months.  South African Trade and Industry Minister  Rob Davies  denied
that the government’s decision to challenge the takeover in
court may deter foreign investment.  “The issues that have arisen are specific to this
transaction,” he told reporters. “This is not a general
statement about our position on foreign investment. We continue
to work with foreign investors. We have a much more open regime
as far as foreign investment  is concerned than many other
comparable countries.”  The case is South Africa Commercial, Catering and Allied
Workers Union v. Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Massmart Holdings
Ltd. (MSM) , 111/CAC/Jul11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Brand at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  