-- Staffing Companies Outperform Market as Europe Economic Outlook Stabilizes
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   S i m o n a   F e r r a r i
-- 2012-03-09T14:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/staffing-companies-outperforming-as-european-outlook-stabilizes.html
Euro-area and U.K. staffing
companies are outperforming the market, a signal that investors
predict economic conditions in the region won’t be as bad as
previously forecast.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest provider of temporary
employees, has risen 19 percent since Dec. 30, while the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index gained 8 percent. Shares of  Hays Plc (HAS) , a London-
based recruiting company, are up 29 percent compared with 5.2
percent for the FTSE 100 Index.  Investors are buying stocks in this and other cyclical
industries they were previously cautious about amid some
reassurance “the environment is not as bad as they thought
before,” said  Vincent Treulet , head of strategy at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in Paris.  While the European Commission has forecast the euro-area
economy will contract this year, recent indicators “confirm
signs of a stabilization” as the “risk environment has
improved enormously,” European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday. One of these signs is the third
consecutive monthly increase in the manufacturing gauge of an
index based on a survey of euro-area  purchasing managers .  The gauge -- a leading indicator of improvement, according
to  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight
in London -- was 49 last month, the highest since August and in
line with a Feb. 22 estimate, even though a reading below 50
still indicates contraction, Archer said.  U.K. Improvement  Recent news from the U.K. also shows progress, he said.
Manufacturing and services continued to expand in February,
while construction output rose at the fastest pace in 11 months,
according to reports from  Markit Economics , a data provider in
Henley-on-Thames,  England .  Consumer confidence  held last month
at the highest level since June, London-based market researcher
GfK NOP Ltd. said Feb. 29.  The economic recovery still is “likely to be tough going
and subject to relapses,” Archer said. Gross domestic product
in the 17-nation euro area fell  0.3 percent  in the fourth
quarter from the prior quarter, the first contraction since
2009, while U.K. GDP dropped  0.2 percent , preliminary data show.
Unemployment also remained elevated, at  8.4 percent  in the U.K.
for December and  10.7 percent  in the euro area for January.  The euro region will contract 0.4 percent this year and the
U.K. will expand 0.45 percent, according to the median estimates
of economists in Bloomberg surveys.  ‘Could be Justified’  Even so, the recent rally in staffing stocks “could be
justified” amid some clarity about the European sovereign-debt
crisis, said Konrad Zomer, an analyst in London at Berenberg
Bank.  Greece ’s parliament ratified a 3.2 billion-euro ($4.2
billion) package of spending cuts to its 2012 budget last week
after European governments granted the country its second
bailout Feb. 21 to prevent a financial collapse in the region.  The euro area is “likely to survive,” which “bodes
relatively well for staffers,” said Zomer, who maintains
“buy” recommendations on Adecco, temporary-employee provider
 Randstad Holding NV (RAND)  and  Sthree Plc. (STHR) , a London-based information,
communication and technology staffing service.  Sthree is up  26 percent  since Dec. 30, and Diemen,
Netherlands-based Randstad has risen  24 percent .  Stock prices may reflect “a scenario which is too
optimistic,” said  Paul Jones , an analyst in London at Panmure
Gordon UK Ltd., who has a “sell” recommendation on Sthree.  ‘Disconnected’ From Fundamentals  Staffing companies’ outperformance can remain temporarily
“disconnected” from fundamentals, including revenue growth,
that haven’t reflected sustained improvement yet, Treulet said.
That’s because cyclical industries often rally before demand
picks up, according to Emmanuel Cau, a strategist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in London. Staffing is “early cycle,” meaning its
stocks will benefit as economies strengthen and companies hire
more employees, he said.  Business slowed in January, with Glattbrugg, Switzerland-
based Adecco reporting a 1 percent decline from a year earlier
in organic growth, before the impact of exchange rates and
acquisitions or disposals. Randstad also experienced a “gradual
slowdown” across  Europe  that month, the company said in a Feb.
16  statement .  A large portion of staffing agencies’ costs are fixed,
implying a high operating leverage, so any improvement in sales
causes a disproportionate boost to profits, according to Jones.
Such leverage attracts investors who are more optimistic about
the future, Treulet said.  Global Exposure  Another appeal is the companies’ exposure beyond Europe,
which helps investors to be less risk averse about owning their
stocks, Treulet said. The U.S. jobless rate held at  8.3 percent 
last month, a three-year low, from as high as 10 percent in
October 2009, and companies added 227,000 workers to payrolls,
according to data released today by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Randstad’s U.S. business grew 6 percent in the quarter
ended Dec. 31 from a year earlier, excluding the impact from
acquiring  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based  SFN Group Inc. (SFN)  in
September.  Investors probably aren’t anticipating a similar labor-
market recovery anytime soon in the U.K. and euro region,
because that would depend on sustained economic improvement,
Treulet said.  Given the uncertain outlook, companies may be “very
careful about taking on extra staff and will probably try to eke
out as much as possible from their existing workforces,” Archer
said. Signs of progress in employment, a lagging indicator, are
“still pretty thin on the ground.”  Once the U.K. and euro-area economies signal “the worst
may be over,” economically-sensitive stocks such as staffing
will rally even more, Jones said. “They move like the wind when
things improve, but that still looks some way off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Simona Ferrari in  London  at 
 sferrari10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  