-- Stanford, ‘Anonymous,’ Goldman, Apple, Continental-Concorde in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-03-09T11:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/stanford-anonymous-goldman-apple-continental-in-court-news.html
R. Allen Stanford, the onetime
Caribbean banking tycoon found guilty of helming a $7 billion
investment fraud, was brought down by his own arrogance and
greed, jurors said.  Billie Wade, 69, a retired hairdresser who described
herself during jury selection in Houston federal court as “the
dumbest person in this room,” said Stanford’s attitude made the
biggest impression on her, more than any evidence or testimony.  “His arrogance, every day,” she said yesterday after the
jury decided that Stanford, 61, must forfeit $330 million in
assets in 29 bank accounts seized by the government. The same
jury of eight men and four women returned guilty verdicts March
6 on 13 of 14 criminal counts against Stanford.  Stanford was found guilty of lying to investors about the
nature and oversight of certificates of deposit issued by
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. and sold in the
U.S. by his Houston-based securities firm, Stanford Group Co.  After a six-week trial, the jury convicted him on four
counts of wire fraud and five counts of mail fraud, each of
which carries a top sentence of 20 years in prison. He was also
convicted of conspiracy and obstructing a U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission probe. He was found not guilty of one wire
fraud count. U.S. District Judge David Hittner set June 14 for
sentencing. Stanford remains in custody.  “The jury returned unanimous verdicts and we think they
speak for themselves,” John Wojciak, the jury foreman, said
yesterday after the forfeiture trial. Jurors examined 10 to 12
boxes of evidence, said Wojciak, an environmental engineer. He
refused to answer questions from reporters.  The jury yesterday granted total forfeiture on 29 bank
accounts in  London , Zurich, Geneva and elsewhere that
prosecutors said are worth $330 million. The money will go to
Stanford’s victims, the U.S. Justice Department said.  “We won’t say it’s what we expected,” Ali Fazel, one of
Stanford’s attorneys, said after the forfeiture verdict.  Stanford, who didn’t testify, maintains his innocence.
Defense lawyers argued that his organization had had enough
assets to honor its commitments until the SEC sued in February
2009 and won a court order freezing his holdings and appointing
a receiver to liquidate them.  Robert Scardino, Stanford’s other attorney, said he and
Fazel will ask the court to have lawyers review their work to
see if they made any mistakes or “missed any issues.”  Fazel said there are many grounds for appeal.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Chef Batali Agrees to $5.25 Million Server Tip Suit Accord  Mario Batali, the celebrity TV chef and  New York  restaurant
owner, is often seen with actress Gwyneth Paltrow, taste-testing
the culinary delights of Spain in their public television series
“On the Road Again.”  Batali took a detour, through his lawyers, to New York
federal court in Manhattan, where he was sued and accused of
cheating workers of part of their tips, as well as failing to
pay overtime and the minimum wage. He and his associate Joseph
Bastianich agreed to pay $5.25 million to settle the class-
action lawsuit, according to court papers.  Servers at restaurants including Babbo and  Del Posto  sued
in 2010 alleging their employers violated the Fair Labor
Standards Act -- in part by pocketing gratuities equal to as
much as 5 percent of nightly wine sales.  “Mr. Batali, Mr. Bastianich, and their restaurants
unlawfully confiscated a portion of their workers’ hard-earned
tips in order to supplement their own profits,” employees said
in their complaint.  The settlement agreement, filed March 5, is subject to
approval by a federal judge.  The accord in the class-action suit may cover as many as
1,100 employees including servers, waiters and bartenders who
work or worked at Babbo, Del Posto, Bar Jamon, Casa Mono, Esca,
Lupa, Otto and Tarry Lodge, dating back to 2004, according to
court papers.  “The matter has been resolved to the satisfaction of all
parties, Rachel M. Bien, one of the employees’ lawyers, said
yesterday by e-mail. A. Michael Weber, who represented Batali,
declined to comment.  The case is Capsolas v. Pasta Resources Inc., 10-cv-5595,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Man Who Ran Britain’s Biggest Ponzi Scheme Jailed for 14 Years  A man who admitted running the largest Ponzi scheme in
British history, defrauding investors of more than 115 million
pounds ($182 million), was sentenced to 14 years and six months
in prison, prosecutors said.  Kautilya Nandan Pruthi pleaded guilty to defrauding about
800 investors during a three-year period until November 2008.  His associates, John Anderson and Kenneth Peacock, were
found guilty yesterday for their part in the fraud and each
jailed for 18 months, the Press Association reported.  The trio defrauded investors by offering monthly returns of
as much as 13 percent. The scheme was marketed as a fund
investing in high-interest loans to distressed trading companies
involved in importing and exporting goods.  Pruthi spent the proceeds on London property, a Jaguar XKR,
three Bentleys, two Ferraris, a Lamborghini, two Mercedes, a
Rolls-Royce, a Volkswagen and a motorcycle, according to the
City of London Police, which investigated the case after it was
referred to them by the Financial Services Authority in 2009.  Pruthi, Peacock and Anderson were ordered to pay the FSA
115 million pounds in 2010 for unlawfully accepting deposits
while operating as Business Consulting International. The
regulator said it would return any money it receives to
investors.  The prosecution service had no information on the men’s
lawyers to contact for comment on the verdict.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Capital One Financial Sued Over Mortgage-Backed Securities  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  was sued by Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg, Germany’s biggest state-owned lender, over alleged
fraud involving $168 million worth of residential mortgage-
backed securities.  The securities were purchased by Stuttgart-based LBBW and
are being held by the bank or were sold at a loss, according to
documents filed yesterday in New York State Supreme Court in
Manhattan.  ‘‘The offering materials issued by defendants for the
offerings contained material misrepresentations and omissions
regarding the legal validity of assignments of the mortgage
loans to trusts formed to hold the pooled loans,” LBBW said in
the documents.  Pools of home loans securitized into bonds were a central
part of the housing bubble that helped send the U.S. into the
biggest recession since the 1930s. The housing market collapsed,
and the crisis swept up lenders and investment banks as the
market for the securities evaporated.  Julie Rakes, a spokeswoman for McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One, declined to comment on the lawsuit because she
hadn’t seen it.  The case is Landesbank Baden-Wurttemberg v. Capital One
Financial Corp., 650713/2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  Encore Capital Units Sued by West Virginia Over Practices  West Virginia sued two units of debt buyer  Encore Capital
Group Inc. (ECPG) , claiming the firms used false affidavits in lawsuits
and took part in fraudulent debt-collection practices.  State Attorney General Darrell McGraw said in a statement
he sued Midland Funding LLC and sister company Midland Credit
Management, both part of San Diego-based Encore Capital. The
suit, filed yesterday in state court in Charleston, alleges that
the two firms robo-signed affidavits when obtaining default
judgments against West Virginia consumers.  “Many consumers are frightened or unaware of their rights
when they are sued and fail to respond to these groundless
lawsuits, leaving them subject to judgments on debts that cannot
be proved,” McGraw said in the statement.  “Encore is confident in the integrity and accuracy of its
collections processes and in the validity of the data supporting
the underlying debts it owns,” the company said in a statement.
“The Midland defendants feel strongly that the allegations in
the West Virginia suit inaccurately portray both Midland’s
practices and the applicable legal standards.”  The state wants the court to force the companies to repay
money they got from West Virginia consumers and $5,000 to the
state for every violation of its consumer-protection law. It
also wants to halt the companies from making collections in the
state until the case is resolved.  The case is State of West Virginia v. Midland Funding LLC,
12C-4-33, Circuit Court of Kanawha County, West Virginia
(Charleston).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  ‘Anonymous’ Hacker Sabu Worked Around the Clock to Aid U.S.  Hector Xavier Monsegur, a hacker and member of Anonymous,
Internet Feds and LulzSec, began working “around the clock” to
aid the U.S. immediately after he was arrested in June,
prosecutors told a judge in August.  Monsegur, who pleaded guilty Aug. 15, began cooperating
with U.S. authorities, including Federal Bureau of Investigation
agents, after he was arrested June 7, Assistant U.S. Attorney
James Pastore told U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  at an Aug.
5 court hearing, an unsealed transcript shows.  Monsegur, who used the nickname Sabu and is described as an
“influential member” of all three groups, pleaded guilty Aug.
15 to staging cyber attacks against the websites of the
governments of Algeria, Yemen and Zimbabwe, according to a
criminal information unsealed March 6. He also admitted
conducting a hack attack upon  Tribune Co. (TRB)  and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox
television, prosecutors said.  “Since literally the day he was arrested, the defendant
has been cooperating with the government proactively,” Pastore
told Preska at the hearing, a transcript made available
yesterday shows. “The defendant has literally worked around the
clock with federal agents. He has been staying up sometimes all
night engaging in conversations with co-conspirators that are
helping the government to build cases against those co-
conspirators.”  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office revealed
Monsegur’s role as a cooperator this week as it announced the
arrest of five other men linked to Anonymous and off-shoot
groups in the underground hacking movement.  The case is U.S. v. Monsegur, 11-cr-666, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Goldman Sachs, Bank of America Overstock File to Be Unsealed  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America Corp .
documents that were deemed confidential in a lawsuit filed
against them by  Overstock.com Inc. (OSTK)  must be made public, a state
court judge in San Francisco ruled.  The case involves a 2007 lawsuit by Overstock, an online
retailer, claiming that the banks manipulated its stock from
2005 to 2007, causing its shares to fall. State Court Judge John
Munter dismissed the case on Jan. 10, ruling that the conduct
took place outside of California. Overstock appealed and asked
Munter to make public those documents he put under seal.  Munter granted Overstock’s request to make public a large
chunk of documents, ruling Goldman Sachs and Bank of America’s
Merrill Lynch & Co. “failed to demonstrate an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
records.” He said the transactions are at least four years old,
and much of the material was discussed at a Jan. 5 hearing.  David Wells, a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment on the ruling.  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte, North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said in an e-mailed statement that the
bank is reviewing the decision.  “Our primary goal has been to ensure that the
confidentiality of sensitive client information be protected,”
Halldin said.  Overstock Chief Executive Officer Patrick Byrne was
“thrilled” with the judge’s ruling, he said in a statement.  “I could not imagine that a post-2008 public would be
denied access to this evidence, which displays in living color
the flaws in our capital markets and in the regulatory structure
that governs them,” he said.  The case is Overstock.com v. Morgan Stanley, CGC-07-460147,
Superior Court of California, San Francisco.  For more, click here.  Mercedes Dealer Among Potential Jacoby & Meyers Investors  Three directors of a small New York bank, including one who
also sells new and used Mercedes-Benzes, want to be the first
nonlawyer investors in Jacoby & Meyers, the discount law firm
with storefront offices across the U.S.  Jacoby & Meyers , saying it needs capital to expand into
communities with working-class and immigrant families, asked
federal judges in New York,  New Jersey  and Connecticut to throw
out state laws barring nonlawyers from owning interests in law
firms. A judge in New York yesterday dismissed the suit there.
One in Trenton, New Jersey, let that case proceed March 7.  In a court filing in January, Jacoby & Meyers identified
its potential investors as Anthony Costa, Philip Guarnieri and
Michael Ostrow. The three are directors of  ES Bancshares Inc. (ESBS) ,
the holding company for Empire State Bank, according to
regulatory filings.  Jacoby & Meyers is seeking to sue on behalf of other law
firms in the three states.  Costa and Guarnieri didn’t reply to phone messages left at
the bank. Ostrow, president of  Mercedes-Benz  of Wappingers
Falls, New York, declined to comment on his potential
investment.  In all three states, Jacoby & Myers is seeking to
invalidate laws barring nonlawyers from sharing fees or joining
partnerships and corporations that practice law.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan in New York yesterday
granted a request to dismiss the suit by New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman.  He ruled on technical grounds, saying several provisions of
state law bar nonlawyer investments and it made no sense to rule
on just the one Jacoby & Meyers attacked. Kaplan said the issue
might best be decided by legislatures and professional
associations.  U.S. District Judge Peter Sheridan in Trenton denied the
state’s dismissal bid and asked the state Supreme Court to
decide if the investment is permissible.  The New York case is Jacoby & Meyers v. Presiding Justices,
11-cv-3387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The New Jersey case is Jacoby & Meyers v. Justices
of the Supreme Court, 11-cv-2866, U.S. District Court, District
of New Jersey (Trenton). The Connecticut case is Jacoby & Meyers
v. Judges of the Connecticut Superior Court, 11-cv-817, U.S.
District Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  For more, click here.  Wynn Ordered to Produce Two Pages in Okada Dispute Over Gift  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  was ordered by a judge to produce two
more pages of documents for Kazuo Okada, the casino operator’s
director whose 20 percent stake in the company Wynn forcibly
redeemed alleging he was “unsuitable.”  Nevada State Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez at a hearing
yesterday in Las Vegas refused to order Wynn to produce
additional papers from before the company went public or
documents regarding an amended stockholder agreement that
resulted from Chief Executive Officer Steve Wynn’s divorce.  Okada sought a court order that, as a director, he is
entitled to inspect Wynn’s books and records regarding its HK$1
billion ($129 million) pledge last year to the University of
Macau. At a Feb. 9 hearing, Gonzalez said she would order Wynn
to produce the documents if at a further hearing she found that
Okada’s request was “reasonable” and that Wynn had refused to
provide them.  “To ask Wynn officials to go through warehouses for every
record from 2000 to 2002 was unreasonable,” Kirk Lenhard, a
lawyer for Wynn, said at yesterday’s hearing. Wynn said in a
court filing that it has already provided Okada with more than
900 pages of the requested documents.  Okada, a billionaire, held the largest single stake in Wynn
through his Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  He brought
the case in January, claiming the company hadn’t provided
information he requested about the University of Macau pledge,
or about the use of $120 million he invested in 2002 and the
amended stockholders agreement.  The stock redemption and Wynn’s announcement March 7 that
it will seek to remove Okada as a director escalated a clash
between Steve Wynn, the company’s founder, and Okada, who helped
bankroll Wynn Resorts starting 12 years ago.  Wynn’s lawyers said in a court filing March 7 that the
company has produced all non-privileged documents that could
“reasonably relate” to Okada’s responsibilities as a director.
Were the judge to issue an order for Wynn to produce more
documents, the lawyers asked that she delay the order for 60
days because Okada may no longer be a director then.  Wynn called March 7 for a special shareholders meeting to
vote on ejecting Okada as a director following a Feb. 18
decision by the board that Okada and certain affiliates are
“unsuitable persons,” according to a company statement.  The shareholder vote is set to take place in late April or
early May, Wynn said in the court filing.  The case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts, A-12-654522, Clark
County, Nevada, District Court (Las Vegas).  For more, clear here.  Martha Stewart Living Says  Macy’s (M)  Accord Allows Penney Deal [bn:WBTKR=MSLO:US]   Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia (MSO)  Inc. [] said its agreement to
sell merchandise in  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  stores is allowed under a
2006 contract with Macy’s Inc.  The Macy’s accord places no restrictions on Martha Stewart
Living’s ability to design and sell a broad range of exempt
products and “clearly permits” the J.C. Penney deal, Martha
Stewart Living said in documents filed March 7 in New York State
Supreme Court.  “While MSLO-designed goods are sold in approximately 600
Macy’s stores, they also are sold in over 6,000 other retail
outlets,” Martha Stewart Living said in the papers. “Macy’s
simply has no exclusive right to MSLO’s creativity or design
concepts, now or in the future.”  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, sued in January to stop New
York-based Martha Stewart Living from executing the agreement
announced in December with J.C. Penney. Macy’s said it has the
exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-branded products in
certain categories.  The case is Macy’s Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Potential Lawsuits  U.S. Said to Prepare Apple Lawsuit Over E-Book Price-Fixing  The U.S. Justice Department told  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and five
publishers that it’s preparing to sue them for allegedly fixing
the prices of electronic books, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Some of the companies are in talks with the Justice
Department to reach a settlement to avoid a court battle,
according to the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak about
the discussions publicly and declined to be identified.  The publishers involved in the case are  Lagardere SCA (MMB) ’s
Hachette Book Group, News Corp.’s HarperCollins Publishers,
Macmillan, a unit of Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH,
 CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Simon & Schuster and  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin Group
(USA), the person said.  The Justice Department is looking into how Cupertino,
California-based Apple changed the way publishers charged for e-
books in early 2010 when it was getting ready to introduce its
first iPad, the person said. European antitrust regulators also
have said they’re probing whether Apple’s pricing deals with
publishers restrict competition.  Sharis Pozen, the acting chief of the antitrust division of
the Justice Department, told Congress in December the division
was probing the possibility of anticompetitive practices in the
e-book industry.  Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kristin
Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, Adam Rothberg, a spokesman for
Simon & Schuster, Sophie Cottrell, a spokeswoman for Lagarde’s
Hachette Book Group, Erica Glass, a spokeswomen for Pearson’s
Penguin Group USA and Erin Crum, a spokeswoman for
HarperCollins, all declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Continental Appeals Manslaughter Conviction Over Concorde  Continental Airlines Inc. asked an appeals court near Paris
to overturn its manslaughter conviction for the deaths of 113
people in the crash of Air France’s Concorde supersonic jet
almost 12 years ago.  Now part of  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s
largest airline, Continental and a maintenance engineer dispute
their December 2010 convictions and plan to show the court new
evidence the deaths weren’t their fault during the hearings, due
to run through May.  “Neither the company nor its employees were responsible
for the Concorde accident,” Continental said in an e-mailed
statement. “To blame the crash on a small strip of metal from
another aircraft is absurd.”  The Concorde crashed soon after take-off on July 25, 2000,
when a fireball was ignited after the jet ran over a metal strip
that fell from a prior Continental flight, investigators said.
The probe found the strip tore one of the plane’s tires and sent
debris into its fuel tanks. Continental has disputed that
scenario, telling the court the fire began before the jet hit
the strip. The airline said it will present new evidence to the
Versailles appeals court to support its claim.  “The court was mistaken” in holding Continental liable,
the carrier’s lawyer, Olivier Metzner, said before yesterday’s
hearing began. “The plane was already on fire when it hit this
metal strip -- the accident was unavoidable,” he said, calling
the Concorde a plane of “extreme fragility.”  Prosecutors also appealed the 2010 verdict by the lower
court, meaning four men who were cleared must again face
manslaughter charges. One of them, a former official at France’s
civil aviation authority named Claude Frantzen, filed a
constitutional challenge arguing they can’t appeal a verdict
that followed the trial prosecutor’s recommendations.  The court must consider the matter “immediately,” said
his lawyer, Daniel Soulez-Lariviere, defending the
constitutional question as “a serious one.”  The judges said they will rule on the challenge at the next
hearing, scheduled for March 13.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court News  Hong Kong Has Shortfall in Number of Judges, Morning Post Says  Hong Kong faces a shortage of judges and magistrates, and
almost a quarter of posts in these positions have been vacant
since last June, the South China Morning Post reported, citing
Judiciary Administrator Emma Lau as saying in a Legislative
Council panel March 7.  Forty-five of the city’s 189 vacancies for judges and
magistrates remain unfilled, the newspaper reported. The average
waiting time for civil cases rose to 117 days in 2011 from 89
days in 2010, the Post said, citing the judiciary’s annual
report.  Lawmaker Audrey Eu said the shortage “deals a blow to the
very foundation” of the rule of law and quality of the
judiciary, the Morning Post said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 