-- Swiss Stocks Advance as U.S. Adds More Jobs Than Forecast; Novartis Climbs
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-03-09T17:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/swiss-stocks-advance-after-greece-reaches-target-novartis-gains.html
Swiss stocks  advanced for a third
day as a report showed U.S. payrolls climbed more than forecast
and Greece reached its target for bondholder participation in
the biggest sovereign restructuring in history.  Novartis (NOVN)  AG,  Europe’s biggest drugmaker by sales , led
pharmaceutical companies higher after being added to UBS AG’s
list of recommended shares.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest
provider of temporary employees, increased 2.3 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of  Switzerland ’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, rose 0.6 percent to 6,188.51
at the close in Zurich. The gauge posted a 0.6 percent gain this
week, its first weekly advance in three.  The SMI has  climbed 4.3 percent  this year after the
 European Central Bank  lent regional financial institutions more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) for three years and U.S.
economic reports topped estimates. The broader Swiss Performance
Index also added 0.6 percent today.  “The worst case scenario of a disorderly default has been
cast aside, and this is a relief for the market,” said Benoit Peloille, equity-market strategist at Natixis in Paris. “But
the long-term solvency question remains. The question of
 Greece ’s future may come up again and other aid packages can’t
be ruled out.”  Greece said bondholders owning 85.8 percent of Greek-law
bonds agreed to the debt swap, enabling it to proceed with the
transaction. The government will trigger an option forcing more
investors to join, increasing the participation to 95.7 percent.  Greece’s Debt Swap  The Mediterranean nation’s government offered to exchange
the holdings for new securities. Twenty billion euros of
foreign-law bonds were also tendered, the Greek Finance Ministry
said. The swap will help reduce Greece’s debt to 120.5 percent
of gross domestic product by 2020, according to the euro-area
politicians who drafted Greece’s second bailout deal.  Swiss stocks have  gained 44 percent  since March 9, 2009,
when a bull-market rally began in U.S. stocks after the
financial meltdown of 2008. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  has
surged 68 percent and the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  has more
than doubled over the same period.  In the U.S., a Labor Department report today showed that
employers added more jobs to payrolls in February than forecast.
The 227,000 increase in payrolls followed a revised 284,000 gain
in January. Job growth over the last six months was the
strongest since 2006. The median projection of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a 210,000 increase in
employment in February.  Pharmaceutical Shares  Novartis added 1.8 percent to 50 Swiss francs, a second day
of gains.  Karen Olney , head of thematic equity strategy at UBS,
upgraded European pharmaceutical shares to overweight, meaning
investors should hold a higher proportion of the shares than
benchmark indexes.  Nobel Biocare (NOBN)  Holding AG jumped 8.1 percent to 11.40
francs, the largest increase since November. The second-biggest
maker of dental implants was upgraded to conviction buy at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Straumann Holding AG (STMN) , another dental implant maker, surged
8.7 percent to 153.80 francs, the most since 2008, as Goldman
Sachs raised the stock to buy from sell.  The market for dental implants will probably grow faster
than previously estimated, and the two stocks remain
“relatively inexpensive,” Veronika Dubajova, an analyst at
Goldman Sachs in  New York , wrote.  Adecco advanced 2.3 percent to 47.94 francs. Euro-area and
U.K. staffing companies have outperformed the market, a signal
that investors predict economic conditions in the region will be
better than economists have forecast.  “The environment is not as bad as they thought before,”
said  Vincent Treulet , head of strategy at BNP Paribas Investment
Partners in Paris.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  