-- U.K. Reviewing Lockheed’s F-35B Model, U.S. Official Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-03-09T16:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-k-reviewing-lockheed-s-f-35b-model-u-s-official-says-1-.html
The U.K. is reconsidering its 2010
decision not to buy  Lockheed (LMT)  Martin Corp.’s F-35B jet, said U.S.
Navy Vice Admiral David Venlet, program manager for the Joint
Strike Fighter.  Asked in an interview if the U.K. is again interested in
the F-35’s short-takeoff and vertical landing model, Venlet
replied: “That is under consideration.”  If the U.K. decides to buy the F-35B, it would be a boost
to Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed, as well as the U.S. Marine
Corps, which is the major customer for the airplane. In January,
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  lifted a yearlong probation on
the B model, which is the most complex of the three F-35
variants. At an estimated $382 billion to produce different
models for the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps, the F-35 is the
Pentagon’s most expensive weapons program.  In October 2010, U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , who is
scheduled to visit the U.S. and meet with President Barack Obama March 13-14, announced that Britain wouldn’t buy the F-35B
model. Instead, the U.K. expressed interest in the Navy’s
aircraft carrier version, which is projected to be cheaper than
the short-takeoff and vertical landing model.  The U.K.’s reconsideration of the F-35B model is a
“relatively new development” driven by “national U.K.
financial constraints and what it costs” to modify its two
future Queen Elizabeth-class aircraft carriers so they could
carry the U.S. Navy’s F-35C, Venlet said after a presentation to
a Credit Suisse conference on defense programs yesterday in
Arlington, Virginia.  U.K. Review  The U.K. Ministry of Defense said it is currently
completing its budget for 2012 to 2013.  “As part of this process we are reviewing all programs,
including elements of the carrier strike program, to validate
costs and ensure risks are properly managed,” the ministry said
today in an e-mailed statement. “The defense secretary expects
to announce the outcome of this process to Parliament before
Easter.”  Those modifications to the carriers may include adding
catapults, arresting gear and other equipment needed to operate
the F-35C, he said. “There is a cost” to making those changes
“and I think they are re-analyzing” if they should buy the
short-takeoff model instead, Venlet said.  “I have told them at various levels of the government, we
are with you whatever you need,” Venlet said.  The U.K. is one of eight partners to the U.S. in the Joint
Strike Fighter program. The others are  Australia ,  Turkey ,  Italy ,
the Netherlands,  Canada , Denmark and  Norway .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  