-- U.K. House Prices Increase as Tax-Holiday Rush Boosts Demand for Property
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-03-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-k-house-prices-rise-most-in-four-months-acadametrics-says.html
U.K. house prices rose the most in
four months in February as first-time buyers looked for homes
with “urgency” before a property-tax exemption ends in March,
Acadametrics Ltd. and  LSL Property Services Plc (LSL)  said.  The average price of a home in England and  Wales  rose 0.2
percent from January to 219,844 pounds ($347,900), the groups
said in an e-mailed report in  London . From a year earlier,
values fell 1.8 percent, the quickest pace since July.  “It will be interesting to observe the extent to which the
market falls away in April once the tax-duty holiday for first-
time buyers has ended,” said Acadametrics chairman Peter Williams. “But if there is better economic news in the spring
months to come and mortgage supply continues to improve there is
a sense that the market could continue to move forward.”  Manufacturing and services industries continued to expand
in February, according to surveys this month, while  Bank of
England  data showed  mortgage approvals  rose to the highest in
two years. The increase in property demand reflects the March 24
expiration of a two-year stamp-duty holiday for first-time
buyers purchasing a home for less than 250,000 pounds.  Out of the 10 regions tracked by Acadametrics, all apart
from London and Wales saw their average values decline on an
annual basis in the quarter through February, according to the
survey. Values in the capital rose 2.4 percent.  Nationally, the number of transactions increased 21 percent
to 52,000 in February compared with a year earlier, Acadametrics
estimated. From the prior month, transactions rose 13 percent.
While some demand is being driven by the tax holiday,
Acadametrics said there has been an increase in the buy-to-let
sector and, “with perhaps more competitive mortgage products
available, we are seeing a slow return to normal levels.”  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial transaction data from
the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price measures for
their index of values.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  