-- U.K. Growth Outlook Cut by Manufacturing Group on Euro Crisis
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-09T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-k-growth-outlook-cut-by-manufacturing-group-on-euro-crisis.html
Britain’s Engineering Employers
Federation cut its 2012 economic growth forecast as the crisis
in  Europe  weighs on demand, though prospects for manufacturers
point to a pickup later this year.  Gross domestic product  will expand 0.2 percent this year,
down from a December projection of 1 percent, the group said
today in an e-mailed statement. A gauge forecasting
manufacturing output in the coming quarter rose to 28 percent
from zero, the highest since the first three months of 2011.  The U.K.  economic recovery  is struggling to gain traction
as the crisis in Europe, Britain’s biggest export market, weighs
on growth. While manufacturers may benefit from emerging-market
demand for their goods, strains from the sovereign debt crisis
are clouding the outlook.  “The elephant in the room remains the unresolved euro-zone
crisis,” the EEF said. “If the crisis were to intensify
again,” the “downward impact on confidence is likely once
again to be substantial and to spread beyond European borders.”  A separate report today may show  manufacturing production 
expanded 0.3 percent in January, according to the median
estimate of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The  Office
for National Statistics  will publish the data at 9:30 a.m.  The EEF’s index of factory output in the first quarter rose
to 19 from 12 in the final three months of 2011. Measures of
both domestic and export orders showed growth.  The report adds to evidence manufacturing is rebounding
from its 0.8 percent contraction in the fourth quarter, part of
the wider economy’s 0.2 percent slump. Surveys by Markit
Economics  showed growth  in January and February. The EEF
forecasts that manufacturing will expand 0.5 percent this year
and 1.8 percent in 2013.  “Manufacturing indicators hit a soft patch at the end of
last year as events in global markets weighed on confidence and
held back orders growth in some sectors,”  Lee Hopley , EEF chief
economist, said in the statement. “Our latest survey confirms
this was a temporary setback rather than the beginning of a more
a worrying trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  