-- U.K. Manufacturing Increases Less Than Forecast in January
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-03-09T09:36:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-k-manufacturing-increases-less-than-forecast-in-january-1-.html
U.K.  manufacturing output  rose less
than economists forecast at the start of the first quarter and
price pressures intensified, signaling headwinds facing the
economy.  Factory output rose 0.1 percent from December, the  Office
for National Statistics  said today in  London . The median
forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for an
increase of 0.3 percent. Overall  industrial output  unexpectedly
dropped 0.4 percent. A separate report showed producer prices
rose more than forecast in February as crude oil prices
increased.  The weakness in factory output indicates Britain’s recovery
may struggle to gain traction after a 0.2 percent drop in  gross
domestic product  in the fourth quarter. At the same time, the
 Bank of England  may have to contend with a renewal of
inflationary pressures as crude oil prices boost fuel costs.  “Manufacturing is past the worst that we saw in the second
half of 2011, but it’s still in a very difficult situation,”
 Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
London, said before the release. “Another problem is the rise
in  oil prices . It may put pressure on manufacturers to raise
prices at a time when demand is still fragile.”  The pound fell as much as 0.1 percent against the dollar
after the data was released and was trading at $1.5780 as of
9:32 a.m. in London. The yield on the 10-year U.K. government
bond was little changed at 2.15 percent.  Food, Chemicals  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, six declined and
seven rose in January from the previous month, the statistics
office said. The biggest declines were in the categories of food
and beverages, transport equipment and chemicals.  From a year earlier, manufacturing rose 0.3 percent, while
overall industrial production was down 3.8 percent.  The monthly drop in overall industrial output, which
includes mining and quarrying and utilities, compared with the
median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey for
a 0.3 percent increase. Oil and gas extraction plunged 3.3
percent in January from December.  A separate report from the statistics office showed U.K.
 factory output prices  rose 0.6 percent in February from the
previous month, the most since April and twice as much as
economists had forecast. The annual rate of inflation
accelerated to 4.1 percent from 4 percent.  Input prices jumped 2.1 percent on the month and 7.3
percent on the year. The monthly increase was driven by a 5.8
percent surge in crude-oil and gas prices, with the latter
boosted by cold weather in  Europe  and supply risks from  Russia ,
the statistics office said.  Bank of England  The Bank of England held its  bond-purchase target  at 325
billion pounds ($514 billion) this month after increasing it by
50 billion pounds in February. Still, policy makers including
 Martin Weale  have signaled that they are concerned about the
pace of consumer-price inflation.  Surveys this month indicated that the U.K. economy returned
to growth in the first quarter after a 0.2 percent contraction
in the last three months of 2011. Reports from  Markit Economics 
showed manufacturing and services continued to expand in
February and construction growth accelerated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  