-- U.K.-Solvency II, Austrian Bank Tests, Libor Probes, BayernLB: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-09T13:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-k-solvency-ii-austrian-bank-tests-libor-probes-bayernlb-compliance.html
Prudential Plc (PRU) , the U.K.’s biggest
insurer by market value, said it’s working with the government
to ensure European Union capital rules are “sensible” and
don’t make the company leave London.  Prudential said last month it was reviewing its domicile in
light of the Solvency II rules, which are designed to harmonize
European insurers’ capital requirements. The regulations are
“ill thought out,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said March 7
in a parliamentary debate. Members of the  European Commission 
are writing and debating the rules, which are due to be
implemented in 2013.  Prudential said in an e-mailed statement yesterday that it
wants to ensure “the insurance industry in the U.K. and the
rest of Europe remains competitive and can deliver good returns
to policyholders and shareholders within a sensible capital
framework.”  Prudential, led by Chief Executive Officer  Tidjane Thiam ,
said last month the regulations may require it to hold extra
capital within Jackson National Life, its U.S. business that
generates 36 percent of its revenue. Prudential, which gets 40
percent of its revenue from Asia, has been based in the U.K.
since it was  founded  in 1848.  Aviva Plc (AV/) , the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer by market
value, shares Prudential’s concerns over Solvency II’s capital
requirements for U.S. subsidiaries, CEO Andrew Moss said.  Compliance Policy  U.S. House Passes Bill to Reduce SEC Rules for Private Firms  The U.S. House voted to approve a package of measures to
roll back Securities and Exchange Commission rules for newly
public companies and closely held firms looking for investments.  The Republican-controlled House voted 390-23 yesterday to
pass the legislation, moving it to the Democratic-controlled
Senate, where leaders in both parties have said they will push
to send the bill to President Barack Obama for final approval.  The proposals have found bipartisan support that has been
rare in the current Congress as lawmakers look to help small
firms and startups facing regulatory hurdles and tight lending
standards after the credit crisis.  The House measure pulled together six individual bills
incorporating legislation that would allow companies to use
general solicitation to find investors, permit startups to use
“crowdfunding” to raise capital, and adjust thresholds that
determine whether companies have to register with the SEC.  The Obama administration has pushed portions of the bill
since last year, including the crowdfunding exemption, which
would allow startups to use platforms like Twitter Inc. and
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  to raise funds. The administration pushed for the
lawmakers finish the bill quickly.  The bill also includes a provision that would provide
exemptions and a phase-in of SEC rules for “emerging growth
companies” -- for some firms with less than $1 billion in
annual gross revenue.  Democrats have outlined potential problems that rolling
back the rules may cause relating to investor protection. The
final shape of the bill will depend on the Senate, where
Democrats are meeting to craft a similar package.  For more, click here.  Irish Life Plans to Introduce Sovereign Annuity Via NTMA Bonds  Irish Life & Permanent (IPM)  Plc is in final preparations for the
introduction of the country’s first sovereign annuity product
for the pension market.  “The company hopes to launch the new annuity by the summer
subject to final agreement with the National Treasury Management
Agency,” the Dublin-based company said in a statement.  The new product will be manufactured using new bonds issued
by the Treasury for the Irish pensions industry, Irish Life &
Permanent said in the statement.  Defined-benefit retirement plans guarantee their payments
by buying annuities that typically invest in top-rated German
bunds. Irish pension managers have been lobbying the government
to let them switch to annuities tied to lower-rated local
securities that offer high yields in a bid to repair deficits.  Rules to Back Bonds With Equity May Come Soon, Handelsblatt Says  Europe may soon introduce regulations requiring minimum
capital requirements for bonds owned by banks,  Handelsblatt 
said, citing  Ulrich Schroeder , who heads Germany’s state-owned
development bank KfW Group.  Such requirements may be introduced when the Basel III
rules come into effect, the newspaper cited Schroeder as saying.  Compliance Action  EU Watchdogs Said to Notify Banks on Capital Plans by Today  European bank  supervisors will have notified 28 banks by
the end of today whether their plans to raise capital satisfy
requirements, according to three people familiar with the
discussions.  A minority of the lenders will have to give more details on
how they intend to sell assets and retain earnings to meet the
 European Banking Authority ’s 9 percent goal for core Tier-1
capital ratios, said one of the three people, who all declined
to be identified because the talks are private. The banks may
also have to provide contingency plans to raise capital, the
person said.  The EBA told banks to raise 114.7 billion euros
($151.6 billion) in fresh capital by the end of June as part of
measures introduced to respond to the sharp fall in the value of
securities issued by euro-area governments. The authority
required banks to keep a core Tier-1 capital ratio of 9 percent
and hold additional reserves, called a sovereign buffer, against
the debt of weaker euro-area countries, based upon the market
price of the bonds.  The EBA will host a meeting next month in London of the 27
national bank supervisors of the European Union. The meeting
will examine the plans of banks that haven’t yet complied,
according to the people familiar with the talks.  Banks submitted their plans to raise capital in January and
the EBA said in December that lenders aren’t allowed to reduce
lending to hit the target ratios.  EBA Rejects Bid to Alter Stress-Test Rule for Austrian Banks  The European Banking Authority will continue to disqualify
in its stress-test calculations some forms of non-voting capital
Austrian lenders have sold to investors, according to the
country’s financial regulator.  The EBA’s board of supervisors rejected a proposal to count
so-called participation capital toward the requirement for banks
to hold reserves of 9 percent of risk-weighted assets, Klaus
Grubelnik, a spokesman for Austria’s Finanzmarktaufsicht
regulator FMA said by phone from Vienna.  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich
AG (RZBOPA)  were among lenders told by the EBA to boost their capital to
shield against losses amid Europe’s debt crisis. Both banks’
shortfall would be smaller if the EBA counted against that
target participation capital that was sold to private investors
in 2009 in a combined deal together with state aid, which is
allowed by the EBA.  The FMA remains confident that the banks will reach the 9
percent capital threshold required by the EBA, Grubelnik said.  Singapore Regulator’s Help Sought by Others in Libor Probes  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said regulators
elsewhere sought its help with probes into the possible
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate.  “MAS is aware of investigations into possible manipulation
of interbank rates by other regulators and has received requests
for assistance from some,” the Singapore central bank said
March 7 in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg
News. It didn’t identify the regulators involved.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
routinely lied about their true borrowing costs to avoid the
perception they faced difficulty raising funds. They’re also
probing whether traders rigged submissions to benefit their own
wagers on derivatives tied to the rate. The moves have called
into question whether banks can be trusted to set Libor, the
basis for $360 trillion of securities worldwide, with only
minimal regulatory oversight.  “MAS will also work with the relevant authorities to act
on any suspected manipulation” by Singapore-based financial
institutions or individuals, the regulator said. “MAS will
assist where it is appropriate to do so.”  The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation into
suspected manipulation of benchmark rates including Libor, the
Justice Department said in a letter to a federal judge that was
made public on March 6. The Feb. 27 letter is the first public
acknowledgment by the department of the criminal probe. British
and Europe watchdogs are also scrutinizing potential collusion
between firms involved in trading derivatives based on the rate.  For more, click here.  BayernLB Owner, EU to Hold Talks on Restructuring by End-March  Negotiations between  Bayerische Landesbank (BLGZ) ’s biggest owner
and European Union regulators who must approve its restructuring
will take place later this month, EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said. He made the remarks at a Copenhagen
conference.  Almunia said he will hold “an important meeting” with
Bavarian officials by the end of March to discuss remaining
issues on how the state-owned bank will share the costs of a
2008 government bailout and restructuring measures it must make
in return for EU approval for the rescue.  The Brussels-based antitrust authority has required banks
to sell off units or change behavior to compensate for billions
of euros in government subsidies and guarantees. Munich-based
BayernLB will probably sell a real-estate unit to meet EU
requirements that it focus on its main business, according to
the German state of Bavaria, which owns 94 percent of the bank.  BayernLB is the last of several German state-owned banks to
require EU approval for a bailout during the financial crisis
that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  SNB Board, Deputies Cleared in KPMG Probe, Tages-Anzeiger Says  The  KPMG  probe into transactions of the Swiss central
bank’s current board members and the three deputies didn’t find
any breaches of internal rules,  Tages-Anzeiger  reported, citing
an undisclosed person familiar with the investigation.  The SNB Bank Council sees no obstacle to appointing Thomas
Jordan new president, the Zurich-based newspaper reported. Under
the SNB’s planned tougher internal rules, some of the
transactions discovered in the KPMG probe would no longer be
acceptable, the newspaper said.  Thomson Reuters Offer to End EU Probe Failed to Allay Doubts  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI) ’s offer to settle an antitrust case
with European Union regulators failed to allay competition
concerns, the EU’s antitrust chief said.  The company needs to provide an “effective solution” to
respond to regulators’ doubts that customers can easily switch
financial-market-data suppliers, EU Competition Commissioner
Joaquin Almunia said in a speech in Copenhagen yesterday.  Thomson Reuters  tried to end the EU antitrust probe in
December by offering licenses for customers to use Reuters
Instrument Codes to retrieve data from other suppliers and
provide them with information for computer systems to link the
codes with those used by competitors. Almunia increased scrutiny
of financial markets last year with probes into banks’ possible
collusion over credit default swaps and the setting of the
London Interbank Offered Rate.  The information and solutions company, based in  New York ,
said it would be “inappropriate to comment” because it is
still analyzing feedback from the market test. It “will
continue to fully cooperate with the EU,” according to an e-
mailed statement sent by Yvonne Diaz, a London-based spokeswoman
for the company.  Thomson Reuter’s competitors and customers were asked to
respond to its offer and proposed license fees before they could
become final. If accepted, regulators can then make an offer
binding and drop their antitrust investigation. The alternative
is to continue a probe, which can result in fines of as much as
10 percent of yearly sales.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Courts  Ex-Coca-Cola Executive Sued by SEC Over Insider-Trading Claims  A former  Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (CCE)  executive was sued by
U.S. regulators for buying his company’s shares based on
confidential information about an acquisition of bottling
operations in Norway and Sweden.  Steven Harrold, 53, who was a vice president in London for
the Atlanta-based bottling company, bought the stock through his
wife’s brokerage account one day before the February 2010
acquisition was announced, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said in a lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court for
the Central District of California yesterday. He had learned of
the acquisition in January 2010 and signed an agreement to keep
the information confidential.  Harrold made $86,850 in illegal profits on the trades, the
SEC said.  Coca-Cola Enterprises bought the Scandinavian bottling
operations in February 2010 from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , the world’s
biggest soft-drink maker. The deal was announced as part of a
larger transaction, valued at $12.3 billion, in which Coca-Cola
Co. agreed to buy the North American operations of Coca-Cola
Enterprises.  A phone call to Jean Nelson, Harrold’s attorney at Scheper
Kim & Harris LLP in  Los Angeles , wasn’t immediately returned.  Interviews/Speeches  U.S. Regulators ‘Paralyzed’ by Cost-Benefit Suits, Chilton Says  Wall Street banks are using the threat of lawsuits to
prevent regulators from writing rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank
Act, said  Bart Chilton , a Democrat on the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  “Some regulators live in constant fear and are virtually
paralyzed by the threat” that they will face “spuriously”
filed suits alleging that the costs and benefits of their rules
weren’t adequately considered, Chilton said in a speech prepared
for the  Trade Tech 2012  conference yesterday in New York. “It
is a bastardization of the conduct and use of cost-benefit
analyses in regulatory rulemaking.”  The CFTC is defending against a challenge filed last year
in federal court that the agency overstepped its authority under
the Dodd-Frank Act and inadequately assessed the costs of new
limits on speculation in oil, natural gas and other commodities.
The lawsuit was filed by the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association Inc . and the  Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association .  The lawsuit is one of the financial industry’s highest
profile efforts to challenge Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul
enacted in 2010. The associations represent  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , among other
derivatives dealers. A judgment is pending.  Chilton, a supporter of the speculation limits, said banks
and others should be required to provide cost analyses to rebut
regulators’ conclusions.  Levitt Says Jobs Bill Will Emasculate Sarbanes-Oxley  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, said a jobs bill making its way through
Congress would also destroy investor protections offered in
Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  SEC’s Gallagher Says Some Advisers Shouldn’t Face Registration  Private-fund advisers serving the most sophisticated
clients should be exempt from the full force of registration
requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s Daniel Gallagher said.  As private-equity and hedge funds prepare to meet a March
30 registration deadline, the SEC should consider letting some
avoid parts of the requirement, Gallagher said yesterday in
remarks prepared for a conference of the  Investment Adviser
Association  in Arlington, Virginia. Gallagher, one of two
Republicans among the SEC’s five commissioners, used the example
of advisers who don’t use leverage and market their services
“only to sophisticated and institutional investors.”  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in response to
the 2008 credit crisis, requires the SEC to register private
fund advisers. The agency’s registration rule, adopted before
Gallagher joined the SEC in November, requires reporting of data
on employees, investors and assets they manage.  Comings and Goings  CBOE Puts Executive on Leave Amid SEC Inquiry, WSJ Says  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  placed a senior compliance  executive  on
leave after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission began
investigating the options-market operator’s oversight of
traders, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people
familiar with the matter.  The owner of the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the
nation’s largest equity derivatives market, put Patrick Fay on
administrative leave because of the SEC inquiry, the newspaper
reported yesterday, citing two people familiar with the matter.
Gail Osten, a CBOE spokeswoman, declined to comment.  CBOE Holdings said in its annual report filed Feb. 28 that
the SEC began investigating whether the company was complying
with its obligations as a self-regulatory organization.  Fay, a senior vice president for member and regulatory
services since 2006, is among 10 “executive officers”  listed 
on CBOE’s website. He rejoined the company in 2004 after 19
months at NQLX LLC. Before that, he spent 18 years with CBOE,
according to the website.  CBOE, founded in 1973 as the first U.S. market for equity
derivatives, is a self-regulatory organization required to write
rules, monitor trading and ensure its customers aren’t breaking
securities laws.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 