-- Bank of Scotland Censured for Failings, Won’t Get FSA Fine
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-03-09T16:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-k-fsa-censures-bank-of-scotland-plc-over-hbos-failings.html
Bank of  Scotland  Plc was censured by
the U.K.’s finance regulator for “very serious misconduct” at
its corporate division that led to it getting a government
bailout during the financial crisis.  The bank, which was part of HBOS Plc until the parent
company was bought by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  in 2009, won’t be
fined by the U.K. Financial Services Authority because it
received taxpayer money, the regulator said in an e-mailed
 statement  today. Individuals may still face enforcement action,
the agency said.  Bank of Scotland took on too much risk over a three-year
period with “highly concentrated exposures to property and to
significant large borrowers,” the FSA said. The bank’s strategy
focused too highly on revenue and it didn’t have appropriate
systems and controls for its level of risk, the regulator found.  Lloyds cooperated fully with the FSA’s investigation, the
London-based bank said in a statement today.  “The conduct of the Bank of Scotland illustrates how a
failure to meet regulatory requirements can end not just in
massive costs to a firm, but losses to shareholders, taxpayers
and the economy,” Tracey McDermott, the acting director of
enforcement for the FSA, said in the statement.  ‘Empire’ Unit  The former corporate banking unit provided loans and equity
in management buyouts. It funded investments by entrepreneurs
including retailer  Philip Green  and newspaper owners David and
 Frederick Barclay . The division helped rack up 7 billion pounds
($11 billion) of bad debts for the bank in 2008 and was
described by lawmaker  Michael Fallon  in 2009 as “an empire
within an empire.”  HBOS Plc’s assets more than doubled to 681 billion pounds
from 2001 to 2008. About 40 percent of the bank’s 117 billion-
pound corporate loan book was allocated to real estate and
commercial property. Lloyds’s acquisition of HBOS, Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender at the time, led to the bank needing a
bailout valued at more than 20 billion pounds.  As a result the government acquired 43.4 percent of Lloyds
shares after it acquired HBOS, the regulator said.  “As such public funds have already been expended in order
to deal with the consequences of the very misconduct for which a
financial penalty would be imposed and the taxpayer would again
be impacted,” the regulator said. “In these exceptional
circumstances, the most effective way in which to balance the
need for deterrence and act in the wider public interest is to
issue a public censure.”  Managers at Royal  Bank of Scotland  Group Plc were heavily
criticized by the FSA in its December report into the bank’s
near collapse in 2008 following its takeover of ABN Amro Holding
NV.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  