-- U.S. Local Governments Show First Gain in Empolyment Boost Since August
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-03-09T16:52:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-s-local-governments-show-first-payroll-boost-since-august-states-slip.html
U.S.  local-government payrolls 
increased last month for the first time since August, easing the
drag on the economy brought on by budget-cutting cities,
counties and school districts.  The U.S. Labor Department reported today that local-
government employment, adjusted for seasonal swings in hiring,
expanded by 2,000 in February as school districts boosted
hiring.  State payrolls  slipped by 1,000 after rising by 11,000
in January.  Jim Diffley, an economist with IHS Inc. who tracks regional
growth, said it’s too soon to say whether the employment outlook
for state and local governments has shifted because more cuts
could emerge from budget negotiations for the next fiscal year.  “There’s plenty of talk of continued retrenchment,” he
said. “The worst part of the crisis is over. There have been a
lot of cuts. But it’s not clear they’re out of the woods at
all.”  U.S. state tax revenue has been growing at the fastest pace
since 2006, according to Census Bureau data, helping to narrow
the budget deficits that governors have dealt with for the past
four years. Economic growth has been restrained as state and
local governments reduced payrolls to make up for declines in
tax collections. Together, some 647,000 state and local
government jobs have been cut since public sector employment
peaked in 2008.  Education Gains  The payroll increase in February was driven entirely by
education, according to the Labor Department, with employment in
other areas of government continuing to slip. Excluding school-
related jobs , state government  payrolls slid by 2,700, once
adjusted for seasonal swings, while the number of workers at
 localities  dropped by 3,900.  While local economies are beginning to mend, officials are
still hesitant to boost hiring, according to a survey of 226
cities released by the  National League of Cities  today. Only 8
percent said they increased personnel over the last six months,
according to the survey, which was conducted in February.
Thirty-nine percent reported cuts.  “Our latest numbers point to improving local economic
conditions,”  Christopher Hoene , director of the league’s Center
for Research & Innovation, said in a statement.  “But we’re a
long way from recovery. It’s clear that cities and city
residents will still be confronting the impacts of this past
recession for a while longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaumat 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  