-- U.S. Wholesale Inventories Increase 0.4% as Sales Fall 0.1%
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-03-09T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-s-wholesale-inventories-increase-0-4-as-sales-fall-0-1-.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
less than forecast in January as companies worked to keep
stockpiles in line with slowing demand.  The 0.4 percent advance in  stockpiles  followed a revised 1.1
percent gain in December, Commerce Department data showed today
in Washington. Sales fell 0.1 percent, the first decline since
May, following a 1.4 percent gain in December.  At the current pace of selling, wholesalers had enough goods
on hand to last 1.15 months, the same as in the prior five
months, the report showed. Inventory rebuilding, which helped the
economy grow last quarter at the fastest pace in more than a
year, may contribute less to the expansion in early 2012.  “Inventories now appear to be in pretty good shape,
certainly not bloated, but not too tight either,”  Russell Price ,
a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said
before the report. “Changes in business inventories should be a
modestly positive contributor to GDP over the next several
quarters as inventory levels are kept in balance with demand
growth.”  Median Projection  The median projection in a Bloomberg survey of 34 economists
was for a 0.6 percent gain. Estimates ranged from a 0.2 percent
gain to a 1.4 percent increase. The December figure was revised
from a previously reported 1 percent gain.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.8 percent, boosted by automobiles
and  machinery, today’s report showed. Sales of durable goods
declined 0.2 percent, weighed down by metals and machinery. Car
sales rose 2.4 percent.  The value of unsold non-durable goods fell 0.2 percent as
sales declined 0.1 percent. Demand for clothing fell 1.4 percent.  The economy grew at a 3 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter after a 1.8 percent gain in the prior three months, the
Commerce Department reported Feb. 29. The growth rate excluding a
jump in inventories was 1.1 percent. Stockpiles were rebuilt at a
$54.3 billion annual pace, adding 1.9 percentage points to
growth.  Stockpile Surge  The surge in stockpiles last quarter followed a reduction in
the July through September period amid mounting concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis and the U.S. credit-rating downgrade would
restrain demand at a time the U.S. labor market was struggling to
pick up.  Employers in the U.S. boosted payrolls more than forecast
in February, the Labor Department said today, indicating
companies are growing more optimistic about the expansion. The
jobless rate held at 8.3 percent.  Auto dealers may be among retailers benefiting from the
improvement in employment, prompting a rampup in stockpiles.
Sales of cars and light trucks rose 6.4 percent in February from
the prior month to reach a 15 million annual pace, the highest
reading since February 2008, according to figures from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  General Motors Co. (GM) , which is halting production of its Volt
plug-in hybrid for five weeks, plans to pace production of the
vehicle according to inventory levels that got too high, Chief
Executive Officer Dan Akerson said this week.  “We are going to match production to inventory,” he said
March 7 in  San Francisco . “We saw inventory building and we
wanted to get it into line.”  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, rose 0.6 percent in January, Commerce Department
data showed on March 5. Retail stockpiles, which make up the
rest, will be included in the business inventories report due on
March 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  