-- U.S. Agrees to Hand Afghanistan Prison to Karzai Government in Six Months
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-03-09T15:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/u-s-agrees-to-hand-afghanistan-prison-to-karzai-government-in-six-months.html
The U.S. has agreed to transfer its
main prison in Afghanistan to the government of PresidentHamid Karzai within six months, a step that may advance an accord for
some American forces to stay in the country beyond 2014.  U.S. Marine General John Allen signed the agreement with
the Afghan defense minister, General Abdul Rahim Wardak,
according to an e-mailed statement today from the  International
Security Assistance Force , which Allen commands. The military
prison is next to the U.S.-run Bagram air base, where the
burning last month of Korans culled from the prison library led
to nationwide riots and the killing of six U.S. soldiers.  Karzai has called control of the prison an obstacle to
talks with the U.S. on an agreement in which some U.S. forces
may stay in Afghanistan beyond the planned pullout of
international combat units in 2014. Last month, Karzai set today
as a deadline for the U.S. to transfer the prison.  “The signing of this memorandum is an important step
forward in our Strategic Partnership negotiations” with
Karzai’s government, Allen said, according to the statement.  Today’s agreement didn’t resolve the other stumbling block
to a strategic partnership that Karzai has cited, a demand for
an end to U.S. nighttime raids on suspected Taliban forces.  Afghanistan ’s defense minister will name a three-star Army
general as the prison’s next commander in a few days to work on
the transfer of authority, the Afghan Foreign Ministry said in
an e-mailed statement.  U.S. officials will retain a veto over the release of any
of the roughly 3,000 prisoners, most of them suspected Taliban
guerrillas, according to unnamed U.S. officials cited by the New
York Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  