-- Hungary Made Progress Toward Starting IMF Talks, Natran Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-03-09T15:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/hungary-has-made-progress-toward-starting-imf-negotiations-natran-says.html
Hungary  has made progress in efforts
to begin talks with the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union over a loan, a government official said, helping
extend this year’s rally in the forint.  The start of negotiations “hinges on a decision by a top
policy maker,” Roland Natran, a deputy state secretary at the
 Economy Ministry , told  Gazdasagi Radio  yesterday, according to
the audio file posted on the station’s  website  today. “This
could be tomorrow or it could be later, but on the basic
questions the positions have moved very close to one another.”  Hungary is seeking to quell investor concern that it isn’t
committed to an IMF deal after the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm, said March 7 that the government failed to meet
preconditions for the start of talks four months after asking
for aid as the forint dropped to a record and the country’s
sovereign-credit rating was cut to junk.  The forint strengthened 1 percent to 291.24 per euro as of
2:50 p.m. in Budapest. It has advanced 7.9 percent against the
euro this year, the fourth-best performance in the world, after
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  pledged Jan. 5 to reach a loan
agreement “quickly.”  ‘More Positive’  The currency dropped 3.2 percent in the first five trading
sessions this month as investors including BlackRock Inc.,
Citigroup Inc. and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc speculated that
the government may balk at compromising on policy to get a loan.  The IMF is “more positive” than it appears about its
talks with Hungary, UniCredit SpA’s Chief Executive Officer
 Federico Ghizzoni  told journalists in Vienna last night after
meeting a senior IMF official this week. He said Hungary should
“start to negotiate seriously” and that he was certain a
solution would be found “within the year.”  “They are a bit more positive than it appears in the
papers,” Ghizzoni, whose bank has a unit in Hungary, said of
the IMF. “Based on a realistic approach, meaning that Hungary
cannot survive alone and Europe cannot have another  Greece ,  euro
zone  or not, it’s indispensable to find a solution.”  The European Commission two days ago took a formal step
toward seeking a court order to require Hungary redraft laws on
the judiciary and data-protection agency and asked for more
information on planned changes to a new central bank law. The
issues have blocked the start of aid talks.  Rewrite Laws  The commission gave Hungary one month instead of the usual
two to rewrite the laws or prove they are in line with EU
standards after a government response Feb. 17 failed to resolve
the concerns.  Hungary wants an IMF deal to reduce financing costs, Orban
said yesterday in Budapest, even as he indentified policies over
which he is unwilling to compromise, including a tax system he
calls “proportional.”  “We need a financial safety net, they call this an IMF
deal,” Orban said. “Analysts are right that Hungary can
finance itself. But it matters at what cost.”  The government has “no A and B plan” on an IMF deal,
Tamas Fellegi, the minister in charge of aid negotiations, said
yesterday. The “contentious issues” between the EU and Hungary
are of political and not economic nature, Fellegi said, adding
that these “complicated political problems” need to be solved
before negotiations can start.  Once talks start, negotiations will include the personal
and corporate income taxes, the financing of public transport
companies, local-government debt, special industry taxes, one-
time fiscal measures and a structural overhaul, Fellegi said.  Won’t Compromise  Orban yesterday said he won’t compromise on the tax regime,
which he said he built to protect the middle class. Orban
introduced a flat rate of personal income tax in 2011 and was
forced to suspend it this year after budget revenue plunged. The
 budget deficit  reached 50 percent of the government’s annual
target in the first two months of this year.  The European Commission last month proposed suspending 495
million euros ($655 million) in development subsidies to press
Hungary to narrow the shortfall in a sustainable way. EU finance
ministers will in “all certainty” approve the proposal this
month,  Peter Szijjarto , Orban’s spokesman, said March 5, adding
that Hungary would take the necessary measures to avoid losing
the grants.  The commission raised its estimate for Hungary’s budget gap
for this year and 2013 and is urging the Cabinet to implement
further budget cuts.  The deficit may be 3 percent of gross domestic product this
year, compared with a 2.75 percent January forecast and the
government’s 2.5 percent target, according to a document posted
on the EU’s website. For 2013, the commission sees a 3.6 percent
gap, compared with a 3.25 percent January forecast and the
Cabinet’s 2.2 percent target.  Orban levied special taxes on the banking, energy, retail
and telecommunications industries, forced lenders to swallow
losses on foreign-currency household loan repayments and
nationalized private pension-fund savings to narrow the budget
gap and plug holes after cutting the personal income-tax rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  