-- UniCredit’s Ghizzoni Wants Chairman With International Profile
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-03-09T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/unicredit-s-ghizzoni-wants-chairman-with-international-profile.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG)  Chief Executive
Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  is seeking to recruit a new chairman
of Italy’s biggest bank who has an international profile.  “Our profile isn’t indicating that the chairman has to be
Italian or not Italian, it’s indicating that it must have an
international profile,” he told journalists in Vienna late
yesterday. “To have someone that’s challenging is good.”  UniCredit is seeking a new chairman to replace Dieter Rampl, whose appointment expires in May, after he announced he
won’t stand for another term. Rampl, 64, a former head of HVB
Group, was named to the post in 2006 after the German bank was
purchased by Milan-based UniCredit.  UniCredit’s  core shareholders , the country’s non-profit
banking foundations, which hold more than 10 percent of the
lender, have started discussions on possible candidates. The
bank authorized Deputy Chairman Vincenzo Calandra Buonaura to
select candidates. Most of the foundations, including Fondazione
Cariverona, prefer an Italian replacement.  “I would be against a pure domestic Italian, but I would
also be against a pure Austrian, or a pure German, or a pure
Russian with no international experience,” Ghizzoni told
reporters. “We seek a chairman with strong direct experience in
the financial sector and integrity.”  Fewer Seats  UniCredit’s investors will vote to renew all board members,
including the CEO, on May 11. The list must be submitted by mid-
April. Foundations may have to reduce their seats because
Ghizzoni wants to cut the size of the board to less than 20
members from 23.  “Best practice in European governance is suggesting to
have a more limited board but with people that are full-time,”
the CEO said. “It’s preferable to have less but more committed
board members.”  Under Ghizzoni, 56, the bank completed a  7.5 billion-euro 
($9.9 billion) share sale in January to plug a capital shortfall
and comply with European Banking Authority targets. Ghizzoni is
cutting costs to boost profitability after reporting a third-
quarter loss of 10.6 billion euros. The bank is focusing on four
main countries:  Italy , Germany, Austria and  Poland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net 
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  