-- United Continental Gets Lowest Interest Rate on Bonds Backed by Dreamliner
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-03-12T17:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/united-continental-gets-lowest-interest-rate-on-bonds-backed-by-dreamliner.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
was rewarded with the lowest  interest rates  on record on $892.1
million of bonds backed by jets in the first-ever debt offering
secured by  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner.  The $753 million of the most senior, Class A notes have a
coupon of 4.15 percent and an expected maturity of April 2024,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest ever
for a so-called enhanced equipment trust certificate sold
without bond insurance, the data show.  Fixed-income investors are ratifying United Chief Executive
Officer Jeff Smisek’s view of the 787 as a “game-changing”
aircraft. Secured by four 787s and 17 737-900ERs, the notes help
set a precedent for future Dreamliner-backed debt, said  Philip Baggaley , a  Standard & Poor’s  credit analyst in  New York .  “The 787, even though it was less than half of the deal’s
total collateral, certainly added to the credit story,”
Baggaley said in a telephone interview.  The Dreamliner, which entered service in 2011 after more
than three years of delays, hadn’t previously been used to
secure bonds, said Kostya Zolotusky, managing director for
leasing and capital markets at Boeing Capital, the finance unit
for Chicago-based Boeing.  United’s March 8 sale also included $139.1 million of more
junior Class B notes with a 6.25 percent coupon that mature in
2020, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By comparison,
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  issued similar debt with a 4.95 percent
coupon in 2010, and the former Continental Airlines Inc. had a
deal that same year with a 4.75 percent rate.  Rating From Moody’s  Moody’s Investors Service assigned the Class A notes a rank
of Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade, and rated the Class
B debt Ba2.  The most senior notes traded at 99.9 cents on the dollar to
pay 215 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries as of
11:40 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
They were issued at par. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The twin-engine Dreamliner is the world’s first airliner
built chiefly of composite materials, helping reduce fuel
consumption. Its first commercial flight came in October, and
only five of the jets have been delivered so far, all to  All
Nippon Airways Co. (9202)   Boeing is building the plane with more standardized
features, making the 787 attractive to financiers because the
jets can be placed more easily in different airlines’ fleets.
Numerous possible seating configurations can be pre-drilled,
enabling swift changes, Zolotusky said in a telephone interview.  Second-Half Debut  United, based in  Chicago , plans on bringing five of the
planes into service during the second half of 2012, Smisek said
in a Jan. 26 conference call with analysts.  “The Dreamliner will be a game-changing aircraft and we
eagerly anticipate its induction into our fleet,” Smisek said.  The low coupons also reflect investor demand for bonds
backed by jets, according to Jeff Straebler, an independent
airline analyst in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , who was formerly a
debt strategist tracking the securities at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. The perceived safety of the most senior
portions of such offerings adds to the appeal, he said.  “United is probably the strongest legacy airline credit in
a volatile industry,” Straebler said. “The market is hungry
for paper now.”  United Airlines parent  UAL Corp. (UALAQ)  merged with Continental
Airlines Inc. in October 2010 in an all-stock deal, surpassing
Delta as the world’s biggest carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 