-- Solyndra Critic’s Support for Carmaker Fails to Secure U.S. Loan
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-03-09T19:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/upton-s-support-fails-to-win-carbon-motors-a-u-s-vehicle-loan.html
The support of House Energy and
Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a critic of U.S. Energy
Department lending, failed to win the startup carmaker Carbon
Motors Corp. a loan to develop fuel-efficient police cars.  Upton, a  Michigan  Republican who is investigating U.S.
financing for failed solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC, hosted a
forum last year to connect his state’s suppliers with
Connersville, Indiana-based Carbon Motors after talking with one
of its engineers at a wedding.  “He said I will do whatever it takes to help this program
succeed,” Stacy Stephens, chief brand officer for Carbon
Motors, said in an interview. “He was specifically talking
about the loan.”  Upton’s panel is studying the relationship between
President Barack Obama’s administration and Solyndra, as well as
the decision to grant the company a $535 million loan guarantee
through another department program before it filed for
bankruptcy protection last year.  The financing drew Republican criticism ahead of this
year’s presidential election, and the agency hasn’t awarded any
new vehicle program loans since the bankruptcy.  At least 14 members of Congress wrote letters to the Energy
Department in support of Carbon Motors’s application for $310
million in financing from the Advanced Technology Vehicle
Manufacturing loan program, one of three such initiatives the
agency administers. Upton, who signed letters supporting
applications from EcoMotors International,  General Motors Co. (GM) 
and Chrysler LLC, wasn’t one of them.  ‘Great Potential’  “Fred hosted a jobs fair last year to connect Michigan-
based parts suppliers with an auto manufacturer in neighboring
 Indiana , Carbon Motors, as the company prepared to develop a new
breed of public-safety vehicles,” said Sean Bonyun, a spokesman
for Upton, who added that Upton didn’t request a loan. “This
sort of regional manufacturing partnership, which happens
without any federal financing or mandates, has great potential
to support  job creation  at a time when Michigan needs it most.”  Carbon Motors said it wanted to deliver diesel-powered
police cars getting 30 miles a gallon in three years, announced
on March 7 that its loan application had been denied.  “We’d been through the process of writing out the
agreement,” said Stephens, whose closely held employer has
about 100 investors it doesn’t disclose and is responsible for
about 200 direct and indirect jobs. “The week before we found
out, they were telling us we just have some routine questions.
And the next thing we know, we get the rejection letter. We
didn’t even have a chance to respond.”  Ford Motor Co. and Fisker Automotive Inc. are among
companies that received low-interest loans from the Energy
Department’s program to spur development of electric and other
fuel-efficient vehicles. General Motors and Chrysler withdrew
their applications. The $25 billion program has awarded $8.4
billion in loan commitments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  