-- USDA Proposes Change in Mad-Cow Rules to Boost Beef Exports
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-03-09T15:07:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/usda-proposes-change-in-mad-cow-rules.html
The  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
today will propose a rule to align its import guidelines on mad
cow disease with international standards, in an effort to boost
overseas sales of U.S. beef.  Under the plan, the agency would adopt the same criteria
used by the Paris-based  World Organization for Animal Health  to
identify a country’s risk status for mad cow disease, formally
known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE. Some trading
partners have cited inconsistencies between U.S. and
international standards as reason to maintain restrictions on
American beef imposed after the first U.S. mad-cow case in 2003.  The changes will “assist in future negotiations to reopen
important trade markets that remain closed to U.S. beef,” the
USDA said in a document obtained by Bloomberg News describing
the plan. The department scheduled a conference call later today
in  Washington  with its chief veterinarian, John Clifford, to
announce the proposal.  Dozens of countries banned U.S. beef after the first case
of BSE was found in December 2003, causing exports to fall 84
percent in the following year, according to the  International
Trade Commission . Nations including Japan and  China  have
maintained restrictions ever since. Losses to livestock
producers and meatpackers including Tyson Foods Inc. and Cargill
Inc. ranged from $2.5 billion to $3.1 billion annually from 2004
through 2007, the ITC has said.  Helping Negotiators  A rule aligning the U.S. with international import
standards would make it easier for negotiators to persuade other
countries to follow the same rules and open markets to American
beef, a bipartisan group of 31 senators wrote the White House
and the USDA last month.  The sooner such a plan is adopted, “the sooner we will be
able to give our international negotiators this important
tool,” the senators, including Iowa Republican  Charles Grassley 
and Nebraska Democrat  Ben Nelson , said in the  letter .  The American Meat Institute, a trade group representing
meatpackers including  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  and JBS Swift & Co., said
it had not seen the plan. Still, “using internationally
recognized, science-based standards as the basis for trade
facilitates exports and imports,” benefiting consumers and
producers, J. Patrick Boyle, the group’s president, said in an
e-mail.  The U.S. exported $11.9 billion of red meat last year, more
than double the $5.4 billion in imports, according to USDA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  