-- Utilities to Spur Poland’s Corporate Bond Market, Citigroup Says
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2012-03-09T11:44:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/utilities-to-spur-poland-s-corporate-bond-market-citigroup-says.html
Poland’s corporate bond market is
set to expand more than 10 percent this year as power utilities
plan “substantial” investments and banks seek new funds,
according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Borrowing costs in Poland “remain substantially lower as
compared to the Eurobond market” and companies will “take
advantage of this situation and tap the local market in the
first place,” Misbah Shah, vice president of the management
board of Citigroup’s Bank Handlowy SA in charge of treasury
operations, said in an interview in Warsaw on March 7.  The value of zloty-denominated corporate bonds rose 41
percent to a record 39.9 billion zloty ($12.8 billion) last
year, according to  Fitch Ratings . PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s biggest
refiner, sold 1 billion zloty of seven-year bonds priced to
yield 6.58 percent in February, less than higher-rated gas group
Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA paid for Eurobonds,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Handlowy was the seventh-biggest manager of corporate bond
sales in zloty last year, according to Fitch.  Nordea Bank Polska
SA (NDA)  was the leader and was followed by  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s  BRE Bank
SA (BRE)  and UniCredit SpA’s  Bank Pekao SA. (PEO)   “Our target market is essentially focused on bigger
transactions,” Shah said. “Our primary goal is to facilitate
the secondary market and originate paper that would be of
interest to our investors.”  Polish utilities need at least 38 billion euros ($50.3
billion) in funds by 2023 to build  power plants  to meet European
emissions standards, government forecasts show. PGE SA, Tauron
Polska Energia SA, Enea SA and Energa SA, Poland’s four biggest
power producers, may all sell bonds in 2012, the companies said
in the last four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  