-- Verizon Wireless Seen Benefiting More Than AT&T From IPad
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-03-09T21:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/verizon-wireless-seen-getting-more-benefit-than-at-t-from-ipad.html
Verizon Wireless  is poised to get a
bigger boost from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPad than competing wireless-
service provider  AT&T Inc. (T) , even though both carriers will be
the first in the U.S. to sell the tablet, unveiled March 7.  Verizon Wireless will probably sell 3 million to 4 million
new iPads this year, while AT&T will sell about 2 million units,
said Kevin Smithen, an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc.
The iPad is designed to work on the companies’ next-generation
wireless networks, based on a technology called long-term
evolution, or LTE.  AT&T’s LTE network isn’t as extensive, covering fewer
potential customers. Verizon Wireless also lets subscribers turn
their iPad into a mobile hot spot, a capability not yet possible
with AT&T. As a result, Verizon Wireless customers may be able
to make more use of their Apple tablets, Smithen said.  “Verizon is going to benefit more,” he said. “The iPad
could mean pretty significant growth for Verizon, because they
have good LTE coverage.”  The Verizon Wireless LTE network covered more than 200
million potential customers at the end of last year, the company
said in January. AT&T, based in  Dallas , said that month that it
reached 74 million would-be users with LTE.  “Competitively, Verizon Wireless’s more extensive LTE
footprint gives it a modest marketing advantage,”  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at  Barclays Capital , wrote in a report
yesterday.  Even when AT&T customers are outside an area covered by
LTE, they “are still going to have a very fast experience,”
said  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for AT&T.  More Data Purchasing  Many owners of the iPad 2 use the tablet on free Wi-Fi
networks at homes, offices and cafes to avoid costly wireless
data charges. That’s likely to change as subscribers seek to
take advantage of the fuller range of iPad capabilities. As many
as 30 percent of purchasers of  the new device  will use it on
carriers’ networks, up from less than 20 percent for prior-
generation iPads, Smithen said.  For AT&T and Verizon Wireless, which is owned by  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , that may mean an
extra $45 a month per iPad subscriber, on average, Smithen said.  Verizon  declined  less than 1 percent to $39.10 at the close
in  New York , while AT&T gained less than 1 percent to $31.18.  Portable Hot Spot  An average owner of the new iPad will use twice as much
data as users of prior-generation iPads,  Chetan Sharma , an
independent analyst, said in an interview. As many as 10 percent
of those owners may look to upgrade to a more expensive data
plan, to allow for higher data usage, Sharma said.  “The new LTE is much faster,” Sharma said. “The
performance and user experience will be better. I expect the
consumers will use it more.”  The new iPad will have a faster chip and a sharper screen,
which will make it better for viewing video and graphics.  Verizon’s iPad will also let owners turn it into a hot
spot, to which other devices can connect to surf the Web. AT&T’s
iPad doesn’t currently have this capability, but is working with
Apple to offer it in the future, AT&T’s Siegel said.  As data usage of their networks continues to skyrocket,
many U.S. wireless carriers have moved to new broadband
technologies like LTE to keep up with demand. They also began
capping customers’ monthly use and raising prices. Wireless-plan
prices may rise by 5 percent a year, Oppenheimer & Co. analyst
Tim Horan said in an interview.  Earlier this month, AT&T said it will start slowing data
speeds of customers with unlimited wireless plans who use more
than 3 gigabytes of data a month.  The strain on the global mobile networks more than doubled
last year, as consumers began watching more mobile video and
using tablets, according to networking-equipment maker  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  