-- Viterra Gets Expressions of Interest From Third Parties
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-03-10T01:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/viterra-says-third-parties-showing-interest-in-grain-handler-shares-climb.html
Viterra Inc. (VT) ,  Canada ’s largest grain
handler, received expressions of interest from third parties
just as the company plans to capitalize on the end of the
Canadian Wheat Board’s marketing monopoly.  There can be no assurance that there will be an agreement
or a deal, the Regina, Saskatchewan-based company said today in
a statement. Paul Tierney, a Viterra spokesman, declined to
comment on parties involved. The shares jumped the most in nine
years in Toronto.  The Canadian government passed a law in December that will
end the CWB’s monopoly and give farmers in the west of the
country the choice to sell wheat and barley to other buyers as
of Aug. 1. Viterra, formerly known as Saskatchewan Wheat Pool
Inc., said in January that it expected to increase its earnings
following the change by attracting additional grain volumes.  “With the CWB disappearing, the market’s drawn the
interest of a lot of international players, so why not go after
the player that has got the biggest market share in Viterra?”
Jason Zandberg, an analyst at PI Financial Corp. in  Vancouver ,
said in an interview.  Canadian agricultural supplier  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  could bid,  John Hughes , an analyst at Desjardins Securities Inc. in Toronto,
said in an interview. U.S. agricultural trading companies  Bunge
Ltd. (BG) , Cargill Inc. and Archer Daniels Midland Co. may be
interested, said Andrew L.B. Hamlin, a  money manager  at  Aston
Hill Financial Inc. (AHF)  in Toronto, which oversees about C$5.5
billion ($5.6 billion), including Viterra shares.  Bunge, ADM  “The most interesting of those is Bunge,” Hamlin said in
a telephone interview. “They do have some presence in western
Canada --they have some canola-crushing plants in Saskatchewan
and Alberta -- but they don’t have any grain-handling.”  Susan Burns , a Bunge spokeswoman, David Weintraub, an ADM
spokesman,  Lisa Clemens , a Cargill spokeswoman, and Todd Coakwell, an Agrium spokesmen, all declined to comment.  Viterra’s share of the Canadian grain-handling market may
rise to almost 50 percent in the next few years from 45 percent,
Chief Executive Officer Mayo Schmidt said in an interview
yesterday. Cargill’s existing share of the grain market may
create regulatory issues should it bid for Viterra, Hamlin said.  North American food and agriculture companies have fetched
a 31 percent premium on average in takeovers greater than $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Using Viterra’s
closing price yesterday, that would imply an offer for C$14.38 a
share.  ‘Unresponsive’ Board  Based on the median 10 times multiple of earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization paid in comparable
deals, Viterra may command about C$17 a share, the data show.  Viterra rose 24 percent to C$13.58 as the close in Toronto,
giving it a market value of C$5.05 billion. The shares  dropped 
5.5 percent in the 12 months through yesterday, while the
S&P/TSX Consumer Staples Index advanced 2.9 percent.  Alberta  Investment Management Corp., the largest Viterra
shareholder with a 17 percent stake, in November rejected the
grain handler’s proposed board of directors, describing them as
“unresponsive.”  The Edmonton, Alberta-based fund said it “does not believe
that the current Viterra board has the required skills or
expertise to meet the company’s leadership needs as a growing
international agribusiness.”  Shauna MacDonald, a fund spokeswoman, declined to comment
today.  Efficiency Focus  As well as being the potential target for a bid, Viterra is
also considering making a takeover offer of its own. It’s among
companies exploring a bid for Gavilon Group LLC, a closely held
U.S. grain handler, people familiar with the matter said March
6.  While Viterra is open to opportunities for acquisitions,
it’s focused on improving efficiency and utilization of existing
assets, Schmidt said yesterday.  Viterra is based in the same province as Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc., which successfully fended off a $40 billion
hostile bid from  Australia ’s  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in 2010. The
Canadian government blocked the offer, saying the sale of the
world’s largest fertilizer company wouldn’t provide a “net
benefit” to the nation.  The federal government should block any foreign takeover of
Viterra under the Investment Canada Act, just as it did with
BHP, Pat Martin, a New Democratic Party lawmaker, said by
telephone today.  Kathy Young , a spokeswoman for Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall, declined to comment.  Viterra is in negotiations to give the CWB access to the
company’s system of elevators and ports ahead of the end of the
monopoly in August, Schmidt also said in the interview.  Viterra said the same day its fiscal first-quarter  net
income  fell 23 percent to C$77.7 million, or 21 cents a share,
matching the average of nine analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  