-- Vodafone Gets Same Deadline as Tata for Cable & Wireless Bid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-09T17:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/vodafone-said-close-to-seeking-extension-on-possible-cable-wireless-bid.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone operator, won more time to bid for  Cable &
Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  as it steps up its pursuit of the
company’s fixed-line assets.  Vodafone, which initially had to announce whether it
intended to make an offer by March 12, now has until March 29,
the same deadline granted to India’s  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM) ,
London-based  Cable & Wireless  said in a statement today.  Cable & Wireless climbed 5.9 percent to 36.2 pence in
London trading, giving the company a market value of 994 million
pounds ($1.6 billion). Vodafone lost 0.9 percent.  “C&W won’t be willing to open the books unless there’s
serious intent shown by Vodafone,” said  Nick Brown , an analyst
at Espirito Santo in London. “Their share price is at the mercy
of Vodafone’s actions at the moment.”  Vodafone is pursuing a European fixed-line acquisition for
the first time since 2010, when it ended talks with  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG (KD8) , Germany’s largest cable-operator. The
Newbury, England-based company wants Cable & Wireless’s fiber
network to boost its fixed-line system in the U.K. and relieve
the strain of surging data traffic.  A Vodafone spokesman declined to comment today.  Data Revenue  Cable & Wireless lost 70 percent of its market value in
less than two years. The company, which has replaced two chief
executive officers since June, has assets ranging from the
largest U.K. core fiber network to an overseas enterprise unit.
Mumbai-based Tata said this month that it may make a cash offer.  The U.K. is Vodafone’s only major European market in which
it lacks a fixed-line network. The operator, which said last
month that data revenue climbed 13 percent in the U.K. in the
last quarter of 2011 as more customers bought smartphones, is
seeking to shift traffic onto fixed lines to reduce the burden
on its wireless network.  In November, Cable & Wireless suspended future dividend
payments as sales fell in its traditional voice network and it
announced that John Pluthero was stepping down as CEO after less
than six months at the helm. The operator said Feb. 16 that
profitability in its voice business was declining as contracts
were renegotiated.  Cable & Wireless is advised by NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd.
and  Barclays Capital. (JNK)   UBS AG (UBSN)  is advising Vodafone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  