-- Ziggo Shareholders to Raise Up to $986 Million in IPO
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-03-09T14:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/warburg-pincus-cinven-to-raise-up-to-986-million-in-ziggo-initial-offer.html
Ziggo NV owners including Warburg
Pincus LLC and Cinven Ltd. plan to raise as much as 744.6
million euros ($986 million) in an initial public offering that
will compete to be  Europe ’s largest this year.  The shareholders of the Dutch cable-television company will
sell 35 million shares with an option to add a further 5.25
million shares to the offer, which would together represent
about 20 percent of Ziggo’s issued share capital. The stock will
be priced at 16.50 euros to 18.50 euros a share, Utrecht,
Netherlands-based Ziggo said in a statement today. The sale is
the first initial public offering on the Amsterdam Stock
Exchange in more than two years.  Ziggo is neck-and-neck with DKSH Holding Ltd., the largest
privately owned company in  Switzerland , to hold Europe’s biggest
IPO so far this year. DKSH, which helps companies expand in
 Asia , said yesterday its shareholders plan to raise as much as
903 million Swiss francs ($991 million) in a stock sale.  “The launch of our IPO today is another major milestone
for Ziggo, and the level of interest we have already seen in the
investment community is very encouraging,” Chief Executive
Officer Bernard Dijkhuizen said in the statement.  IPO Revival  DKSH sells marketing, distribution and after-sales
services. Clients have included Nestle SA, Levi Strauss & Co.,
and drugmaker Sanofi.  Buyout firms are reviving IPO plans following an equity
rally this year after the European sovereign-debt crisis forced
them to delay sales last year. Warburg and Cinven are seeking to
return cash to investors.  The firms will reduce their stakes in Ziggo from 36.4
percent to 29.1 percent each if the over-allotment option is
fully exercised, the prospectus shows.  “We expect our shareholders to reduce their stakes further
in the future, but this will be a staged process,” said Chief
Financial Officer Bert Groenewegen at a press conference today.
The IPO includes a so-called lock-up agreement under which most
shareholders can’t sell for 180 days after the sale and members
of the current management can’t sell for a year.  The cable operator competes with  Royal KPN NV (KPN)  and  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA) ’s UPC on the Dutch broadband market. Liberty Global
previously expressed interest in Ziggo.  Ziggo isn’t pursuing a “dual track” working both on a
share offering and a takeover, Dijkhuizen told reporters. “We
are not in talks with Liberty Global and we don’t expect to be
acquired.”  A scenario in which Ziggo would buy the Dutch unit of
Liberty in the future is something Dijkhuizen wouldn’t reject
“on principal,” he said.  High-Definition  Ziggo expects to benefit from increasing appetite for high-
definition content and broadband Internet, the company said in
its prospectus. Ziggo’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization jumped 7.7 percent to 834.6
million euros last year. Sales climbed 7.4 percent to 1.48
billion euros.  The company’s intention is to apply a dividend policy that
targets an initial payout of 220 million euros in 2012.  JPMorgan and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are managing the IPO as global
coordinators, with  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  acting as joint
bookrunners.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , ABN Amro
Group NV and  Rabobank Group (RABO)  are joint lead managers and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  is co-lead manager.  Based on the price range, the offering could raise 664.1
million euros to 744.6 million euros, assuming full exercise of
the over-allotment option. First trading is expected to start on
March 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  