-- Warren Wages ‘War of Imagery’ to Claim Brown Senate Seat
-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 2012-03-09T17:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/warren-wages-war-of-imagery-to-retake-kennedy-senate-seat-held-by-brown.html
Republican U.S. Senator Scott Brown
drives a GMC pickup while Democratic challenger  Elizabeth Warren 
has a hybrid Ford SUV. She rakes in Hollywood cash. He draws on
Wall Street. He calls her elitist. She brands him extremist.  In what’s shaping up to be the costliest Senate race in
Massachusetts history, at a projected $40 million, Brown, 52,
and Warren, 62, are waging what Boston University mass
communication professor John Carroll calls “a war of imagery”
to win votes.  It’s a battle fought in terms of association, Carroll said.
“She’s trying to paint him as politically out of step and he’s
trying to paint her as culturally out of step.”  Senate control may hinge on the outcome, says Stuart Rothenberg, a nonpartisan political analyst in  Washington . The
Tea Party-fueled capture of the seat long held by Democrat Ted Kennedy in January 2010 prefaced a Republican resurgence to
seize the U.S. House later that year. Brown is now seeking a
full term and Warren -- the Harvard Law School professor passed
over by President  Barack Obama  to run the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau she helped create -- has one of the best shots
to take back what her party lost, Rothenberg said.  The contest will be close, he said. A high turnout driven
by Obama’s bid for re-election Nov. 6, in a state with three
Democrats for each Republican, will boost Warren’s chances, he
said. That makes  Massachusetts  his pick for the Democrats’
“easiest win” as they try to keep a four-vote Senate margin.  Brown the Usurper  Vengeance colors the race as well, with Brown viewed by
Democrats as a usurper when he became the first Republican
elected to the Senate from Massachusetts since Edward Brooke won
re-election in 1972.  “People were in a state of clinical depression,” Philip Johnston, a former state  Democratic Party  chairman, said of the
reaction to Brown’s win. “Uppers and alcohol were the only ways
we could deal with it.”  Recent polls suggest Warren has work to do, assuming she
wins her party’s nomination for the seat. Brown’s strategy,
casting himself as a moderate who, in his own words, “can work
across the aisle,” has helped him. The incumbent, who faces no
Republican opponent, leads the Democrat two-to-one among the
state’s largest voting bloc, its 2 million independents.  “More people feel connected to him,” said David
Paleologos, a Suffolk University pollster in  Boston .  Independent Voters  Brown had a 60 percent to 28 percent advantage with
independents, a Feb. 11-15 Suffolk survey of 600 registered
voters showed. A Feb. 23-March 1 Western New England University
poll also gave Brown an advantage with independents, 58 percent
to 29 percent.  Among all voters, Warren trailed with 40 percent to Brown’s
49 percent in the Suffolk survey. The breakdown in the Western
New England poll of 527 registered voters was 49 percent for
Brown, 41 percent for Warren. The margin of error in the Suffolk
survey was plus or minus 4 percentage points and in the Western
New England poll, it was plus or minus 4.3 percentage points.  Warren’s entry drew wide attention, chasing several other
prominent Democrats out of the primary campaign. She has
appeared on cable television’s “Real Time with Bill Maher” and
“The Daily Show,” where host  Jon Stewart  flirted with her. A
video clip went viral on the Web last year, depicting her making
remarks to supporters upbraiding wealthy Americans who forget
that taxpayers helped them to succeed.  ‘Cult Hero’  All that has made her “a national cult hero for
liberals,” said Rothenberg, the publisher of the Rothenberg
Political Report newsletter.  “She has the spirit of Ted Kennedy,” said Barbara Lee, a
philanthropist in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and an early Warren
supporter. “Her goal is to make a difference.”  For Warren, her first bid for elective office is a way to
further a career that she says has been based on sticking up for
everyday people.  “I’ve been working for middle-class families all my life
and that’s what I want to go to Washington to do,” said Warren,
a bankruptcy law expert, in an interview. “I’ve been talking
about family economic issues pretty much for decades now.”  Brown, who cast his 2010 campaign as an effort to wrest the
Senate seat away from entrenched political interests and return
it to the people of Massachusetts, hasn’t shied from embracing
the Kennedy legacy. In a surprise appearance at a groundbreaking
for Boston’s Edward M. Kennedy Institute in April, his comments
about the late senator’s dedication to public service and sense
of humor earned him a hug from Kennedy’s son, Patrick.  Blunt Debate  More recently, Brown cited his predecessor’s support for
letting religious beliefs trump health-care mandates in backing
a Senate measure to let employers refuse to provide insurance
for medicines or procedures, based on moral convictions. Patrick Kennedy asked Brown to stop airing an advertisement that he said
distorted his father’s position on the issue. Brown refused. The
measure was voted down a few days later.  Warren knocked Brown as an extremist for backing the
legislation, sponsored by Senator Roy Blunt, a Republican from
 Missouri . She labeled the move an attempt to “roll back the
clock” on women’s health care.  Brown cast his position as a defense of the Constitution’s
separation of church and state. As he promised he would in his
2010 campaign, he voted against Obama’s health-care overhaul,
which she supports.  Warren has endorsed the Buffett rule, an Obama proposal to
tax those making $1 million or more a year at a minimum 30
percent rate. Brown opposes the measure, prompting Warren to
accuse him of “protecting millionaires.”  War Policy  Brown, a Massachusetts National Guard lieutenant colonel
who has been to  Afghanistan , supported Obama’s 30,000-troop
surge there and his plans for withdrawal, under careful
monitoring, according to Colin Reed, a spokesman. On her
campaign website, Warren says of the war, “we need to get out
as quickly as possible.”  Warren supports same-sex marriage. Brown’s position isn’t
as clear.  “He thinks the debate in Massachusetts is over, it’s
settled law, it’s time to move on,” Reed said, declining
further comment on the issue. A state Supreme Judicial Court
ruling made such weddings legal in 2003. In December, Brown
voted to end the military policy of “don’t ask, don’t tell” on
sexual orientation.  “This election is an historic struggle between two very
different points of view,” Johnston said in an interview.  Bicoastal Battle  It’s also a contest that pits  Wall Street  and industry
political action committees who back Brown against unions and
Hollywood celebrities who support Warren.  Spending by the candidates may top $40 million, making it
the costliest campaign in state history, according to Douglas Weber of the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit
organization in Washington that tracks campaign finance. Brown
and Warren raised a combined $17.5 million last year, according
to center data.  Brown pulled in almost $8.61 million, with 59 percent of
that coming from Massachusetts sources, center figures show.
About $1.14 million arrived from political-action committees,
while he got almost $636,000 from donors in  New York  and
$485,000 from Washington-area supporters.  Warren raised almost $8.92 million last year, 60 percent of
it from out-of-state, according to center figures. Lawyers were
her biggest donor group, giving her almost $700,000, while PACs
provided about $142,000, according to an analysis by the
 Associated Press .  Celebrity Support  Almost 15 percent of what Warren raised from major
metropolitan areas in 2011 came from Los Angeles-Long Beach or
 San Francisco , according to Center for Responsive Politics data.
The fundraising trips to  California  helped her net more than
$200,000 from entertainment-world celebrities, AP said.  Barbra Streisand, Ron Howard, Vidal Sassoon, Gary Shandling
and Jeffrey Katzenberg, chief executive officer of  Dreamworks
Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , are some of the names, Federal Election
Commission records show. Warren also received $2,500 from  George Soros , the billionaire investor.  Brown, who got about $15,000 from entertainment figures,
pulled in more than $880,000 from the financial industry,
including people tied to Fidelity Investments and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  as well as venture capital and private equity firms,
AP said. Warren got about $175,000 from similar sources.  Senate Ranking  As Warren wrapped up her latest Hollywood trip last week,
Brown stood at the Joseph Leon Mottolo Post of the Veterans of
Foreign Wars in Revere, on Boston’s outskirts, warning a roomful
of former soldiers and sailors about cuts in their health care.
He detoured into an appraisal of his legislative independence.  “I vote with my party 54 percent of the time,” Brown
said, referring to last year’s CQ Roll Call rating. In 2010, he
voted with Republicans on contentious issues 78 percent of the
time, according to the publisher in Washington.  “ Scott Brown  is attempting to draw a picture of himself
that is very flattering but inaccurate,” said John Walsh, the
Massachusetts Democratic Party chairman. If he wins, Brown will
more closely toe the Republican line, Walsh said.  Based on rankings by the National Journal, Brown was the
third “most liberal” Senate Republican last year, trailing
only Maine’s Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe, who decided
against seeking re-election in November.  The Massachusetts race offers Democrats one of their few
chances to pick up a Senate seat to mitigate expected losses
this year as they try to keep their majority. The Democrats are
defending 21 seats in November, plus two held by independents
who caucus with them, compared with 10 for Republicans.  Crossover Votes  While he won election amid a groundswell of antipathy
toward Obama and lawmakers in Washington, Brown has cast votes
in favor of measures such as the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul
backed by Warren and extending the payroll tax cut this year.
Both were priorities for Obama.  Brown has supported Democratic measures such as funding for
Planned Parenthood and voted against a Medicare overhaul
proposed by Republican Representative Paul Ryan, the House
Budget Committee chairman. The senator was the only member of
his party to vote for Obama nominee  Richard Cordray  to head the
new consumer bureau that Warren helped set up.  As a referendum on the incumbent, the case to replace Brown
hasn’t been made, according to Jack Beatty, a news analyst for
WBUR-FM radio’s “On Point” show in Boston.  Brown hasn’t “really messed up with the voters” to
motivate them to seek a change, Beatty said. “I’m still waiting
for her to give me a reason. She’s for the middle-class? And
he’s not?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Moroney  in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 