-- What New York City  Can Learn From North Dakota
-- B y   M a t t h e w   Y g l e s i a s
-- 2012-03-09T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/what-new-york-city-can-learn-from-north-dakota-matthew-yglesias.html
The U.S.  unemployment rate  is
8.3 percent. In  North Dakota , however, it was just  3.3
percent  in December, the latest month for which figures are
available. There’s no mystery about why North Dakota is
booming: They’ve struck oil!  Production has increased  more than fourfold  since the
beginning of 2008 and shows no signs of slowing down. And
where there’s an oil boom, a jobs boom follows.  Needless to say, North Dakota’s workforce is still
relatively tiny. The rest of America’s unemployed workers
can’t just pick up and move there. Besides, people have
lots of perfectly valid reasons not to want to move to
North Dakota -- family members with local work or school
relationships, “underwater” mortgages, or just the basic
fact that North Dakota is cold and remote. Still, not many
people would need to move there in order to narrow the
national and regional unemployment gap.  So why don’t they? The first reason is housing costs.
So many people have already moved to North Dakota that
there’s no place to put them. Browsing  Craigslist  recently,
I saw an ad offering a 27-square-foot trailer for $1,800 a
month. An actual two-bedroom, 1,400-square-foot house in
Minot can be yours for $3,900 per month. The Wal-Mart in
Williston  recently announced  that it will no longer be
letting people squat in its parking lot.  No Vacancy  To make a long story short, North Dakota is full. It
may be a big state, but its stock of available housing is
too small.  While North Dakota’s critical housing shortage has
fascinated the national news media, the long-running story
of the housing shortage on the coasts has largely gone
neglected. Consider this striking finding from  the 2010
census : Of the 10 counties that added the most people
during the aughts, exactly zero were located in one of
America’s 10 richest metropolitan areas. The Phoenix
metropolitan statistical area, home to one of the fastest-
growing counties in the country, is, according to the
 Brookings Institution ’s  State of Metropolitan America 
report, below average in terms of median  household income .  There’s something odd going on here. People cross the
U.S.-Mexico border illegally to take advantage of higher
U.S. wages. Logic would dictate that people should be
moving to  Fairfax County  in  Virginia  (median household
income: $105,416) rather than  Arizona ’s  Maricopa County 
($55,054). After all, the legal, linguistic and logistical
barriers between moving from Phoenix to Northern Virginia
are tiny compared to those involved in moving from Mexico
to the U.S.  The issue is housing. Real estate in Phoenix is cheap
compared real estate on either coast -- Northern Virginia
or, for that matter, coastal  California . In April 2007, the
nationwide average sale price for a home was $135 per
square foot, according to the real estate site  Zillow.com .
That same month, the price in the Phoenix metro area was
$161 per square foot. By April 2011, national prices had
declined to $105 per square foot and Phoenix was down to
$80. The comparable figure for April 2007 in  Los Angeles ,
by contrast, was $395, and in  San Francisco  it was an
amazing $449. By April 2011, prices had declined in both
areas, but still remained more than double the national
average.  And so it goes across the board. High-income metro
areas such as New York,  San Jose  (California), Boston and
Washington all feature real estate prices well above the
national average, while high-growth metro areas such as
Raleigh ( North Carolina ),  Las Vegas  and even Riverside
County in Southern California feature prices at or below
the national average.  Supply and Demand  In other words, it’s North Dakota all over again. But
there’s an important difference. North Dakota is
undersupplied with housing because the oil boom has been so
sudden and unexpected. Demand has surged and supply hasn’t
kept pace. In major coastal metropolitan areas, by
contrast, demand for housing has been strong for decades.  Housing costs are high and supply is scarce not
because nobody wants to build, but because getting
regulatory permission to do so is extremely difficult. Land
near major cities is very expensive. The natural solution
is to construct multifamily housing -- deploying the
advanced technology of the elevator if necessary -- in
order to fit a large quantity of people into scarce land.  Yet throughout the high-cost coastal regions, zoning
restrictions commonly mandate single-family detached
houses, short buildings, generous provision of parking,
minimum lot sizes, and other barriers to density. Older
cities on the East Coast are full of neighborhoods --
Georgetown in  Washington , for example -- that are so dense
and diverse (in terms of housing stock, at least) that they
would be illegal if built today. Meanwhile, in the suburbs,
increased demand usually leads to rising prices, not
necessarily more dense development.  The bursting of the housing bubble presents us with a
good opportunity to re-examine the proposition that
expensive houses are a good thing. Expensive land is, of
course, a benefit to those who own it. But scarce -- and
therefore expensive -- houses are a barrier to opportunity.
In an economy where tradeable production can take place
overseas, or increasingly be done by machines, access to
the high-wage, high-productivity labor markets of America’s
richest cities is more important than ever.  That means housing construction in the places where
demand is highest and homes are most expensive. Relaxing
the anti-density regulations that stop it from happening
would be a powerful short-term boost to an economy still
suffering from mass unemployment of construction workers.
More important, a construction boom in high-cost, high-
income metro areas would lay the groundwork for higher
wages and better  living standards  in decades to come.  Paying Manhattan rents to live in a trailer in North
Dakota sounds absurd. What’s really crazy, however, is that
it costs so much to live in  New York  in the first place.  (Matthew Yglesias, who writes about business and
economics for Slate, is the author of “ The Rent Is Too Damn
High .” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Matthew Yglesias at  myglesias@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at 
 mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 