-- Hostess CEO Driscoll To Quit Bankrupt Twinkie-Maker
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-03-09T20:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/twinkie-maker-hostess-s-ceo-driscoll-said-to-quit-rayburn-to-replace-him.html
Brian Driscoll resigned as chief
executive officer of bankrupt  Hostess Brands Inc. (IBCIQ)  and was
replaced by Chief Restructuring Officer Gregory Rayburn.  Rayburn will oversee the company’s reorganization in
bankruptcy, its business strategy, and negotiations with unions,
Hostess said in a statement today. He has 29 years of experience
working with troubled business, including  New York City  Off
Track Betting Association and Sunterra Corp., and served as
chief restructuring officer at WorldCom Inc.  “Hostess has been in business for more than 80 years and
has established a powerful and valuable brand,” Rayburn said in
the statement.  The maker of Twinkies snack cakes and Wonder bread filed
for bankruptcy in January, less than three years after
completing an earlier restructuring. The baker ended an earlier
trip through  bankruptcy court  in February 2009 when buyout firm
Ripplewood Holdings LLC and lenders took control of Interstate
Bakeries Corp., which was renamed  Hostess Brands (IBCIQ) .  Hostess blamed the latest bankruptcy on a weak economy and
costs tied to pension- and medical-benefit obligations. Hostess
had total assets of about $982 million and liabilities of about
$1.4 billion as of Dec. 10, according to court papers. The
Chapter 11 case was assigned to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain in  White Plains ,  New York .  Interstate Bakeries was created through the merger of
Schulze Baking Co. and Western Bakeries Ltd. in 1937, and grew
by acquiring other companies, according to court documents filed
in the first bankruptcy case. It acquired its biggest rival,
Continental Baking Co., in 1995 for $330 million, according to
the company’s  website .  The company’s products include Hostess  CupCakes , Ding
Dongs, Drake’s Devil Dogs and Nature’s Pride breads.  The case is In re Hostess Brands Inc., 12-22052,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (White Plains).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  