-- Women’s Web Clout Gives Companies Targeting Them Faster Growth
-- B y   S e t h   L u b o v e
-- 2012-03-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/women-s-web-clout-gives-companies-targeting-them-faster-growth.html
Women, who spend more time online
than men, are such powerful drivers of Internet shopping and
other commerce on the Web that their loyalty is crucial to
consumer company profits, according to a new report.  While they make up 51 percent of the population in the U.S.,
women control or influence 85 percent of all buying decisions,
giving them clout as business moves increasingly into the
virtual world, analysts with New York-based Needham & Co. said
in the report. They spend about 10 percent more time on the Web
than men and make 58 percent of all online purchases, a number
that is poised to grow.  “Women are responsible for the primary trends on the
Internet right now,”  Laura Martin , managing director and senior
analyst of the investment banking firm, said in a telephone
interview from her office in  Pasadena ,  California .  The report cited  Facebook Inc. (FB) , Twitter Inc. and Pinterest
as examples of companies that run social-networking websites
where women congregate, and sway each other’s choices about what
goods and services to buy. “Sites that put social sharing
functionality front and center should have the greatest economic
upside,” and those that target women will grow faster,
according to the March 5 report.  Women appreciate the expediency of the Internet, and its
equality, said Delia Passi, founder of  WomenCertified Inc.  and
former group publisher of Working Woman and Working Mother
magazines. Her Hollywood, Florida-based firm, which awards
businesses for good service based on women’s recommendations,
found in a survey of 4,000 female Internet users that 71 percent
have felt slighted at a brick and mortar store and think
retailers don’t really care about them.  ‘Beautiful Solution’  “The Internet has provided a beautiful solution to
shopping,” Passi said.  On the Internet, women dominate nine of the top 11 shopping
categories, according to Nielsen. They buy most of the online 
apparel, travel and books, ceding only computer hardware and 
auctions to men.  Retail e-commerce grew to a record $161.5 billion last
year, up 13 percent from 2010, data from research firm ComScore
Inc. show. Martin said that women will be progressively more
important to Internet companies, and that understanding how they
interact online and why they go to the web in the first place is
crucial to marketers and program designers.  “Time is the ultimate scarce resource for women, so time
spent on a site becomes a proxy for value created,” according
to the report. “Sites that integrate social features should
have the greatest economic upside because they can monetize this
price/value ratio.”  Migrating Overseas  Women’s power online goes well beyond purchasing, said
Martin, who credits them for driving the digital networking
phenomenon, boosting the popularity of daily coupon sites and
web-based activities such as picture sharing and scrapbooking on
sites like Pinterest.  Social media sites are the female “killer app,” with 76
percent of women around the world having visited at least one of
them, she said in the report. Facebook attracts 46 million more
women than men every month, and 57 percent of users on both
Facebook and Twitter are female, according to the report.  Women use the Internet differently than men, spending on
average 5.5 hours a week on social sites, 41 percent more time
than men. By contrast, men prefer entertainment, media and
professional sites such as  Hulu ,  Digg  and  LinkedIn (LNKD) .  Martin said the statistics are similar in other countries,
as most Internet companies and usage habits start in the U.S.,
and then migrate.  ‘Peak Spending Years’  The number of U.S. women aged 30 to 39 will grow at a
compound annual rate of 1.24 percent through 2020, while the
total population will expand at a rate of just .81 percent.
according to a March 6 report by Bank of America Merrill Lynch
analysts Lorraine Hutchinson, Paul Alexander and Neil Dutta.  “These women are near their peak spending years and often
make a majority of the apparel spending decisions for their
families,” the analysts said in the report. “For the equity
investor with a core holding in consumer discretionary stocks,
screening for companies that cater to women seems like a
sensible proposition.”  They’re also better educated, earning about 60 percent of
all higher education degrees in the last decade, and closing the
gap with men in math and science, they said. “Women already
make many of the spending decisions in households, but we expect
their power over the purse strings to increase,” Dutta wrote in
another report issued the same day.  The global opportunities for Internet-based companies will
continue to grow because “women offshore will close the gap
with U.S. women’s economic dominance on the web over time,” the
analysts said in the Needham report.  Boston Consulting Group  has
called the web a “revolution of, by and for women,” according
to the report.  In the U.S. particularly, “no matter how they cut the
data, women surface as the lead influencer in the market,”
Passi said. “Women cannot be ignored.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Lubove in  Los Angeles  at 
 slubove@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Kassenaar at 
 lkassenaar@bloomberg.net  