-- Zeltiq Aesthetics Shares Surge on New Buy Rating: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   J e f f r e y   T a y l o r
-- 2012-03-09T19:20:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-09/zeltiq-aesthetics-shares-surge-on-new-buy-rating-san-francisco-mover.html
Zeltiq Aesthetics Inc. (ZLTQ) , maker of a
treatment for fat cell removal, surged the most since October
after an analyst at Canaccord Genuity Corp. initiating coverage
of the company recommended buying the stock.  Zeltiq rose as much as 17 percent after Canaccord analyst
William Plovanic released his report. The shares of the
Pleasanton, California-based company gained 15 percent to $6.53
at 2:17 p.m. New York time. The stock had fallen 50 percent this
year before today.  Plovanic set a 12-month price target of $10 a share.  “I think you need to look at the overall growth this
company has put up,” Plovanic said in a telephone interview.
“The revenues have tripled on a quarterly basis in the last 12
months. In the quarter they just put up, they grew 52 percent
year to year on a quarterly basis.”  Zeltiq fell 34 percent March 6 after forecasting 2012
revenue of $90 million to $94 million, less than a consensus
estimate of $113.9 million in its first full-quarter earnings
report after an initial public offering in October. Canaccord
was an underwriter of the IPO.  On March 7, Zeltiq declined 12 percent after being cut to a
rating of neutral from overweight by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
downgraded to neutral from buy at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  In setting his buy rating, Plovanic cited a Zeltiq
procedure called “CoolSculpting,” approved by the  U.S. Food
and Drug Administration  in September 2010. The technique has
given Zeltiq “significant market traction,” Plovanic said.  “This is one of those instances where you have
disappointed investors near term but you have a good technology
that’s been very well received and a large, untapped opportunity
in front of them,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Taylor in  San Francisco  at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale in New York at 
 Rgale5@bloomberg.net  