-- Maine Plans to Install First U.S. Offshore Wind Turbine
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-05-31T14:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/maine-plans-to-install-first-u-s-offshore-wind-turbine.html
The University of  Maine  and partners
including  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and Xinjiang Goldwind Science &
Technology Co. plan to launch the first U.S. offshore wind
turbine today in a pilot project that will help design a $96
million, 12-megawatt floating power system.  The 65-foot (20 meter) tower and blades will be towed to a
site off the coast of Castine, about 35 miles south of Bangor,
Maine, and is expected to be connected to the Central Maine
Power Co. grid on June 2, Elizabeth Viselli, a university
spokeswoman, said today in an interview. The  VolturnUS system 
has 20 kilowatts of capacity and is one-eighth the scale of
turbines that are expected to be deployed in 2016, she said.  The strong, consistent winds off the U.S. coasts and in the
 Great Lakes  offer more than 4,000 gigawatts of potential
generating capacity, about four times the U.S. installed total
from all sources, according to U.S. Energy Department  estimates .
Sea-based turbines are common in  Europe  and developers have been
planning similar projects in the U.S. for more than a decade.  The university-led group is in discussions with at least
three turbine suppliers for the commercial project that is
expected to be completed in 2016, Viselli said.  “We’re also talking to utilities about power purchase
agreements and seeking additional commercial off-takers,”
Viselli said. “We want to be as cheap as fossil power by
2020.”  VolturnUS is one of two floating offshore wind projects
that Maine is planning with funding from the Energy Department
to supply as much as 24 megawatts of capacity in 2016. Their
goal is to reduce the cost of offshore wind to 10 cents per
kilowatt-hour by 2020.  Statoil ASA (STL) , Norway’s state-controlled oil company, in
January received approval from the Maine Public Utilities
Commission to build a $120 million offshore wind farm. The
deepwater demonstration facility in the Gulf of Maine will use
four, 3-megawatt floating turbines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  