-- Air-Traffic Upgrade Over Budget, Facing Delays: Report
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-31T17:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/air-traffic-upgrade-over-budget-facing-delays-report.html
A $438 million replacement of U.S.
air-traffic computers, a component of the $42 billion shift to
satellite-based navigation, is going over budget and faces
“significant risks” of missed deadlines, a report said.  The system, which allows controllers to monitor aircraft
within about 50 miles (80 kilometers) of an airport, is expected
to cost $270 million more than current estimates, a 62 percent
increase, the Transportation Department’s inspector general said
in a report today.  Risks of delays are growing because the  Federal Aviation
Administration  hasn’t completed technical requirements or
followed its own rules for setting completion schedules, the
inspector general found.  “It remains unclear how and when FAA will accomplish all
the tasks necessary,” the report said.  The program’s first phase is supposed to install an updated
version of a system known as Standard Terminal Automation
Replacement System, or STARS, at 11 metropolitan regions by
2017.  It’s built by  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the Waltham, Massachusetts-based technology and defense contractor. A call to  Caroline
Harris , a Raytheon spokeswoman, wasn’t immediately returned.  STARS is needed to accommodate other new technology in the
FAA’s NextGen replacement of the air-traffic system, according
to the report. Instead of tracking planes on radar, NextGen will
rely on more precise satellite-based technology.  Known Risks  Seven of the 11 facilities are the busiest in the U.S.,
including  Southern California  and  New York , according to the
report by Jeffrey Guzzetti, assistant inspector general for
aviation audits.  STARS was first introduced in the late 1990s in some
medium-sized radar rooms near airports. Because of cost overruns
and technical shortfalls, the FAA kept a similar system built by
Bethesda, Maryland-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , called the
Common Automated Radar Terminal System, at some facilities.  The agency wants to replace the aging Lockheed system with
STARS so all facilities use the same technology, it said in a
response to the report. The issues raised by the inspector
general had already been identified by the FAA, according to the
agency response.  “The key here is that the risks are known, and are being
managed,” the FAA wrote.  Satellite Navigation  A separate computer system that allows controllers to track
aircraft at higher altitudes, Lockheed’s $2.4 billion En Route
Automation Modernization project, known as ERAM, is also over
budget and marred by technical breakdowns, according to
Inspector General Calvin Scovel.  The system, which is $300 million over budget, could cost
an additional $200 million and be delayed as much as two years
beyond its 2014 target for completion, Scovel testified before
the House aviation subcommittee on Sept. 12.  The network of ground stations and computers at the core of
the NextGen system is on track for its scheduled completion by
next year, according to a Government Accountability Office
report last year.  Known as Automated Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast or  ADS-B , it monitors thousands of aircraft, which broadcast their
positions using global positioning satellites that are more
accurate than radar. The lead contractor on the project is
 Exelis Inc. (XLS)  of McLean, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  