-- Taiwan Capital Gains Tax Revisions Delayed by Opposition Party
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-05-31T03:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/taiwan-capital-gains-tax-revisions-delayed-by-opposition-party.html
Taiwanese opposition lawmakers today
delayed cutting a controversial  capital gains  tax on share sales
of more than NT$1 billion ($33.3 million) and removing an index
price threshold that depressed shares.  Tsai Chi-chang, a Democratic Progressive Party lawmaker,
said his party doesn’t support the ruling Kuomintang’s proposals
and favors its own plan for a flat tax on all capital gains,
which “fits the idea of fairness and justice and increasing
government revenue.” The benchmark  Taiex index  rose 0.5 percent
to 8,281.42 as of 11:21 a.m. local time.  Lawmakers are weighing a  tax cut  after stock trading volume
declined by as much as 30 percent in the first four months of
the year, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. President Ma
Ying-jeou’s administration and legislators argued over about 10
versions of the tax last year, prompting then-Finance Minister
Christina Liu to step down. The Taiex lost 13 percent during the
period.  DPP lawmaker Huang Wei-cher said after a party caucus
meeting today the tax bill may be taken up in extra legislative
sessions on June 13-27 or in late July.  The ruling Kuomintang has proposed cutting the tax on
capital gains on transactions of more than NT$1 billion to 0.1
percent from the 2.25 percent under the original law, according
to a May 20 statement from the Ministry of Finance. It has also
proposed removing a threshold of an 8,500-point close for the
Taiex index before the tax could go into effect. Citigroup Inc.
and UBS AG raised their Taiex targets in May on the threshold
removal proposals.  Investor Hesitation  “Now that there’s a delay, the 8,500 threshold will still
suppress index performance,” Sophie Chang, a  fund manager  at
Prudential Financial Securities Investment, said in a phone
interview in Taipei. “Investors will hesitate when the index
climbs toward 8,500.”  Taiwanese residents invested more capital overseas in the
last two quarters of 2012 from the quarter earlier, Credit
Suisse analyst Christiaan Tuntono wrote in a May 20 report,
citing the island’s central bank. The government’s transaction
tax revenue fell by 24 percent in the first four months of the
year, according to Tuntono.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Debra Mao at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net  