-- Takeda, Biogen, Article One: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/takeda-biogen-article-one-intellectual-property.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , Asia’s
largest drugmaker, sued to block  Impax Laboratories Inc. (IPXL)  and
 Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit from selling generic versions of the
acid-reflux drug Dexilant.  Impax and Sandoz are seeking U.S. Food and Drug
Administration approval to sell copies of Dexilant, according to
separate lawsuits filed May 29 in federal court in San
Francisco. Takeda, based in Osaka, Japan, alleges the generic
versions would infringe a patent that expires in 2030, according
to the complaints. Takeda filed a similar lawsuit against  TWI
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (4180)   The complaints seek a court order declaring patent
infringement and delaying approval for the generics until the
patent expires.  The cases are Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. v. Impax
Laboratories Inc., 13-cv-02416, and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. v.
Sandoz Inc., 13-cv-02418, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Francisco).  Biogen MS Pill Delayed in Europe as Patent Extended to 2028  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , the world’s biggest maker of multiple
sclerosis drugs, said a European regulatory decision on its new
pill will be delayed until the second half of the year after a
patent on the medicine was extended.  Biogen said it’s seeking to clarify Tecfidera’s regulatory
exclusivity status in Europe. A European patent on the pill was
extended May 29 until 2028 and covers the expected 480-milligram
dose planned for sale, the Weston, Massachusetts-based company
said in a regulatory filing.  Tecfidera cleared U.S. regulators on March 27, propelling
Biogen shares to a 31 percent gain from the approval through
yesterday. The drug followed Novartis AG’s Gilenya and  Sanofi (SAN) ’s
Aubagio to the market as oral options for MS, a central nervous
system disease otherwise treated by injection or infusion. The
illness affects 2.1 million worldwide, according to the  National
Multiple Sclerosis Society .  Biogen is working to make Tecfidera’s regulatory data
protection clearer to all parties, Kate Niazi-Sai, a Biogen
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We originally anticipated that
the dialogue would be completed by now, but it is not,” she
said.  Initial U.S. sales of Biogen’s pill, formerly known as
BG-12, were greater than those of Gilenya and Aubagio,
suggesting revenue may be more than analysts’ initial estimates
of $240 million to $300 million this year, according to a Wells
Fargo & Co. report on April 29. The medicine may have sales of
$3.4 billion by 2017, according to the average of eight
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have been encouraged by early signs of physician and
patient interest in this product,” Tony Kingsley, Biogen’s head
of commercial operations, said April 25 on a conference call
after the company released first-quarter earnings. “U.S.
physician awareness of Tecfidera is high and perceptions are
strong.”  Biogen also sells Avonex, an injection, and Tysabri, an
infusion.  Article One Hands Out More Than $4 Million to Patent Searchers  Article One Partners , a New York-based company that
conducts crowd-sourced searches for information that could
potentially invalidate a patent, said it has paid out more than
$4 million to people who conducted searches on its behalf.  In a  statement  yesterday, the company said it has more than
27,000 researchers working in more than 160 countries. It
conducts research on behalf of clients who typically are targets
of patent-infringement suits brought by patent owners who don’t
themselves make products covered by their patents.  Marshall Phelps, the former head of patents and licensing
at both  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT) , is chairman of Article One Partners’ board. The company
said in its statement that it is a partner to seven of the top
U.S. patent filers.  Future Hepatitis C Blockbusters May Spawn Compulsory Generics  Hepatitis C drugs like  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s sofosbuvir,
which analysts forecast will become the company’s top seller,
may spawn compulsory generics in countries that can’t afford
them, according to a report backed by billionaire  Richard
Branson .  While health officials are negotiating with drugmakers
including Gilead over the price of new medicines for the deadly
liver virus, developing nations should issue compulsory licenses
for the therapies if price reductions aren’t sufficient,
according to the report by the Global Commission on Drug Policy,
of which Branson and former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul
Volcker  are members.  Under a World Trade Organization agreement known as trade-related aspects of  intellectual property  rights, or TRIPS,
member countries can give licenses to generic-drug makers to
make low-cost copies of treatments protected by patents that are
needed to address a public health emergency.  “If the prices were to be unaffordable once more in
history, it would be one more scandal around inequity of access
to health care,” Michel Kazatchkine, the United Nations
Secretary General’s Special Envoy on HIV/AIDS in Eastern Europe
and Central Asia, said at a briefing in Geneva yesterday.
“There’s no reason why a country like Ukraine wouldn’t go for
this and declare a public emergency.”  About 170 million people are infected with hepatitis C,
which is transmitted commonly among drug users who share
contaminated needles, and can cause liver damage and cancer. Of
16 million people estimated to inject drugs globally, about 10
million have hepatitis C, according to today’s report, which
didn’t specifically name sofosbuvir.  Spokeswomen for Gilead didn’t immediately respond to a call
and e-mail requesting comment sent outside regular business
hours.  Gilead applied for U.S. regulatory approval of sofosbuvir
last month, and the drug may cost as much as $100,000 per
patient, according to  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst at ISI Group
in New York. The  Foster City , California-based company gained
the drug with its $11.1 billion acquisition of Pharmasset Inc.
last year.  The pill may earn Gilead almost $4 billion in 2015 and $6.3
billion the following year, according to the average analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  AbbVie Inc. (ABBV) , Merck & Co.,  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  are among other
companies developing new hepatitis C treatments.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ICANN to Study Security of New Domain Names, Dotless Names  The  Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ,
the nonprofit organization that controls the Internet’s domain-name system, said in  a statement  that it is looking at the
potential security issues related to the new top-level domain
names.  This would be related to potential collisions between the
applications for these names with private name spaces that are
already in use.  ICANN will also look at the issue of what are known as
“dotless domain names.” These are domain names that consist of
a single label. ICANN says that while the use of dotless domain
names could provide potential innovations, “their use also
raises usability, functionality, security and stability
concerns.”  The organization said it has commissioned a report on these
issues, including options about how to mitigate potential risks
and the pros and cons of the options. ICANN said it plans to
deliver the results of the study before its meeting in Durban,
 South Africa , in mid-July.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Ukraine Singled Out by Trade Report for IP Rights Violations  Ukraine is listed as a priority foreign country for IP
rights violations in a  report  issued by the Office of the U.S.
Trade Representative.  The country was the only one to receive this designation in
the report, which was issued this month. According to the
report, Ukraine’s IP environment is flawed.  Among the reasons listed are the unfair, nontransparent
administration of the system for collecting societies, the
widespread and admitted use of illegal software by Ukrainian
government agencies, and the failure to implement an effective
means to combat the widespread online infringement of copyright
and related rights.  Ukraine has recognized that it has illegal “rogue”
collecting societies that collect royalties by falsely claiming
they have to right to do so, according to the report. These
organizations “rarely disburse sufficient funds that they
collect to the rights-holders entitled to the royalties.”  The report notes that while the Ukrainian government
budgeted $12.3 million for software legalization in state
institutions for 2013, the money has not been spent. In 2012,
there was not one single conviction in Ukraine for online
piracy, according to the report.  Ten nations are listed on the report’s priority watch list.
They are Algeria, Argentina, Chile, China India, Indonesia,
Pakistan, Russia, Thailand and Venezuela.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 