-- American Realty to Buy 471 GE Properties for $807 Million
-- B y   R o s s   L a r s e n
-- 2013-05-31T12:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/american-realty-to-buy-u-s-restaurants-from-ge-for-807-million.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP)  agreed to buy 471 properties mainly used by restaurants
from  General Electric Co. (GE)  for $807 million to diversify its
holdings.  The buildings are mostly rented out to tenants who operate
national food chains including IHOP, Jack in the Box, Burger
King and Taco Bell, New York-based American Realty said in a
statement today. The deal means the company has reached its
target of $1.1 billion in acquisitions five months earlier than
planned, American Realty said.  “This portfolio acquisition underscores our ability to
identify and purchase a diversified pool of assets anchored by
brand-name tenants paying rents which are accretive to our
earnings,” American Realty President Mike Weil said in the
statement.  American Realty, led by Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Schorsch, is expanding its portfolio of single-tenant buildings
and expects to own more than 1,200 properties following the
completion of recently announced transactions. The real estate
investment trust said earlier this week that it agreed to buy
 CapLease Inc. (LSE)  in a deal valued at $2.2 billion, including debt.
CapLease owns real estate across the U.S. ranging from single-tenant office buildings to distribution centers.  GE Sales  The assets purchased from GE’s  GE Capital  finance unit
consist of net-lease properties, in which the tenant is
responsible for the costs relating to the property as well as
the rent. The average lease on the buildings is nine years and
occupancy is close to 100 percent, American Realty said.  GE Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  has been working
to exit some businesses tied to real estate as he pares GE
Capital’s balance sheet after $32 billion of credit losses
during the financial crisis.  GE Capital earlier this month sold 79 factories and office
buildings in Toronto, representing all of its real estate in the
city. GE also sold seven Australian office properties this month
to Sydney-based  Mirvac Group (MGR) , and in July agreed to sell its
Business Property Lending Inc. unit to  EverBank Financial Corp. (EVER) 
for $2.51 billion in cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  