-- American Realty Property to Grow Eightfold in Deal Spree
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-05-31T20:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/american-realty-property-to-grow-eightfold-in-deal-spree.html
American Realty Capital Properties
Inc. (ARCP) , an owner of U.S. single-tenant buildings, is poised to own
eight times the properties it had at the end of 2012 after a
buying spree that included two major deals this week.  The New York-based real estate investment trust has made at
least nine acquisitions since becoming a publicly traded company
in 2011, making it among the most-active deal makers in the net-lease industry, according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg. That
type of real estate accounts for three of the top five REIT
transactions this year, the data show.  “Everyone’s trying to get bigger” in the net-lease
industry, said  Jim Sullivan , a managing director at Green Street
Advisors Inc., a  Newport Beach , California-based research
company focused on REITs. Net-lease landlords rent buildings to
single tenants, with occupants paying such expenses as
maintenance costs and property taxes. “Everyone’s trying to
improve the credit quality of their portfolio.”  American Realty had 146 properties at the end of 2012,
excluding one that was vacant, according to its annual report,
and estimates that after pending acquisitions are complete it
will have 1,264 retail, office and warehouse buildings. This
week the company announced the addition of about 540 properties
with an agreement to buy New York-based  CapLease Inc. (LSE)  for $2.2
billion, including $1.2 billion in debt, and a restaurant
portfolio from  General Electric Co. (GE)  for $807 million.  American Realty, led by Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Nicholas Schorsch, is buying properties to boost
earnings and increase the company’s dividend.  ‘Granular Acquisitions’  “It’s a combination of granular acquisitions and core
portfolio acquisitions as well as strategic opportunities that
will drive this company for the coming decades,” Schorsch said
of acquisitions on a conference call to discuss the CapLease
agreement on May 28. The company expects an additional $1
billion of deals next year.  Not all of American Realty’s deals have succeeded. In
April, it withdrew a $6.7 billion offer to buy Phoenix-based
Cole Credit Property Trust III after Cole rejected the proposal.  Landlords of triple-net-lease properties, as they are
sometimes known, rent to pharmacy chains including CVS Caremark
Corp. and Walgreen Co. and such food outlets as Chick-fil-A and
Red Robin Gourmet Burgers under multiyear agreements. Buildings
in the General Electric portfolio are leased to chains including
Jack in the Box, Burger King, Wendy’s and Arby’s.  The Bloomberg index of single-tenant REITs  has gained  14
percent this year, almost double the advance in the broader REIT
Index. American Realty is up 15 percent. The rally in shares of
single-tenant landlords has helped boost mergers and
acquisitions in the business, Sullivan said.  Treasury Bonds  The Bloomberg single-tenant index fell 7 percent in the
week ended yesterday, tracking a decline in Treasury bonds. The
biggest risk to the triple-net lease group is rising  interest
rates , Sullivan said.  “If rates go up, the value of triple-net leases go down,”
he said. Long-term leases to corporate tenants “tend to be very
bond-like,” Sullivan said, with landlords getting rents from
tenants much like bond investors get regular coupon payments.  Triple-net leases get their name from tenants paying the
net amount of three types of costs -- real estate taxes,
building insurance and common-area maintenance -- which
minimizes expenses for landlords.  When its purchases are completed, American Realty will have
the third-most net-lease properties in the U.S., behind  Realty
Income Corp. (O) , based in Escondido,  California , and  Orlando ,
Florida-based  National Retail Properties Inc. (NNN)  Realty Income had
3,525 properties at the end of the first quarter, while National
Retail had 1,636.  External Manager  Schorsch is also the chairman and chief executive officer
of American Realty Capital, which is a sponsor of several
nontraded REITs and is the external manager of American Realty
Capital Properties. Fees paid to managers tend to increase as
REIT portfolios grow.  American Realty Capital Properties expects to complete the
purchase of CapLease in the third quarter. American Realty
Capital Properties was advised by  RCS Capital Corp. (RCAP) , where
Schorsch is the chairman. RCS plans to raise as much as $58
million in an initial public offering next week by selling 2.75
million shares at $19 to $21 each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  