-- Angola’s Sea Turtles Snap Back in Number After Conservation Aid
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-05-31T11:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/angola-s-sea-turtles-snap-back-in-number-after-conservation-aid.html
Sea turtles are swimming in larger
numbers off the coast of  Angola  after a conservation program
educated fishermen about the endangered species.  The $200,000-a-year  Kitabanga Project  over the past decade
has protected about 9,000 nests, Michel Morais, a biologist on
the program, said yesterday in a presentation. The project has
probably helped save 750,000 turtles hatched on beaches that
typically have a 1 percent survival rate, he said.  “Environmental education is part of the process we’re
undertaking,” said Morais, who teaches biology at Agostinho
Neto University in Luanda, the capital. “We want to develop a
national plan under fisheries regulation to supervise the coasts
and monitor nesting areas.”  As Angola rebuilds from a 27-year civil war that ended in
2002, education programs targeting schools, families and
fishermen are raising awareness about human activities that can
threaten the reptiles, he said.  There should be more discussion about oil-exploration
mapping using loud underwater noises that can disorient sea
animals, Morais said. Angola is  Africa ’s second-largest oil
producer after  Nigeria .  “The impact on the animals is one thing we want to
explore,” Morais said. “I know my support comes partly from
 oil companies , but it’s something we have to work out.”  Kitabanga’s sponsors include BP Plc, Petroleo Brasileiro
SA, known as Petrobras, and Banco Sol SA, an Angolan lender.  Some of the turtles travel from as far away as  Brazil  and
they are a key indicator of the ocean’s biodiversity conditions,
he said. The number of nests per kilometer (0.6 miles) of
coastline fell from 75 in the 1980s to an average of 27 in
recent years, before recovering to 50 in 2012.  Prized Shells  Six out of seven varieties of sea turtles located around
the world are endangered. Five of those types are  found  in
Angolan waters and at least three are laying their eggs along
its southern Atlantic coastline, Morais said.  With their shells prized as handicrafts, the turtles also
face dangers from fishing nets, boat traffic and beach rubbish.  “Artisanal fishing has grown a lot and this is a big
problem,” Morais said. “Nets close to shore catch many turtles
in the breeding season.”  The program also benefits from aerial surveys conducted by
the Angolan air force and funding from the Ministry of the
Environment. About a fifth of the budget is used to fit turtles
with transmitters to track their migration by satellites and
determine breeding grounds, Morais said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  