-- Tanker Rates Have Year’s Biggest Weekly Gain as OPEC Cargo Gains
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2013-05-31T15:56:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/tanker-rates-have-year-s-biggest-weekly-gain-as-opec-cargo-gains.html
Rates for the largest oil tankers had
the biggest weekly gain this year amid speculation OPEC is
expanding shipments to meet rising demand as refineries return
from maintenance.  Charter costs for very large crude carriers on the
benchmark Middle East-to-Asia voyage rose 0.3 percent to 46.67
industry-standard Worldscale points today, according to the
Baltic Exchange, the London-based publisher of freight rates.
That took their weekly gain to 19 percent, the highest since at
least the start of January.  Almost 40 ships were booked in the past two trading days,
Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at Marex
Spectron Pte, said in an e-mailed report today. There were an
average of 109 of the charters a month this year, according to
data from Galbraith’s Ltd., a London-based shipbroker.
Refineries are returning from routine repairs and taking more
cargoes from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
according to RS Platou Markets AS, an investment-bank in Oslo.  “Strong activity and fewer prompt vessels lifted VLCC
rates,” Platou analyst Frode Moerkedal said in an e-mailed
report today. “Activity is higher because OPEC is gradually
turning up the taps to supply refineries that are coming back
from seasonal maintenance.”  Daily earnings for the voyage rose 2.3 percent to $23,853,
according to the exchange. Those assessments don’t reflect
owners cutting speeds to save on fuel, their biggest expense.
The price of ship fuel, known as bunkers, fell 0.8 percent to
$600.72 a metric ton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
from 25 ports worldwide.  Baltic Dirty  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate for
more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for every voyage,
quoted in dollars a ton, are revised annually by the Worldscale
Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel costs, port
tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a wider measure of oil-shipping costs that includes smaller vessels, fell 0.3 percent
to 612. The biggest move in rates for the tankers hauling crude
or fuel was Suezmaxes in the Black Sea, which fell 1.9 percent
to 53.13 points. The biggest change in the market for ships
hauling refined fuels was for vessels taking refined fuel to
 Singapore  from South Korea, which slid 1.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  