-- Apple Ruling to Get Into Who Can Use Standard Technology
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-05-31T21:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/apple-ruling-to-get-into-who-can-use-standard-technology.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s legal battle with
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  over smartphone inventions could
determine if there are limits to the power of patents that cover
most widely-used technology for electronics.  The U.S. International Trade Commission in Washington is
scheduled to announce June 4 whether Apple infringed Samsung
patents for transmitting data and, if so, whether the Korean
handset maker can block such a fundamental function of a mobile
device. The decision, postponed from today, would be the first
final decision in any U.S. cases between the world’s two largest
smartphone makers.  The commission, which can block imports into the U.S., in
March asked for comments on how banning older models of the
iPhone and iPad tablet computer would affect the public. On a
broader scale, the commission must decide if it’s appropriate to
exclude a product for infringing a patent that’s part of
technical standards it must follow.  “This will be the most important decision from the ITC
dealing with the standard-essential patents to date,” said
David Long, a patent lawyer with Dow Lohnes in Washington. “In
other cases, they found ways out. Here, they seem to be
indicating there’s infringement, now what do we do.”  Whether owners of standards patents should be able to block
others from using those ideas has been the topic of U.S.
congressional hearings, a policy paper from President  Barack
Obama ’s administration and regulatory investigations on three
continents, including one that led to a settlement between the
U.S. and Google Inc.  Widely-Used Patents  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , has been making
mobile phones since the 1980s and participated in industry
groups that established ways phones communicate with each other,
exchange data and perform other key functions. Companies that
help develop standards have the advantage of ensuring their
technology is widely used, so they are required to pledge to
license any relevant patents on fair terms.  In the ITC case, Samsung contends Apple infringes four
patents, including two standards patents that relate to how
phones transmit data. A judge initially said Apple didn’t
infringe any of the patents, and that one, for a way to detect
movement on a touch-screen, was invalid. The fourth patent is
for a way to detect phone numbers in e-mails so they can be
dialed or stored in the phone’s contact list.  The six-member commission, which is reviewing the judge’s
findings, in March  asked  for additional information about
licensing negotiations.  Apple Pledge  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , denies infringing
any of the Samsung patents. Even if a violation is found,
Samsung shouldn’t be allowed to use patents on standard-essential technology to block competition, Apple has said. The
iPhone maker has pledged not to seek court bans on the use of
any patents it owns on fundamental technology.  Apple won a $1.05 billion verdict against Samsung last year
for infringing patents that weren’t part of standards, although
a new trial has been ordered for part of the case.  “The upcoming ITC ruling may have a greater significance
than the court’s ruling because the latter is made based on the
jurors’ decisions, while the ITC’s is made by professionals,”
said Lee Sun Tae, a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment &
Securities.  Standards Patents  The issue goes beyond the Apple-Samsung battle. Ericsson AB
and Samsung have accused each other of failing to offer fair
licensing terms in cases before the ITC and federal courts.
Huawei Technologies Co.,  China ’s largest phone-equipment maker,
filed an antitrust complaint with European regulators over
InterDigital Inc.’s royalty demands for patents on wireless
technology.  Apple and Microsoft Corp. have each accused Google Inc.’s
Motorola Mobility unit of demanding unfair rates for its
standard-essential patents. A federal judge in  Seattle  last
month said Google is entitled only to pennies per unit from
Microsoft, while a different judge threw out Apple’s breach of
contract case.  House judiciary committee members, in a May 10 letter to
the commission on the Apple case, repeated a request made last
year that the ITC “carefully assess the substantial public
interest considerations that exist with regards to this and
other cases.”  The Apple case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  