-- Armour Biggest REIT Share Loser as Fed Weighs Exit
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2013-05-31T20:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/armour-biggest-reit-share-loser-as-fed-weighs-exit.html
Jeffrey Zimmer, co-head of  Armour
Residential REIT Inc. (ARR) , says this isn’t a tough time for the
mortgage investment firm. Shareholders disagree.  Armour, which has about $22.5 billion of government-backed
home-loan debt, has lost 16 percent this year, including
reinvested dividends, trailing all real estate investment trusts
that buy mortgage bonds in a Bloomberg  index  of 33 companies.
The other REIT that Zimmer and co-head Scott Ulm run -- Javelin
Mortgage Investment Corp. -- is the second-worst.  Armour’s decline comes after the Vero Beach, Florida-based
company has expanded from $1.2 billion in assets at the end of
2010, helped by Federal Reserve efforts to stimulate the
economy, which enabled the firm to borrow cheaply to buy  Fannie
Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and Ginnie Mae securities. It’s now leading the
declines in mortgage REITs as concern grows that the central
bank will slow its bond-buying program as soon as June with the
economy showing improvement.  “ Interest rates  moving higher and the Fed talking about
tapering its purchases much earlier than the market had
originally thought have sent mortgage REITs lower,” said Jason Stewart, an analyst at Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.
“With Armour, when they continued to raise equity, they were
buying new production mortgage-backed securities, and as rates
go up, those bonds perform the worst.”  Fed Purchases  The Fed has been buying $45 billion of Treasuries and $40
billion of mortgage bonds a month to push down borrowing costs,
fueling a 46 percent return in mortgage REITs through the end of
last year from 2009. Armour gained 36 percent in the period.  As the housing market continues to recover and the
 unemployment  rate declined in April to 7.5 percent from a peak
of 10 percent in 2009, speculation is growing that the central
bank will retreat earlier than anticipated. The average rate for
a 30-year fixed  mortgage  jumped to 3.81 percent in the week
ended yesterday from 3.59 percent, according to Freddie Mac.  Mortgage REITs have declined 13 percent this month, their
worst drop since October 2008. Armour slipped 3.2 percent to
$5.16 today in  New York  and has lost 20 percent since April,
including reinvested dividends.  American Capital  Agency Corp,
the second-largest of the firms has decreased 23 percent.  Mortgage REITs are seeking to persuade investors to stay
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony to the  U.S.
Congress  last week that if improvement continues as expected the
bank “could take a step down” in its pace of purchases in the
next few meetings.  Market Reaction  “The bond markets have over-reacted to Fed comments, and
the mortgage REITs have over-reacted to the  bond market ,”
Michael Widner, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods said in a
report this week. He recommends buying shares of the firms while
prices are low. “Nevertheless, this whole episode highlights
risks and difficulties in predicting impacts of” quantitative
easing, he said.  This isn’t a tough time for the company, Zimmer wrote in an
e-mail. “This year, we are likely to be the number one return
on equity player as far as taxable REIT income goes,”  he
wrote.  REITs, whose primary income streams are from real estate,
are required by the  Internal Revenue Service  to distribute at
least 90 percent of their taxable earnings to shareholders as
dividends. In exchange, they pay little or no income tax.  The company’s  dividend return  last year was 18.3 percent,
according to Armour, which said that’s the most in a group of
seven REITs that includes  Annaly (NLY)  Capital Management Inc. and
American Capital.  “The ARR stock price is down now, which we cannot control,
but our return performance is at the top of the group,” he
said, using the ticker symbol for Armour.  Armour Founded  Zimmer and Ulm built Armour through a merger with
Enterprise Acquisition Corp. in July 2009 after losses from
mortgage bonds had infected the global banking system and
triggered the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  Ulm, a former Credit Suisse First Boston executive and a
member of the fixed income operating committee was also chief
executive officer of Connecticut-based Litchfield Capital
Holdings from 2005 to 2009. Zimmer, who worked at Drexel Burnham
Lambert and RBS Greenwich Capital, previously founded another
publicly traded REIT now called  Bimini Capital Management Inc. (BMNM)   In 2005, when Bimini had about $5 billion in assets, it
bought mortgage lender Opteum Financial Services LLC, which made
mostly Alt-A loans, a type of mortgage that typically didn’t
require documentation such as proof of income. After
foreclosures started to soar, the company reported a loss of
more than $78 million in the first quarter of 2007 and its
shares plunged.  Alt-A Foresight  “If we knew what we knew today, we would never have wanted
to make an investment that would lose shareholders’ money,”
Zimmer said in an interview with Bloomberg in May 2007.  The firm said that month it would sell its home-lending
unit for less than a tenth of what it had paid 18 months earlier
and in April 2008, Zimmer resigned from his positions with the
company, according to a statement at the time.  Zimmer says his foresight to shut down the Alt-A platform
in April 2007, more than a year before other failed lenders,
allowed Bimini to survive as a public company.  After the Enterprise merger, Armour sold shares in June
2010 and was fully invested a month later with a portfolio of
agency mortgage bonds valued at $510 million. Armour more than
tripled its assets last year with its use of borrowed money and
through sales of stock. The firm offered 5 million shares to
raise capital in the first quarter of 2013.  Javelin Started  Ulm and Zimmer also set up Javelin last year to buy
government-backed and non-agency bonds, such as subprime debt.  Javelin is similar to Armour “but benefits from having a
portion of its capital allocated to non-agency mortgage-backed
securities, which helps to diversify its risks and exposure to
things like interest rates and Fed behavior,” said Trevor Cranston, an analyst at JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco .
Javelin shares have lost 16 percent since they started trading
in October of 2012.  While central bank officials signal the curbing of stimulus
efforts, the economy is showing some signs of a slowdown in
growth, expanding less than previously estimated in the first
quarter, according to Commerce Department data, and  consumer
spending  in the U.S. unexpectedly declined in April as incomes
stagnated.  The Fed may also have difficulties pulling back.
“Extracting itself from its eight-month domination in the
agency mortgage market is not quite as straightforward as
entering the fray back in September 2012,” Merrill Ross, an
analyst with Baltimore-based Wunderlich Securities Inc. said in
a report this week.  Incremental Premium  Armour’s strategy is to invest in mortgage bonds that it
believes “will persist” and the firm is “willing to pay an
incremental premium to acquire” them, according to Chief
Financial Officer James Mountain.  Mortgage bond investors monitor prepayment rates, as they
influence returns. Bondholders risk losses when buying debt for
more than 100 cents on the dollar as the value can be erased
when homeowners take out new mortgages too early to repay
existing debt. As the government and Fed encouraged homeowners
to refinance, those types of bonds became more attractive to
firms like Armour and  American Capital. (AGNC)   “The slower prepayments we see on the horizon should
result in lower premium amortization,” Mountain said. “That
will tend to offset the pressure on earnings from lower
leverage.”  Fed Intervention  American Capital, which increased assets over three years
by more than 20-fold to $100.5 billion at the end of 2012, has
plunged this month after reporting an 8.6 percent drop in book
value from the previous quarter, driven by the firm targeting
higher-priced bonds that would benefit from continued Fed
intervention.  Gary Kain, the REIT’s president, joined Bethesda, Maryland-based American Capital in 2009 after 20 years at Freddie Mac. He
said the firm is investing knowing that the Fed will disrupt
markets even though he disagrees with the likelihood of a
midyear exit.  “The expected path is tapering over the next few months
and concluding around the end of the year,” Kain said in an
interview earlier this month. “Mortgages should perform
reasonably well under those circumstances and they may do even
better in that scenario.”  Annaly, the largest mortgage REIT, with $125.5 billion in
assets, said its book value, a measure of its assets minus its
liabilities, fell 4 percent in the first quarter.  Cut Payments  With  mortgage REITs’  shares under pressure, firms may have
to cut dividend payments, which have averaged about 14 percent.
Armour, the only one of its peers that pays a monthly dividend,
is currently yielding 16 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Javelin also pays a monthly dividend.  “We’ll likely see reductions in dividends rather than
increases in the next few quarters,” said Christopher Donat, an
analyst at New York-based Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP. “If
people have been buying mortgage REITs for dividend yields and
those come down, it might cause some investors to leave. There
are risks of over-reactions and real risks to the stocks because
so much of the ownership is made up of retail investors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  