-- Asia Stocks Heading for First Monthly Drop Since October
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-05-31T09:32:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/asian-stocks-rise-as-japan-s-topix-rebounds-on-economic-optimism.html
Asian  stocks  slid, with the regional
benchmark index’s heading for its first monthly decline since
October, as a drop in Japanese shipping lines limited a rebound
in the nation’s shares and utilities slumped.  Japanese  shipping companies  dropped, with Mitsui O.S.K
Lines Ltd. falling 4.2 percent, as a gauge of freight rates
headed for its steepest monthly decline this year. Huaneng Power
International Inc. slid 3.4 percent in  Hong Kong , pacing
declines among utilities. Singapore Airlines Ltd., fell 0.9
percent after it placed aircraft orders worth $17 billion,
sparking concern aggressive expansion by Southeast Asia’s
biggest carrier may crimp dividends.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.4 percent to 135.00 as
of 6:25 p.m. in  Tokyo , paring gains of as much as 0.8 percent.
About five shares fell for every four that rose on the gauge.
The measure is set for a two-week drop and a 5 percent loss in
May, its biggest monthly decline in a year. Japanese indexes
entered a correction yesterday after reaching about five-year
highs on May 22.  “The market is trying to find a place to settle,” said
Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $33 billion. “We don’t
know where the bottom is yet.”  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex fell dropped 2 percent, the most
among the region’s benchmark indexes. Singapore’s  Straits Times
Index (FSSTI)  fell 0.7 percent, closing at the lowest since April 23.
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.4 percent, while the Shanghai
Composite Index lost 0.7 percent.  Exaggerated Moves  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 1.4 percent, with
the measure’s volatility about 60 percent above average. Fast
Retailing Co. and Fanuc Corp., which together account for about
15 percent of the benchmark, each added more than 4 percent.
Volume on the measure was 13 percent below the 30-day average.  The broader Topix index closed up 0.1 percent after gaining
as much as 2 percent in morning trading. Both gauges plunged
more than 10 percent through yesterday from their May 22 high,
entering what some investors define as a correction.  “Price moves are being exaggerated by thin volume” as
investors stay on the sidelines, said  Alex Wong , a Hong Kong-based director at Ample Capital Ltd. “You can’t be bullish
after the market fell so much, but with foreign markets being so
resilient, you can’t be too bearish.”  Japanese markets halted yesterday’s slide as a report
showed the nation’s industrial production rose 1.7 percent in
April, exceeding the highest estimate in a  Bloomberg News  survey
of economists and helping Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s economic-revival campaign. A separate report showed consumer prices
dropped for a sixth straight month in April, in line with
expectations.  Pension Fund  Japan’s $1 trillion Government Pension Investment Fund is
considering changes that would allow greater investment in
shares, Reuters reported yesterday, citing unidentified people
familiar with the matter. The shift would be the fund’s most
significant revision in strategy since 2006, according to the
 news agency .  Even after yesterday’s plunge, the Topix and the Nikkei 225
are still up more than 30 percent this year after the  Bank of
Japan  pledged to reach 2 percent inflation within two years with
unlimited bond buying and by doubling the monetary base.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  closed 0.1 percent lower,
taking its monthly loss to 5.1 percent, the biggest in a year.
New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index climbed 0.9 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi index and Taiwan’s Taiex Index both gained 0.1 percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.7
percent. The gauge rose 0.4 percent yesterday as weaker-than-expected data on economic growth and jobless claims boosted
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will maintain stimulus.  Shipping Slump  Shares on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index traded at 13.3 times
estimated earnings yesterday, compared with 15 for the S&P 500
and 13.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  Japanese shipping companies declined, with the Topix Marine
Transport measure down almost 20 percent from its 52-week high,
the third-biggest decline among the Topix industry groups. The
 Baltic Dry Index (BDIY) , which tracks the price of transporting
commodities from  iron ore  to corn, headed for a 6 percent drop
this month, the most this year.  Mitsui O.S.K, Japan’s second-biggest shipper by market
value, lost 4.2 percent to 369 yen today.  Nippon Yusen KK (9101) , the
largest, declined 1.9 percent to 266 yen.  Huaneng, Kansai  Utilities posted the  biggest decline  among the 10 industry
groups in the regional benchmark index. U.S. bond yields
increase to  2.23 percent  on May 29, the highest level since
April 5, 2012, stiffening competition with stock payouts among
investors seeking income. Shares on the MSCI AC Asia Pacific
Utilities Index offer a  dividend yield  close to that of 10-year
U.S. Treasuries.  Huaneng Power (902) , the publicly traded unit of  China ’s largest
electricity producer, slid 3.4 percent to HK$7.98 in Hong Kong.
Datang International Power Generation Co. dropped 3 percent to
HK$3.20. Kansai Electric Power Co. decreased 5.9 percent to
1,204 yen in Tokyo.  Singapore Air slid 0.9 percent to S$10.74, closing at its
lowest in more than a month. The company’s plane order
“spooked” investors on concern the purchase would impact
future dividend payouts, K Ajith, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian
Holdings Ltd., said by phone.  Among stocks that advanced, Sony Corp. gained 2.1 percent
to 2,049 yen. The electronics maker is working with Morgan
Stanley and Citigroup Inc. as it considers adopting billionaire
 Daniel Loeb ’s proposal for an initial public offering of its
entertainment unit, people familiar with the matter said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  