-- Aussie Set for Biggest Monthly Loss Since ’11 on Economy Concern
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-05-31T06:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/aussie-set-for-biggest-monthly-loss-since-11-on-economy-concern.html
Australia’s dollar headed for its
biggest monthly decline in more than two years on speculation a
slowdown in  China  will weigh on the economy, prompting the
 Reserve Bank  to cut  interest rates  this year.  The Aussie has slumped 5.2 percent over the past month, the
among the 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The  International Monetary Fund 
this week lowered its growth forecasts for China, Australia’s
biggest trading partner. Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford Motor Co.
cited foreign-exchange levels when it announced this month that
it would stop making cars in Australia.  “We have a short position in Australian dollars,” said
Park Sungjin, the head of asset management in  Seoul  at Meritz
Securities Co., which oversees $7 billion. “The reason is their
weak economy,” Park said, citing Ford’s decision. The Aussie
will fall to 90 U.S. cents by year-end, he said.  Australia ’s dollar dropped 0.2 percent to 96.47 U.S. cents
as of 4:27 p.m. in Sydney. The Aussie fell 0.3 percent to
NZ$1.1929 and gained 0.1 percent to 96.41 yen.  New Zealand ’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to 80.84 U.S. cents
and added 0.4 percent to 81.67 yen.  For the month, the Aussie is set for a 7 percent slide
versus the greenback, the most since a 9.8 percent plunge in
September 2011. The kiwi is poised for a 5.5 percent decline in
May.  Australian Economy  In Australia,  gross domestic product  probably rose an
annualized 2.7 percent in the three months ended March 31, the
slowest in more than a year and down from the 3.1 percent
expansion in the fourth quarter, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  before the
data on June 5.  The IMF on May 29 lowered growth forecasts for China,
Australia’s biggest trading partner to 7.75 percent this year
and next from earlier projections of 8 percent for 2013 and 8.2
percent in 2014. Investment in commodities and energy has
peaked, threatening to slow Australia’s economy, the government
said this month.  Australia’s  10-year government note  yield slid four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.36 percent. The three-year rate fell two basis points to 2.60 percent.  Demand for the kiwi was supported after data showed the
nation’s terms of trade rose more than economists estimated.  The terms of trade  index , which measures the price of
exports relative to imports, rose 4.1 percent in the first
quarter from the previous three-month period, when it fell a
revised 1.2 percent,  Statistics New Zealand  said in a statement
in Wellington today. Economists had expected a 1.5 percent
increase.  Fed Bets  Losses in the South Pacific nations’ currencies were
limited before U.S. data that may add to the case for the
 Federal Reserve  to maintain stimulus.  U.S. consumer spending was probably unchanged in April from
the previous month, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the data today. Personal
income rose 0.1 percent last month, compared with an 0.2 percent
in March, economists  predicted .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that the
central bank may slow quantitative easing if officials see
indications of sustained improvement in economic growth. Reports
yesterday showed first-quarter gross domestic product was
revised down to a 2.4 percent annualized rate from 2.5 percent
reported last month and an increase in jobless claims.  “I don’t think the Fed is going to taper any time soon,”
said Derek Mumford, a director at Rochford Capital, a currency
risk-management company in Sydney. “The U.S. dollar strength is
not entirely justified. The Aussie is still struggling to get to
97 cents, but if it does break above it, there will be stop-losses which could see it spike up to 97.80.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Mio Coxon in Tokyo at 
 mcoxon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  