-- Australian Banks Drop Most in Three Years From Record High
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-31T06:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/australia-banks-on-track-for-biggest-monthly-fall-in-three-years.html
Australian bank recorded their worst
monthly performance in three years as investors cashed out of a
rally that drove financial shares to a record high in April.  The  S&P/ASX 200 Banks index  plunged 12 percent this month,
its biggest decline since May 2010.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , the
second-largest lender by market value, slid the most among the
nation’s top four banks in the period, losing 15 percent.  “Banks have stood out among the pack and investors, having
enjoyed the run and higher dividends, are rotating out to other
beaten-down sectors,” Stan Shamu, market strategist at
Melbourne-based IG Markets Ltd., said by phone. “It’s also time
to take a hard look at record-low mortgage growth, increasing
competition and a slowing economy’s impact on banks.”  Record profits, higher dividend payout ratios and low bad
debts fueled a 27 percent gain in financial stocks this year
through April 30, compared with a 12 percent advance for the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index. The rally pushed bank shares to
record highs, with  UBS AG (UBSN)  analysts led by Jonathan Mott calling
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia  the most expensive lender in the
world on May 15.  “We expect structural challenges will drive medium-term
earnings per share growth of 5 percent, well below their 10
percent to 20 percent a year average,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
analysts led by Matthew Ross wrote in a note to investors on May
28. They recommended clients switch from banks to miners such as
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)   The note referred to an aging population, low mortgage
growth and increased regulation among the structural challenges
facing the nation’s lenders.  The International Monetary Fund this week lowered its
growth forecasts for  China , Australia’s biggest trading partner,
to 7.75 percent this year and next, from earlier projections of
8 percent for 2013 and 8.2 percent in 2014.  Investment in commodities and energy has peaked,
threatening to slow  Australia ’s economy, the government said
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  