-- Lawmaker Says U.S. May Need to Revoke Bangladesh Trade Status
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-05-31T17:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/lawmaker-says-u-s-may-need-to-revoke-bangladesh-trade-status.html
President  Barack Obama  should revoke
Bangladesh’s beneficial trade status if the country doesn’t
comply with U.S. benchmarks to improve labor and safety
standards, a House lawmaker said.  Concerns over labor standards had prompted the U.S. to
consider taking steps to raise tariffs on some Bangladeshi goods
even before a garment factory collapsed in the Asian nation on
April 24, killing more than 1,000 people.  U.S. officials “should now use their leverage to get those
changes and get those changes right away,” Representative
 George Miller , who recently returned from a trip to Bangladesh,
said today on a call with reporters. Miller, of California, is
the top Democrat on the House Committee on Education & the
Workforce, which oversees labor issues.  In a Jan. 8 notice in the Federal Register, the Office of
the U.S. Trade Representative said that “the lack of progress
by the government of Bangladesh in addressing worker rights
issues in the country warrants consideration of possible
withdrawal, suspension or limitation Bangladesh’s trade
benefits.”  Bangladesh participates in a U.S. program known as the
Generalized System of Preferences, which allows zero or reduced
tariffs on some products imported from  developing countries .  The USTR in June is scheduled to consider the next steps in
its review. Miller said  Bangladesh  should be given a few months
to comply with benchmarks to improve labor conditions.  ‘No Choice’  If Bangladesh doesn’t improve worker conditions, “we have
no choice” but to revoke the country’s preferred trade status,
he said. Miller said he will wait for the results of the Obama
administration’s review before considering legislation.  The Senate Foreign Relations Committee is scheduled to hold
a hearing on labor conditions in Bangladesh on June 6.  Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and San
Francisco-based  Gap Inc. (GPS)  are meeting with retailers, industry
associations and the Bipartisan Policy Center to develop a plan
to improve fire and safety regulation in Bangladesh factories.  The discussions are part of the previously announced Safer
Factories Initiative organized by the Bipartisan Policy Center,
a nonprofit policy and advocacy think tank, the center said
yesterday in a statement. The talks are co-chaired by former
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  George Mitchell  and former U.S.
Senator  Olympia Snowe .  Wal-Mart and Gap are among U.S. retailers that have faced
criticism for not joining at least 24 other garment-sellers in a
legally binding agreement to improve safety at Bangladesh
factories that has won support from labor-monitoring groups. The
Safer Factories Initiative held its first discussion May 29 in
 New York  and said it will release a plan by early July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  