-- Bartleby’s Prefers Not to See Amazon Run Web Books Domain
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-06-05T19:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/bartleby-s-prefers-not-to-see-amazon-run-web-books-domain.html
(Corrects corporation headquarters in sixth paragraph of
story published May 31.)  Herman Melville’s character Bartleby
the scrivener famously said he “would prefer not to,” and 160
years later the owner of Bartleby’s Books would prefer not to
see  Amazon (AMZN) .com Inc. control Internet addresses ending in .book.  “I would just hate to see the cultural process that books
represent be controlled by a single firm,” John Thomson, owner
of  Bartleby’s  in Washington and president of the Antiquarian
Booksellers’ Association of America Inc., said in an interview.  The trade group of 450 booksellers has joined  Barnes &
Noble Inc. (BKS)  and publishers in objecting to Amazon’s application
to win ownership of the .book domain. The Internet Corporation
for Assigned Names and Numbers, the non-profit Web
administrator, is weighing requests for more than 1,400 new top-level domains -- the letters to the right of the dot, such as
.com or .net. The first of the new names in the Internet’s
biggest expansion are to appear by year’s end.  Amazon and companies from fashion houses to financial
institutions paid $185,000 for each application for a fresh
domain. Some applicants are betting there’s money to be made
selling website addresses under generic designations such as
.game or .shop, while others are trying to protect how their
brands are used, with names such as .airbus or .qvc. Search-engine owner  Google (GOOG)  Inc. applied for 101 domains, including
.search, .map and .mail.  Icann says 230 names have more than one applicant, and
conflicts may have to be resolved through auctions. Paris-based
 L’Oreal SA (OR) , the world’s largest cosmetics maker, is vying for
.beauty with  Top Level Domain Holdings Plc (TLDH) , a London-based
company. The U.S. Polo Association, which  governs  what it calls
the “Sport of Kings,” has objected to Polo-brand clothing
maker  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL) ’s bid for .polo.  ‘New Dot-Coms’  The contenders are paying the application price because new
domain names can be used to lure consumers, Jeremiah Johnston,
general counsel for Cologne, Germany-based Sedo Holding AG’s
Sedo.com, which sells Internet names, said in an interview.  “These battles are for the new dot-coms,” Johnston said.
“Instead of it just being a company in the background running
it like a utility, there’s now going to be motivations for the
owners of these new extensions to be the most popular extensions
out there.”  Winning applicants can make money by charging for new
addresses under their domains, or could use new domains for just
proprietary content “having a little bit of a walled garden
around your customer base,” Johnston said.  The ability to control the use of generic terms that aren’t
brand-specific is at the heart of objections to Seattle-based
Amazon’s requests for .book, .author and .read.  Competition Concerns  Amazon, which controls about 60 percent of the market for
electronic books and one-fourth of the market for printed books,
would use the addresses “to stifle competition,” New York-based Barnes & Noble said in a letter to Icann.  “No bookseller or publisher other than Amazon will be able
to register” websites in the domains without the Seattle-based
online seller’s permission, “leaving Amazon free to exclude
competitors,” vice presidents Eugene DeFelice and Bradley Feur
said in a Feb. 21 letter.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for Barnes & Noble,
declined to comment, as did Craig Berman, an Amazon spokesman.  Amazon in its application said it would run .book “as
needed to reflect Amazon’s business goals.”  That’s worrisome, said Allan Adler, general counsel of the
Association of American Publishers, a Washington-based trade
group that includes Reed Elsevier Plc, the London-based owner of
Gray’s Anatomy textbooks, journals publisher John Wiley & Sons
Inc., and The Walt Disney Co.’s children’s publisher.  “This would not promote the kind of competition we have
been hearing is the rationale for expanding domain names in the
first place,” Adler said in an interview.  Objection Process  Companies and groups have put in 1,930 applications for
1,405 names with Los Angeles-based Icann, which manages Internet
functions under a contract with the U.S. Commerce Department.
Objections go before three independent bodies, which may resolve
some arguments by August while others linger for “a few
months,”  Brad White , an Icann spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  FairSearch.org, which says it defends online competition
and includes software maker  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and online travel
agency  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , filed objections to Google’s requests for
names including .search, .fly and .map, the group said in a  blog
post .  Having control of the names would give Google power to
limit .search to its own properties, and would give it power to
decide which mapping and flight-booking competitors could have
access to “important new signposts on the Internet,” the group
said.  The European Commission is investigating whether Google
thwarts competition in the market for Web searches. The U.S.
Federal Trade Commission in January closed its review of
Google’s search business without taking action.  Google Domains  “Google, the dominant provider of Internet search and
search advertising, should not be given the power to reject
applications from competitors,” Ben Hammer, a vice president at
Washington-based public relations agency Glover Park Group who
serves as a spokesman for FairSearch, said in an e-mail.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , wants to make
sure the new names offer a good experience for Web users,
 Samantha Smith , a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “We’re just beginning to explore a new source of
innovation on the Web, and we are both excited and curious,”
Smith said. “By opening up more choices for Internet domain
names, we believe users will have options for more diverse --and
perhaps shorter -- signposts in cyberspace.”  Some objections have little to do with business.  Closely held apparel maker Patagonia Inc. evoked 1,148
comments about its proposal to operate .patagonia, including one
that said, “this is a geographical region of  Argentina .”  The government of Montenegro, the smallest former Yugoslav
republic, wants Icann to deny Google’s request for .meme. The
term is too similar to Montenegro’s established domain, .me, and
“will only serve to cause substantial confusion in the domain
name market,” Montenegro told Icann.  Google in its application says the term “connotes the
echoing of a cultural idea,” and says it will be used for Web
space dedicated to viral phenomenon, ideas, images and videos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  