-- Beckham’s Publicist Signs Agreement With Brazil’s Neymar
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-31T11:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/beckham-s-publicist-signs-image-rights-pact-with-brazil-s-neymar.html
David Beckham’s publicist signed an
image-rights agreement with Neymar that makes  Brazil ’s most-marketable soccer player the first client of his new sports
investment group  Simon Oliveira, who remains part of Beckham’s management
team, said that Neymar’s management company, NR Sports, signed
an accord through 2017 with the new Doyen Global unit of London-based hedge fund Doyen Group. Oliveira, who started Doyen Global
with ex-Creative Artists Agency executive Matthew Kay, declined
to provide financial details.  Oliveira said Doyen Global will seek new sponsors and
partners for Neymar outside Brazil. The 21-year-old, who is
joining Spanish champion Barcelona, is the fifth highest-earning
soccer player with annual income of 20 million euros ($26
million), according to France Football magazine, which estimated
that endorsements make up two thirds of the total.  “Our primary focus in the first stage will be on building
Neymar’s profile in  Asia , where we believe there is real
potential for growth,” Oliveira said in a telephone interview
from  London  yesterday. “The next few years are pivotal in his
career and we are honored to be working alongside him.”  Neymar’s image graces billboards and television screens
across Brazil. He appeared in one of its most popular soap
operas last week before introducing  Nike Inc. (NKE) ’s new soccer shoe
in  Rio de Janeiro  the next day. Those appearances followed the
May 26 announcement to his more than 1 million followers on
social networking site Instagram that he would leave Santos to
join world player of the year Lionel Messi at Barcelona.  Goal Award  Since emerging in Santos’s first team as a 17-year-old,
Neymar has been likened to three-time World Cup winner Pele, who
spent much of his career with the club.  Neymar scored 138 goals in 229 matches for Santos,
including one in a league game against Flamengo that was voted
the best goal in professional soccer in 2011 by global governing
body FIFA. That same year, Santos won the Libertadores Cup,
South American soccer’s biggest club prize, for the first time
since Pele helped the team secure the trophy in 1963.  “I’m pleased to work with Doyen,” Neymar, whose 10
sponsors include Nike,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Unilever NV (UNA) , said in a
statement. “They will add to my team and we look forward to
working with them.”  Neymar’s appeal has helped Santos’s revenue soar.  In a May 26 statement announcing that it had agreed to sell
him to Barcelona, Santos said sales had tripled to almost 200
million reais ($94.7 million) since Neymar’s debut in 2009, and
the club’s membership grew to 65,000 from 17,000.  Future Earnings  How well Neymar’s brand continues to prosper may depend on
his performance overseas, where he’s struggled at times to match
his exploits in Brazil. He was part of the Brazil team beaten by
underdog  Mexico  in the 2012 Olympic soccer tournament gold-medal
match in London and was on the field as Messi scored twice in a
4-0 victory for Barcelona over Santos in the FIFA Club World Cup
a year earlier.  “Not only is he a special talent, he has incredible
charisma and a desire to work hard to maximize his potential,”
said Oliveira, whose firm continues to consult with his former
firm, XIX Entertainment, on Beckham and Formula-1 driver  Lewis
Hamilton .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  