-- BOE Seen Keeping Quantitative Easing on Hold on Recovery
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-31T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/boe-seen-keeping-qe-on-hold-as-recovery-shows-signs-of-strength.html
The  Bank of England  will keep its
target for asset purchases unchanged next week after industry
reports that are forecast to point to an improving economic
recovery, according to surveys of economists.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  will keep  quantitative easing  at 375 billion pounds
($569 billion), according to the median of 43 economists in a
Bloomberg News poll. The MPC will also keep its benchmark
interest  rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, another survey shows.  The meeting will be King’s last before he retires and hands
over to Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney on July 1. With
 inflation  above the BOE’s target, King has been defeated for the
past four months in a bid to expand QE as the MPC majority
cautioned against the danger of stoking price expectations.  “It would seem strange if the committee were to embark on
a radical departure from its current course just ahead of  Mark
Carney  taking over the helm,” said  Philip Shaw , an economist at
Investec in London. “Hence any change in the policy stance this
time seems improbable.”  A report on June 3 may show that  manufacturing  returned to
growth this month. An index by Markit Economics and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  rose to 50.3 from
49.8 in April, according to the median of 33 estimates in a
survey. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Services growth  probably accelerated this month, according
to another survey of economists before a report on June 5. The
MPC will announce its decisions at noon the following day.  Limited Recovery  While there is “some encouraging news,” the recovery is
“far from convincing,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS
Global Insight in London, adding that more stimulus is likely
later in the year. “It seems more likely to come as a welcoming
present sometime in the third quarter for incoming Governor Mark
Carney than as a parting gift for Mervyn King.”  The British Chambers of Commerce raised its economic
forecasts through 2015 today, and separate data showed  consumer
confidence  increased to a six-month high this month. Still,
 unemployment  rose in the first quarter and retail sales fell the
most in 16 months in May. Weakness in credit has led the
government and the central bank to broaden their Funding for
Lending Scheme to encourage lending. New data on the impact of
the program will be published on June 3.  “Where policy goes from here depends not just on the path
of the economic data, but also on whether Dr. Carney encourages
a more activist approach,” said Shaw. “The risk of another
false start suggests he may do what he can to ensure that the
upturn is sustained, probably in the form of restarting
quantitative easing and issuing forward guidance on rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  