-- Boeing 787 Returns in Japan as ANA, JAL Resume Flights
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2013-05-31T21:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/boeing-787-returns-in-japan-as-ana-jal-resume-flights.html
ANA Holdings Inc. (9202)  and  Japan Airlines
Co. (9201) , the world’s biggest operators of  Boeing Co. (BA)  787s, resumed
commercial service with the plane after battery malfunctions
kept the Dreamliner fleet grounded for more than four months.  ANA’s flight to  Frankfurt  took off at 1:17 a.m. today from
Tokyo’s Haneda airport, according to Houston-based industry data
tracker FlightAware.com. JAL’s flight to  Singapore  departed at
1:22 a.m., according to FlightAware.  The carriers, which have a total of 27 Dreamliners, are
flying the fuel-efficient aircraft to cities such as Boston and
San Jose,  California , that wouldn’t be profitable with larger
planes. Suspension of 787 services would affect sales this year,
ANA and JAL have said, after melting batteries on two jets
spurred regulators to park all the planes in January.  “The restart of flights without any hitches is a good sign
for the airlines,” said Osuke Itazaki, an SMBC Nikko Securities
Inc. analyst in  Tokyo . “To increase the top line, the airlines
need to increase their destinations, which they can do with the
787.”  Japan  has been the biggest market so far for Boeing’s
plane, the first jetliner made chiefly of composite plastic
materials. That meant ANA and JAL had the broadest disruptions
while the aircraft were grounded and Boeing was rushing to find
a fix for the lithium-ion batteries.  Among the eight Dreamliner operators, Ethiopian Airlines
Enterprise began flying again in April while Qatar Airways Ltd.,
Air India Ltd. and United Continental Holdings Inc. resumed
service last month. LOT Polish Airlines SA said May 17 it would
resume Dreamliner flights on June 5.  Emergency Landing  ANA fell 1.8 percent to 213 yen at close of Tokyo trading
yesterday. The stock has  gained  18 percent this year, compared
with a 33 percent advance in the Nikkei 225 Stock Average and
JAL’s 41 percent gain.  One of ANA’s 787s made an emergency landing on Jan. 16
after smoke from a lithium-ion battery was detected. Nine days
earlier, a battery had caught fire on a JAL 787 in  Boston . No
one was injured in either incident.  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration ordered 787s in
domestic service grounded, the first such action for an entire
model since 1979, and regulators around the world followed suit.
The Dreamliner is the only large commercial jet equipped with
lithium-ion batteries as part of its power system.  The groundings may have reduced ANA  sales  by about 16
billion yen ($159 million), according to figures from the
company. JAL’s probably lost 6.5 billion yen in sales due to the
groundings, it has said.  More Protection  Boeing redesigned the battery to include more protection
around individual cells to contain any overheating, added a
steel case to prevent fire and a tube that would vent any fumes
outside the fuselage. Carriers began 787 test flights after the
FAA approved the battery upgrades.  The 787 is safe to fly, even as the cause of the battery
meltdowns remains uncertain, Mike Sinnett, vice president and
chief project engineer of the 787 program, said in April.  ANA received its 19th Dreamliner last month, while JAL has
eight 787s, the airlines have said separately. ANA has orders
for 66 Dreamliners, while JAL has ordered 45.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Cooper in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  