-- BP Well Leaders Seek Dismissal of Charges in Gulf Spill
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-05-31T22:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/bp-well-leaders-seek-dismissal-of-criminal-charges.html
Two  BP Plc (BP/)  well-site leaders who were
aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig when an explosion
killed 11 workers and triggered the biggest U.S. offshore oil
spill asked a court to dismiss the federal charges against them.  Robert Kaluza and  Donald Vidrine , BP’s highest-ranking
employees aboard the  Gulf of Mexico  rig during the April 20,
2010, blowout, are each charged with 11 counts of involuntary
manslaughter, 11 counts of seaman’s manslaughter and one count
of violating the U.S.  Clean Water Act . They have pleaded not
guilty and are awaiting trial in January. The most serious count
against them carries a maximum prison sentence of 10 years.  Prosecutors said that the men, who supervised key pressure
tests during the final drilling operations, ignored indications
that the well wasn’t secure. The defendants said in a filing
yesterday in federal court in New Orleans that U.S. laws don’t
extend to a drilling rig floating in mile-deep waters almost 50
miles (80 kilometers) off the  Louisiana  coast. The territorial
boundary is 12 miles off shore.  The Deepwater Horizon, which was owned by Vernier,
Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and was drilling the Macondo
well for London-based BP, carried the flag of the  Marshall
Islands , which isn’t subject to U.S. laws, according to the
filing.  ‘Territorial Jurisdiction’  The U.S. “lacks territorial jurisdiction for acts
occurring on the Deepwater Horizon, and Mr. Kaluza and Mr.
Vidrine may not be prosecuted” under the statues they were
charged with violating, David Gerger and Shaun Clarke, Kaluza’s
lawyers, said in the filing.  Peter Carr , a spokesman for the U.S. Justice Department,
declined in an e-mail to comment on the filing, saying the
government will reply in court at the appropriate time.  David Rainey , BP’s former vice president of exploration for
the Gulf of Mexico, was charged with obstruction of Congress and
making false statements related to the size of the spill. A
federal judge in New Orleans on May 20 threw out the obstruction
charge. Rainey will stand trial on the remaining count in
October.  BP pleaded guilty to 14 charges and agreed to pay
$4 billion to resolve all criminal claims against it arising
from the Deepwater Horizon incident. The company also agreed to
pay an additional $525 million to resolve claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that it underestimated the
size of the spill to bolster stock prices. More than 4 million
barrels of oil spilled into the gulf, the U.S. estimated.  Felony Manslaughter  The 14 criminal counts include 11 for felony manslaughter,
one felony count of obstruction of Congress, one misdemeanor
count under the Clean Water Act and one misdemeanor count under
the  Migratory Bird Treaty Act , according to the plea agreement.  Thirteen of the charges are related to the accident itself
and are based on negligent misinterpretation of the negative
pressure test conducted on board the rig, BP said in the plea
agreement. The obstruction count involves communications on
flow-rate estimates to a congressional subcommittee, according
to court filings.  Scott Dean , a BP spokesman, had no comment on the well-site
leaders’ request to dismiss charges against them.  Kaluza and Vidrine said they can’t be prosecuted under
statutes applying U.S. jurisdiction to the Outer Continental
Shelf because the Deepwater Horizon wasn’t “erected on the
seafloor” and was floating in waters considered “the high
seas,” which aren’t covered by those laws.  ‘Ships’ Officers’  They also claim the seaman’s manslaughter charges should be
dismissed because that statute only applies to “ships’ officers
and other employees working in marine operations, maintenance or
navigation.’’  “The statute does not apply to persons such as Mr. Kaluza
and Mr. Vidrine working on a vessel in a different capacity,’’
according to the filing.  The cases are U.S. v. Kaluza, 12-cr-00265; U.S. v. Rainey,
12-cr-00291; and BP is U.S. v. BP Exploration and Production
Inc., 12-00292, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  