-- Brazil’s Rousseff Said to Support Central Bank’s Monetary Policy
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-05-31T19:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/brazil-s-rousseff-said-to-support-central-bank-s-monetary-policy.html
Brazil ’s President Dilma Rousseff
fully backs the central bank’s monetary policy and will ensure
its autonomy to do what is needed to tame inflation, a
government official knowledgeable of economic policy said.  Rousseff had agreed with the need for the central bank,
which accelerated the pace of interest rate increases this week,
to adopt a more aggressive tone against inflation, said the
official, who asked not to be named because he is not authorized
to discuss the issue publicly.  The bank’s board on May 29 raised its benchmark  Selic (BZPIIPCY)  rate
by 50 basis points to 8 percent in a bid to tame inflation that
has been forestalling an economic recovery. The move surprised
38 of 57 economist surveyed by Bloomberg who expected a second
straight 25 basis-point increase. The decision was anticipated
by 19 of 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual inflation  accelerated for nine straight months
through March to 6.59 percent, above the top of the central
bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent. In April, it
eased to 6.49 percent.  Rates on swaps maturing in January 2014 rose 37 basis
points, or 0.37 percentage point, to 8.43 percent at 3:53 p.m.
local time.  Rousseff said on March 27 she opposed anti-inflation
measures that could slow growth, which led traders to speculate
she wouldn’t agree with  interest rate  increases to rein in
consumer prices. On the same day she said her comments were
misinterpreted.  In April, after keeping borrowing costs at a record low
since October, the central bank raised the benchmark interest
rate for the first time since July 2011.  Central bank president Alexandre Tombini told TV Globo
yesterday that the rate decision would reinforce confidence in
the fundamentals of Brazil’s economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  