-- Brazil Real Touches Weakest in Four Years, Spurring Intervention
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-05-31T22:06:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/brazil-swap-rates-surge-after-central-bank-increase-real-falls.html
Brazil ’s real fell to a four-year
low, spurring the central bank to intervene in the  currency
market  for the first time since March to stem the selloff.  The real pared its drop after the central bank sold 17,600
out of 30,000 currency swap contracts worth $877 million before
resuming its decline. Yields on interest-rate futures contracts
rose the most in four years as policy makers unexpectedly
stepped up the pace of increases in benchmark borrowing costs on
May 29, saying inflation was undermining the economic recovery.  “Today, it’s less about the level of the real and more the
pace of the move,” Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, a markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a
telephone interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “That made the
central bank nervous.”  The real depreciated 1.4 percent to 2.1411 per  U.S. dollar 
at 6:45 p.m. in  Sao Paulo  after declining 1.8 percent to 2.1495,
the weakest intraday level since May 2009. Swap rates on the
contract due in January climbed 38 basis points, or 0.38
percentage point, to 8.44 percent, extending the surge this
month to 53 basis points.  The central bank also assessed demand for another swaps
auction, its press office in Brasilia said.  This signals there will another auction on June 3,
according to Reginaldo Galhardo, head of  currency trading  at
Treviso Corretora in Sao Paulo.  The currency has traded in an intraday range of 1.94 to
2.15 per dollar this year as policy makers fluctuated between
selling currency swaps to prevent it from falling too much and
offering reverse currency swaps to rein in gains.  Real Slump  The central bank had last intervened in the foreign-exchange market on March 27, when it sold $995 million of
currency swaps to push the real higher.  The real has lost 6.5 percent in May, its worst monthly
performance since September 2011. It is the biggest loser this
month among 24 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the South African rand.  The currency tumbled today as signs of a sputtering
Brazilian economic recovery and a surge in U.S. Treasury yields
sapped demand for higher-yielding assets.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on May 29 a declining
currency isn’t a concern and Brazil won’t use the  exchange rate 
to curb inflation.  “Other tools exist to combat inflation,” Mantega told
reporters. The dollar’s rally reflects “an international shift,
and there’s no reason we should be different.”  Swap Rates  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , the Brazilian planemaker that is the best
performer on the Ibovespa equity benchmark in 2013, rallied 2.1
percent to a five-year high on speculation a weaker real will
help boost revenue.  Swap rates surged two days after the central bank voted
unanimously to raise the  target lending rate  by 50 basis points
to 8 percent, surprising 38 of 57 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, who had expected a second straight increase of 25
basis points. The other 19 correctly forecast the increase.
Brazil’s markets were closed yesterday for a holiday.  At its meeting last month, policy makers raised the
benchmark by a quarter-percentage point to 7.50 percent. It had
lowered borrowing costs by 5.25 percentage points in reductions
that began in August 2011 to support economic growth.  “The board’s decision reinforced the credibility of the
central bank, which showed a preoccupation with inflation,”
 Newton Rosa , the chief economist at SulAmerica Investimentos in
Sao Paulo, said in a telephone interview. “The central bank
should continue raising to 8.75 percent.”  Annual Inflation  Since central bank President Alexandre Tombini took office
in January 2011, the annual rate of  consumer price increases  has
remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of policy makers’ target
range. Inflation accelerated to 6.59 percent in March before
easing to 6.49 percent last month.  Latin America ’s largest economy grew 1.9 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier after expanding 1.4 percent in
the previous period, the national statistics agency reported May
29 before the central bank’s rate decision. The median forecast
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for growth of 2.3 percent.  “We may be seeing a true ‘change in regime,’”  Tony Volpon , the head of research for the Americas at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in  New York , wrote yesterday in a research note to clients.
“If this is the case, the center of the inflation target may be
in sight, and after a ‘short, sharp shock’ the central bank
could begin cutting rates in 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  