-- Burundi’s Nsekera Is First Woman Elected to FIFA Executive
-- B y   C h r i s t i n a   V i l b r i n   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-05-31T18:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/burundi-s-nsekera-is-first-woman-elected-to-fifa-executive-1-.html
Burundi’s Lydia Nsekera today became
the first woman elected to the executive board of soccer’s
governing body, FIFA.  Nsekera, 45, polled 95 votes for the four-year term, ahead
of Moya Dodd of  Australia  (70 votes) and Sonia Bien-Aime, an
official from the Turks & Caicos Islands (38 votes), at FIFA’s
Congress in Mauritius. Both Dodd and Bien-Aime were appointed to
the board for one-year terms after the balloting.  Nsekera was appointed to the executive committee a year ago
on an interim basis as part of FIFA’s reform program. Delegates
approved a new rule that adds a 25th seat on the executive
committee that must be filled by a woman.  FIFA’s Congress was meeting this week as President Sepp
Blatter tries to appease critics of the organization. Earlier
this month, executive committee member Chuck Blazer of the U.S.
was suspended for 90 days, becoming the latest high-ranking FIFA
official to be punished because of accusations of graft. He
denies the allegations.  Earlier this year, FIFA said its former president Joao
Havelange and two other ex-board members took “not
inconsiderable amounts” in bribes from its now-bankrupt
marketing partner. On April 30, FIFA suspended another executive
committee member, Vernon Manilal Fernando of Sri Lanka, for
eight years, citing “several breaches” of its ethics code.  Postponements  Those attending this week’s Congress in Mauritius were
unable to reach a consensus on proposals implementing age and
term limits, and a vote was postponed to allow the executive
committee to consider options.  “If we had voted today on the age limit and terms of
office, our proposition would have been rejected as many
confederations do not have age limits,” Blatter said at a press
conference. “Without voting, we keep doors open. We will tackle
the age limit and come back.”  Blatter said two-thirds of the committee voted to postpone
the motions on limits.  The president said he was against age limits but would
support a restriction on terms, saying the use of both wasn’t
possible.  “We must know to whom this limitation will apply,” he
said. “There must be either age limit or term of office. We
can’t have the two together.”  FIFA’s decisions are a step forward, but much still needs
to be done, said Mark Pieth, chairman of the body’s independent
governance committee.  ‘Not Yet Ended’  “The procedure is not yet ended,” Pieth said at a press
conference. “I am however not worried. The real challenge is
the implementation of the decisions.”  Pieth said he is “optimistic” that FIFA will publish the
salaries of individual executives eventually.  Today, the executive committee approved rule changes that
would punish clubs and players who racially abused opponents.  Jeffrey Webb, FIFA vice president and chairman of a new
task force against racism, said punishments for first-time
violators could include a warning, a fine or the playing of a
match behind closed doors shall be applied.  “For reoffenders of serious incidents, sanctions such as
point deductions, expulsion from a competition or relegation
should be applied,” Webb said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  