-- Canada Economy Grows Fastest Since 2011 on Oil Exports
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-05-31T16:35:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/canada-economy-grows-fastest-since-2011-on-oil-exports.html
A surge in Canadian oil exports to
the U.S. helped propel the country’s economy in the first
quarter to its fastest growth pace since 2011, even as domestic
demand expanded at the slowest rate since the 2009 recession.  Gross domestic product  grew at a 2.5 percent annualized
pace from January to March, the fastest in six quarters, after a
revised 0.9 percent gain in the fourth quarter, Statistics
 Canada  said today from Ottawa. The three-month period ended with
a 0.2 percent increase in output in March.  Canadian oil producers ramped up  shipments  to the U.S.,
taking advantage of new pipeline capacity and rebounding from
temporary maintenance shutdowns that curbed output last year, to
help the country rebound from the slowest six-month expansion
since the recession. The pick-up in growth gives the  Bank of
Canada  more scope to maintain its tightening bias without
worrying about its impact on domestic spending, said  David Tulk 
of Toronto-Dominion Bank.  The Bank of Canada “should take some comfort in allowing
domestic demand to take a much needed breather,” said Tulk,
chief macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
in Toronto.  Canada’s central bank, whose  benchmark rate  of 1 percent is
the highest among the Group of Seven, is also the only G-7
country to be signaling the chance of higher  interest rates .  Economists  surveyed  by  Bloomberg News  projected a 2.3
percent quarterly increase in gross domestic product, according
to the median of 24 estimates. Output in March was projected to
increase 0.1 percent.  Canadian Dollar  The Canadian dollar pared losses against its U.S. peer
after the report before resuming declines. The currency was down
0.5 percent to C$1.0346 per  U.S. dollar  at 12:26 p.m. in Toronto
trading. One Canadian dollar buys 96.66 U.S. cents.  David Watt , chief economist at HSBC Bank Canada in Toronto,
pointed to increased production and the reversal of the Seaway
pipeline last year by  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , which moved more crude to the Houston area from
Cushing,  Oklahoma , for the increase in oil exports at the
beginning of this year.  There was a “mini-boom in Canadian oil exports to the
U.S.,” Watt said before the release.  Total exports of goods and services rose at a 6.2 percent
annualized pace in the first quarter, the fastest pace since the
last three months of 2011.  Canada’s share of U.S. crude oil imports rose to 38.7
percent in February, the highest in at least two decades
according to U.S.  Energy Information Administration  data.  Oil Exports  Crude oil export volumes jumped 8.2 percent to a record in
the first quarter on a non-annualized basis, while natural gas
exports were up 9.7 percent over the period, according to
 Statistics Canada  data released before today’s report.  Exports of energy products rose 21.9 percent in the first
quarter on an annualized basis, Statistics Canada said today.  Increased output in mining and oil and gas extraction
helped lead growth in March, Statistics Canada said, marking the
third straight monthly expansion.  Canada will increasingly rely on a rebound in the U.S. to
power its economy, the Bank of Canada projects, as household
consumption slows and governments rein in spending. The increase
marked the second straight quarter that Canada’s economy has
outpaced the U.S., where a Commerce Department report yesterday
showed growth of 2.4 percent in the first quarter. First-quarter
growth was one percentage point above the central bank’s
forecast for the three-month period.  ‘Great Start’  “It’s a great start to the year,” said  Camilla Sutton ,
head of currency strategy at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in Toronto.  While picking up steam in the first quarter, the economy
may still struggle to reach the growth rate of its potential for
all of 2013, which the Bank of Canada projects at about 2.1
percent.  Canada’s economic growth, estimated at 1.5 percent in 2013
by the  International Monetary Fund , will be the slowest among
Group of 20 countries outside  Europe , according to estimates
released by the Washington-based lender in April.  Final domestic demand -- an aggregate of consumption,
 government spending  and business investment -- rose at a 0.6
percent annualized pace in the first quarter, the slowest since
the first quarter of 2009, amid a cooling housing market and
reduced spending growth by households carrying record debts, the
statistics agency said.  Weak Recovery  “While Canada’s economy packed on a few more pounds than
expected,” Bank of Montreal chief economist  Doug Porter  said in
a note to investors, “it’s still stuck in slim-growth mode.”  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in a statement today
that while he was pleased with the GDP numbers, the global
recovery remains weak, citing European unemployment data.  The euro-area jobless rate rose to a record 12.2 percent
from 12.1 percent in March, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said today.  The European announcement “is another reminder of the
fragility of the global recovery and the external threats to
Canada’s economy,” Flaherty said in the statement.  Household consumption grew at an annualized 0.9 percent in
the first quarter, less than half the 2.2 percent pace in the
final three months of 2012. Home construction, which helped lift
the economy out of recession, fell for a third straight quarter
at the beginning of this year, falling at a 4.7 percent rate
between January and March.  Capital spending growth by businesses outside of  home
construction  also slowed, growing at a 0.7 percent annualized
pace in the first quarter. That’s down from a 5.2 percent rate
in the previous quarter.  The economy also got a boost from businesses adding C$2.16
billion ($2.09 billion) to inventories in the first quarter,
after drawing down C$10.2 billion from October to December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  