-- Canada Dollar Declines Along With Oil as Risk Appetite Drops
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-31T21:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/canadian-dollar-falls-as-global-risk-sentiment-ebbs-before-gdp.html
The Canadian dollar declined for the
first time in three days versus its U.S counterpart as crude
oil, the nation’s largest export, and stocks dropped amid a
decrease in investor appetite for risk.  The currency briefly pared the decline as a report showed
 Canada ’s gross domestic product grew at a 2.5 percent annualized
pace from January to March, the fastest in six quarters, after a
revised 0.9 percent gain in the fourth quarter, Statistics
Canada said from Ottawa. Canada’s dollar retreated again as gold
tumbled, leading commodities lower.  “The realization that reports are coming out that the
Canadian economy is probably not going to carry on at that pace,
some of that enthusiasm for the GDP numbers faded and the
attention turned to the commodity story,” said Emanuella Enenajor, an economist at CIBC World Markets, by phone from
Toronto. “The market is reacting to that,”  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.8 percent to C$1.0375
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. One loonie buys 96.39 U.S.
cents.  The loss extended the loonie’s monthly decline versus the
greenback to 3 percent, the most since February.  Commodities Fall  Crude-oil futures fell 2.2 percent to $91.60 a barrel in
New York. The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of 24 commodities
fell 1.1 percent while gold futures fell 1.7 percent to
$1.387.60 per ounce at the Comex in New York. The S&P 500 Index
of stocks dropped 1.4 percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year government bond yields were
little changed at 2.06 percent. The 1.5 percent security
maturing in June 2023 traded at $94.96.  Canada’s  economic growth  was led by exports in the first
quarter while domestic spending slowed.  Crude-oil export volumes jumped 8.2 percent to a record in
the first quarter on a non-annualized basis, while natural gas
exports were up 9.7 percent over the period, according to
Statistics Canada data.  Final domestic demand -- an aggregate of consumption,
government spending and business investment -- rose at a 0.6
percent annualized pace in the first quarter, the slowest since
the first quarter of 2009, while household consumption grew at
an annualized 0.9 percent in the final three months of 2012.  ‘Very Mixed’  “The markets in general have been very unsettled for
several days now, and the details of the GDP report were very
mixed,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , the head currency strategist at
Wells Fargo & Co. in New York, said in a telephone from New
York. “When you combine those two uncertain factors together,
you’re getting an uncertain reactions in terms of the
currency.”  The loonie gained against the dollars of  Australia  and New
Zealand, two fellow commodities exporters, as business activity
in the U.S. rebounded in May to the highest level in a year. The
MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer  rose to 58.7, its
highest level since March 2012, from 49 in April.  “Canada might not keep up with the pace of U.S. expansion,
but it’s still going to benefit,” David Bradley, director of
foreign-exchange trading at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital
Inc., said by phone from Toronto.  Canada’s currency was little changed in the past month
against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar added 3.3
percent while the euro gained 1.8 percent. The currencies of
Australia and New Zealand fell 5.5 percent and 5 percent to lead
decliners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  