-- CFA June Test Takers Fall First Time Since 2005
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-05-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/cfa-june-exam-enrollment-falls-first-time-since-2005.html
Enrollment for the Chartered
Financial Analyst exam in June fell for the first time in eight
years as Wall Street employment tumbles.  The number of candidates registered to take the June CFA
exam, administered worldwide today, dropped 2.2 percent to
146,605 from a year earlier, Charlottesville, Virginia-based  CFA
Institute  said in a May 29  statement . The number of June CFA
hopefuls had increased annually since 2005 and reached a record
149,954 candidates last year.  Fewer investment professionals are taking the exam as firms
cut costs and jobs to boost shareholder returns.  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
said in January it would eliminate 1,700 investment-banking
positions and defer all bonuses for top earners. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.’s staff has declined by 3,400 positions over the last
two years to 32,000 at the end of the first quarter.  “If you’re an analyst, you’re in that part of the industry
that is shrinking,”  Richard Bove , a bank analyst with Rafferty
Capital Markets LLC, said in an interview. Fewer CFA exam
applicants is “a cyclical phenomenon, it doesn’t reflect any
fundamental changes. I would assume in future years, as markets
go up the number of CFAs taking the exam will go up.”  Steve Horan, a spokesman for the not-for-profit institute,
said that the decrease in enrollment is the “cumulative effect
of a shrinking industry.” He said the CFA expects the number to
grow long-term.  Applicants take the test in hopes the CFA certificate will
help them stand out in a competitive hiring environment.  Goldman
Sachs (GS)  hired 350 summer analysts in its investment-banking
division this year out of 17,000 applicants, President  Gary Cohn 
said May 30.  Failure Rate  Candidates are required to have at least four year’s
experience in the investment industry and spend an average of
300 hours preparing for each of the three six-hour tests, the
institute said. Thirty-seven percent of applicants passed the
Level I exam in December, down from 38 percent when the test was
given in June 2012 and a year earlier in December 2011.
Historically, more than half of all test takers fail.  Each exam includes a section on ethics.  John Rogers ,
president of the CFA Institute, has pushed to improve the
industry’s standing amid declining confidence stemming from the
2008 financial crisis.  “The candidates who will take the CFA exams this weekend
are already committed to raising the professional standards of
all participants in this industry, and to rebuild public
trust,” Rogers said in the release.  The total number of candidates who registered to sit for
the exam this fiscal year, including both the June and December
sessions, also fell. Total enrollment decreased to 210,000 from
219,642 last year. The most candidates for the June exam,
63,104, are from  Asia , according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  