-- Chicago Gas Hits 4-Year High on Potential Plant Trouble
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2013-05-31T20:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/chicago-gas-hits-4-year-high-on-potential-plant-trouble.html
Chicago  gasoline jumped to the
 highest level  versus  New York  futures in more than four years on
speculation an area refinery may be purchasing gasoline as it
experiences unexpected plant trouble.  The premium for conventional, 85-octane gasoline, or CBOB,
in Chicago widened  25 cents  to 65 cents a gallon versus futures
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:39 p.m., the largest
differential since Sept. 15, 2008, and the third consecutive
daily advance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Chicago basis is soaring,” Patrick DeHaan, a Chicago-based gas analyst at GasBuddy.com, said by phone. “It’s highly
likely, based on the massive uptick, that one of the area’s
largest refineries is out buying gasoline, which would generally
translate into a refinery going partially down.”  Some of the biggest plants in the Chicago region include  BP
Plc (BP/) ’s Whiting, Indiana, refinery,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s Joliet,
 Illinois , site,  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Wood River plant and Citgo
Petroleum Corp.’s  Lemont refinery , both also in Illinois. They
make up a combined capacity of about 1.18 million barrels a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BP’s Whiting refinery has been carrying out a crude
conversion project since late 2012, while Exxon’s Joliet
refinery has been running without major operating units during a
turnaround that began in April.  An alkylation unit at the Joliet plant is said to be out of
service until next week after crews found more damage than
anticipated, according to a person familiar with operations.  Phillips 66 also shut a hydrocracker at its Wood River
refinery earlier this week, while Citgo’s Lemont plant
experienced a compressor issue, the companies said.  Chicago-Gulf Spread  The  3-2-1 crack spread  in Chicago, a rough measure of
refining margins based on West Texas Intermediate oil in
Cushing,  Oklahoma , climbed $5.67 to $43.57 a barrel.  Gasoline in Chicago traded about 82.49 cents higher than in
the U.S.  Gulf Coast , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The discount for conventional, 85-octane gasoline, or CBOB, on
the Gulf Coast narrowed 2 cents to  17.75 cents  a barrel versus
Nymex futures.  The fuel probably strengthened as barrels were sent to the
Chicago region, according to DeHaan and  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates LLC.  “Some gasoline strength in the Gulf is being helped by
gasoline buying up in Chicago due to delays in refiners
returning from maintenance,” Lipow, who is based in Houston,
said in an electronic message today.  The 3-2-1 crack spread on the Gulf Coast, also based on
WTI, dropped 91 cents to $19.49 a barrel. The same spread based
in Light Louisiana Sweet oil fell 71 cents to $11.19 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  