-- Chicago Index Unexpectedly Jumps to Highest Level in a Year
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-05-31T15:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/chicago-business-index-climbed-in-may-to-highest-level-in-a-year.html
Business activity in the U.S.
rebounded in May after declining for the first time in more than
three years last month, a sign manufacturing may contribute to
economic growth this quarter.  The MNI Chicago Report’s business  barometer  rose to 58.7,
exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey and the highest
since March 2012, from 49 in April. A reading greater than 50
signals expansion. The  median  forecast of 54 economists polled
was 50.  Manufacturing makes up about 12 percent of the economy and
may be helped as consumer purchases of automobiles and housing
keeps factories running. Nonetheless, cutbacks in planned
federal  government spending  took effect in March and a higher
 payroll tax  could slow growth.  “On domestic demand in general, you’re seeing evidence
that the recovery is very much on track,”  Scott Brown , an
economist at Raymond James & Associates in  St. Petersburg ,
 Florida , said ahead of the report. “The fundamentals are
improving.”  Consumer confidence  rose in May to the highest level in
almost six years as a rising stock market and property values
helped lift Americans’ outlook on the economy.  Gaining Confidence  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
sentiment increased to 84.5 in May, the strongest since July
2007, from 76.4 a month earlier. The median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey called for the gauge to hold at its preliminary
reading of 83.7.  Stocks held earlier losses following the reports. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.2 percent to 1,651.11 at
11 a.m. in  New York .  The 9.7 point jump in the Chicago index was the biggest
since July 1983. Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
47.5 to 53.8.  The employment gauge advanced to 56.9, the highest since
January, from 48.7 in the prior month, today’s report showed.  “Manufacturing hiring ground to a halt in the April jobs
report,” said  Brian Jones , senior U.S. economist in New York at
 Societe Generale . “If that’s picking up steam, that means that
the labor market is going to be improving. It’s just another
positive for the economy going into the summer months.”  Production Pickup  The measure of production increased to 62.7, the highest
since March 2012, from 49.9.  Orders also climbed, a sign manufacturing output will keep
expanding next month. The index of new bookings increased to
58.1, a three-month high, from 53.2.  The index of prices paid rose to 55.3 this month from 51 in
April.  Companies expecting some pickup in manufacturing include
 Weyerhaeuser Co., (WY)  which has benefitted from a rebound in the
housing market.  “We’ve got a lot of leverage to the housing industry
through our timberlands, our wood products manufacturing and our
homebuilding business,” said chief executive officer Daniel S. Fulton in a May 21 presentation. “And we’re finally at a stage
where I can say with a lot of confidence, housing recovery is
underway.”  Motor Vehicles  As housing helps, manufacturing is also benefitting from
demand for autos.  Cars (SAARTOTL)  and light trucks sold at an average 15.3
million annualized rate in the first quarter, the most since the
same period in 2008, according to figures from Ward’s Automotive
Group.  Still, the lagged effect from a two percentage-point jump
in the payroll tax at the start of 2013 could hamper economic
growth this quarter, and $85 billion in automatic budget cuts
that took hold in March could also hold back expansion.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers, making the gauge a measure
of overall growth. Its members have operations across the U.S.
and abroad.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s  Empire (EMPRGBCI)  State measure
showed manufacturing unexpectedly shrank in May, declining to
minus 1.4 from 3.1 in April. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s index also showed activity fell.  The ISM’s monthly national factory  index  probably also
retreated this month, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed. The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s figures
are due June 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  