-- China Steel Output Cut as Prices Fall and Inventories Rise
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-31T05:14:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/china-steel-output-cut-as-prices-fall-and-inventories-rise.html
Hebei Iron & Steel Group (000709) ,  China ’s
biggest steelmaker, joined domestic rivals in halting plants,
responding to price declines amid high inventories, research
company Custeel.com said.  Hebei Steel’s Chengde unit will halt a 2,500 cubic-meter
furnace for maintenance for 21 days starting from June 10, which
it’s estimated would reduce its iron output by 120,000 metric
tons, Custeel said on its  website  today. Nationwide, 10 blast
furnaces have been shut or suspended for checks, which would cut
iron output by 1.11 million tons, equating to 1 million tons of
crude steel, the researcher said.  Bian Aiguo, a news officer with Hebei Steel, said he isn’t
aware of the plant suspension. Three calls to Liu Yi, head of
the company’s production department, went unanswered.  Steel reinforcement-bar futures in  Shanghai  fell to the
lowest level in more than eight months yesterday as production
rises faster than consumption. Steel output in China gained 8.4
percent in the first four months of this year to 258.2 million
tons from a year ago, according to  the National Bureau of
Statistics . About 54 percent of that extra steel has become
inventory sitting in warehouses, Wang Xiaoqi, vice chairman of
China Iron & Steel Association, said this week.  It’s unusual to shut plants for maintenance at this time of
year, Hu Yanping, Beijing-based chief analyst with Custeel.com,
said by phone.  “We take it as production adjustments in reaction to the
market conditions. More mills are expected to join the output
cuts over the next month as prices continue falling,” Hu said.  Steel futures in Shanghai yesterday dropped to as low as
3,420  yuan  a ton, the weakest level since Sept. 10. They traded
at 3,427 yuan a ton at 11:30 a.m. local time today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  