-- China’s Growing Ranks of Elderly Beset by Depression, Study Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-31T08:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/china-s-growing-ranks-of-elderly-beset-by-depression-study-says.html
China’s old people are plagued by
depression, illness and poverty, a survey showed, illustrating
the challenge the country faces as its restrictive family-planning policy results in a surge in the elderly population.  Among people 60 years old and over, 22.9 percent, or 42.4
million, live on annual income of less than 3,200  yuan  ($520),
compared to 15.1 percent of people age 45 to 59, according to
the survey, conducted in 2011-2012 by a team of academics from
China, the U.S. and the World Bank which surveyed 17,708 people
across China.  China faces the dilemma of becoming the first country in
the world to grow old before entering the ranks of rich nations
and paying for the surge in social-services demand. The
proportion of China’s more than 1.3 billion people over age 60
is set to rise to 34 percent in 2050 from 12 percent in 2010,
according to the report, which cited United Nations figures.  “China confronts rapid population aging at a relatively
early stage of her economic development, which limits the amount
of financial resources available for supporting the elderly,”
the  survey’s authors , including Zhao Yaohui of Peking
University, wrote.  China’s challenge is even greater because more children are
moving away from home and declining fertility means the elderly
will have fewer people to support them, the report said.  Three decades of population planning that limited most
urban couples to one child, and most rural families to one or
two children, will cause a surge of China’s dependency ratio, a
measure of the number of children and elderly against the
working-age population. That means a smaller percentage of
China’s population will be available to work.  Average Income  China’s per capita gross domestic product in 2012 of about
$6,300 compares to average per capita GDP of about $40,000 or
more in the U.S.,  Japan , Germany and the U.K.  China’s demographic transition may be eased by the fact
that China’s elderly don’t feel as entitled to welfare as their
peers in developed countries in Europe, the U.S. and Japan,
according to  Louis Kuijs , Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
chief China economist in Hong Kong, who wasn’t involved in the
study.  “There is this whole discussion going on about how China
may be getting old before it gets rich,” Kuijs said in a phone
interview. “It’s not completely obvious that it makes it harder
to deal with the demographic issues. The welfare state is less
developed -- it is leaner and meaner -- the government is
rolling out more and more of a welfare state but it is still not
as nearly developed as it is in Europe.”  More Depressed  The study also found that China’s elderly were more
depressed than younger people. Forty percent, or 74 million
people over 60, “display higher levels of depressive
symptoms,” it said. About 40 million elderly people in  China 
have undiagnosed hypertension, or high blood pressure, it said.  The study said China had done a “remarkable job”
expanding health insurance to cover almost all elderly people.
It said 92 percent of the elderly with an urban residence permit
and 94 percent with a rural permit had some type of health
insurance, higher than for working-age people age 45-59.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  