-- China’s Fifth-Richest Man Targets to Sell More SUVs Than Jeep
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-31T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/china-s-fifth-richest-man-targets-to-sell-more-suvs-than-jeep.html
Chinese billionaire Wei Jianjun has
set a target for  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) ’s Haval marque to surpass
Chrysler Group LLC’s Jeep and become the world’s best selling
SUV-dedicated brand in three to four years.  As part of the plan, Great Wall’s chairman has started
construction of a new research center the size of 35 soccer
fields in the city of Baoding, about 160 kilometers (100 miles)
from Beijing. He plans to increase the number of engineers by at
least 40 percent to more than 10,000.  “We want Haval to have the highest value for money,” Wei,
who is  China ’s fifth-richest man with an estimated net worth of
$6.6 billion according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , told
reporters yesterday at the company’s factory in northern Hebei
province. “We want to surprise our customers by that instead of
just satisfying them.”  Great Wall posted record profits last year, helped by a 90
percent surge in SUV sales as increasing numbers of Chinese
consumers sought more space than conventional sedans can offer.
To achieve his goal, Haval will have to surpass Jeep, which sold
more than twice as many SUVs last year, according to data from
the companies.  “Great Wall’s growth trajectory has been pretty
impressive,” said  Ashvin Chotai , London-based managing director
of Intelligence Automotive Asia. “That said, it looks a bit
optimistic to want to be the biggest SUV brand in the world,
especially since it doesn’t have a presence in the U.S., which
is one of the biggest SUV markets in the world.”  Great Wall currently sells its SUVs mainly in  emerging
markets  and would need to step up their presence in Europe and
the U.S. in order to achieve the goal, he said.  SUV Demand  In China, competition in the country’s fastest-growing
vehicle segment will also increase as Jeep and  Tata Motors
Ltd. (TTMT) ’s Jaguar Land Rover start production in the country,
allowing them to avoid paying custom duties that add at least 25
percent to the sticker price.  SUV demand helped Great Wall boost net income last year by
66 percent and more than double its share price. The automaker’s
Hong Kong-traded stock is up 53 percent this year, beating the
0.8 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   The automaker boosted its SUV sales to 279,956 units,
according to its annual report. That compares with the 316,000
SUVs that Land Rover sold in the financial year ended March, and
Jeep’s sales of 701,626 vehicles.  Great Wall, which counts  Russia  as its largest overseas
market and  Iraq  as its fastest-growing, has said it plans to
spend 5 billion  yuan  ($816 million) in the five years ending
2015 to strengthen product development and technology research.  Great Wall wants to develop its own technology so that it
can own the patents and have the “final say” on its product
strategy, Wei said yesterday at the event showcasing the
automaker’s technology.  “A lot of leading automakers in the world are based in
small cities or in the countryside,” he said. “Baoding is a
small city, but we believe that we become an excellent
company.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  