-- China Penalizes Two Brokerages in Crackdown on IPO Fraud
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-31T12:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/china-penalizes-two-brokerages-in-crackdown-on-ipo-fraud.html
China ’s securities regulator punished
two  brokerages  for violating the country’s securities rules and
banned four bankers from the industry for life as it steps up a
crackdown on fraud in initial public offerings.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission plans to fine
 Minsheng Securities Co.  2 million  yuan  ($326,024) for failed due
diligence in Shanxi Tianneng Technology Co.’s bid to list shares
in 2011 and confiscate the 1 million yuan fee it earned from the
deal, the agency said  on its website  today.  Nanjing Securities
Co.  will be given a warning for a similar offense committed when
it advised Guangdong Xindadi Biotechnology Co. in 2012, the CSRC
said. The agency said both IPOs were pulled after reports of
fraud were published by unidentified media.  Xiao Gang, who took over as CSRC chairman in March, has
pledged to step up investor protection and enforcement of
regulations as China seeks to bolster confidence in its capital
markets. The central bank last month asked participants in its
$3.7 trillion interbank bond market to inspect trading histories
in a crackdown on illegal transactions, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  The securities regulator said today that Tianneng and
Xindadi provided falsified financial information in their
offering documents. Four bankers involved in the two deals will
be fined 150,000 yuan each and banned from the securities market
for life, the CSRC said.  A person who answered a call to Minsheng Securities’s
headquarters in Beijing today declined to comment or provide the
phone number for a spokesman. Phone calls to the offices of
Nanjing Securities, Tianneng Technology and Xindadi seeking
comment went unanswered outside normal business hours.  Earlier in May, the securities watchdog suspended the
underwriting license of Ping An Securities Co. for three months
for failed due diligence in the IPO of  Wanfu Biotechnology Hunan
Agricultural Development Co. (300268)  in 2011. The regulator also fined
Ping An 76.7 million yuan and revoked the licenses of the
bankers in charge of the deal.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  