-- China Pledges to Cooperate With U.S. on Tackling Climate Change
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-31T11:02:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/china-pledges-to-cooperate-with-u-s-on-tackling-climate-change.html
China and the U.S., the world’s two
biggest emitters of carbon dioxide, pledged to cooperate in
addressing  climate change  amid stalled international talks on
protecting the environment.  The two nations in April established a climate-change
working group, National Development and Reform Commission Vice
Chairman  Xie Zhenhua  said today after meeting Todd Stern, the
U.S. special envoy on climate change. The working group will
report its findings to U.S.-China Strategic and Economic
Dialogue talks in July, Stern said.  “We will further move forward the climate change process
of the world,” under the framework of the  United Nations , Xie,
China’s lead climate negotiator, said in Beijing. “We hope that
this can become a new highlight of the China-U.S. bilateral
relationship.”  China has been reluctant to cap its  carbon emissions , which
scientists link to global warming, over fears doing so will curb
economic growth. The country has drafted plans to put emission-intensity targets and caps in its five-year plan through 2020,
the 21st Century Business Herald reported May 20.  Action by  China  and the U.S. “is particularly important as
we intensify efforts in the multilateral negotiations on a new
climate agreement for the post 2020-period,” Stern said.  International negotiations on a climate-protection deal
have so far failed to secure commitments. Envoys from more than
190 nations are scheduled to next meet at an annual UN climate
summit in Warsaw in November to take forward talks on a global
greenhouse-gas reduction treaty. The deal, which they aim to
agree by 2015, would come into force from 2020.  Stern will return to Beijing on June 18 for more talks, Xie
said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  