-- Citigroup Verdict Over Guy Hands’s Terra Firma Thrown Out
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-05-31T17:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/citigroup-verdict-over-guy-hands-s-terra-firma-thrown-out.html
Guy Hands’s Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd. got a second chance to try its $8.3 billion claim
against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  over the 2007 sale of EMI Group Ltd.  An appeals court in  Manhattan  today overturned the 2010
verdict in which Citigroup defeated Hands’s claim that it
tricked him into overpaying for EMI, the London-based music
company. The appeals court ordered a new trial, ruling that the
judge made an error in explaining the law to the jury.  “The district court’s jury instructions were based on an
inaccurate understanding of the relevant English law,” U.S.
Circuit JudgeJohn M. Walker Jr. wrote on behalf of a three-judge appeals panel.  Hands claimed that a Citigroup banker,  David Wormsley , lied
to him in phone calls the weekend before the EMI auction on May
21, 2007, a Monday, leading his private-equity firm to overbid
in a deal that lost money for all involved.  Hands said Wormsley told him that Cerberus Capital
Management LP planned to submit a bid when Cerberus had in fact
decided to withdraw from the auction, leaving Terra Firma
without competition.  “We are confident we will again prevail at trial as Citi’s
conduct in the EMI transaction was entirely proper,” Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup, the
third-biggest U.S. bank, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
original verdict made clear that Terra Firma’s baseless
accusations of fraud were simply an attempt to gain leverage in
debt restructuring negotiations.”  ‘Strong Claim’  Terra Firma has “a strong claim,” Jonathan Doorley, a
spokesman at Sard Verbinnen & Co., said today in an e-mailed
statement. “With the jury instructions now resolved in our
favor, we expect to prevail in any subsequent trial,” he said.  The appeals court ruled that the trial judge, U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff, incorrectly told jurors that Terra Firma had
to prove it relied on one or more misrepresentations by Wormsley
and that the misrepresentations were a substantial factor in the
decision to bid on EMI.  “Such an instruction was inconsistent with English law and
therefore was error,” Walker said in the opinion. “Because the
jury instructions incorrectly shifted the burden of proof from
Citi to Terra Firma on the reliance element, they were
prejudicial and require reversal.”  Both sides agreed before trial that English law applied to
the dispute.  Dismissed Claims  The appeals court today also ruled that Rakoff was correct
in dismissing Terra Firma’s claims based on negligent
misrepresentation and fraudulent concealment.  The verdict in Citigroup’s favor came in November 2010,
after a 2 1/2-week trial. Rakoff, who called the dispute “a
catfight between two rich companies,” narrowed the range of
possible damages to $2.2 billion from $8.3 billion.  Hands testified for parts of four days. He claimed that if
he had known that Terra Firma was alone in the bidding, he
wouldn’t have submitted a bid. Instead, he told jurors, he would
have tried to negotiate with EMI for a lower price and for more
time to evaluate the company.  Wormsley told jurors he never lied to Hands about the
auction.  The case is Terra Firma Investments (GP) 2 Ltd. v.
Citigroup, 11-126, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 