-- Clarence Dillon Wines to Boost Sotheby’s Hong Kong Sale
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-05-31T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/clarence-dillon-wines-to-boost-sotheby-s-hong-kong-sale.html
Wines dating back to 1891 from the
cellars of Domaine Clarence Dillon in Bordeaux, including
vintages from first-growth estate Chateau Haut-Brion, will go on
sale at a  Sotheby’s (BID)  auction in  Hong Kong  in October.  Dillon, a  New York  financier, bought Haut-Brion in 1935 and
his family-owned estate has expanded to include neighboring
Chateau La Mission Haut-Brion and more recently Chateaqu Quintus
in Saint-Emilion. Wines from all three will be in the auction.  Sotheby’s last sold wines direct from the Dillon cellars in
New York in 2004, in a sale dominated by North and South
American private collectors, it said in an e-mailed statement.
The Asian auction in October is being planned at a time when
investor demand has revived since last November, driving the
Liv-ex Fine Wine 50 Index up 6 percent this year after a 16-month price slide which started in July 2011.  “The demand is still driven from the emerging economies,”
Jeremy Peacock, senior wine broker at Vin-X Ltd. in London, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.” “The
whole point about fine wine is it is a hedge against more
volatile investments.”  Haut-Brion is one of the five left-bank first growths in
Bordeaux’s 1855 classification. The estate has been making wine
for more than 350 years. It acquired La Mission Haut-Brion in
1983.  Haut-Brion’s most expensive wine of the past quarter-century remains its 1989 vintage, which was awarded a perfect
100-point score by U.S. wine critic  Robert Parker . One case sold
for 10,925 pounds at a Christie’s International Plc auction in
London on Feb. 21 while another fetched 10,810 pounds at a
Sotheby’s U.K. sale the same month.  Sotheby’s will auction more than 500 lots from  Domaine
Clarence Dillon  in the Hong Kong sale, which the auction house
estimates may fetch as much as HK$14 million ($1.8 million).  Here is a list of global wine auctions scheduled so far
this year. Dates may be subject to revision, and links are to
auction house sale catalogs and websites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in  London  on 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  