-- Colombia Leaves Rates Unchanged and Extends Dollar Purchases
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-05-31T20:08:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/colombia-holds-policy-rate-at-3-25-to-weigh-impact-of-stimulus.html
Colombia kept borrowing costs
unchanged for a second straight month as policy makers gauge
whether Latin America’s lowest interest rate and a government
stimulus package will reverse a slowdown in growth. It also
extended a program of dollar purchases until September.  Banco de la Republica, led by Governor Jose Dario Uribe,
held its benchmark interest rate at 3.25 percent today in line
with the forecast of all 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Uribe said the decision was unanimous.  The central bank has cut borrowing costs seven times over
the past year, as  industrial output  slumped and the growth rate
fell to the lowest in the Andean region. After today’s rate
decision, Uribe told reporters that the looser monetary policy
and a fiscal stimulus program will bring growth close to its
potential by the end of the year.  “The available indicators suggest that second quarter
growth was faster than in the first quarter,” Uribe said.
“It’s expected that Colombia’s economic growth will accelerate
during the year as aggregate demand responds to previous
monetary policy measures and to the programs announced last
month by the government.”  The economy probably grew less than 3 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Uribe said, and probably
accelerated in the following three months.  Dollar Purchases  The bank will buy at least $2.5 billion over the next four
months, compared with $3 billion in the previous period, Uribe
said. Colombia needs higher levels of reserves regardless of the
peso’s level, Uribe said, adding that policy makers would
welcome a further decline in the currency.  “It’s a little bit surprising that they’re lowering the
rate of purchases,” said Munir Jalil, head analyst at Citigroup
Inc.’s Colombia unit. “It means there are people within the
board who may be talking about changing this policy as they see
stability in the currency.”  The peso weakened 0.7 percent to 1902.48 per dollar today.
The currency has depreciated 7.1 percent this year, the biggest
fall among major Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the Venezuelan bolivar. The yield on the nation’s
benchmark peso bonds due 2024 jumped 85 basis points, or 0.85
percentage point, this month to 5.72 percent.  Last month, the government of President Juan Manuel Santos
announced a 5 trillion-peso ($2.6 billion) stimulus plan, of
which $900 million will be spent in 2013. The measures, which
includes an expansion of a housing program for low-income
families and cheaper energy costs, will boost 2013 growth by 0.7
percentage point, according to the Finance Ministry.  Growth Forecast  The economy grew 4 percent last year, the slowest pace in
the Andean region. Uribe said April 29 that gross domestic
product can grow between 4.1 percent and 5.1 percent per year
without fueling inflation.  The central bank last month raised its 2013 forecast for
growth to 4.3 percent from 4 percent. Still, industrial output
fell 11.5 percent in March from a year earlier, its fifth
straight contraction.  Annual  inflation  rose to 2.02 percent in April, returning
to the central bank’s 2 percent to 4 percent target range. In
February, the inflation rate fell to 1.83 percent, its lowest
level since 1955.  Consumer prices will rise 3.14 percent over the next year,
according to a May central bank survey of economists, up from a
3.02 percent forecast in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  