-- Combat Ready Dates for F-35 Jets Set by U.S. Military
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-31T18:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/combat-ready-dates-for-f-35-jets-set-by-u-s-military.html
The U.S. military services today set
dates for when the first squadrons of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-35
fighter jets, from the Pentagon’s most expensive weapons
program, will be combat-ready.  Congress was notified this morning that the initial short-takeoff and vertical-landing model for the Marine Corps will be
ready no later than December 2015. The target for the Air
Force’s version of the jet is December 2016, and the date for
the Navy model, designed to take off and land on aircraft
carriers, is February 2019.  Congress last year directed the services to establish the
dates by June 1. When Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed won the
contract from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in 2001, the original dates for initial
combat-readiness were April 2010 for the Marines, June 2011 for
the  Air Force  and April 2012 for the Navy, according to program
documents.  Those dates were abandoned after the program was
reorganized several times because of cost growth and technical
challenges that have delayed key milestones by years.  The F-35 program’s total projected cost has increased 68
percent since 2001 to $391.2 billion.  Still, setting the marker known in military parlance as
“initial operating capability” is a tangible signal to
potential international purchasers that the program is making
progress in testing.  Marine Corps  The Marine Corps has been the most aggressive in touting
its plans for an initial operating capability. Officials have
said they would like to reach that status by July 2015. The
Marine Corps version is the most complex of the three models
because it’s designed with a propulsion system that allows the
jet to hover and land like a helicopter.  “Our nation expects us to make informed decisions about
developing and employing the most effective military
capabilities to support our national security strategy,” said
Lieutenant General Robert E. Schmidle, the Marine Corps’ deputy
commandant of aviation, in a statement. “The F-35 is the best
hedge against the ever-evolving and unknown threats posed by
potential adversaries,”  The Marines will declare a combat-ready squadron when it’s
equipped with between 10 and 16 jets and has trained pilots for
missions such as close air support of troops.  The Air Force will declare its first squadron ready when
it’s equipped with at least 12 aircraft and combat-ready crews
while the Navy needs at least 10 aircraft and equivalent crews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  