-- Congressional Watchdog Advises Slowing Spending on Ship
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-05-31T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/congressional-watchdog-advises-slowing-spending-on-ship.html
Congress should consider slowing
funding for the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship because the Pentagon
is buying vessels faster than it can test their design and
performance, according to a Government Accountability Office
report.  The Navy hasn’t completed “technical studies that raise
fundamental questions about whether the program, as envisioned,
will meet the Navy’s needs,” the GAO, Congress’s nonpartisan
investigative arm, says in a draft report obtained by Bloomberg
News.  The $34 billion LCS program has continued to draw support
from the Pentagon and lawmakers despite  federal budget  cuts and
a growing list of questions about its designs, firepower,
defenses and survivability.  While construction costs have doubled to $440 million per
ship from an original goal of $220 million, a confidential 2012
Navy study found that the ships are too lightly armed, that
plans to swap equipment for different missions are impractical,
and the decision to build two versions simultaneously
complicates logistics and maintenance.  Failure to resolve such issues will result in “ships that
are ill-suited to execute” war fighting needs, Rear Admiral
Samuel Perez wrote in the March 2012 report.  Still, the Navy will be under contract for at least 24 of
the planned 52 ships before it completes tests in 2019 to see
whether mission modules designed to reconfigure the vessels
quickly for different tasks can meet minimum performance
requirements, the GAO report said.  ‘Apparent Disconnect’  “The apparent disconnect between the LCS acquisition
strategy and the needs of the end user suggests that a pause is
needed,” the GAO said. “Congress is in a position to slow
funding” for additional purchases -- starting with a $2 billion
request for four ships in fiscal 2014 -- “pending the results
of the technical studies that are already underway.”  Congress “should consider restricting future funding”
until the Navy completes continuing technical and design studies
and determines the extent to which they may result in major
redesigns of ships already under contract, the GAO said.  The LCS is  to be a small, speedy, adaptable ship for
patrolling shallow waters close to shore, for example in the
Persian Gulf. It’s designed to use interchangeable modules for
various missions, such as clearing mines, hunting submarines or
waging surface warfare.  The Navy is buying two versions of the ship. One, with a
steel hull, is being made in Marinette,  Wisconsin , by a group
led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  A group led by  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  is
building an aluminum trimaran in Mobile,  Alabama .  Unanswered Questions  “The Navy has a great deal of learning to do about the
ships, the integrated capability that they are intended to
provide when equipped with mission modules and how the overall
LCS concept will be implemented,” the GAO said.  The draft report was delivered this week to Navy officials
as four congressional defense committees are considering the
Pentagon’s  budget  request. The Navy has asked for funding to
purchase four ships -- two of each version -- in fiscal 2014,
which begins Oct. 1.  The House Armed Services Committee and the House
appropriations panel’s defense subcommittee are scheduled to
consider the defense bill and the Navy request on June 5.  “We understand what is at stake and will get this right,”
Vice Admiral Richard Hunt said in a statement, when asked what
the Navy needs to show Congress to keep lawmakers’ support.  Hunt is head of the Navy’s LCS Council, which was set up
last year by the chief of naval operations, Admiral Jonathan Greenert, to evaluate all facets of the program and suggest
improvements.  ‘Great Confidence’  “I have great confidence in the LCS program,” Hunt said.
“It provides needed capability now combined with the ability to
adapt to changing requirements in the future.”  “The Navy supports the work of GAO to provide information
to Congress and conduct oversight of defense programs,” said
Lieutenant Junior Grade Caroline Hutcheson, a Navy spokeswoman.  “The Navy continues to use feedback and information
gathered from program reviews and fleet operations to identify
areas of improvement and act on them,” she said.  Still, some of the tenets underpinning the littoral ship
concept “have degraded, remain unproven and continue to
evolve,” the GAO said. “Navy expectations of LCS capability
have weakened over time.”  Hagel Visit  The first LCS, the USS Freedom, has been deployed to
 Singapore , where U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel is scheduled
to visit the ship this weekend during a conference.  The eight-month deployment “is a tremendous opportunity to
test the ship in a real-world environment and begin integrating
this essential ship into our fleet,” Hutcheson said. “The Navy
remains committed to the LCS program.”  The House Armed Services panel’s seapower subcommittee
approved the funding last week, even as its chairman, Republican
Representative Randy Forbes of  Virginia , said he was “concerned
the procurement of this seaframe has advanced beyond the
technology available in the associated mission modules.”  “We need to continue to take a hard look at this
program,” Forbes said.  The Senate Armed Services Committee will review the Navy
request next month.  Arizona  Senator John McCain, the ranking
Republican on the committee’s seapower panel, has criticized the
Littoral Ship.  ‘Fix It’  “We need to fix it, or find something else quickly,”
McCain said at a May 8 hearing.  The Senate’s defense appropriations panel hasn’t announced
a date for consideration of the request.  The GAO draft report doesn’t call for canceling the LCS
program and acknowledges that Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
and Henderson, Australia-based Austal have made improvements and
are producing better ships.  “The deficiencies identified in this report are not
criticisms of progress in the sense that things should have gone
smoother or faster,” said GAO.  Still, the Navy “continues to buy LCS seaframes and
modules even as significant questions remain,” it said. “There
are also significant unknowns related to key LCS operations and
support concepts and the relative advantages and disadvantages
of the two seaframe variants.”  The Navy plans to request funds in fiscal 2015 to buy the
last four vessels in the initial batch of 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  