-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Was Probably Little Changed in April
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-05-31T04:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/consumer-spending-in-u-s-was-probably-little-changed-in-april.html
Consumer spending  was probably little
changed in April as smaller fuel and utility bills helped
Americans shore up savings, economists said before a report
today.  The projected unchanged reading for purchases would follow
a 0.2 percent rise in March, according to the median of 79
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. Consumer  sentiment  surged this
month to the highest level in almost six years, separate figures
may show.  The housing rebound, gains in stocks and cheaper gasoline
prices are boosting household finances and confidence, a sign
consumers may keep shopping at stores such as  Lowe’s Co. (LOW)  and
Kirkland’s Inc. Faster employment and wage growth would further
underpin demand and make the world’s largest economy better able
to withstand the  federal budget  cuts that began in March.  “The fact that consumer spending has held up in the face
of the payroll tax increase and budget cuts is encouraging,”
said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise Financial
Inc. in  Detroit . “It should really start to gain traction in
the third quarter and beyond as the fiscal headwinds subside.”  The Commerce Department will release the spending report at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from a
drop of 0.3 percent to a gain of 0.4 percent. The data may also
show  incomes  grew 0.1 percent following a 0.2 percent rise.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan gauge of
 sentiment  may have climbed in May to 83.7, the highest level
since July 2007, economists in the Bloomberg survey projected
ahead of figures due at 9:55 a.m. The forecast matches this
month’s preliminary reading and follows 76.4 in April.  Economic Growth  Strength in consumer spending and business investment is
helping the economy weather government cutbacks, revised first-quarter data showed yesterday. Gross domestic product rose at a
2.4 percent annualized rate, and household spending expanded 3.4
percent, the most since the last three months of 2010.  Purchases are being underpinned by gains in equity and
housing markets. The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX) , which reached
a record on May 21, is up 16 percent since the start of 2013.
The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home values  in 20 U.S. cities
advanced in the 12 months to March by the most in seven years.  Lowe’s, the second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer,
is among companies counting on a strengthening housing market to
lift demand. The Mooresville, North Carolina-based chain said
sales last month also recovered from a cold spring that sapped
demand for outdoor items such as flowers and fertilizer.  More Progress  “We expect growth to remain modest through mid-year as
consumers adjust to higher taxes and the fiscal drag
intensifies,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Niblock  said on a
May 22 conference call with analysts. “However, we do expect
that the lagged effect of recent gains in housing will benefit
home-improvement demand as the year progresses.”  A drop in receipts at services stations, reflecting lower
 gasoline prices , probably restrained last month’s spending
total, economists said.  The Commerce Department’s price index tied to spending, the
gauge tracked by Federal Reserve policy makers, fell 0.2 percent
in April as fuel costs retreated, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. It would mark the biggest drop in almost a year.  Adjusting the April spending forecast for the decline in
prices would yield a 0.2 percent increase in so-called real
purchases -- which are the figures used to calculate GDP --
following a 0.3 percent gain in March.  Utility Bills  Consumers also probably had smaller utility bills last
month as the weather turned warmer following the coolest March
since 2002, helping curb total spending.  Kirkland’s (KIRK) , a Nashville, Tennessee-based retailer of home
accessories and furniture, reported sales climbed 3.5 percent in
the first quarter ended May 4.  “Recent pockets of improvement in the housing market
suggest a lift to  consumer confidence  and activity, especially
for middle income consumers where housing has traditionally been
a reservoir of wealth similar to the equity and bond markets for
the more affluent,” Chief Executive Officer Robert Alderson
said on an earnings call on May 23.  Employers hired a net 165,000 workers in May, the same as
in April, economists projected ahead of the Labor Department’s
payrolls report next week. The jobless rate probably held at a
four-year low of 7.5 percent, they said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  