-- Cooley, Steptoe, Gibson Dunn, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-31T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/cooley-steptoe-gibson-dunn-sidley-business-of-law.html
Cooley LLP hired Jeremy Naylor as a
tax partner in the New York office.  He joins from White & Case LLP, where he specialized in
advising private equity, real estate,  venture capital  and hedge
fund sponsors on the tax aspects of structuring investment
funds, the firm said.  Naylor has experience with tax issues in domestic and
cross-border mergers and acquisitions, U.S. real estate and
joint venture transactions, and executive compensation
agreements. At Cooley, he will work closely with the firm’s
venture capital group.  “Our venture capital group has been involved more
frequently with structurally complex international funds that
raise intricate tax issues,” Craig Dauchy, head of the firm’s
venture capital practice, said in a statement. “Jeremy has the
international tax background to assist these clients in
designing the most tax efficient structures for their funds.”  Cooley has 700 attorneys in 11 major business and
technology centers in the U.S. and Shanghai.  News  Smithfield Sale to Get U.S. Look for Hog-Farm Spying Posts  A U.S. national security panel will vet  Smithfield Foods (SFD) 
Inc.’s purchase by a Chinese buyer for its effects on the food
supply and proximity to military bases, though the review is
unlikely to derail the deal, lawyers familiar with the process
told  Bloomberg News ’  Andrew Zajac  and Sara Forden.  “I don’t see deal-killer objections to this transaction,”
said Stewart Baker, an attorney at Steptoe & Johnson LLP in
Washington and a former Department of Homeland Security
official. “The Obama administration doesn’t want to say ‘no’ to
every Chinese deal.”  The review by the inter-agency  Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S. , or CFIUS, will include scrutiny of
Smithfield Foods facilities near military bases and other
sensitive locations, said Stephen Mahinka, an attorney with
Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, who according to his firm profile
has won clearance from CFIUS for almost 40 deals.  In probing the acquisition by Shuanghui International
Holdings Ltd., the panel will also look at the importance to the
U.S. food supply of the Smithfield, Virginia-based company, the
world’s biggest hog and pork producer, said Farhad Jalinous, a
lawyer at Kaye Scholer LLP in Washington who represents
companies in CFIUS cases.  “The integrity of the food-supply chain gives rise to
national security considerations,” Jalinous said. “Is this
likely to be blocked? Not likely, but based on the conclusions
the government makes about the risk profile, CFIUS could require
a mitigation agreement to resolve perceived risks.”  Republican Senator  Charles Grassley  of Iowa, saying a
sustainable food supply is critical to national security, urged
CFIUS to consider issues such as the role the Chinese government
plays in the Hong Kong-based acquirer.  “To have a Chinese food company controlling a major U.S.
meat supplier is a bit concerning,” he said in a statement.  Grassley’s home state  produces  $4.1 billion of pork
annually.  Closely held Shuanghui said in a statement May 29 it would
seek the non-mandatory CFIUS review for the acquisition. Valued
at $7.1 billion including debt, the deal would be the largest
Chinese takeover of a U.S. company, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The move follows CFIUS blocking at least three transactions
in the past four years that would have resulted in Chinese
companies gaining control of assets near military facilities.
Huawei Technologies Co. and Bain Capital Partners LLC also
dropped a bid to buy computer-equipment maker 3Com Corp. in 2008
in the face of CFIUS opposition. An attempt by Huawei to buy
patents from 3Leaf Systems Inc., a computer services company,
the year before met the same fate.  For more, click here.  Banker Quattrone Gives $15 Million to Penn to Study Justice  Frank Quattrone , the investment banker who spent five years
battling security regulators in court, gave $15 million to the
University of Pennsylvania Law School to study the U.S. criminal
justice system.  The Quattrone Center for the Fair Administration of Justice
will fund research and propose solutions to improve the legal
system, the university, based in Philadelphia, said yesterday in
a  statement . The donation came from the Frank and Denise
Quattrone Foundation.  Quattrone, 57, is the founder and chief executive officer
of Qatalyst Partners LLC, a San Francisco-based investment bank
which helped manage Autonomy Corp.’s $10.3 billion sale to
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  in 2011. Quattrone formerly led the
technology groups at Morgan Stanley, Deutsche Bank AG and Credit
Suisse Group AG and worked on the public offerings of Cisco
Systems Inc., Netscape Communications Corp. and Amazon.com Inc.  Quattrone spent five years, between 2003 and 2008, in legal
battles with securities regulators and the  Justice Department .
His 2004 conviction for hindering an investigation of Credit
Suisse’s initial public offering practices was reversed on
appeal in 2006 and all remaining charges were dismissed in
August 2007.  “Our system of justice may very well be the best in the
world but with each passing day the frequency and sometimes
tragic consequences of its mistakes, as well as the risk of
random unfair outcomes for all Americans, are becoming better
understood,” Quattrone said in the statement.  Deals  Buffett’s MidAmerican Expands With $5.6 Billion Nevada Deal  Warren Buffett ’s energy unit will consolidate a western
expansion begun in 2005 with its planned $5.6 billion
acquisition of Nevada’s largest utility, potentially reigniting
takeovers in the sector. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP, Sidley
Austin LLP and Hogan Lovells LLP were among the firms advising
on the deal.  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.’s purchase of Las Vegas-based  NV Energy Inc. (NVE) , would make it the largest U.S. utility
owner with 8.4 million customers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  unit agreed to pay $23.75
a share, 23 percent more than NV Energy’s May 29 closing price,
the companies said in a statement.  Gibson Dunn ’s team, which advised MidAmerican, was led by
Peter Hanlon, New York corporate partner and co-chairman of the
firm’s energy and infrastructure practice. Additional partners
included Robert Little, corporate; William Scherman and William
Hollaway, energy regulation; Joseph Kattan, antitrust;  Michael Collins  and Stephen Fackler benefits; David Sinak, tax; Raymond Ludwiszewski, environmental; and Darius Mehraban, finance.  The Sidley Austin deal team advising NV Energy was led by
corporate partners Thomas A. Cole and Imad I. Qasim. Additional
partners included Matthew G. McQueen, corporate; Stewart R. Shepherd, employee benefits; Laura L. Leonard, environmental;
and Sharp Sorensen, tax.  Hogan provided advice on regulatory issues. The team was
led by Steven Agresta. John Lilyestrom supported on FERC issues.  From MidAmerican, the team includes general counsel Douglas
Anderson, Paul J. Leighton, Jeffery B. Erb and Rob Lasich.  Local Nevada counsel for MidAmerican was Ellen Schulhofer
of Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck LLP. Reno-based Woodburn and
Wedge also advised NV Energy.  Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive officer and chairman,
has been boosting investments in capital-intensive businesses as
he seeks to allocate funds at his Omaha, Nebraska-based company,
which had $49.1 billion in cash as of March 31. MidAmerican will
have assets of about $66 billion after the completion of the
deal, which is expected in the first quarter of next year,
according to the statement.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Baker & McKenzie Elects Corporate and Securities Leader  Amar Budarapu has been elected chairman of Baker & McKenzie
LLP’s North America corporate and securities practice. He
succeeds Marc Paul, who will continue his private equity and
venture capital transactions, mergers and acquisitions, and
securities transactions practice.  Budarapu has advised companies and underwriters in
structuring and executing corporate transactions for more than
20 years, the firm said in a statement. He has also represented
issuers and underwriters in connection with registered and
private equity and debt offerings, the firm said.  He will continue as chairman of the firm’s global capital
markets practice. He was previously chairman of the corporate
and securities practice from 2004 to 2006.  “As companies grow domestically and into  emerging markets ,
our North America corporate attorneys are well positioned to
advise multinational companies on the range of corporate
matters, including M&A, securities, private equity, and
corporate governance and compliance issues,” Budarapu said in a
statement.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,000 lawyers at 74 offices
in 46 countries.  Moves  Justice Department Attorney Suleiman Rejoining Covington  The deputy chief of staff to the assistant attorney general
overseeing the Justice Department’s criminal division, Daniel
Suleiman, is returning to Covington & Burling LLP in July. He
will join the Washington office as special counsel with a focus
on defending individuals and corporations facing white collar
criminal charges, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act investigations
and congressional inquiries.  “Dan is an extremely talented lawyer, a consensus builder,
with a whip-smart command of white collar strategies,” Lanny
Breuer vice chairman of the firm and former assistant attorney
general, said in a statement. “We are proud that Dan is
returning to Covington after devoting three years to public
service.”  At the Justice Department, Suleiman helped oversee about
600 lawyers and 1,000 employees, and managed an annual budget of
about $600 million, the firm said. His work there included a
focus on FCPA and financial fraud enforcement.  Covington has more than 800 lawyers at 10 offices in the
U.S., Europe and Asia.  McCarter & English Real Estate Lawyer Rejoins Firm in Newark  Real estate partner Simone Wilson-Brito rejoined McCarter &
English LLP as a partner in Newark,  New Jersey . She has been
real estate counsel with Rockefeller Group Development
Corporation since 2008.  Her practice will focus primarily on complex commercial
real estate transactions with a concentration in the financing,
leasing and acquisition of real property.  McCarter & English has more than 400 attorneys in Boston;
Hartford, Connecticut; New York; Newark; Philadelphia;  Stamford ,
Connecticut; and Wilmington, Delaware  Personal Planning Partner Joins Perkins Coie in Chicago  Perkins Coie  LLP announced that Domingo P. Such III joined
the firm’s Chicago office as a partner in the firm’s personal
planning group. He was most recently a partner at McDermott Will
& Emery LLP.   Such’s practice focuses on succession, financial, estate,
and tax planning matters as they relate to ownership in various
forms, the firm said. He has experience in advising families and
individuals on gift, estate, and generation-skipping transfer
tax planning and charitable giving, as well as corporate and tax
issues affecting closely held businesses, with an emphasis on
succession planning.  Perkins Coie’s personal planning group works primarily with
individuals on estate planning, family and related needs. Such
is the fourth new partner and the ninth attorney to join Perkins
Coie’s Chicago office since January, the firm said.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices across
the U.S. and Asia.  Reed Smith Adds Corporate and Securities Partner in New York  Reed Smith  LLP announced that James A. Mercadante has
joined the firm as a partner in the corporate and securities
group in New York. Mercadante was a partner at Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP before joining the firm.  Mercadante’s practice focuses on capital raising and
transactional activities of private equity funds,  hedge funds 
and private companies, the firm said.  “We are continuing to see an increase in lateral activity,
including in the private equity and capital markets sectors, and
Jim’s substantial knowledge and experience in capital raising
and private equity are tremendous additions to the firm and the
New York office,” Edward J. Estrada, managing partner of the
firm’s New York office, said in a statement.  Reed Smith has more than 230 corporate and securities
lawyers. The firm has more than 1,800 lawyers in 25 offices
throughout the U.S., Europe, Asia and the Middle East.  Corporate Litigator Joins Holland & Knight in Boston  Holland & Knight LLP added Robert J. Kaler as a partner in
the firm’s Boston litigation practice group. He was previously a
partner with McCarter & English LLP.  Kaler focuses on complex commercial litigation including
trials and arbitration. He handles disputes in areas including
corporate governance, commercial and international transactions
and contracts, fraud, antitrust, unfair competition law,
securities and shareholder derivative suits, the firm said in a
statement.  Holland & Knight’s Boston litigation practice group has
more than 60 attorneys. The firm has 1,000 lawyers in 17 U.S.
offices as well as  Abu Dhabi , Beijing, Bogota and Mexico City.  Litigation  S&P Asks Judicial Panel to Send States’ Rating Cases to N.Y.  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  and  Standard & Poor’s  asked a
panel of judges to pack up 15 state lawsuits in which they’re
accused of inflating securities ratings and ship them to New
York where the companies are based.  Lead defense lawyer  Floyd Abrams , a partner at Cahill
Gordon & Reindel LLP, made that argument for S&P and its
corporate parent yesterday before the Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation at a hearing in federal court in
Louisville, Kentucky. The panel didn’t issue a ruling.  Most of the states sued in February in conjunction with a
U.S. complaint filed in Los Angeles federal court that alleges
S&P downplayed risks associated with the mortgage-backed
securities to increase its revenue and market share.  The state complaints have “identical claims and almost
identical language,” Abrams told the panel. Most importantly,
they are “based on identical facts” and should be treated
collectively, said Abrams. McGraw Hill and S&P have called the
state and federal allegations meritless.  Cases were filed in February by Arizona, Arkansas,
California, Colorado, Delaware, Idaho, Iowa, Maine, Missouri,
North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee,
Washington and the  District of Columbia . Mississippi had filed a
suit earlier.  “Traditionally, we don’t centralize based on a common
issue of law,” panel Judge Charles Breyer told Abrams.
Shouldn’t the panel wait for rulings on several pending requests
to have the states’ cases returned to their state courts, Breyer
asked.  Abrams responded that some of those state judges have
already said having multiple judges decide the same remand issue
is a waste of judicial resources.  Delaware Deputy Attorney General Greg Strong led the
states’ opposition to consolidation. He told the panel the
attorneys generals were capable of working together without it.  The chief law officer for each jurisdiction wants to
enforce the law of his state, Strong said. He added later that
there would be “significant harm and significant expense” in
compelling attorneys general from states as far as Arizona and
Idaho to travel to New York.  Panel Judge  Lewis Kaplan  called that argument “a wee bit
exaggerated,” noting the litigants would still need to come to
New York for depositions of McGraw Hill and S&P witnesses and
that the cases would be returned to their home courts for trial.  Attorneys general for every jurisdiction except the
District of Columbia, including a mix of Republicans and
Democrats, have opposed the consolidation bid.  The multidistrict case is In Re: Ratings Agency Litigation,
MDL No. 2446, Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
(Louisville, Kentucky).  For more, click here.  Video  Ex-Kirkland Partner: Rainmakers Are Paid Too Much  The spread between the highest- and lowest-paid equity
partners at the U.S.’s biggest firms has grown too large,
according to Steven J. Harper, an adjunct professor at
Northwestern University School of Law and former partner at
Chicago’s Kirkland & Ellis. In recent decades, it’s increased
from 3-to-1 to 10-to-1 or more, he tells Bloomberg Law’s Sarah Kopit. It’s been driven by a “lateral hiring frenzy” that has
“destabilized the profession,” with managing partners
“fearful” that they’ll “lose somebody with a big book of
business to someone else,” says Harper, author of the new book
“The Lawyer Bubble.”  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  