-- Copper Set for First Monthly Gain in Four on Mine Supply Concern
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2013-05-31T07:12:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/copper-set-for-first-monthly-gain-in-four-on-mine-supply-concern.html
Copper was poised for the first
monthly gain in four amid concern that miners will refuse to
resume work at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc.’s (FCX)  Grasberg
mine in Indonesia after an accident halted production.  The metal for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange advanced as much as 0.4 percent to $7,349.25 a metric
ton and was little changed at $7,310.25 at 4:06 p.m. in Tokyo.
The price has gained 3.5 percent this month. Futures for
delivery in July on the Comex were little changed at $3.3105 per
pound.  Officials at the Grasberg complex should be suspended until
an investigation behind a tunnel collapse that killed 28 people
has been completed, Virgo Solossa, head of the Mimika branch of
the All Indonesian Workers Union in the Chemical, Energy and
Mining Sectors, said in a telephone interview yesterday. The
union will call on workers not to return to work today, he said.  “The latest Freeport news stoked concern over mine supply
disruption, lending support to the market,” said Hwang Il Doo,
a senior trader at Korea Exchange Bank Futures Co. in  Seoul .
Copper was also supported after Japan’s industrial output grew
faster than estimated last month, he said.  Freeport is slowly resuming operations after work began
again at the Grasberg open-pit and mill on May 28, the Phoenix-based company’s local unit said on May 29. The accident occurred
on May 14.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s Escondida in  Chile  is the world’s
largest copper mine, followed by Grasberg.  Stockpiles monitored by the LME fell for a fifth session to
611,125 tons. Inventories are poised for the first monthly
decline since September.  The contract for September delivery closed up 0.6 percent
at 52,720  yuan  ($8,594) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange.
On the LME, nickel climbed, while aluminum and tin fell, and
lead and was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in  Tokyo  at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  