-- CVC Said to Push Investors for July Close to Beat AIFMD
-- B y   K i e l   P o r t e r
-- 2013-05-31T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/cvc-said-to-push-investors-for-july-close-to-beat-aifmd.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. is pressing
investors to commit to its 9 billion-euro ($12 billion) buyout
fund within the next eight weeks to preempt European Union rules
that could stop the private-equity firm seeking backers from the
region, three people with knowledge of the fund said.  CVC is seeking to hold a first close of the fund at about 7
billion euros before July 22, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the talks are private. That will allow CVC
to start spending the money and qualify for some exemptions from
the EU’s Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the
people said.  The rule gives the Paris-based European Securities and
Markets Authority and national regulators the right to limit
access by private equity firms based outside the EU to investors
inside the bloc. CVC bases much of the administration of its
funds in the  Channel Islands , which though part of the U.K. are
outside the EU. By meeting the deadline, CVC will be able to
continue to sell the fund to EU investors largely as before.
Future funds would still come under the directive.  “The U.K. guidance currently indicates that if you are
already marketing your fund prior to July 21 you can continue to
do so after that date,” said Samuel Kay, head of investment
funds at Travers Smith, a London-based  law firm . “In other
jurisdictions, different views are being taken -- in particular
non-EU private equity fund managers may need” to hold a first
close before July “to qualify for grandfathering,” he said.  A spokesman for CVC in  London  declined to comment on the
fundraising. CVC’s most-recent buyout fund, the 10.8 billion-euro CVC European Equity Partners V LP, has generated a net
internal rate of return of 9.2 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  