-- CVC to List Matas in First Danish Private Equity IPO Since 2010
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-31T12:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/cvc-capital-partners-unveil-plan-to-list-danish-drugstore-matas.html
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. plans to
sell a stake in drugstore chain  Matas  in  Denmark ’s first initial
public offering through a private equity firm since 2010.  Morgan Stanley and  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  will be joint global
coordinators and bookrunners in the sale, Alleroed, Denmark-based Matas said today in a statement to the stock exchange. The
company didn’t disclose the amount the owners plan to raise or
the size of the stake being offered. The deal values Matas at
about 6 billion kroner ($1 billion), a person familiar with the
deal said yesterday.  Private equity firms have hesitated to list Danish
companies after the IPO of  Pandora A/S (PNDORA) , according to Per Hansen,
a strategist at  Nordnet AB. (NNB)  Following the Glostrup, Denmark-based jewelry maker’s 2010 listing, its shares dropped more than
85 percent in the first 12 months of trading.  “Private equity funds need a success due to Pandora,”
Hansen said in a telephone interview. The Matas “share sale
will set a precedent for private equity firms.”  The Matas offering will be the first IPO on the Nasdaq OMX
Copenhagen stock exchange since 2011, when  Danske Andelskassers
Bank A/S (DAB)  sold shares. The sale will include stakes owned by
Matas’s two biggest shareholders: a unit controlled by London-based CVC as well as Materialisternes Invest ApS, Matas said.  ‘Low Enough’  “CVC will have to set the share price low enough to
guarantee success knowing that they will have to go back to the
market at a later point to sell the remaining shares in Matas as
well as other companies,” Hansen said.  IPOs in Europe, the Middle East and Africa have raised $7.4
billion this year, compared with about $4 billion in the same
period last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The activity in alternative investments such as IPOs,
green energy and corporate bonds is at its highest in a long
time,” said Jesper Langmack, the chief investment officer at
Copenhagen-based PFA Pension, which manages $55 billion.
“Corporate finance outfits are very busy these days.”  European stocks are poised to complete the longest streak
of monthly gains since at least 1997 as investor sentiment picks
up amid central-bank stimulus and better-than-estimated U.S.
economic data.  The Vstoxx Index, which measures volatility in European
equities by tracking the cost of options on the Euro Stoxx 50
Index, slipped 44 percent in the past 12 months and dropped to
six-year low in January.  Buy Side  Denmark’s benchmark  OMXC20 Index (KFX)  has advanced 8.9 percent
this year,  compared  with a 7.9 percent gain in the STOXX Europe
600 Index.  Matas, Denmark’s biggest drugstore chain with 293 outlets,
had revenue of 3.2 billion kroner in the 12 months that ended
March 31, a 3.3 percent advance from a year earlier. Adjusted
profit after tax rose 20 percent to 336 million kroner, the
company said in today’s statement.  “We’re positive towards buying into Matas, though it’s all
about settling at the right price,” Langmack at PFA said. “We
like the company and its management and believe it has a strong
market position and good business model.”  Carnegie Investment Bank AB,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  and  SEB AB (SEBA) 
will act as co-lead managers in the sale, Matas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  