-- Danish Economy Returns to Growth as Consumer Spending Gains
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-05-31T07:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/danish-economy-returns-to-growth-as-consumer-spending-gains.html
Denmark’s economy returned to growth
in the first quarter buoyed by a gain in  consumer spending  and
rising inventories.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.2 percent in the first
quarter, after contracting a revised 0.9 percent at the end of
2012, Statistics Danmark said today. That matched a  median
estimate  in a Bloomberg Survey of seven economists. The economy
shrank an annual 0.8 percent.  “Companies may just have ben ahead of themselves building
up inventories before demand started to pick up abroad,” said
Jes Asmussen, chief economist at Svenska Handelsbanken AB in
Copenhagen. “Without the inventory build-up growth had most
likely been negative in the quarter. Unless foreign and domestic
demand starts to accelerate soon the economy will contract again
in the second quarter.”  The economy is struggling to emerge from a burst property
bubble in 2008 that triggered a banking crisis and wiped out
more than a dozen lenders. The $300 billion economy, home to
 A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , is also suffering from slowing export
demand from the 17-nation euro area, which is estimated to
contract for a second consecutive year.  Stimulus Needed  Private consumption rose 0.1 percent and inventories added
1.2 percentage point to growth. Exports, investments and public
spending all declined in the quarter.  Denmark ’s government-backed Economic Council said in a
report this week that the European Union should allow the nation
to deviate from its structural budget requirements to create
room for more stimulus needed to support a recovery.  “The economic situation warrants fiscal easing, and the
assessment is that there’s room in the budget to support it,”
the council, also known as the Wise Men, said. “The scope for
doing so within existing structural budget laws is very limited.
It would therefore be best if the EU could allow nations with
fundamentally healthy finances to deviate from its structural
deficit rules.”  The government on May 27 cut its growth forecast for this
year to 0.5 percent from the 0.7 percent predicted in April. It
kept its 1.6 percent economic growth forecast for 2014.  The situation “abroad is placing limits on how fast growth
can return” to Denmark, Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager 
said this week in a statement. “For better or worse, our fates
are intertwined with our trading partners’. But when things
start to improve abroad, we’ll be ready.”  The Social Democrat-led coalition on Feb. 26 pledged to
lift annual growth to 2 percent on average from 2014 through
2020, and unveiled plans to create 150,000 private jobs by 2020
through increased public spending and corporate tax cuts.  Denmark’s gross unemployment rate was 5.9 percent in April,
up from 5.8 percent in December, the statistics agency said in a
statement yesterday.  “The Danish economy is moving sideways,” said  Steen Bocian , chief economist at Danske Bank A/S in Copenhagen.
“Whatever improvement we see is only technicalities after the
big December drop in exports and industrial production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ; 