-- Nadal Joins Sharapova in Taking Rain-Delayed French Open Matches
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-05-31T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/defending-champs-nadal-sharapova-reach-french-open-third-round.html
Defending champions Rafael Nadal and
Maria Sharapova won rain-delayed second-round matches at the
French Open and will play third-round opponents today.  Nadal beat Martin Klizan of Slovakia 4-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-3
yesterday, while Sharapova returned to complete a 6-2, 6-4 win
against  Canada ’s Eugenie Bouchard after their match was
suspended in the second set at Roland Garros in Paris.  Nadal, the men’s third seed from Spain, will play No. 27
Fabio Fognini of  Italy  today. Sharapova, a Russian seeded second
among the women, will face Zheng Jie of  China .  Serena Williams and Roger Federer moved into the fourth
round yesterday with straight-set wins. Williams, the women’s
top seed, beat  Romania ’s Sorana Cirstea 6-0, 6-2. Federer, the
men’s No. 2 seed from Switzerland, won 6-3, 6-4, 7-5 against
France’s Julien Benneteau, who was slowed by a leg injury.  “I could tell right away after a game or two that it
wasn’t the same Benneteau across the net,” Federer said at a
news conference. “I kind of knew I had always some cushion in
there. And so it wasn’t that test I was expecting today.”  Williams, of the U.S., needed just 61 minutes to beat the
26th-seeded Cirstea. The 15-time Grand Slam champion, who won
her only French Open title in 2002, took 29 points off Cirstea’s
serve in extending her winning streak to 27 matches.  “I don’t think it’s about a winning streak,” Williams
said. “I think it’s about winning important matches and winning
the right matches at the right time.”  Federer, seeking his 18th major title, had seven aces and
hit almost three times as many winners as Benneteau, who also
made 31 unforced errors. The Swiss right-hander next will face
No. 15 Gilles Simon of  France , who won the final two sets of a
five-set match with No. 18 Sam Querrey of the U.S.  Extra Day  Nadal, the seven-time French Open champion, had to wait an
extra day to play his second-round match because of rain.  After dropping the first set for the second straight match,
the Spaniard broke Klizan’s serve seven times over the final
three sets. The 35th-ranked Klizan made 57 unforced errors, 42
after the first set.  “In the first set I simply was not motivated enough,”
Nadal told reporters. “I simply had to add intensity, increase
my level of game, my attitude, and I found the motivation.”  The 11-time Grand Slam champion has only one loss in nine
appearances in Paris, falling to  Sweden ’s Robin Soderling in the
fourth round in 2009.  Sharapova needed just four games to complete her victory
over Bouchard after play was halted two days ago just before 9
p.m. local time.  Last American  John Isner, the No. 19 seed, came from two sets down to
beat fellow American Ryan Harrison 8-6 in the fifth. Isner is
the last U.S. man left in the singles draw.  Men’s fourth seed David Ferrer beat fellow Spaniard
Feliciano Lopez 6-1, 7-5, 6-4 yesterday and No. 6 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga defeated No. 25 Jeremy Chardy in the first all-French
matchup at Roland Garros in nine years.  Unseeded Viktor Troicki of  Serbia  knocked off No. 10 Marin Cilic of  Croatia , while No. 14 Milos Raonic saw his bid to
become the first Canadian to reach the round of 16 in Paris end
with a three-set loss to 23rd-seeded South African Kevin
Anderson.  Fourth-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska of  Poland  advanced to the
fourth round with a 6-3, 6-4 victory over  Germany ’s Dinah
Pfizenmaier. Fifth seed Sara Errani of Italy defeated Germany’s
Sabine Lisicki 6-0, 6-4 to reach the fourth round, as did No. 8
Angelique Kerber of Germany, who beat American Varvare Lepchenko
in three sets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  