-- DirecTV Said Among 3 Hulu Bidders at $1 Billion or More
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/directv-said-among-3-hulu-bidders-at-1-billion-or-more.html
DirecTV (DTV) , the second-biggest U.S. pay-TV service, and two other bidders are each offering at least $1
billion for Hulu LLC, the online video website, said people with
knowledge of the bid.  The other two couldn’t be identified immediately. Los
Angeles-based Hulu’s board has been weighing at least seven
buyout offers and plans to narrow those to three or four in a
few weeks, said the people, who requested anonymity because the
deliberations are private.  Bids of at least $1 billion increase the odds that owners
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , News Corp. and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal
will sell Hulu after a previous auction and plans for an initial
public offering faltered. Hulu would give DirecTV, with 20
million subscribers, a lower-cost online video offering
alongside its more expensive pay-TV packages.  Darris Gringeri, a spokesman for DirecTV, declined to
comment, as did Meredith Kendall, a spokeswoman for Hulu.  DirecTV, based in El Segundo, California,  fell  3 percent to
$61.19 yesterday in New York. The stock has climbed 22 percent
this year.  In addition to DirecTV, Hulu has received offers from the
private equity firm  KKR & Co. (KKR) ,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ,
Guggenheim Digital, Yahoo! Inc., media executive  Peter Chernin 
and a joint bid from Silver Lake Management LLC and talent
agency William Morris Endeavor Entertainment LLC.  The board, which consists of representatives from New York-based News Corp. and Burbank, California-based Disney, is being
advised by Alan Schwartz, the executive chairman of Guggenheim
Partners. Philadelphia-based Comcast is barred from an
operational role under an agreement with federal regulators tied
to its acquisition of NBC Universal in 2011.  Among Hulu’s owners, Disney fell 2.4 percent to $63.08.
News Corp. Class A fell 1 percent to $32.11 and Comcast
retreated 1.9 percent to $40.17.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  