-- Dotcom Wins Release of Seized Computers in New Zealand
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-05-31T05:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/dotcom-wins-release-of-seized-computers-in-new-zealand.html
Kim Dotcom, founder of the cloud-storage service Megaupload.com that the U.S. shut down on
copyright infringement charges, won the release of some
computers and data seized by  New Zealand  police.  New Zealand  High Court  Justice Helen Winkelmann had ruled
that police used illegal search warrants in a January 2012 raid
on Dotcom’s home. The judge today  rejected  police claims that
the breaches were technical and it would be too difficult and
expensive to return and give Dotcom access to the seized
computers and data.  “The deficiencies in the warrants and, as a consequence,
the searches, were more than merely technical,” Winkelmann
wrote in today’s ruling. “The plaintiffs are entitled to relief
that places them, if only roughly, in the position in which they
would have been if the searches had been conducted pursuant to a
valid warrant.”  Dotcom, 39, was indicted in January last year in  Virginia 
on charges of racketeering,  money laundering , copyright
infringement and  wire fraud  through the Megaupload website, with
the U.S. calling it the biggest copyright infringement case in
the country’s history. The Internet entrepreneur is scheduled in
August to face an extradition hearing to the U.S. from New
Zealand, where he is a resident.  Police used helicopters and a police assault team during a
raid on Dotcom’s home in a suburb of Auckland, seizing 18  luxury
vehicles , including a 1959 pink Cadillac, art, cash, computers
and hard drives.  ‘Miscarriage of Justice’  “A miscarriage of justice did result,” Winkelmann wrote
in today’s ruling.  The judge said removal of cloned data from New Zealand to
the U.S. was illegal and ordered the police to ask U.S.
authorities to destroy material that’s not relevant to the
alleged crimes.  Items in New Zealand must be reviewed by police at their
cost and irrelevant material returned to Dotcom, the judge said.
None of the items in New Zealand is allowed to leave the
country, she said.  While police can retain  storage devices  containing a mix of
relevant and irrelevant data they should provide a clone of
those devices to Dotcom, the judge said.  The New Zealand case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney
General. CIV2012-404-001928. High Court of New Zealand
(Auckland). The U.S. case is: USA v. Dotcom. 12-cr-00003. U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  -- Editors:  Garry Smith , Lena Lee  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  