-- Lead Backwardation Widest in Six Months as Stockpiles Fall
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-31T14:43:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/lead-backwardation-widest-in-six-months-as-stockpiles-fall-2-.html
Lead’s premium to later-delivery
contracts reached the widest level in six months on signs of
limited availability and declining stockpiles of the metal.  Lead for immediate delivery traded as much as $8.15 a
metric ton above the contract for delivery in three months on
the  London  Metal Exchange today. A close at that level would be
the highest since Nov. 16. Backwardation, when nearby contracts
are more expensive than later-dated futures, may indicate
limited supplies.  Stockpiles of lead monitored by the LME were the lowest
since January 2011 today at 219,475 tons, exchange data showed.
Canceled warrants, or orders to take the metal from warehouses,
jumped 20 percent on May 23. About 76 percent of the LME’s total
inventory is earmarked for delivery, the highest proportion
among the six main industrial metals traded on the exchange.  “The stockpiles are in fairly firm hands,” said Steve Hardcastle, head of client services for industrial commodities
at Sucden Financial Ltd. in London. “The canceled warrant
numbers are climbing, which means warrants are not available and
delivery is not available.”  Warrants are certificates giving the bearer ownership of
metal stored in LME-approved warehouses. Canceled warrants
climbed on May 23 on bookings at the Dutch port of Vlissingen.
Lead for June delivery was $14.95 a ton more expensive than the
contract expiring in August on the LME today.  Spreads Under ‘Strain’  “Heavy borrowing” took place, Hardcastle said, referring
to buying of nearby-dated metal and selling of later contracts.
“It’s unlikely that these canceled warrants will be re-warranted and lent back to the market, which reduces the volume
of warrants available, which puts strain on the spreads.”  LME inventories of lead, used in batteries and radiation
shielding, dropped 14 percent this month, the most since
November 2008. Stockpiles in  Malaysia  fell 11 percent in May,
extending this year’s decline to 52 percent.  “Of all the markets that I follow, lead is probably the
one that is reasonably tight,”  Michael Widmer , an analyst at
Bank of America Merrill Corp. in London, said last week. “This
is a market that’s not extremely well supplied.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  