-- Health Management Rises on Report It May Be Bought
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2013-05-31T22:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/health-management-rises-on-report-it-may-be-bought.html
(Corrects location in fifth paragraph and quote in 10th
paragraph.)  Health Management Associates Inc. (HMA) , an
operator of 71 hospitals in the U.S., gained 6.2 percent after
an analyst’s report said  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  may
consider buying the company.  Health Management rose 81 cents to $13.79 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York trading. Chris Rigg, an analyst with Susquehanna
Financial, said today in an investor note that  Community Health 
Systems, the second largest publicly traded U.S. hospital
company, was considering “acquiring assets with scale.”  “We believe that implies it would be interested in
acquiring HMA in a friendly, non-hostile process,” Rigg said in
his report. Community Health Systems wouldn’t comment on Health
Management specifically, Rigg said.  Health Management, based in Naples,  Florida , was the
subject in December of a “60 Minutes” report criticizing its
emergency room practices and the company in April reduced the
high end of its 2013 earnings forecast because of a decline in
admissions. The company on May 28 announced that Gary Newsome
will retire as president and chief executive officer on July 31
to serve a mission in  South America  with the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints.  “This is an easy acquisition, it makes a lot of sense,”
Brian Tanquilut, an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
 Tennessee  said in an interview. “There is optimism among
investors that a new CEO will bring fresh blood.”  Potential Valuation  Rigg valued the potential acquisition at 7 to 8 times the
forward range of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, suggesting a Health Management purchase price
of about $18.50 a share.  MaryAnn Hodge, a spokeswoman for Health Management declined
to comment. Community Health didn’t immediately return phone
calls seeking comment.  The company received a subpoena April 25 from the
Securities and Exchange Commission for documents including
records of payments from Medicare and Medicaid, the U.S. health
programs for the elderly and poor. The government also asked for
data on revenue from privately insured or uninsured patients.  Health Management appears to be on stronger footing now,
Tanquilut said. Glenview Capital Management LLC, a hedge fund
based in  New York , last week reported in regulatory filings that
it owns about 14 percent of Health Management, he said, which
has buoyed investors who may have been skittish because of the
recent problems.  “Glenview is viewed as a very smart hospital investor,”
he said. “They own 14 percent of a $2 billion company. What
that highlights is that this is a good company and a good value
pick, and the sell off on investigations and subpoenas is
overdone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  