-- Heat Beat Pacers to Move Within One Victory of NBA Finals Return
-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-05-31T04:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/heat-defeat-pacers-90-79-to-move-within-one-win-of-nba-finals.html
LeBron James scored 30 points and the
defending champion Miami Heat moved within one win of a return
to the National Basketball Association finals with a 90-79
victory against the visiting  Indiana  Pacers.  Miami leads three games to two in the best-of-seven Eastern
Conference finals and can finish off the Pacers in Game 6
tomorrow night at Indianapolis.  “It’s going to be tough to win and force a Game 7,”
Indiana’s David West told reporters in the Pacers’ locker room.
“We didn’t move the way we should have. We just didn’t play
solid enough to beat this team.”  The series winner will play the San Antonio Spurs for the
NBA championship. San Antonio won the Western Conference title,
sweeping four games from the Memphis Grizzlies. The NBA Finals
begin June 6.  “What I came here for was to compete for a championship
every year,” James said in a news conference. “We’re one step
away from being able to do it once again.”  Paul George had 27 points and Roy Hibbert added 22 for
Indiana. The Pacers’ starting backcourt of George Hill and Lance Stephenson went 2-for-11 from the field and combined for five
points. Indiana also hurt itself with 18 turnovers, eight more
than Miami committed.  “We’ve got to force a Game 7, so we’ve got to toughen
up,” Hibbert said in a news conference. “Our backs are against
the wall right now.”  Third-Quarter Run  The Pacers led 44-40 at halftime and Hibbert opened the
third period with a dunk to give Indiana a six-point margin. The
Heat responded by outscoring the Pacers 30-11 the rest of the
quarter, including a late 12-1 run that featured three straight
baskets by Udonis Haslem.  Haslem scored 16 points, Mario Chalmers had 12 and Dwyane Wade added 10 points and six rebounds for Miami. Wade said the
Heat got more focused in the second half.  “Coming into the locker room, we looked at each other and
said we’ve got to play our game,” he said, referring to
halftime. “We had to just look in the mirror and ask ourselves:
‘What do we want out of this season?’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Faries in Miami at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Miami at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  