-- Meda Gains Most in a Year on WSJ Report of Sale to Sun
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2013-05-31T13:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/meda-gains-most-in-a-year-on-wsj-report-of-sale-to-sun.html
Meda AB (MEDAA)  rose the most in a year in
Stockholm trading after the Wall Street Journal reported that
the Swedish drugmaker is in talks to be acquired by  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  for almost $5 billion.  Meda  climbed  4.5 percent to 87.70 kronor at 3:12 p.m.,
giving the company a market value of 26.5 billion kronor
($4 billion). The stock gained as much as 6.4 percent, the
biggest intraday advance since May 9, 2012.  Sun,  India ’s biggest drugmaker by market value, has been
looking to expand in  Europe  and the U.S. as the company tries
to extend its geographical reach. The Mumbai-based company
last year considered a purchase of German generic-drug maker
 Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ) , people with knowledge of the matter
said at the time.  Buying Meda would bring Sun the Dymista allergy medicine,
which was approved in the U.S. last year. Meda’s products,
focused on respiratory, cardiology, dermatology, central-nervous-system, pain and inflammation treatments, generated
sales of 12.99 billion Swedish kronor in 2012.  Mira Desai, a spokeswoman for Sun Pharma in Mumbai,
declined to comment on the Journal report. Paula Treutiger, an
investor-relations executive at Meda, and Anders Larnholt, vice
president for corporate development, didn’t return two phone
messages seeking comment on the report.  Bank Financing  Sun has been talking to banks to arrange financing for a
purchase of Meda, the Journal reported today, citing people
familiar with the matter. The Indian company wants letters of
credit from banks to present to Meda to convince board members
that it can complete the deal, the Journal said.  Managing Director Dilip Shanghvi is Sun’s largest
shareholder, with an 11 percent stake, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. He is India’s third-wealthiest person,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . Israel Makov, a
former chief executive officer of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd., is Sun’s chairman.  A purchase of Meda probably would require the backing of
 Sweden ’s Olsson family, which owns shipping, offshore-drilling,
finance and property companies. The family owns more than
22 percent of Meda’s stock through its  Stena Sessan AB  holding
company. Bert-Ake Eriksson, Stena Sessan’s CEO, is Meda’s
chairman. Stena Sessan’s office referred questions to Eriksson
and said he wasn’t available for comment.  Sun  fell  2.8 percent to close at 1,044.1 rupees, giving the
company a market value of 1.08 trillion rupees ($19.1 billion).
The stock has advanced 42 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at 
 hharris5@bloomberg.net  