-- Medicare’s Deterioration Slows as Health Law Blunts Costs
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-31T19:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/medicare-s-financial-deterioration-slows-u-s-trustees-say-1-.html
The $574 billion Medicare health
system, the second-largest U.S. social services program, will
exhaust its main financial trust fund in 2026, two years later
than predicted as the Affordable Care Act helps control costs.  Assets for the Part A trust that pays for hospital visits,
nursing care and related services for Medicare’s 51 million
elderly and disabled beneficiaries, fell $23.8 billion in 2012,
according to a  report  today from the program’s trustees. That
compares with a net drop in assets of $27.7 billion for 2011.  The decrease was the smallest since 2009 as debt-reduction
legislation enacted two years ago included payment cuts that
begin taking effect this year. The data should be useful in the
debate between President  Barack Obama  and Republicans over the
best approach to improving Medicare’s long-term footing.  “This is meaningful, but two years, I don’t think anyone
should get too excited,” said Marilyn Moon, a senior vice
president at the American Institutes for Research in Washington.
“There is no reason to believe things have gotten worse, things
have gotten a little better and we will get some breathing room
over time to decide what to do with Medicare.”  Republicans have considered raising the Medicare
eligibility age and switching to a system in which beneficiaries
get subsidies to buy private insurance, instead of the
government paying for their care. Obama has sought to mostly
keep the current structure and instead find ways to boost
efficiency of the program and reduce excess costs, partly
through provisions in the 2010 health-care law he helped create.  ACA Effect  “With the health-care law, our goal was to put Medicare on
more stable footing,” Health and Human Services Secretary
 Kathleen Sebelius  said at a news conference. “The past few
years have borne out that promise.”  Medicare will be bankrupt in 13 years and the report
shouldn’t provide comfort, Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Republican
from  Utah , said in a statement.  “Slower economic growth means that fewer Americans are
purchasing health care,” said Hatch, the top-ranking Republican
on the Senate committee that oversees Medicare. “As our economy
improves, there will be a greater deterioration in the health of
the Medicare program for our seniors.”  Hatch has suggested allowing private health plans to
compete for Medicare beneficiaries as a way to reduce costs
along with raising the program’s eligibility age.  Funding Warning  Moon said the improvement in Medicare resulted from a
combination of “the economy, the fact that the new people on
the Medicare rolls are swelling it but they are healthier
because they are younger, and some of the reforms are starting
to kick in.”  While the data today showed improvement, the program’s
financial condition was still enough to trigger the eighth
consecutive “Medicare funding warning.” That designation by
the trustees requires Obama to propose new funding or cuts in
benefits, a mandate that he and his presidential predecessor
have ignored.  “To date, lawmakers have never allowed the assets of the
Medicare HI  trust fund  to become depleted,” the trustees said,
referring to the Part A hospital insurance fund.  If Congress weren’t to prevent insolvency, steep cuts in
payments to hospitals would result.  Private Plans  In a report released alongside the Medicare data today, the
projection for the 2033 exhaustion of the U.S. Social Security
trust funds, used to make retirement and disability payments,
was left unchanged.  Medicare’s total spending rose about 4.6 percent to $574
billion in 2012, from $549 billion in 2011, the report shows.  The program has three parts -- A, B and D -- that cover
hospital in-patient stays, outpatient services and  prescription
drugs . Part C is the Medicare Advantage program, in which
private insurers including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  Humana
Inc. (HUM)  contract to provide those services in place of the
government.  Parts B, C and D, whose trusts are collectively referred to
as SMI, are adequately financed for now, the trustees said.  Medicare’s trustees include Lew, Sebelius, the Labor
Department secretary, Social Security commissioner and two
members of the public. The board annually reports on the
program’s financial condition.  “It doesn’t look like the trail we are on quite gets to
the cliff as fast as we might have thought, but it doesn’t mean
we can afford to coast and say things have slowed down and
everything is OK,” said Stuart Guterman, a vice president at
the Commonwealth Fund, a New York-based nonprofit group that
advocates for better health care.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  