-- Eesti Energia Diesel Project Delayed by Refinery Cost, CEO Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-05-31T08:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/eesti-energia-diesel-project-delayed-by-refinery-cost-ceo-says.html
Eesti Energia AS, Estonia’s largest
utility, has postponed plans to make  diesel fuel  for cars after
a new estimate for building a refinery showed it’s unprofitable
for now, Chief Executive Officer Sandor Liive said.  A refinery with capacity of 22,000 barrels per day would
cost a higher-than-planned 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion),
plus or minus 30 percent, Liive said in an interview in Tallinn
yesterday, citing a study commissioned from Fluor BV, a unit of
 Fluor Corp. (FLR)  A $25 per barrel price difference between fuel oil
now produced by Eesti Energia and diesel fuel is too low to
justify the investment to make Euro 5-grade diesel by 2016, as
previously planned, he said.  “Expanding our oil production remains a priority, given
today’s oil prices,” Liive said. “Making diesel would become
more attractive if we’re able to cut investment costs by
boosting the scale or if diesel premium over  fuel oil  increases
or if demand for fuel oil would plunge, which isn’t the case
now.”  Eesti Energia and its local rival, Viru Keemia Grupp AS,
have raced to expand oil output from oil shale, a sedimentary
rock the Baltic country has used for almost a century to
generate most of its electricity. Both have aimed to produce
diesel and gasoline from 2016 to boost profits as oil prices
rise and as  carbon emissions  are higher in electricity
production.  China and  Brazil  are the only other producers of shale oil,
Eesti Energia says. Globally, oil shale contains at least three
times as much oil as conventional crude oil reserves, with U.S.
deposits accounting for 72 percent of the total, according to
the company’s  website .  Utah, Jordan  Eesti Energia still plans to build refineries in  Utah  and
 Jordan , as part of its operations there, because the different
composition of their shale oils would not allow unrefined
products to be sold, Liive said.  In 2010, Eesti Energia paid 29 million euros ($38 million)
for Oil Shale Exploration Co., which holds the largest privately
owned oil-shale resources in Utah, expecting to start oil
production of as much as 57,000 barrels per day in the U.S.
state’s Uintah county and create as many as 2,000 jobs.  It also has a share of an oil concession in Jordan, where
it sold a 30 percent stake to  YTL Power International Bhd. (YTLP)  in
2010. Eesti Energia and its partners in the $3.5 billion
Jordanian venture expect to start producing shale oil in 2017,
the head of the project said last September.  Estonian Prospects  Estonian oil producers should aim for a combined output of
50,000 barrels per day, which could make a joint refinery
project “reasonable,” Liive said. Eesti Energia has proposed
talks with VKG and another producer, Kivioli Keemiatoostuse AS,
he said.  “VKG has made a number of cooperation proposals on a
refinery to Eesti Energia in past years,” Julia Piilmann, a
spokeswoman for VKG, said in an e-mail yesterday. “We’re always
ready to reconsider cooperation options.” Still, VKG intends to
proceed with its own refinery project, for which a construction
tender has been organized, she added.  Eesti Energia still plans to make its Enefit280 plant in
Auvere, northeastern  Estonia , fully operational this year even
though technological glitches delayed its start from the
initially planned September 2012, Liive said. The plant,
designed to process 280 tons of oil shale an hour, would exceed
the capacity of any single production unit globally, he said.  “We haven’t had a single problem with the oil-producing
unit itself, the problems have concerned the auxiliary devices
responsible for moving ash and air,” Liive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  