-- Leighton Halts PT Bumi Mines in Indonesia Over Dispute
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-06-01T01:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/leighton-suspends-two-pt-bumi-mines-in-indonesia-over-dispute.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI) , Australia’s
largest builder, halted work at two PT  Bumi Resources (BUMI) ’s mines in
Indonesia because of a contract payment dispute.  Leighton’s Thiess unit suspended operations on April 26 of
the Senakin and Satui mines in South Kalimantan, which are 70-percent owned by Bumi Resources and the rest held by Tata Power
Co., the Sydney-based company said today in a statement. Dileep Srivastava, a director at Jakarta-based coal company, didn’t
respond to two e-mails seeking comment.  Bumi Resources, Indonesia’s biggest coal producer, said
last month it swung to a net loss of $666.2 million in 2012 amid
lower coal prices. Leighton said it’s pursuing the mining
company for payments to which it’s entitled under contracts,
though it didn’t disclose the amount.  “The group remains confident that work at the Senakin and
Satui mines will return to production following a satisfactory
resolution,” Leighton said. The dispute isn’t expected to have
a material effect on the company’s results, it said.  Leighton shares dropped 4.9 percent to A$17.59 at the close
in Sydney. Shares of Bumi Resources were unchanged at 660 rupiah
in Jakarta trading as of 2:04 p.m. local time.  Leighton’s contracted work at the Kaltim Prima Coal
project, 65-percent owned by Bumi, continues uninterrupted, it
said.  London-listed  Bumi Plc (BUMI) , which owns 29 percent of Bumi
Resources, is working to separate from the coal miner and its
founders, the Bakrie Group, after shareholders in February
defeated an attempt by  Nathaniel Rothschild  to take control of
Bumi Plc’s board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  