-- Telecom Italia Board to Review Hutchison Linkup at Next Meeting
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-31T13:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/telecom-italia-board-to-review-hutchison-linkup-at-next-meeting.html
Telecom Italia SpA’s (TIT)  board will
review the feasibility of a merger with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s
Italian business at its next meeting, said Marco Patuano, chief
operating officer of  Italy ’s biggest phone company.  “The H3G issue will be examined at the next board
meeting,” said Patuano, speaking to reporters in Rome today at
the Bank of Italy’s annual meeting. Directors of the carrier
will meet June 5 in Milan, according to a person familiar with
the matter, asking not to be identified because the meeting
schedule isn’t public.  Telecom Italia’s board yesterday approved a plan to
separate the carrier’s fixed-line network, setting a precedent
for Europe’s indebted phone companies as they look for new ways
to raise funds and bargain for lighter regulations. Directors
also authorized executives to continue talks to sell a stake in
the new company to state lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti.  Spinning off the access network will give Telecom Italia
“greater flexibility to explore all the available options in
order to strengthen its position,” Enrico Cucchiani, chief
executive officer of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, told reporters today.
Intesa is an investor in Telco SpA, Telecom Italia’s biggest
shareholder.  The decision, made during a board meeting in  Rome , would
allow Telecom Italia to spin off its copper and fiber assets,
including street cabinets, into a new company. The assets are
valued at about 14 billion euros ($18 billion), a person
familiar with the matter has said.  Last month Telecom Italia’s board designated CEO Franco Bernabe to lead a panel to explore the feasibility of a
combination with Hutchison’s Italian unit, which would eliminate
a competitor offering the cheapest wireless services in the
country.  A company spokesman declined to comment on the next board
meeting.  Telecom Italia fell as much as 4.9 percent to 60.5 cents
and was trading at 60.6 cents at 3 p.m. in Milan. The stock is
down 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at +39-02-8064-4266 or
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at +49-30-70010-6215 or
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  