-- Emanuel Says IRS Has Limited Health-Care Role (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-05-31T23:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/emanuel-says-irs-has-limited-health-care-role-transcript-.html
Former White House health policy
adviser Ezekiel Emanuel said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, that the  Internal Revenue Service  will have a limited
function in administering President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
law, and that concerns about the agency’s role are “a tempest
in a teapot.”  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel, vice
provost at the  University of Pennsylvania  and former top health-policy adviser to the Obama administration, and the most-educated of the fabled -- the fabled Emanuel brothers.  Let’s talk about the affordable health care. The key to the
rollout Oct. 1, you have said all along, is how many healthy
young people sign up for the exchanges. What should the
administration be doing it’s not doing now to make -- to produce
a better outcome?  DR. EZEKIEL EMANUEL: Well, I think we have to get the
country talking about the exchanges, people being aware of it,
and getting people to understand that they can go in and shop,
and that there will be good prices. It does look -- HHS released
some information yesterday about the number of insurance
companies coming in. And their reports suggest that a lot of new
companies are coming in to offer products, that, in fact, 90
percent of the people who they anticipate will shop on the
exchange will have more than five alternatives to choose from,
which is, I think, good.  HUNT: But that’s all good.  They have a good website. But
my 24-year-old daughter, I said, in a year from now, you’ve got
to sign up. Oh, come on, I’m healthy. I mean, she doesn’t -- she
doesn’t even seem to be aware of it.  EMANUEL: Exactly. And I think we have to boost the
awareness. You know, in  Massachusetts , when they did this, one
of my favorite anecdotes from Massachusetts is they had Fenway
days related to the exchanges.  HUNT: That’s the  Red Sox  -  (CROSSTALK)  EMANUEL: Exactly. You’ve got to target -  HUNT: So what should they be doing now? What kind of stuff
are they not doing that the administration should be doing?  EMANUEL: Well, I think everyone needs to begin talking
about it. I think they need to direct people to the
Massachusetts experience, if you want to see what it’s going to
be like. I think one of their hesitations is, if you jazz up
everyone and you get them excited, they can’t shop yet. They
can’t shop until Oct. 1. And so it’s a bit of a chicken-and-egg
problem, which is, do we talk a lot about it, even though people
can’t act on it at this moment?  I still think you need to build awareness, but that
obviously is a marketing issue, and you’re not talking to a guy
who’s a professor of marketing at Wharton. So, you know, that’s
the problem.  HUNT: All right, Zeke, let me ask you this. This is
obviously the president’s signature priority.  EMANUEL: Right.  HUNT: But he also has to talk about taxes and the budget
and Syria and terrorism. Should there be a point person, a
publicly visible point person with knowledge of this who is out
there in these critical next four months promoting this?  EMANUEL: I think that -- you have to have someone. This
isn’t the president’s full-time job, as you well know. I think
it’s not just a person. I think they probably need a bunch of
doctors and nurses, people who the American public trust.  HUNT: But shouldn’t it be a public face that really can
sell this thing?  EMANUEL: Again, you’re not talking to the marketing genius,
but -  HUNT: No, I know. But you know -- you know how difficult it
is.  EMANUEL: Yes, and I think we have to explain to the
American public -- and you need to explain over and over --
wasn’t it  Richard Nixon  who said something like, you say it
once, you say it twice, you say it seven times, and then the
American people is just hearing it?  HUNT: Who would you like to see -- who would you like to
see more involved in this?  EMANUEL: Anyone who can be articulate on the issue and
inform the public.  HUNT: Give me a suggestion or two.  EMANUEL: I’m not a personnel person. Al, you’re asking me
all the wrong questions, marketing, personnel.  HUNT: I’m sorry.  EMANUEL: I’m just policy guy.  HUNT: All right. All right. All right, I’ll get back to one
policy concern, then, and that is the IRS is going to play a
critical role in the implementation of this? They’re -- it’s a
very controversial agency now because of this. Does that
undermine the IRS --  (CROSSTALK)  EMANUEL: No. All the IRS is doing in this situation is
certifying how much -- someone’s income and how much subsidy
they’re entitled to. They’re not releasing any information.
They’re not snooping around. I think that is just a tempest in a
teapot that is unrelated to the Affordable Care Act.  HUNT: So it won’t have any effect on their role?  EMANUEL: It should -- it should not have any effect, and no
person of the American public should be worried that somehow the
IRS is going to get anything -- more information that they don’t
already know on people or release it in any way. So that I don’t
think is a relevant issue.  HUNT: Let me go back to one -- what I think is a policy
question. Did you have any estimate on how many young people
have to sign up in that first year for it to really be -- to
work, to be feasible?  EMANUEL: So the -- the total estimate is that we need 7
million to 9 million -- they’re expecting 7 million to 9 million
people in the first year, and I think you need about half of
them to be young people. That’s not -  HUNT: And hopefully mostly healthy young people.  EMANUEL: Yeah, that’s not a huge number. On the other hand,
you do have to have them come out and you have to have -- a lot
of them are going to be people who aren’t -- don’t have current
insurance, either because their parents don’t, so they’re likely
to be lower educated, minority people, and that’s a -- you know,
a tough demographic to go after, and we have to go after them.  I will say that Rahm, my brother, who actually knows
something about marketing and political sales, has, you know, a
really good important point on this is that you really have to
go after their mothers, because their mothers want them to have
coverage, their mothers want to protect them, and they’ll listen
to their mothers. And I think that’s probably a good suggestion,
too.  HUNT: I’ll tell my wife, because my daughter is not
listening to me so far. She may -  (LAUGHTER)  Tell me this. We’ve talked a lot about enrollment. As this
law takes effect, what else worries you? What else causes your
 blood pressure  to rise?  EMANUEL: Well, I think it’s -- look, like everything else,
the -- in my opinion, the big issue over the long term is, can
we transform how we deliver care to the American public to make
it higher quality and lower cost? And that really requires
doctors to get in and transform what they’re doing, and they
need to buy in and think that the system is going to support
them in that transformation, reengineer how they deliver care.  HUNT: Are you encouraged that they are doing that? Or are
you worried that they’re not doing that?  EMANUEL: I’m encouraged that they’re doing that. And so the
problem that I was going to point to is that we’re saying,
listen, redesign how you’re doing care, focus on quality, and --
and getting things efficient, and yet we’re not paying them to
do that. And that misalignment, payment is not reinforcing the
requested improved quality, I think is a big problem. And so
what I really want to see Congress and the administration, as
well as private insurers tackle is paying people more to keep
people healthy and keep them out of the hospital.  That’s going to be the key over the long haul. So once
we’ve got people in the system, we want the system to perform
well, and the key to that performing well is how we pay doctors.  HUNT: Measure success. What -- say, a year-and-a-half from
now, what -- what -- you know, as far as premiums are concerned,
the effect on hospitals, enrollees, what will be -- what can we
say, all right, it’s working?  EMANUEL: So I think the issue is, do we have enrollment
expanding?  And is the buzz around the exchanges, I got -- I
have good choice, they’re easy to navigate, and the subsidies
are good? I think if that’s the buzz, we’re going to see a lot
of people wanting to come into the exchange, including people
who normally get their insurance from their employers.  I think what you really want to see is 10 million to 15
million people by the end of the second year in the exchanges,
and I think you want premiums to stay flat for a couple of
years.  HUNT: Stay flat, right.  EMANUEL: And I think those things are good. But here, Al, I
think a year-and-a-half is too early to really make a good
assessment. I -- when I go around talking around the country, I
say the real measure is going to be 2020, because that’ll be a
decade for implementation -  HUNT: To see -- to see how it works?  EMANUEL: To see how -- how stable the exchanges are. Are
people really in the system? Is the system reformed how we
deliver care? And so I like to keep my eye on 2020.  HUNT: One other controversy,  Lamar Alexander , no right-wing
ideologue, says the secretary of HHS may be breaking the law by
soliciting private-party funds to help Enroll America. I don’t
know if she’s breaking the law, but isn’t that sort of an
appearance problem, it just is something that distracts from
what you need to do?  EMANUEL: Well, it does sound like a distraction. I would
actually remind people, when we started Medicare in this
country, we actually hired thousands of people to knock on the
doors of elderly individuals in this country to get them to sign
up and to inform them. And I think that kind of rollout is
important. It was also controversial in 1966, when the law went
into effect, and I think we’re going to have the same
controversy now.  HUNT: Final quick question -  EMANUEL: But, remember, whatever the controversy is right
around the rollout, over time, the American public learns what
they need to learn about this system and ends up liking these
programs.  HUNT: Final quick question. Does the Medicare  Trust Fund 
report that was out on Friday say anything about this whole
issue?  EMANUEL: Yes, the trust fund report shows that Medicare is
going to be solvent for an additional two years compared to last
year, and when we were debating the Affordable Care Act, we’ve
improved the solvency a decade, 10 years. So I think part of all
the -- as I’ve commented before -- one of the things that’s been
lost in all the conversation is the fact that medical inflation
has actually been moderating over the last few years, and that
translates into lower spending by Medicare, and means that the
trust fund will last longer.  That’s very good news for the country. We obviously have to
moderate it more. We can’t take our focus off of it. We’re still
growing more than the growth in the economy. We have to get down
to where health care is just growing with the economy.  HUNT: Dr. Zeke Emanuel, thank you so much for being with
us.  EMANUEL: Thank you, Al.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 