-- Emerging Stocks Post Biggest Monthly Drop in One Year
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-05-31T22:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/emerging-stocks-fall-heading-for-biggest-monthly-loss-in-a-year.html
Emerging stocks capped the biggest
monthly slump in a year as Brazilian equities tumbled after
policy makers raised the benchmark interest-rate more than
forecast. Indian shares plunged on bets inflation may rise.  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  fell to a six-week low, while the real
slid to its weakest level in four years, spurring central bank
intervention. Housing Development Finance Corp. drove  India ’s
S&P BSE Sensex down, while the rupee completed its worst month
in a year.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ,  Russia ’s second-largest oil producer,
slipped 2.3 percent as crude slumped.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.7 percent to
1,008.88, extending its monthly drop to 2.9 percent. Brazil’s
central bank raised the benchmark interest-rate by a half-percentage point to 8 percent, surprising 38 of 57 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  India’s economy  expanded less than 5
percent for a second straight quarter. The S&P GSCI gauge of
commodities slumped a third day.  “Global growth continues to decelerate,” said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-based fund manager at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees about $130 billion. He
spoke in a telephone interview today. “That has put the brakes
in  emerging markets .”  Commodity and utility shares have led the losses among the
 10 industries  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, slumping at
least 4.7 percent. The broad gauge extended this year’s decline
to 4.4 percent, compared with an 10 percent jump in the MSCI
World Index.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund retreated 1.8 percent to $41.20. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 10 percent to 23.68.  Brazil’s benchmark index slumped 2.1 percent as MRV
Engenharia & Participacoes SA led homebuilders down.  The real
fell 1.3 percent to 2.1411, the lowest since May 2009, even as
the central bank auctioned currency swap contracts to try to
stem the currency’s decline.  The Micex Index retreated 0.8 percent in Moscow, the lowest
level since April 23. The gauge extended its monthly slump to
2.6 percent. Lukoil, which has the biggest weighting on the
measure, dropped to a one-month low.  Russia’s 2027 ruble bonds had their worst month in at least
a year as investors shunned riskier assets amid concern the U.S.
Federal Reserve may pare back stimulus and on expectations May
inflation will quicken.  South Africa ’s rand fell to a four-year low amid
speculation the central bank may sell dollars to soothe
volatility and as government officials tried to reassure
investors.  Indian Shares  The S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  sank the most since March 22, 2012 on
speculation a weakening currency may stoke inflation and prompt
overseas investors to pare holdings of local shares. HDFC had
the biggest decline since October.  China’s stocks fell, paring the benchmark index’s biggest
monthly gain this year, before tomorrow’s manufacturing report.
Property and technology companies, among the best-performing
shares in May, led losses. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.7
percent. It jumped 5.6 percent in May, the biggest monthly gain
since December 2012.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  slid three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 293 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in London at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  