-- EU Confirms Rules Give It Time to Sell Carbon-Reserve Permits
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-05-31T14:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/eu-confirms-rules-give-it-time-to-sell-carbon-reserve-permits.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
reiterated it doesn’t have to start selling 100 million carbon
permits from a special reserve soon, as proceeds from the sales
need to be awarded to clean-energy projects only by mid-2014.  The Luxembourg-based  European Investment Bank , mandated by
the EU to sell 300 million permits from a set-aside for new
entrants to the bloc’s emissions trading system, is considering
the timing of the second tranche of the so-called NER300
reserve, according to Jos Delbeke, director general for climate
at the European Commission. The EIB sold the first 200 million
allowances between December 2011 and September last year.  “The timeline of implementing the second call of the
NER300 does not require the EIB to initiate the sales in the
near future,” Delbeke said by e-mail. “The EIB will announce
all relevant details with an appropriate lead-time ahead of the
start of the sales.”  The EU decided in 2008 to use proceeds from the sales to
encourage renewable-energy and carbon-capture projects. The
commission granted 1.2 billion euros ($1.6 billion) from the
sale of the first tranche of NER300 to 23 renewable-energy
projects in December last year. It wants to award aid under the
second round of the contest by the middle of next year, it said
on March 4.  The sale of 100 million allowances under the second tranche
will use experience gained from the sale of the first 200
million, Richard Willis, an EIB spokesman, said today by e-mail.
He confirmed no date has yet been decided for sales of the
second tranche.  Cooperation Agreement  Under a cooperation agreement with the commission on NER300
sales, the EIB may sell allowances with settlement in December
2013 at the earliest. That enables extending the sales into
2014.  The value of the reserve shrank as carbon prices slumped
almost 90 percent in the past five years amid oversupply
exacerbated by an economic crisis. To help the market rebound
the commission proposed delaying auctions of allowances in a
strategy known as backloading, which is currently being
considered by governments and the region’s Parliament.  The EU may opt to wait until lawmakers decide whether to
support the backloading proposal before it starts sales of the
second tranche of NER300 allowances,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst
at Energy Aspects Ltd. in  London , said today in an interview in
Barcelona.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Barcelona at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in Barcelona at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  