-- Europe Bond Investors Lose in May as End of Cheap Cash Signaled
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-05-31T09:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/europe-bond-investors-lose-in-may-as-end-of-cheap-cash-signaled.html
Investors lost money in European
corporate bonds for the first time in four months in May on
speculation central banks will stem the flow of cheap cash that
pushed borrowing costs to record lows.  Returns on investment-grade notes dropped to minus 0.5
percent for the month, compared with a 1 percent profit in
April, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro
Corporate index. Junk debt lost 0.1 percent after earning
investors 2 percent the previous month.  Signs the global economy is recovering from the worst
crisis since the Great Depression are prompting investors to
brace for cuts in central bank stimulus programs. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the pace of
asset purchases could taper off if there is continued and
sustained improvement in economic growth, while economic
confidence in the euro region increased in May.  “Markets are anticipating the end to quantitative easing
and therefore the crutch that it’s provided credit markets in
keeping rates low will disappear and less liquid bond markets
will sell off,” said  Bill Blain , a strategist at Mint Partners
Ltd. in London. “Already bonds priced off government benchmarks
are under-performing in line with the rising rate environment,
and it could get more pronounced.”  The average yield on European corporate bonds rose 12 basis
points from a record low of 1.72 percent reached May 17,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Corporate
index. The premium investors demand to hold that debt instead of
 government bonds  is holding near 112 basis points, the lowest
since November 2007.  Worst Performers  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ’s bonds were the worst-performing
investment-grade securities in  Europe , with investors in the
country’s biggest phone company losing an average 2 percent over
the month, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  Rexel SA (RXL) ,
the French electrical equipment distributor, offered the poorest
returns among junk-rated securities, with an average 1.5 percent
loss, the data show.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the Netherlands’ largest financial-services
company, led companies selling 56.7 billion euros ($73.4
billion) of bonds in May, compared with 66.2 billion euros in
April, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Speculative-grade borrowers including U.K. fashion retailer
New Look Group Plc and  Frigoglass SA (FRIGO) , the Greek refrigerator
equipment supplier, raised 8.6 billion euros of debt, compared
with 10.4 billion euros last month.  Junk Record  Investors bought a record 46.6 billion euros of junk debt
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra
yield they demand to hold the notes reached 454 basis points on
May 10, the lowest in 5 1/2 years, and was at 474 on May 30,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  “The fact that high-yield bonds have tightened so much,
while remaining quite illiquid, means they’re mis-priced,” said
Blain. “Investors who have neglected the fundamentals of credit
and liquidity are about to be reminded why corporate bonds are
more risky.”  In Europe’s credit markets today,  William Hill Plc (WMH) , a U.K.
operator of more than 2,300 betting shops, is selling seven-year
bonds in pounds that will yield about 4.25 percent, according to
a person familiar with the deal. The company, which last sold
debt in 2009, is rated BB+ by Standard & Poor’s and Ba1 by
Moody’s Investors Service, one level below investment grade.  Credit Derivatives  The yield on the company’s 7.125 percent bonds due November
2016 has fallen 98 basis points this year to 3.1 percent, below
the average 5.5 percent investors demand to hold sterling bonds
rated BB, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The cost of insuring European corporate debt against
default rose this month after reaching the lowest in two years
on May 22. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of default swaps on
50 companies with high-yield credit ratings gained 23.5 basis
points this month to 420 at 10:54 a.m. in  London . The measure
fell to 366 on May 22, the lowest level since May 2011.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of contracts on 125
investment-grade companies rose five basis points this month to
104. It reached a three-year low of 87 basis points on May 22.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt of
25 banks and insurers increased four basis points to 150, while
the subordinated index fell 19 basis points to 215 after
reaching 177 basis points on May 22, the lowest in almost three
years.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  