-- European Drop Second Week on Fed Tapering Concerns
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-05-31T16:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/european-drop-second-week-on-fed-tapering-concerns.html
European stocks  declined for a second
week, trimming their biggest monthly rally since January, amid
concern the  Federal Reserve  will start to taper its debt-buying
program as the  U.S. economy  strengthens.  Royal KPN NV, Hennes & Mauritz AB and SBM Offshore NV fell
as analysts recommended investors sell the shares. Fiat SpA rose
13 percent after  Italy ’s industry minister offered support to
keep its plants in the country. Alcatel-Lucent SA posted its
biggest weekly gain since January as analysts said it could get
up to $3.9 billion if it sold its wireless unit.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index lost 0.8 percent to 300.88 this
week, led by a selloff in real estate, food and health-care
companies. The gauge still advanced 1.4 percent this month,
climbing to its highest level since June 2008 on May 22. The
Stoxx 600 has advanced for 12 consecutive months, the longest
winning streak since 1997.  “We are in a  bull market  for equities and this will
continue,” Geoffroy Goenen, who helps oversee $1.3 billion at
Dexia Asset Management in Brussels, said in a phone interview.
“The day that the Fed reduces the size of its bond purchases,
the market will stop and look. If the economy can continue to
grow, then the market will continue to go up.”  The yield on benchmark 10-year  U.S. debt  climbed to as much
as 2.23 percent this week, the highest level in 12 months, after
economic data and low demand at a government auction of two-year
notes added to concerns about the longevity of the Fed’s bond-purchasing program.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said the central
bank may cut the pace of buying “in the next few meetings” if
economic conditions improve.  U.S. Confidence  A report from the Conference Board on May 28 showed U.S.
 consumer confidence  climbed to 76.2 in May, the highest level
since February 2008. Separate data showed the S&P/Case-Shiller
house-price index gained 1.1 percent in March, compared with the
1 percent average projection of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. That means  house prices  have climbed 10.9 percent from a
year earlier, their biggest jump since April 2006.  Another report on May 31 showed business activity rebounded
in May after declining for the first time in more than three
years last month. The MNI Chicago Report’s business barometer
rose to 58.7, exceeding all forecasts in a Bloomberg survey. A
reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  Fourteen of the 18 western European benchmarks declined
this week.  France ’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  lost 0.2 percent, and the U.K.’s FTSE
100 Index retreated 1.1 percent in a four-day week.  Germany ’s
 DAX Index (DAX)  rose 0.5 percent.  KPN Declines  KPN led phone companies lower, retreating 8.9 percent.
Kepler Cheuvreux downgraded the Dutch phone operator to reduce,
the equivalent of a sell rating, saying its financial situation
is still fragile.  Deutsche Telekom AG, Germany’s biggest phone company, fell
4.6 percent after setting the ratio for a scrip dividend at 12.5
rights for each new share with a deadline of June 3.  H&M dropped 2.7 percent as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered
its rating for the company to sell, saying profitability at
Europe’s second-largest clothing retailer will suffer as
customers shift to online shopping.  SBM (SBMO)  slid 2.3 percent. Morgan Stanley downgraded the world’s
biggest supplier of floating oil-production platforms to
underweight, a recommendation similar to sell, from equal
weight, citing its 37 percent rally so far this year, and saying
it needs to see an “indication of significant cash returns.”  Lagardere Sinks  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  sank 31 percent, for the biggest decline on
the Stoxx 600. Natixis and Bank of America Corp. reduced their
share-price estimates for the Paris-based media company after it
traded without the right to a special dividend of 9 euros. Both
banks rate Lagardere neutral.  Roche Holding AG  lost 5.5 percent as a study in south-east
 Asia  showed the effectiveness of its Tamiflu drug remained
unchanged when the dosage was doubled for patients with severe
influenza. A separate study found a gene mutation known to make
flu viruses resistant to Tamiflu in two patients infected with
the H7N9 bird flu virus in  China , according to an article
published in The Lancet medical journal on May 28.  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE)  dropped 6.7 percent after the maker of the
artificial sweetener Splenda reported full-year sales of 3.26
billion pounds ($5 billion). That missed the average analyst
forecast of 3.28 billion pounds.  Fiat Support  Fiat led a gauge of auto companies higher this week,
surging 13 percent. Italy’s industry minister, Flavio Zanonato,
pledged the government’s support to help the company to keep its
plants in the country.  The Italian carmaker is also in talks for as much as $10
billion in financing from a pool of banks to buy the Chrysler
Group LLC stake it doesn’t own and refinance the two automakers’
debt, according to people familiar with the matter.  Alcatel-Lucent jumped 16 percent as Societe Generale SA
wrote in a report on May 28 that the company’s wireline
operations could fetch 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) if sold.  Club Mediterranee SA soared 28 percent. The French tour
operator said it got a takeover bid from its management and two
largest shareholders, Axa Private Equity and  Fosun International
Ltd. (656) , that values the company at 540 million euros.  PostNL NV climbed 14 percent after the Dutch mail company
raised its annual-profit forecast. It now expects underlying
operating income of 50 million euros to 90 million euros in
2013, compared with an earlier forecast of 20 million euros to
60 million euros.  Deutsche Boerse AG advanced 8.2 percent after UBS AG wrote
in a note that the operator of the Frankfurt stock exchange will
benefit from possible changes to European Union proposals on
financial transaction taxes. European countries are planning to
scale back the taxes, Reuters reported on May 30, citing
unidentified officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  