-- Euro-Area Inflation Accelerates as Food Costs Offset Energy Drop
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2013-05-31T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/euro-area-inflation-accelerates-as-food-costs-offset-energy-drop.html
Euro-area inflation accelerated in
May, led by food and services costs and adding to signs that the
17-nation currency bloc is starting to emerge from a record-long
recession.  The annual  inflation rate  rose to 1.4 percent from 1.2
percent in April, the European Union’s  statistics office  in
Luxembourg said today. That’s in line with the  median  estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 46 economists. The rate has been
below the European Central Bank’s 2 percent ceiling since
February.  The ECB’s Governing Council will keep its benchmark rate at
a record low of 0.5 percent when it meets on June 6, according
to the median of 33 economists in a separate Bloomberg survey.
With the euro area mired in an 18-month recession, ECB policy
makers are seeking ways to stimulate the economy. President
Mario Draghi has indicated he’s ready to reduce borrowing costs
further if the economic outlook deteriorates.  “As long as the ECB’s baseline scenario of some recovery
in the second half of the year remains in place I would be very
surprised if they cut rates again over the next couple of
months,” said Janet Henry, chief European economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc. “They need to see a further deterioration from
where we are currently rather than the stabilization they expect
to see around the middle of the year.”  Crude Prices  The euro area’s 18-month recession will end in the second
quarter, as the economy stagnates before returning to growth in
the following three months, according to another Bloomberg
survey. The economy  contracted  0.2 percent in the first quarter.  Energy costs dropped 0.2 percent in May after a 0.4 percent
decline a month earlier, today’s report showed. Prices of food,
alcohol and tobacco rose 3.3 percent, compared with 2.9 percent
in March, while the cost of services increased 1.4 percent after
a 1.1 percent gain in the previous month.  West Texas Intermediate crude is headed for a third weekly
decline after U.S. stockpiles climbed to the most in more than
80 years. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries can
maintain its production quota while Brent is trading around $100
a barrel, some group members said before its first meeting of
the year today.  Hellenic Petroleum SA,  Greece ’s biggest refiner, posted a
78 million-euro ($102 million) loss in the first quarter,
compared with a 71 million-euro profit a year earlier, as the
country went through “the worst ever heating diesel season,”
the company said yesterday.  ‘Perfect Storm’  Diesel use in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, dropped
7.8 percent in March from a year earlier, according to the
Association of the German Petroleum Industry.  European energy companies including EON SE, Germany’s
largest utility, GDF Suez SA, Enel SpA and Iberdrola SA,
demanded policy changes in the energy industry to ensure future
supply in a letter to EU leaders last week. Stagnating prices
and slowing growth are creating a “perfect storm” that
threatens investment, they said.  Draghi said last week that his pledge to buy government
bonds is helping to ensure that interest-rate cuts reach the
parts of the euro-area economy that need them the most.  Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said this week that
while policy makers are having “an open discussion” about
lowering the deposit rate, some are “more open than others” to
the idea. Governing Council member Christian Noyer said he’s not
convinced about the merits of the policy.  “I think a negative deposit rate is a clear manifestation
that the ECB wants to have a weaker exchange rate,” said  Hans Redeker , global head of currency strategy at Morgan Stanley.
“When you look at Europe’s economic performance, it has
disappointed. Overall this is an economy where credit is not
flowing. You have to think about how you’re going to change
this, and ultimately the exchange rate has to come in here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  