-- Lewis Lapham: Lincoln Moaned, Died as Secretary Watched
-- B y   L e w i s   L a p h a m
-- 2013-06-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/lewis-lapham-lincoln-moaned-died-as-secretary-watched.html
John Milton Hay went east from
Warsaw, Illinois, to finish his education at  Brown University  in
 Rhode Island , where he decided to become a poet. When he went
back home, a depressed Hay changed course and in May 1859 began
to study law with his uncle in nearby Springfield.  (To listen to the podcast, click  here .)  Next door,  Abraham Lincoln  was running a busy practice
working for railroads, merchants and the gaslight company.
Swamped after receiving the presidential nomination, Lincoln
hired Hay’s old friend, John Nicolay, as his secretary, and soon
enough, the 22-year-old Hay was onboard as well.  Both moved to the White House with Lincoln, with Hay taking
charge of the correspondence. “I only work about 20 hours a
day,” he said.  As President Lincoln lay dying in the boarding house across
from  Ford’s Theater , Hay stood at the head of the bed and later
described the scene: “His automatic moaning, which had
continued throughout the night, ceased; a look of unspeakable
peace came upon his worn features.”  For the rest of his long and accomplished life, Hay mourned
the fallen leader.  I spoke with John Taliaferro, author of “All the Great
Prizes: The Life of John Hay, from Lincoln to Roosevelt,” on
the following topics:  1. Lincoln’s Correspondence  2. Refusing to Run  3. Presidential Deathbed  4. Diplomatic Career  5. Secretary of State  To buy this book in North America, click  here .  ( Lewis Lapham  is the founder of  Lapham’s Quarterly  and the
former editor of Harper’s magazine. He hosts “The World in
Time” interview series for  Bloomberg News .)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg on NYC  Weekend  and
 Greg Evans  on  movies .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lewis Lapham in  New York  at 
 lhl@laphamsquarterly.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 