-- Ex-BOE’s Posen Says Carney Faces Limited Scope to Weaken Pound
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-05-31T10:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/ex-boe-s-posen-says-carney-faces-limited-scope-to-weaken-pound.html
Former  Bank of England  policy maker
 Adam Posen  said incoming U.K. central bank Governor  Mark Carney 
faces limited choices if he wants sterling to weaken.  “I don’t think Governor Carney has the tools to want a
weaker pound,” Posen said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in  Tokyo  today. “The only way the pound goes down is if you get
bad news about the U.K., in which case then the BOE is really
caught, because they’re caught between a rise in inflation
expectations and a slower economy. I don’t think they’re going
to be trying to talk down the pound any time soon.”  Carney will want to see sterling weaken and the pound may
drop to a four-year low of $1.37 during his tenure, Michael Amey, a  money manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
on May 29. The  Bank of Canada  governor takes over from  Mervyn King  at the Bank of England on July 1.  The pound was at $1.5192 as of 11:26 a.m. London time. It
initially pared losses against the dollar after Posen’s remarks,
rising as high as $1.5227.  Stimulus expansion by global central banks prompted a call
in February from the Group of 20 countries that authorities
should avoid intentionally weakening their currency. Carney,
along with other central bankers and finance ministers from the
G-20 last month reaffirmed that commitment to refrain from
“competitive devaluation” of exchange rates.  G-20 Annoyance  The Bank of England “can try to talk down the pound and
then the G-20 will quite rightly shout at them,” Posen said,
speaking to Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” today. “They don’t have the
intervention tools and they shouldn’t use them because again the
G-20 will get really annoyed.”  Posen, who was a member of the BOE's Monetary Policy 
Committee between 2009 and 2012, is currently President of the
Washington-based Peterson Institute for International Economics.  In the U.K., policy makers have been split in recent months
on whether the economy needs further quantitative easing, with
King voting since February in the minority for more bond
purchases.  “I didn’t expect them to do more until the new governor
came in,” Posen says, referring to the prospect of the BOE
increasing  QE. (UKAPTARG)  “I think the real question is going to be some
form of credit easing.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  in March gave
the BOE more flexibility in reaching its inflation target and
asked policy makers to report back in August on the potential of
using forward guidance to spur the recovery.  “Governor Carney knows he’s got until August to put
together a program and I don’t think it’s going to be very
radical,” he said. “Governor Carney quite rightly is more
concerned about integrating the bank supervision and financial
stability roles the Bank of England now has, and that’s going to
take precedence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  