-- Bankers Advising Fed Said Accommodation May Last Three Years
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-05-31T20:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/fed-advisory-panel-saw-accommodation-lasting-one-to-three-years.html
Bankers advising the Federal Reserve
this month said they expect the central bank’s record
accommodation to last as long as three years, while warning that
an interest-rate increase could slow the housing recovery.  The  Federal Advisory Council  said “it is likely that
current policy accommodation will continue for one to three
years,” given current economic forecasts, fiscal policy
restraint and subdued inflation, according to  minutes  of its May
17 meeting released today in  Washington .  “Interest rate increases could damage the current
momentum” in housing, which is “slowly recovering” amid a
rebound in prices related to low inventories, the bankers said.
While low  interest rates  have made home ownership more
attractive to some, the panel warned record Fed stimulus may now
be “perceived as integral” to the housing finance system.  Rising demand pushed up the S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of
property values in  20 cities  by 10.9 percent in the year through
March, the biggest 12-month gain since April 2006. The housing
rebound is spurring the expansion and boosting consumer
sentiment. The Conference Board’s consumer-confidence  index 
climbed to the highest level in more than five years in May,
data from the New York-based private research group showed.  The Fed said on its website today minutes of the council
will be posted online about two weeks after each gathering. The
central bank earlier this month released the records of meetings
from 2011 to 2013 for the first time in response to a Freedom of
Information Act request from Bloomberg News.  Advisory Council  The advisory council includes Joseph Hooley, chairman and
chief executive officer of  State Street Corp. (STT)  in  Boston ; James Gorman, chairman and CEO of Morgan Stanley in New York; Kelly King, chairman and CEO of BB&T Corp. in Winston-Salem, North
Carolina; and D. Bryan Jordan, chairman and CEO of  First Horizon
National Corp. (FHN)  in  Memphis , according to the Fed’s website.  While the record of this month’s meeting didn’t define
accommodation, the Fed has kept its  target interest rate  near
zero since December 2008 and pledged to hold it there until the
unemployment  rate , currently  7.5 percent , falls to 6.5 percent.
Policy makers also engaged in three rounds of bond purchases,
known as quantitative easing, driving the central bank’s balance
sheet to  $3.39 trillion  as of May 29.  FOMC Gathering  The Fed on June 5 is scheduled to release its Beige Book
report on current economic conditions in each district and
sector. The next meeting of the policy-setting Federal Open
Market Committee is set for June 18-19 in Washington and will
include a press conference by Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and an
updated Summary of Economic Projections from Fed officials.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index headed for its second
 weekly  decline after rising to a record close on  May 21. (SPX)  The
benchmark for U.S. stocks declined 1.4 percent to 1,630.74 in
New York, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose 0.02
percentage point to 2.13 percent.  The panel said the biggest lenders are tightening mortgage
standards and increasing the credit scores and documentation
required for loans, according to the minutes. Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac aren’t moving quickly enough to foreclose on
delinquent loans, they said.  “One member expresses concern that Fannie Mae, Freddie
Mac, and others continue to hold a significant number of
underperforming loans and are not taking foreclosure actions,”
according to the minutes. “This is skewing the positive market-condition data and creating a potential future challenge.”  Budget Cuts  Automatic U.S budget cuts, part of a process known as
sequestration, aren’t harming the economy so far, the panel
said. The impact of the reductions, which will slice the  federal
budget  as much as $1.2 trillion over nine years, are difficult
to assess as just 3 percent of businesses reported a direct
effect, the panel said.  “There was nearly unanimous consensus that the
sequestration has had little direct business impact so far,”
according to the minutes. “With the specific exception of the
Washington D.C. metro area, no member indicated material
measurable impact from the sequester.”  The panel also cited potential harmful effects of the
Affordable Care Act, the law which expands health coverage to
about 27 million uninsured people through a series of state-run
health exchanges where residents would purchase subsidized
insurance plans and through an expansion of Medicaid programs.  “Almost every member bank still highlighted significant
concern over the implementation of the impending health care
legislation and its potential material impact on business
confidence,” according to the meeting minutes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  