-- Fed’s Pianalto Says Living Wills Help Curb Bank System Risks
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-05-31T16:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/fed-s-pianalto-says-bank-living-wills-help-solve-too-big-to-fail.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said so-called living wills to outline
how failing financial institutions will be shut down will help
increase regulatory transparency for investors.  “Successfully addressing the ‘Too Big To Fail’ problem
requires the establishment of a credible resolution process, one
that appears capable of safely managing the failure of
systemically important financial institutions in times of
distress,” Pianalto said today in a speech in Washington.  Fed officials and U.S. lawmakers are considering new ways
to limit the risk that the failure of a large bank will lead to
a taxpayer-funded rescue. The central bank is discussing how to
limit the safety net and curtail balance-sheet expansion at the
largest banks, while senators from both parties are discussing
legislation that would tighten capital standards.  Increasing credibility requires transparency of information
about individual firms and the broader banking system, and also
regulatory actions, which will in turn “lead to greater
credibility,” said Pianalto, who does not vote this year on the
policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee . She didn’t discuss
monetary policy or the economic outlook.  Pianalto also said stress tests would improve transparency
if they were broadened to show the potential impact of troubled
banks on their biggest counterparties.  “This would be especially useful if many banks each rely
on the same small set of counterparties for certain kinds of
transactions,” she said at a joint conference on financial
stability sponsored by the Fed Board’s Office of Financial
Research and the Cleveland reserve bank.  Risk Disclosure  The public should have access to more information about
bank assets, specifically having regulators require lenders to
disclose how much risk they may face and where their loans are
made by region, Pianalto said. Regulators could also require
firms to disclose the distribution of credit scores in consumer
loan portfolios, she said.  Investors and regulators may view a bank with “90 percent
of its construction loans concentrated in either depressed or
overheated real estate markets differently from the risk profile
of an institution with its construction loans distributed across
the country,” the Cleveland Fed chief said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  