-- Fiat Stock Rises on Bank Talks to Finance Chrysler Deal
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-05-31T14:55:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/fiat-stock-rises-on-bank-talks-to-finance-chrysler-deal.html
Fiat SpA (F)  rose to the highest in
almost 22 months as investors see a merger approaching of the
Italian carmaker with its Chrysler Group LLC unit amid talks
with banks for as much as $10 billion in funding for the deal.  Fiat  jumped  as much as 3.5 percent to 6.14 euros, the first
time the price has exceeded 6 euros since Aug. 4, 2011, and was
trading up 3.1 percent at 4:52 p.m. in Milan, the best
performance on  Italy ’s benchmark  FTSEMIB Index. (FTSEMIB)  Volume exceeded
the three-month daily average by 68 percent. The stock’s 61
percent gain this year is the biggest on the eight-company
Bloomberg Europe Autos Index, valuing Fiat at 7.65 billion euros
($9.91 billion).  Bank of America Corp. , Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  are among institutions discussing
lending Turin-based Fiat the money to buy the 41.5 percent of
Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler held by the United Auto
Workers’ retiree health-care trust, people familiar with the
matter said May 29. A merger is a key step in efforts by Sergio Marchionne, who runs both carmakers, to create a manufacturer
with the scale to compete with industry leaders  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   “Marchionne’s plan looks reachable, so we expect the stock
to rise also in the medium term,” said Vincenzo Longo, an
analyst at IG Group in Milan.  Marchionne’s Target  Fiat has  accumulated  a 58.5 percent holding since taking
control of Chrysler in 2009 as the U.S. company emerged from
bankruptcy. Marchionne has a target of completing the purchase
of the remaining stake by the end of the summer, the people
said. Other banks could also take part in the financing, one of
the people said.  A merger would create a manufacturer grouping the mass-market Fiat, Chrysler, Jeep and Dodge auto brands with the
Maserati and Ferrari supercar marques. Fiat will probably wait
for a ruling in a legal dispute with the health-care trust over
the value of the labor group’s Chrysler stake before moving
forward, Chairman John Elkann said yesterday at the annual
shareholders meeting of Fiat’s dominant shareholder, Exor SpA.  Fiat has received oral agreements at this point from some
of the banks, while no final deal has been signed, the people
said. Representatives for Fiat and the four banks declined to
comment.  Phased Transaction  The Italian carmaker plans a two-step transaction, first
buying the trust’s stake, and later refinancing the debt of both
manufacturers at lower interest rates, the people said. Fiat may
pay as much as $3.5 billion for the rest of Chrysler, UBS AG
estimates. The two carmakers had 7.1 billion euros of net
industrial debt combined at the end of March.  One option being explored is to create a new company in the
U.S., merge Fiat and Chrysler into it and issue shares in the
combined entity, one of the people said. Current  Fiat owners 
would exchange their shares for a stake in the new company, the
person said.  Exor, the investment vehicle that holds the founding
Agnelli family’s 30 percent Fiat stake, will support the
combination, Elkann, who is also chairman of the holding
company, said yesterday.  Backing by Exor of a capital increase “would help Fiat not
only to get the resources spent to buy Chrysler’s minority stake
but even to strengthen the balance sheet of the new company,”
Gabriele Gambarova, an analyst at Akros in Milan, wrote in a
report to clients today. Gambarova estimates Fiat and Chrysler
may raise as much as $5 billion in a capital increase after the
merger.  Elkann also dismissed any idea that Marchionne will leave
the group in 2015.  “Having spoken with Marchionne, I know he will stay with
us for many years to come,” Elkann said yesterday when asked
whether Marchionne would step down two years from now.  Marchionne and Elkann reiterated today to Italian Industry
Minister Flavio Zanonato that Fiat, the country’s biggest
manufacturer, doesn’t plan to shut plants or fire workers there,
the Economic Development Ministry said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  