-- FIFA Grants Were Spent on $1.5 Million Mansion, Caribbean Land
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2013-05-31T00:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/fifa-grants-were-spent-on-1-5-million-mansion-caribbean-land.html
FIFA  bought a $1.5 million mansion
for  Mozambique ’s soccer headquarters and paid almost $500,000
for a plot of Caribbean land to build a playing field, according
to data released by the sport’s ruling body.  The Zurich-based not-for-profit organization released
information about more than 500 development grants paid out
during President Sepp Blatter’s 14-year presidency. FIFA is
trying to increase transparency following the ousting or
resignation since 2011 of at least four officials amid ethics
investigations.  FIFA, which in March reported revenue of $1.16 billion for
2012, distributes income from World Cup television and
sponsorship rights sales to develop soccer, mostly in poorer
nations. The private system of patronage may have led to
wastefulness or corruption, according to Roger Pielke, a
professor at the  University of Colorado  who has published a
paper about FIFA’s accountability.  “This shows how much money FIFA has floating about,”
Pielke said by phone. “No doubt a lot of good has come from
these grants. A lack of transparency means there has probably
been all sorts of shenanigans going on as well.”  A FIFA appointee, Dieudonne Ndoumbou, is investigating what
happened to a $548,262 grant to  Gabon ’s defense ministry in 2005
to promote soccer. The money was supposed to have been used to
build a training center, Ndoumbou said.  FIFA said in an e-mail it has funded “plenty of very
positive” development projects around the world, including
distributing a combined $6 million of grants to  Palestine  and
 Afghanistan  to build soccer facilities that have increased
participation.  Scrutiny  While there had been “difficulties” with the training
center in Gabon, FIFA said, it had built playing fields and a
headquarters for the national federation in the west African
nation.  FIFA’s spending is coming under increasing scrutiny after
World Cup sponsors such as  Adidas AG (ADS)  and U.K. lawmakers raised
concern about governance following alleged corruption cases
involving executives including former Vice-President Mohamed bin Hammam, according to Pielke.  In Mozambique, FIFA in 2011 agreed to pay $1.5 million to
South Africa-born farmer Izak Holtzhausen to buy his  14-room
colonial mansion  in capital Maputo. Holtzhausen said by phone he
had been planning to turn the property into a boutique hotel
before FIFA bid for it.  “It’s a lot of money for a football federation, but
compared to the money spent on football player transfers I
suppose it’s not so much,” Holtzhausen said.  FIFA, which began a two-day congress in Mauritius
yesterday, said in an e-mail that national federation
headquarters are a “fundamental asset” for the management and
development of soccer in each country.  Playing Fields  On the Caribbean island of  Montserrat , which is about half
the size of Washington D.C., FIFA in 2001 agreed to pay $499,144
to buy land to build a soccer field. Building work and fees took
the total cost to $788,139, according to FIFA.com.  The field is also used for social events such as a visit by
the U.K.’s Prince Edward last year, Jacquie Ryan, a real-estate
agent who brokered the sale, said by phone.  FIFA has handed out about $2 billion in development funds
since 1999. From July 1, it will require national federations
receiving grants to put building  contracts of more than $50,000 
out to tender and file audited annual accounts.  “FIFA is making slow, incremental” progress to improve
governance, Pielke said, comparing it to a gentleman’s club.
“It still has an extremely long way to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  