-- First Quantum Said to Dispute in Zambia Delaying Mine
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-05-31T09:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/first-quantum-said-to-dispute-in-zambia-delaying-mine.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  ended
a dispute with Zambia’s electricity supply company to erect a
line to supply power to a $1.7 billion copper project the
company is building, a person familiar with the matter said.  Zesco Ltd., the government-owned power supplier, proposed
that First Quantum build the line and that proposal has been
accepted by the company, the person said, asking not to be
identified because an official announcement is yet to be made.
The disagreement began on April 23, when the Vancouver-based
company took the electricity supplier to arbitration because of
a dispute over selecting contractors after a tender for the
construction of a transmission line, First Quantum said May 6.  The accord will prevent delays to the Sentinel mine First 
Quantum is building in the North Western province in  Zambia , 
 Africa ’s biggest copper producer. It will allow a local First 
Quantum unit to award the construction contract for the power 
line that will cost about $95 million, while Zesco will hire a 
consultant to oversee works, the person said yesterday.  “The potential for a prolonged legal dispute between First
Quantum and Zesco was a growing concern as it presented a risk
the Sentinel project could fall behind schedule,” Patrick Jones, a London-based analyst with Nomura International Plc,
said in reply to e-mailed questions. “A resolution of this will
likely be taken well by the market.”  Calls to First Quantum’s office in Toronto outside normal 
office hours weren’t answered and an e-mail wasn’t immediately 
responded to. Bestty Phiri, a spokeswoman for Zesco, declined 
to comment.  The 615-kilometer (382-mile) power line will run from
Lusaka West via Mumbwa and Kalumbila to Lumwana, where  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  owns a mine. Kalumbila will be complete by the end of
next year and will produce as much as 300,000 tons of copper,
First Quantum said in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  