-- Forint Sinks Third Day, Biggest Drop Since 2011: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-31T12:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/forint-sinks-third-day-biggest-drop-since-2011-budapest-mover.html
The forint headed for the biggest
three-day retreat in 1 1/2 years and bond yields climbed on
concern the Federal Reserve will cut debt purchases and
 Hungary ’s central bank may keep lowering rates.  Hungary’s currency weakened 0.6 percent to 296.13 per euro
by 1:55 p.m. in Budapest, extending the decline in the past
three days to 3.3 percent, the worst depreciation for any three-day period since November 2011. The forint has gained 1.1
percent in May, the third-best performance among major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The 10-year yield climbed to
the highest in more than a month.  There’s “tectonic shift” in  emerging markets  on
speculation when the Fed will reduce its asset purchases,
Guillaume Salomon, a London-based strategist at Societe Generale
SA, wrote in a research report today. The “dovish” stance of
the central bank is adding to the forint’s woes, he said.  Investors should use the increased risk aversion to sell
the forint and the zloty and buy euros, Salomon wrote. While
central bank stimulus measures and near-zero rates in the U.S.,
Europe and  Japan  sent Hungary’s currency to its strongest level
in 2013 and bond yields to record lows this month, Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke said last week the central bank could reduce the
pace of bond purchases if there is a sustained improvement in
growth.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank reduced its benchmark rate by 25
basis points to 4.5 percent on May 28 in a 10th consecutive
month of easing, saying further cuts are possible if favorable
sentiment in financial markets is sustained.  The central bank is considering a way of signaling to
markets principles for ending the rate-cut cycle, Deputy
President Adam Balog said, state news agency MTI reported today.
Policy makers have no interest-rate target, he said.  ‘Selling Wave’  The yield on 10-year bonds jumped 20 basis points, or 0.2
percentage point, to 5.766 percent, up from a record-low 4.93
percent on May 16.  “The phenomenon isn’t country-specific,” Imre Kerekgyarto, a Budapest-based trader at Commerzbank AG, wrote in
an e-mail to clients today. “A selling wave is sweeping through
the whole emerging universe.”  The European Commission on May 29 recommended releasing
Hungary from its excessive deficit procedure for the first time
since 2004. The move, which needs the approval of European Union
finance ministers at a meeting next month, will help avert the
threat of cuts in development aid and would also widen the
government’s policy room, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said in an
Inforadio interview yesterday. Orban, who took office in 2010,
faces elections next year.  Orban’s comment on the increased room to maneuver
contributed to the forint weakness, according to Commerzbank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  