-- Foxconn Forecasts Possible First-Half Profit
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-05-31T18:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/foxconn-forecasts-possible-first-half-profit.html
Foxconn International Holdings Ltd. (2038) ,
a contract maker of phones for  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and BlackBerry, said it
may post a profit in the first half and is stepping up
transactions with its parent.  Results for the six months ending June 30 will be better
than the $224.1 million net loss a year earlier, the Langfang,
China-based company said in a Hong Kong stock exchange filing
yesterday. Foxconn International also said it’s in talks to
enter a “new category” of dealings with controlling
shareholder  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317)  It didn’t provide
further details.  Foxconn released the statement after its shares rose 18
percent to HK$4.41 at the close in Hong Kong yesterday, their
highest level in 13 months. The gain was the biggest in more
than six months. The shares, and the city’s benchmark Hang Seng
Index, had slipped less than 1 percent this year through May 30.  Increased business with Taipei-based Hon Hai, the world’s
largest contract maker of electronics and the indirect owner of
 68.2 percent  of the company’s shares, may help boost revenue at
Foxconn International. It has reported net losses in five of the
 last six halves , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The forecast improvement in its first-half results is
“primarily attributable to improvement in the group’s yield and
operation efficiency, as well as control of the group’s cost of
sales and general and administrative expenses and optimization
of its research and development resources,” Foxconn said.  In addition to a possible new category of transactions with
Hon Hai, Foxconn International is also in talks to revise annual
limits on existing connected dealings with the parent, according
to the filing. Some of the arrangements may require approval by
the company’s independent shareholders, Foxconn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  