-- Gee Strikes Out 12 as Mets Top Yankees 3-1 to Sweep MLB Series
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-31T04:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/gee-strikes-out-12-as-mets-top-yankees-3-1-to-sweep-mlb-series.html
Dillon Gee struck out a career-high
12 batters as the  New York  Mets beat the New York Yankees 3-1 to
win their fourth game in as many nights in their Subway Series.  The Mets (22-29) had lost six of their previous seven games
before winning two at Citi Field and two more at Yankee Stadium
this week.  “Does it mean any more that it’s against the Yankees? Had
we been playing better, yeah, it would have been huge,” Mets
manager Terry Collins told reporters. “But right now we’ve just
got to win some games, and it didn’t matter who it was. It
establishes a mood in the clubhouse that, you know what, we’re
not that bad.”  Gee (3-6) allowed one run on four hits in 7 1/3 innings
last night at Yankee Stadium. Bobby Parnell pitched a perfect
ninth inning for his ninth save.  Marlon Byrd hit a two-run homer in the second inning to
give the Mets a 2-0 advantage. Robinson Cano answered with a
home run in the third to narrow the gap to 2-1.  Omar Quintanilla scored in the eighth when John Buck
reached first on an infield single to third base as the Mets
recorded their fifth straight win.  Vidal Nuno (1-2) gave up two runs on three hits in six
innings for the Yankees, who have lost five in a row.  “It’s hard when you lose to your crosstown rivals,”
Yankees manager Joe Girardi said. “You don’t want to be part of
a team that gets swept by your crosstown rivals. Over time, it’s
going to happen, but you don’t want to be the team that it
happens to.”  The Yankees said they plan to activate pitcher Andy Pettitte from the disabled list when the team hosts the
Cleveland Indians on June 3. The 40-year-old left-hander left a
May 16 game against the Seattle Mariners with a tight muscle
near his pitching shoulder.  The Boston Red Sox (33-22), who won 9-2 at the Philadelphia
Phillies, lead the American League East by two games over the
Yankees (30-23). The Mets are in fourth place in the National
League East, nine games behind the Atlanta Braves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  