-- George Weiler III, UBS Wealth-Management Executive, Dies at 69
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-06-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-31/george-weiler-iii-ubs-wealth-management-executive-dies-at-69.html
George H. Weiler III, senior vice
president for  wealth-management  services at UBS AG, has died. He
was 69.  He died on May 29 at New York-Presbyterian/ Columbia
University Medical Center , his wife, Mary Ann Weiler, said in an
interview. He entered the hospital three days earlier after
suffering a heart attack while playing tennis at the Bronxville
Field Club in Bronxville, New York, where he lived.  A onetime civil-rights attorney in Washington, Weiler
practiced corporate law before starting his financial-services
career in 1984 at Dillon Read & Co. in New York, where he worked
in corporate and executive services such as structuring stock-option plans.  In 1997, Dillon Read was bought by Swiss Bank Corp., which
combined the firm with its investment bank, SBC Warburg. The
next year, SBC merged with Union Bank of  Switzerland  to form
Zurich-based  UBS (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank. Weiler joined
UBS’s U.S. Wealth Management division in 2000.  At the time of his death he was senior vice president for
wealth management and ran a unit, Weiler Financial Services,
that managed assets for individuals and small corporations from
UBS’s office in the MetLife Building at 200 Park Ave. in
Manhattan.  “He specialized in ultra-high-net-worth clients in
finance, lots of hedge-fund guys, private equity,
entrepreneurs,” Erich Frank, a UBS Financial Services executive
director who oversaw Weiler, said in an interview.  ‘Completely Unexpected’  Weiler’s death was “completely unexpected and sudden,”
Frank said. “It’s unfortunate -- George was a special guy in a
lot of ways.”  A student member and, later, alumni member of the Yale
University Glee Club, Weiler participated in its tour of Turkey
and Georgia two years ago, his wife said. In a  death notice,  she
said he also enjoyed campaigning for Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  “and every other candidate who could make
the world a better place.”  She called her husband “a man for all seasons with diverse
interests and an engaging intellect.”  George Henry Weiler III was born on Feb. 7, 1944, in
Philadelphia and grew up in Drexel Hill, Pennsylvania, and
Ridgewood,  New Jersey .  His mother was the former Jeanne Carol Brumbaugh. His
father, George H. Weiler Jr., worked as director of public
relations at New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , vice president of the
Pfizer Foundation and public relations director for the  National
Multiple Sclerosis Society , and was a recipient of the  Yale
Medal , the highest award presented by the Association of Yale
Alumni.  Yale, Harvard  Weiler earned a bachelor’s degree from Yale, in  New Haven ,
Connecticut, in 1966, and a law degree from the University of
Pennsylvania Law School, in Philadelphia. He then spent a year
at Harvard University’s Divinity School as a Rockefeller Fellow
-- a program for those who don’t plan to enter the clergy --
earning insights that he carried into his work, his wife said.  She said he “felt he owed the country something” after
being declared medically ineligible for military service during
the  Vietnam War .  In addition to his wife, the former Mary Ann Legler,
survivors include four children, Katherine Weiler Crane, Blair
Weiler, Winston Weiler and Christina Weiler; siblings Wendy
Weiler Chappell of  Franklin Lakes , New Jersey, Christopher
Weiler of Wyckoff, New Jersey, Patricia Weiler Thiess of
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and Pamela Weiler Colling of Midland
Park, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  